{"id": "14005509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14005509", "title": "Aesymnetes", "text": "Aesymnetes\n\nAesymnetes (Greek: , from , \"aisa\", a \"just portion\", hence \"a person who gives everyone their just portion\") was the name of an ancient Greek elected office similar to, and sometimes indistinguishable from, tyrant. The plural is \"aesymnetai\".\n\nThe title originally signified merely a judge in the heroic games, but afterwards indicated an individual who was occasionally invested voluntarily by his fellow citizens with essentially unlimited power in a Greek state. Aristotle called the office an \"elective tyranny\", and said that the power of the \"aesymnetai\" partook in some degree of the nature \"both of kingly and tyrannical authority; since he was appointed legally and ruled over willing subjects, but at the same time was not bound by any laws in his public administration.\"\n\nHence Theophrastus calls the office (\"elective tyranny\"), and Dionysius compares it with the dictatorship at Rome. It was not hereditary; but it was sometimes held for life, and at other times only until some object was accomplished, such as the reconciling of the various factions in the state. There is only one recorded instant of a person expressly receiving the title of \"Aesymnetes\": Pittacus, in Mytilene, who was appointed to this dignity because the state had been long torn asunder by the various factions, and who succeeded in restoring peace and order by his wise regulations and laws.\n\nThere were, however, no doubt many other persons who ruled under this title for a while in the various states of Greece, and those law-givers bore a strong resemblance to the \"aesymnetai\", whom their fellow citizens appointed with supreme power to enact laws, as Dracon, Solon, Zaleucus and Charondas. In some states, such as Cyme and Chalcedon, it was the title borne by the regular magistrates.\n\nAccording to Aristotle, the office fell into disuse due to the risk of those who would not willingly relinquish the office, and the Greek States allowed it to disappear altogether.\n\n"}
{"id": "52835031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52835031", "title": "Afghan Institute for Strategic Studies", "text": "Afghan Institute for Strategic Studies\n\nThe Afghan Institute for Strategic Studies (AISS) is an Afghan-based think tank in Kabul, Afghanistan. The AISS established in October 2012 to address the strategic issues pertaining to Afghanistan in the wider regional and international contexts. The AISS provides policy-oriented research, publication, translation of books/reports, professional training and policy advocacy with distinct focus on Afghanistan. Dr. Davood Moradian is currently Director of AISS.\n"}
{"id": "44398132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44398132", "title": "Art of the Umbrella Movement", "text": "Art of the Umbrella Movement\n\nArt of the Umbrella movement refers to artistic works created as part of the Umbrella movement in Hong Kong which demanded democracy in the election of the territory's top leader. Most of the physical works of art are located within the three main protest sites of Admiralty, Causeway Bay and Mong Kok, some concepts have originated from outside Hong Kong.\n\nArt is often held to be an integral part of activism. For the students involved in the \"Umbrella Revolution\", their art is a primary vehicle of expression and a method of documenting what occurs. Use of the umbrella – an everyday item that protects users against the rain and the sun – by the protesters to deflect pepper spray and tear gas of the police, has given the object iconic status at a political level, symbolising resistance and the underlying social grievances. The occupied streets of Hong Kong have been transformed into an extended canvas of artistic creativity.\n\nAs an everyday item that protects users against the rain and the sun, the umbrella has, in the past, symbolised political weakness. In the context of the Hong Kong protests, it has been used to shield against the pepper spray and tear gas of the police, thus has become a political symbol of resistance. Physical umbrellas in all their guises have been used as subjects or as objects. The eight-lane expanse of road freed by the occupation has been transformed into an extended canvas for artistic expression. One artist explained that due to the lack of physical public space in Hong Kong, people's imagination is suppressed. She added that: \"When the rules that bind your action are suddenly lifted, you are given the freedom to redefine everything.\" Artwork featuring the form of umbrellas are in abundance. Examples of works include umbrellas drawn on or decorated with calligraphy, balloon twisting into umbrellas, and mobiles of origami umbrellas. Colette Gaiter, an Associate Professor of Art at the University of Delaware, praised the quality of the artwork as possessing \"an elevated aesthetic sensibility even in the ubiquitous handwritten signs and Post-it notes\".\nKacey Wong, Assistant professor of Design at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University held a contest for the best logo, and received entries from all over the world. The competition aims to elevate awareness and generate more concern for the demand for \"real universal suffrage\" for Hong Kong. Wong said that use of social media such as Facebook allows for the creation of a \"safe platform\" for universal participation, which in turn generates awareness. Among the entries is one created by international street artist Invader.\n\nThe yellow ribbon, which has been used to represent women's suffrage, was adopted early by the movement. Activists adorned street railings and barricades with these, pinned them on shirts, and used them on Facebook profiles. Use of the symbolic yellow crossed over into the umbrellas.\n\nOpening up yellow umbrellas indoors, as well as outdoors, has also become a way of sending in pro-democracy message in silence. Paul Zimmerman, a district councillor and member of the Civic Party, was an early proponent. Two days into the movement, Zimmerman opened a yellow umbrella at an indoor reception after the China National day ceremony which was attended by representatives of the PRC government. The graduation ceremonies of most universities in Hong Kong since October 2014 have seen attendees opening yellow umbrellas inside the hall, or graduates climbing the stage holding open umbrellas. Dozens of supporters arrived at Hong Kong International Airport with yellow umbrellas to send off the HKFS delegation that was set to fly to Beijing on 15 November.\n\nA number of installations and sculptures were created at occupation sites, of which one of the largest is a patchwork hanging in the middle of Umbrella Square made of fabric taken from more than a hundred broken umbrellas which were sewn together. The concept was developed by Baptist University art students, to bolster the movement in the early days. A group of about ten other students stripped the fabric from umbrellas that were broken and had been stained by tear gas in the police bombardment of 28 September, and wove them together and deployed it above what is now referred to as \"Umbrella Square\". Tse, the project leader, hoped that the umbrellas broken by the police, fashioned into canopy, symbolises an extended physical protection for citizens that also serves as a reminder of the presence of other citizens who are behind to support, in other ways. At Admiralty, large yellow umbrellas have been installed at many lamp posts; \"Happy Gadfly\" concept by mainland artist Miso Zo inspired by \"The Gadfly\", by Ethel Lilian Voynich. Made from discarded umbrellas, plastic bottles and other discarded materials, the project's originator says the installation symbolises how \"They can destroy the movement, but like the fly it will come back.\" Other sizeable installations include a pepper spray installation at Causeway Bay, a shrine to Kwan Yu at Mong Kok.\n\n\"Do You Hear the People Sing?\" from a musical, \"Les Miserables\", is popular with locals; it is sung with adapted Cantonese lyrics with a pro-democracy message. The Chinese lyrics were written anonymously for the Occupy Central movement by a well-known lyricist. In a video recording posted to YouTube in May 2014, the song named \"Who Hasn't Spoke Up Yet?\" () was performed by a young girl. The video amassed 30 thousand hits in three days. Three different versions were posted to the OCLP Facebook page prior to the unofficial referendum on 22 June. By 29 September, after the tear gas attack by the HK police, the video had been viewed at least 900,000 times. At the HKIED graduation ceremony, one trumpeter played an impromptu solo of the song in support of the movement.\n\n\"Imagine\" by John Lennon was adopted by suffragists following certain journals' criticism of them being \"naïve dreamers\". They began to quote in response the line \"you may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one\" from the lyrics onto banners and posters.\n\n\"Raise the Umbrella\" () is specially created as encouragement to the movement by local musicians. The tune and original lyrics were written by a 25-year-old part-time musician Pan Lo () after he witnessed first hand the release of tear gas by the police. He then presented the composition to Denise Ho, who wanted to take it further and suggested rewriting the lyrics to more closely fit with the mood and times. Ho then enlisted the support of other artistes, Anthony Wong, Kay Tse and Deanie Ip to record the song with her after Lin Xi had reworked the lyrics.\n\nIn a maiden political offering, David Cheang wrote deriding people who ignorantly or blindly opposed the Umbrella movement. The composition proved to be extremely popular on the internet, and was shared over 5,000 times. His song, \"If I Call You a Stupid Dick, I’m Afraid You’d Be Mad\" (話你戇鳩怕你嬲) employs Cantonese profanity in abundance, including in the title. The song lyrics start off from the perspective of a person who is fed up with the futility and inconvenience of the occupation, and then moves on to the viewpoint of another, who criticises his \"friend\" for polluting the earth with his bullshit. The opening lyrics managed to fool Hong Kong director Lee Lik-chi (who did not support the movement) into endorsing the song initially on his Facebook page, until the torrent of mocking posts made him delete the post.\n\nAnother song that had been used for protests was \"Boundless Oceans, Vast Skies\" (also translated as \"Under a Vast Sky\") by Hong Kong band, Beyond.\n\nThe city's leader, CY Leung, elected in a small-circle election with 689 votes, is a favourite subject of caricature. He has been represented as a wolf (or as Lufsig, the Ikea soft toy), as Adolf Hitler, and as Mao Zedong. Alternatively, he is represented pejoratively by the numbers \"689\".\n\"Mr and Little Miss Hong Kong People\" is a series of caricatures that draws inspiration from Roger Hargreaves' Mr. Men series. A local graphic artist named Maxwell Ip drew a set of cartoon figures to explain the important figures behind the Umbrella movement. Originally created \"just for fun\", he created more once the popularity exploded, with the aim of providing suitable and politically neutral materials for parents to educate their children about the protests, and important figures involved. The concept accumulated over 64,000 \"likes\" in just over two weeks. Eight hours after the creation of \"Mr 689\" – the nickname of Hong Kong chief executive CY Leung, Ip's personal Facebook page of the character had more than 3,000 shares. The popularity led Ip to immediately create a public Facebook page for the characters, which are added as events unfold. In addition to the cute wolf that caricatures \"Mr 689\", other popular characters include \"Mr Tear\" (after the tear gas episode of 28 September), \"Mr Chow & Mr Shum\" (after the HKFS leaders Alex Chow and Lester Shum), \"Mr 4 pm\" (after Steve Hui of the PR section of the HK Police – who appeared on television at 4 pm daily), \"Little Miss Lam Cheng\" (after the Chief secretary Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor) \"Mr Hungry\" (after Mok Siu Man, who started a hunger strike on 2 October that lasted 40 days) and \"Little Miss Ip Cancer\" (after former secretary for security Regina Ip). Some of the characters' names are English crossovers from Cantonese or hybrids – for example, the character of Joshua Wong is named \"Mr. G Phone\", after his Chinese name.\n\nSince an image of Xi Jinping, the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (China's Paramount leader post), holding an umbrella won a top photojournalism award in China on 22 October, Xi has been parodied with a cut-out version where the umbrella has been made yellow. The edited image has appeared on stickers, posters, banners and life-size and oversize banners. \"Apple Daily\" reports that there are at least 13 cardboard cut-outs of general secretary Xi Jinping in Mong Kok, three in Causeway Bay, and one huge vertical banner depicting the image hanging from the pedestrian bridge in Admiralty. These cut-outs, many overwritten with pro-democracy or anti-communist slogans, are popular props for mainland visitors with which to take photographs.\n\"Umbrella Man\" is a high wooden statue created by a 22-year-old artist using the name \"Milk\" during the protests. The inspiration for the woodblock statue, symbolising freedom and peace, was a photograph of a suffragist holding an umbrella over a police officer to shield him from the rain. The statue is constructed of plywood of ordinary wood tint on a metal frame. Those blocks making up the face are white, symbolising pepper spray used by the police on the suffragists; the umbrella is yellow. It was constructed by the artist aided by a group of ten people.\n\nIt rapidly become an icon for the occupation movement upon its appearance on the demonstration site on 5 October 2014, and photographs of it have appeared on the front page of many newspapers and on websites around the world. The media have compared it to the Goddess of Democracy statue erected during the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Since the large statue appeared, other versions emerged – a miniature woodblock version, as well as other materials, were created by others.\n\nNumerous walls or vertical spaces within the Umbrella Square were adorned with posters and messages of encouragement during the protests. Barricades and buses that were abandoned on the streets in Mong Kok after crowds started gathering became makeshift message boards. \n\nThe Lennon Wall, a namesake of the one in Prague, is a stretch of curved staircase in the Central Government Complex that has been covered in multi-coloured handwritten Post-it notes from supporters. The messages, written mainly in Chinese and English but also other languages, include calls for genuine democracy, for CY Leung to step down as Chief executive, words of encouragement, and praise for the peacefulness of the protests.\n\nAn art collective called \"Stand By You: 'Add Oil' Machine\" launched a project that aimed to display messages of support to protesters. The name refers to \"add oil\", a term of encouragement in Chinese. The project included a website where people from all over the world could send messages, which in turn were projected onto the side of a building. More than 30,000 messages have been received by the project from 70 countries. The \"Stand by You\" project received messages of support from, among others, Pussy riot and Peter Gabriel, all of whom were photographed with open umbrellas. Peter Gabriel said: \"Water gets everywhere – like the will of the people\".\n\nThe project received the first prize of the 2015 Freedom Flowers Foundation Awards.\n\nMarking the expansion phase of the protest movement, a group of suffragists scaled the Lion Rock, an iconic natural landmark overlooking Kowloon that carries the meaning as Hong Kong's special identity The group of 14 mountaineers calling themselves \"Hong Kong Spidie\" () pinned a vertical banner to the rock face that was visible throughout much of Kowloon. The operation was documented in a video that was put on YouTube. The banner, which read \"I want real universal suffrage\" (in Chinese), was removed the following day by fire services aided by a helicopter in an action that took approximately  hours. Within days, similar banners were seen on top of Tai Mo Shan and Fei Ngo Shan, placed by persons unknown – HK Spidie denied responsibility. The banner at Fei Ngo Shan measured . A horizontal banner was put up under cover of darkness near the radar station for the observatory at Tai Mo Shan, Hong Kong's highest peak. Upon receiving a report from a citizen at 9 am, fire services had removed the banner by noon. A government spokesman said that its removal was driven strictly by safety considerations.\n\nInspired by the giant yellow banner on the face of Lion Rock, other artists have created models and parodies of the image. A professor at the Polytechnic University's Department of Applied Mathematics set an examination question on how to calculate the position and angle for an optimum photograph of the Lion Rock banner. The movement also issued a challenge to put up ten banners for each one removed (). Large banners have been photographed in many city roadways such as overhead pedestrian crossings in Tai Po and Kwun Tong. Students at a number of schools hoisted such banners on school premises – one appeared at the elite Diocesan Boys' School on the occasion of its annual school fete. Police have issued public reminders that unauthorised erection of street banners may be subject to fines.\nThe existence of homophones in Chinese language allows great potential for wordplay that replacing characters with similar tones, or pitch patterns can effect significant changes in meaning. Although Chinese is full of idioms, popular sayings, customs, jokes that rely on wordplay, the Beijing leadership has imposed a ban on wordplay in broadcasting as such use ostensibly breaches the law on spoken and written Chinese. Critics believe the ban is aimed at making it illegal to criticise the leadership and/or its policies in veiled manner, whilst avoiding censorship.\n\nAcademics have noted that the protests have resulted in the unprecedented creation of new Cantonese terms that contain political puns and special idioms. There has also been a resurgence in Cantonese usage, countering the trend imposed by Beijing to expand use of Standard Chinese (aka Mandarin or Putonghua) in the place of \"dialects\", which is defined to include Cantonese. \n\nThe new lexicon of protest incorporates the term \"left plastic\" (左膠), a derogative term used by radicals to refer to \"leftists/moderates\". There is also \"gau wu\" (鳩嗚), a vulgar homophone of a term in Mandarin which means \"to shop\" (購物) – the character substitution transforms the original meaning into \"to occupy the streets in protest\".\n\nThe encampments are referred to as \"villages\", road signs have been changed pointing to social change; occupiers' flimsy tents have often been given grandiose addresses such as \"Umbrella Court\" or \"Democracy Gardens\", parodying names given to luxury property developments in an increasingly unaffordable city.\n\nA glossary of the terms affiliated with the Umbrella Movement protests was created online, at umbrellaterms.hk.\n\nThe photo of Umbrella Man, taken 28 September 2014, depicts an unnamed male protester holding an umbrella in each hand while walking through tear gas fired by riot police. \"Business Insider\" has described the photo as iconic. It has been re-tweeted thousands of times along with multiple similar photographs tweeted during the protest, which show individuals using umbrellas to protect themselves from tear gas and water. The picture's popularity and that of other pictures caused the media to dub the protests, which were also called the Occupy Central movement, the \"Umbrella Revolution\".\n\nTwo groups are involved in efforts to preserve the artwork. The Umbrella Movement Visual Archive and Research Collective, founded by Wen Yau and Sampson Wong, aims to document \"how people form a community here, and how they transform the space\". The collective has 10 teams of volunteers to photograph and interview those who have participated in the protests, and digitally preserve protest objects, indicate their location, and include creators' thoughts and inspirations for the works. It will create a website with interactive map and images of all the pieces. The group is co-operating with Umbrella Movement Art Preservation, led by Meaghan McGurgan and Kacey Wong, which has made an inventory of works and their location, and will grab certain pieces before the police clear the site. The preservation groups feel it important not to denude the works of their context unless it is unavoidable. Although many of the artists have given approval for their eventual removal, not all are agreed. Some artists, such as the creator of \"The Happy Gadfly\", however, would like to see documented how his work is destroyed in the clearance. As to their storage, the groups have been rebuffed or ignored by the city's museums, most of which are government funded, due to the political nature of the work. Some galleries have volunteered to take and store them until a permanent home for them can be found.\n\nEvery night over two months of occupation, volunteers made a note of objects worthy of preservation. Following weeks of discussions, a shortlist of items for salvage and preservation were selected, based on historical and aesthetic criteria. The day prior to the announced clearance of the Admiralty occupation site, 30 volunteers from the art preservation unit started salvage operations. Over 150 works and artefacts were collected from the three sites (about 100 from Admiralty, 30 from Mong Kok and 20 from Causeway Bay). Pieces include a desk, bench, and the sign for the study area, banners, and over 20,000 messages from the Lennon Wall, which had been covered four layers deep and eventually filled 10 large bags. The project will individually scan all the messages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58118016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58118016", "title": "Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana", "text": "Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana\n\nBhavantar Bhugtan Yojana (price difference payment scheme) is a scheme of the Government of Madhya Pradesh whereby the government pays farmers the difference between official Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the rate at which they sell their crops or Model Price whichever is higher.\n\nThe objective of the scheme is to provide the compensation to farmers for agriculture products whenever its price fall below the announced Minimum support price (MSP) and thereby protecting them from losses suffered on account of distress sale.\n\nThe scheme was launched by the chief minister Shivraj Singh on 16 October 2017.The state government in first year introduced the scheme for eight crops mainly in the oilseeds and pulses category. Later in 2018 the scheme was extended to total 13 Kharif crops.\n"}
{"id": "45266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45266", "title": "Blue–green alliance", "text": "Blue–green alliance\n\nA Blue–green alliance describes either an alliance or coalition between \"blue\" conservative parties and green parties, or \"blue\" labor organizations, such as labor unions, and environmental organizations such as green parties. \"Blue-Green\" can also refer to a right-tendency within green parties based around green conservatism.\n\nThe Green Party of Ontario and to a lesser extent, the Green Party of Canada are considered \"blue–green\" because they are more economically centrist or agree with part of green conservatism. They have some cooperation with the Conservative Party of Canada.\n\nThe Second Cabinet of Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek, member of the liberal-conservative Civic Democratic Party, included the Czech Green Party.\n\nSeveral governments of Finland have included both the liberal-conservative National Coalition Party and the Green League, including the cabinet of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen.\n\nIn Germany, it refers to the conservative CDU/CSU and the Alliance 90/The Greens. The two parties have several coalition governments at state levels.\n\nOn 13 June 2007, following the 2007 general election, the Irish Green Party became a minor coalition partner to the conservative Fianna Fáil and the (now-defunct) liberal Progressive Democrats, entering government for the first time in the Greens' history. The Green Party remained a coalition partner until the 2011 general election, when the Greens lost their representation in the Dáil Éireann.\n\nThe blue-green alliance also refer to the conservative Fianna Fáil (green) and the liberal-conservative Fine Gael (blue), though both parties are rivals and unlikely to form coalitions. After the 2016 general election, Fianna Fáil agreed to support a Fine Gael-led minority government.\n\nThe Latvian Green Party (LZP) has been a component of centre-right coalition governments in Latvia from 1993–1998 and 2002–present, with LZP member Indulis Emsis serving as Prime Minister of Latvia from March to December 2004. Since 2002 the LZP has been part of the Union of Greens and Farmers political and electoral alliance with the agrarian-conservative Latvian Farmers' Union.\n\nThe conservative National Action Party \"(Partido Acción Nacional,\" or PAN), and the Green Ecological Party of Mexico \"(Partido Verde Ecologista de México,\" or PVEM) formed coalition of Alliance for Change in 2000 in order to win the general elections. The coalition dissolved in 2001.\n\nThe now defunct Progressive Green Party was a political group with a strong environmental focus. It was closely aligned with the centre-right National Party. The \"blue–green\" Progressive Greens were contrasted with the better-known \"red–green\" Green Party, which generally takes a left-wing position. (A third group, the Green Society, rejected both \"blue–green\" and \"red–green\" politics.)\n\nPan-Blue Coalition (led by the Kuomintang, KMT) and Pan-Green Coalition (led by the Democratic Progressive Party, DPP), which refer to political constellations in Taiwan, the colours here have different meanings and it is unlikely that the two parties would form a coalition in both national and local levels. The two parties formed a grand coalition government in 2000 during the first 4 months of Chen Shui-bian presidency, as Chen-led DPP did not have the majority in the Legislative Yuan, which the KMT had majority. After the dissolve of grand coalition, President Chen indeed led a minority government for the rest of his terms.\n\nIn the context of United Kingdom politics, it refers to a possible alliance on certain issues between the Conservative Party and ecologists or environmentalists such as those found in the Green Party. This alliance may occur as a result of the Conservative view that market economics help preserve the environment and a tendency toward Deep England views of pastoralism, and the Green view that profit is not anywhere near as much of a threat to natural systems as debt. However, the UK's various green parties are usually considered to be leftist greens, and coalitions with the Conservatives such as on Leeds City Council have proved unpopular with the party's membership and voters.\n\nIn the context of the politics of the United States, as blue refers to the left-leaning Democratic Party, the term refers to alliances between organized labor and environmentalists, and sometimes specifically to cooperation between American Greens and blue-collar labor activists. The core issue of this alliance is opposition to globalization and to free trade, and it was significant in the candidacy of Ralph Nader in the 2000 presidential election, as Nader was endorsed by some labor organizations (the overwhelming majority of labor unions and environmental organizations are loyal to the Democratic Party and endorsed Al Gore).\n\nIt also continues to be used more generally to refer to any efforts at coalition-building between environmentalists and labor, as with the famous \"teamsters and turtles\" politics of the WTO Meeting of 1999 and the continuing anti-globalization movement. Journalist Sue Ellen White coined the term \"turtles and teamsters\" in a December 2, 1999 article, \"Turtles and Teamsters United Against Patents on Life,\" written on the scene from the newly formed Independent Media Center (Indymedia).\n\nThe BlueGreen Alliance (BGA) is a national nonprofit partnership of environmental groups and labor unions. Launched in 2006 by the United Steelworkers and the Sierra Club, BGA has since grown to include the Communications Workers of America (CWA), Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), Service Employees International Union (SEIU), National Wildlife Federation (NWF), Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA), Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS), American Federation of Teachers (AFT), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), United Auto Workers (UAW), and the United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW). Other related organizations include the Alliance for Sustainable Jobs and the Environment and the Apollo Alliance, a subsidiary of the Blue Green Alliance that promotes green jobs based on alternative energy.\n\nThe Emerald Cities Collaborative is a partner organization with the Blue–green alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "41615555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41615555", "title": "Christians Against the Coup", "text": "Christians Against the Coup\n\nChristians Against the Coup (CAC), aka Anti-Coup Christians, is an Egyptian Christian movement, founded after the coup d'état on July 2013 in support of the presumed legitimacy of the former President of Egypt, Mohamed Morsi.\n\nThe Egyptian Christian journalist and activist Ramy Jan founded Christians Against the Coup movement after then-General El-Sisi (Field Marshal since January 2014) declared ouster of President Morsi on July 3, 2013, claiming that he had taken this critical decision in response to large anti-Morsi protests which were held in many parts of Egypt, June 30, which demanded early presidential elections. Pro-Morsi protests, however, were held as well few days before then. The movement states that its members, who are solely Christians, still support Morsi, and that there had been no sectarian violence against the Christian minority in Egypt in the one-year reign of the Muslim Brotherhood. The movement adopts the belief that violence against Christians was either individually-based, or rather fabricated. On the other hand, 'June-30' protesters, as being called in the local media, expressed that Morsi encouraged violence against non-Muslims; hence the motto of the CAC, \"′The matter is not about the Brotherhood; it is rather about the dishonoured people.′\"\n\nAccusations were made against the movement, the most common of which is the belonging to the Muslim Brotherhood. The CAC assures that its members do not belong to any political stream.\nLike many other anti-coup movements, the CAC works alongside the Anti-Coup Alliance, where the latter represents the broadest anti-coup assembly.\n\nThe movement declared the aim of re-establishing the legitimacy awarded to President Morsi through the elections/referendums held in the past two years. The movement also aims to rewind the coup, cancel all its traces, and put Field Marshal El-Sisi, military officers of the SCAF, senior police officers and others to trial.\n\nJan, the founder, describes the idea of the movement by comparing it to the role the Coptic leader Makram Ebeid (1879–1961) played at the time of Hassan al-Banna (1906–1949), the founder of the Muslim Brotherhood. Ebeid denied accusations of terrorism that were made against al-Banna. He also took part in al-Banna's burial, defying strict measures imposed on taking part in it. Today, the movement plays the same role Ebeid played: defending the Brotherhood against accusations of terrorism, and standing in support of Mohamed Morsi, who is accused of treason.\n\nIn late 2013, a minor controversy occurred when it was revealed that founder Ramy Jan was also a member of the Egyptian Nazi Party. This disclosure led to the cancellation of Jan's invitation to a conference at Georgetown University.\n"}
{"id": "36571648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36571648", "title": "Cultured dextrose", "text": "Cultured dextrose\n\nCultured dextrose is a food additive used to inhibit the growth of undesirable bacteria and mold in food. Often used in place of benzoates and sorbates, it is considered by some consumers to be a more \"natural\" ingredient, because it is prepared by the fermentation of milk or sugar powders by the supposedly probiotic bacteria Propionibacterium freudenreichii and Lactococcus lactis, both of which are extensively used in the production of cheese and other dairy products.\n\nCultured dextrose consists of an undefined mixture of fermentation metabolites, including butyric, propionic and lactic acids and small peptides. As sold, it is an off-white powder.\nCultured dextrose is marketed under several trade names including bioVONTAGE from Third Wave Bioactives as well as MicroGARD® by Danisco, a unit of DuPont. These ingredients are used in a range of foods including dairy products, salad dressings, and baked goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "50372562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50372562", "title": "Democratic Malaysian Indian Party", "text": "Democratic Malaysian Indian Party\n\nDemocratic Malaysian Indian Party (DMIP) or was a splinter party of Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC) formed on 19 Oktober 1985 to represent the minority India community by Datuk V. Govindaraj, an ex-Vice President of MIC. He joined MIC in 1946, selected to be Central Working Committee(CWC) member of MIC in 1978, elected as the Member of Parliament for Pelabuhan Klang in 1979, chief of Selangor MIC and central MIC Vice President in 1981 before his MIC membership was suspended in 1983 and sacked later in 1984 which push him to form and found Democratic Malaysian Indian Party (DMIP). Although the struggle of DMIP for than ten years has failed to join Barisan Nasional (BN) causing it to be disbanded by its founder and president, Datuk V. Govindaraj who went back to be with MIC and was selected again as CWC member of MIC in 1997 but was dropped at last by Datuk Seri S. Samy Vellu in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "51752939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51752939", "title": "Department of Agriculture - CALABARZON (Philippines)", "text": "Department of Agriculture - CALABARZON (Philippines)\n\nThe Philippine Department of Agriculture CALABARZON (abbreviated as DA CALABARZON) is a Regional Field Office under the Department of Agriculture responsible for the promotion of agriculture and fisheries in the region of CALABARZON; covering the provinces of Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal, and Quezon. Its headquarters is currently situated at RMIC Bldg., BPI Compound, Visayas Ave, Quezon City.\n\nThe department was created through Executive Order No. 103 in 2002. The Regional Field Unit is currently being led by Regional Executive Director Arnel de Mesa.\n\nThe Department is headed by the Regional Executive Director, with the following offices under the regional field unit:\n\nThe Department of Agriculture - CALABARZON currently has five priority programs for the region.\n\nRice Program - The purpose of the Rice Program is to integrate the government interventions and initiatives for rice farming and the agriculture sector, namely: food security and sufficiency, support services from farm to table, sustainable resource management, and broad-based local partnerships. These are achieved through various intervention services like production support; irrigation development; market development; other infrastructure and post harvest development; research and development; regulatory services; and extension support, education and training services.\n\nCorn Program - Various groups depend on corn as a major source of livelihood. These includes farm households who uses corn for livestock mixed feeds, transport services, traders, processors, and agricultural input suppliers who directly benefit from the corn production, processing, marketing, and distribution. Corn can also be processed into high value products like corn syrup, cornstarch, and snack foods. The Corn Program aims to increase the income of those relying on corn as a major source of livelihood by introducing various initiatives and intervention services.\n\nHigh Value Crops Development Program - The HVCDP is a priority program that aims to promote the production processing, marketing, and distribution of high value crops. The program also aims to increase the income of the producers, create livelihood opportunities for the people, and contribute to the country's national agricultural development.\n\nLivestock Program - With many of the region's top agricultural commodities coming from the livestock sector, the Livestock Program is one of the priority programs of DA CALABARZON. The program aims to accelerate the development of the poultry and livestock sector by improving its production and increasing the stakeholders' profitability; leading to livestock industry to be seen as an agribusiness venture anchored on food security and farmers profitability.\n\nOrganic Agriculture Program - The program was created to promote organic agriculture by providing various initiatives and interventions such as production support services, like distribution of organic fertilizer and establishment of vermisheds for vermicompost; and market development services like conducting of market forums, trade fairs, and organic market days, to name a few.\n\nThe following agricultural research and experiment stations are attached to the DA CALABARZON:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "961186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=961186", "title": "Destiny Church (New Zealand)", "text": "Destiny Church (New Zealand)\n\nDestiny Church, a Pentecostal fundamentalist Christian movement, has its headquarters in Auckland, New Zealand. The church advocates strict adherence to biblical morality, and has a reputation for its position against homosexuality, for its patriarchal views and for its calls for a return to biblical conservative family values and morals. It also teaches prosperity theology. \n\nLed by Brian Tamaki, a charismatic orator whose actions and rhetoric have attracted criticism from the New Zealand media and from other public figures, Destiny Church has sponsored a nationwide rally against civil unions, issued a DVD which labels the Government of New Zealand as \"evil\", ordained Tamaki as bishop over all local Destiny churches, and held a gathering of 700 men who swore a \"covenant\"\noath of allegiance, obedience, and deference to Tamaki.\n\nDestiny Church is led by Bishop Brian Tamaki and his wife Hannah Tamaki, who hold the positions of Visionary and Senior Ministers. Their three adult children Jasmine, Jamie, and Samuel also hold leadership positions in the Auckland church. Following a unanimous agreement by the 19 other pastors of Destiny Churches throughout New Zealand, Tamaki was ordained as a bishop during a ceremony performed by kaumatua and Destiny Pastor Manuel Renata on 18 June 2005.\n\nThe church's leadership demand strict obedience to its teachings and its rhetoric has alienated other churches that have different approaches to Christianity. In 2003, Tamaki, in what he described as a prophetic utterance, predicted that Destiny would be \"ruling the nation\" within five years.\n\nThe church provides not only religious guidance but also a range of social services including budget advice, support for drug addicts and provision of food and housing. The church also operates a composite school (catering for both primary and secondary students) which uses the Cambridge system. Church services have a Pentecostal worship style, and sermons have a strongly conservative, literalist interpretation of Biblical teachings. Its membership is drawn mainly from lower socio-economic sections of New Zealand society and is multicultural, although predominantly Māori and Polynesian. Brian Tamaki is himself Māori, and the church has been identified as part of the Māori cultural renaissance of recent years. \n\nDestiny Church started off as \"Lake City Church\", which had a membership of 20 people. Within two years, it had grown to 300 members. Over the years, Destiny Churches were established in the following locations:\n\nAt its peak in 2003, Destiny Church had a network of 19 churches throughout New Zealand, with a total membership in excess of 5,000. By June 2012 it had 11 remaining churches, with fewer than 3000 regular attendees. Churches have closed in Porirua, Wanganui and Dunedin. By June 2013, Destiny Church Wanganui was no longer listed on the main church website. In addition, other branches had Kaitaia, Opotiki, Taumaranui, and Hawkes Bay had either closed down or merged with other church branches.\n\nDestiny TV, a televangelist ministry, launched in 2001 and produced 30-minute programmes that ran every weekday morning on New Zealand's national television broadcaster. The programmes were funded by donations from Destiny Church members. TVNZ ceased to broadcast the programme in late 2004 just after the formation of the Destiny New Zealand political party. , Destiny TV still operates as the video production arm of Destiny Church. Weekly Destiny TV programmes are available for streaming on Destiny Church's website.\n\nThe Destiny Church movement was founded in 1998 from 20 members of Lake City Church in Rotorua, initially calling itself City Church Auckland. Destiny Church was founded by Brian Tamaki and his wife Hannah Tamaki, who continue to serve as Visionary and Senior Ministers of Destiny Church. Destiny Church had a close relationship with New Birth Missionary Baptist Church in Atlanta, USA, the church of Bishop Eddie Long. In his autobiography Tamaki described meeting Long, \"my spiritual father\", in 2002. Historian Peter Lineham has compared Destiny Church to the Ratana movement and linked with historical Christianity in Māoridom.\n\nDestiny Church has campaigned for a return to what it considers to be \"Christian moral values\" in New Zealand society, particularly for the \"sanctity of marriage between a husband and wife\". In August 2004, Destiny members marched on Parliament under their \"Enough is Enough\" rally which drew 5000 protesters against civil unions legislation. The rally attracted considerable criticism. The black T-shirts and track-pants worn by many of the marchers prompted negative comparisons with Nazi storm-troopers in the New Zealand media. When the rally was in progress, Tamaki indicated that he did not want to be a politician, saying, \"I have a higher calling than a politician, I am a man of God.\"\n\nA second march occurred in Auckland along with the Christian Life Centre and the City Impact Churches on 5 March 2005.\n\nOn 29 October 2008 it was reported that Destiny Church was planning on building a holy city in South Auckland. The report was based on comments made by Brian Tamaki at the church's 10th birthday celebration, and released on DVD, where he talks about a site the church had procured, with a budget of $2.4m. He said the community would have its own maraes and medical facilities and that \"every child of every member of this church will never go to a state school again\".\n\nThe church subsequently denied the report, a spokesperson saying they only intended to build a new headquarters and supply \"social help\" programmes, despite Rotorua's \"Daily Post\" quoting Tamaki as saying Destiny planned to create a \"city within a city\" in 2006.\n\nAt the Church's 2012 annual conference in Rotorua, Tamaki presented plans including a library, bookshop, early childhood centre, three schools and a university and encouraged tithing, saying \"I don't care what the media say, I don't care what your relatives say, I don't care what the world says, nobody should be not tithing.\"\n\nIn October 2009, about 700 male members of the church attended a conference called \"MoMENtum\" in which Tamaki likened himself to King David. Attendees swore a \"covenant oath\" of loyalty and obedience to Tamaki and were given a \"covenant ring\" to wear on their right hands. A document entitled \"Protocols & Requirements Between Spiritual Father & His Spiritual Sons\" contains the oath:\nThe document asserts Tamaki's authority as \"Bishop\" and \"spiritual father\" of the church he founded. Another section, \"Conduct Towards Bishop\", states that \"Bishop is the tangible expression of God\", instructs the \"sons\" to follow numerous protocols, to defer to Tamaki with unquestioning loyalty and obedience, to follow his dress code, and to never tolerate criticism.\n\nRichard Lewis, a member of Destiny Church Auckland, formed the Destiny New Zealand political party in 2003. The party first ran candidates in 2005. Candidates from four different churches joined with candidates who came from Destiny Church. Despite Tamaki's prediction that the church would rule New Zealand by 2008, the party's 42 candidates gained only 0.6 percent of the vote. This fell well short of the five percent threshold required to enter Parliament without an electorate MP but proved the best performance of any party that failed to enter Parliament.\nIn 2007, City Impact Church and Destiny Church collaborated in the establishment of the \"Family Party\", but the latter won just 0.35% of the party vote in New Zealand's 2008 general election and dissolved in 2010.\n\nDestiny Church recognises Māori as tangata whenua (\"People of the Land\"). It also regards itself as an \"iwi-tapu\" or a spiritual tribe of God's people set aside as a chosen raise, citing a scriptural premise from 1 Peter 2:9. In 2008, Destiny Church sought to claim urban Māori status so that they could serve Māori congregants who were disconnected from their tribes. Māori broadcaster and urban Māori advocate Willie Jackson supported Destiny's proposal by arguing that Tamaki and Destiny Church had changed the lives of thousands of former Māori criminals, fraudsters, and drug dealers for the better. Destiny's socially conservative position on gay rights and women drew opposition from various sectors including Prime Minister Helen Clark. \n\nIn October 2008, Destiny Church was awarded Urban Māori Authority status and Te Rūnanga a Iwi o Te Oranga Ake was incorporated to serve as the church's service provider arm. In 2011, Destiny Church received funding from the Ministry of Social Development for four Community Max programmes to help 79 youths in Auckland, Waikato, and the Bay of Plenty transition into full-time employment. However, Destiny Church struggled to receive government funding for other projects including a charter school. As a result, the Church has had to fund its own community services programme including the \"Man Up\" programme to help men become better fathers, husbands, and leaders in their own families and communities.\n\nDestiny Church and its leader Brian Tamaki have been known for their vocal opposition to homosexuality. On 23 August 2004, Destiny Church organized a large public rally known as the \"Enough is Enough\" march in Wellington to oppose the Fifth Labour Government's proposed Civil Union Act. For the march, Destiny Church members wore black shirts emblazoned with the slogan \"Enough is Enough.\" The march generated considerable media and public attention with critics such as Labour MPs Georgina Beyer and David Benson-Pope likening the marchers to Nazis.\n\nBishop Tamaki attracted controversy when he blamed the 2010 and 2011 Christchurch earthquakes on sinful behavior such as murder and homosexuality during a sermon on 16 November 2016. These statements preceded the 2016 Kaikoura earthquake by a few hours. Tamaki's remarks were condemned by several leading New Zealand public figures including the Mayor of Christchurch Bob Parker, Prime Minister John Key, and the Anglican bishop of Dunedin, Kelvin Wright. One Auckland-based critic Aaron Smithson also organized a Change.org petition calling for the revocation of Destiny Church's tax-free status. \n\nIn April 2018, Tamaki tweeted his support for Australian rugby union player Israel Folau's comments condemning homosexuality.\n\nOn his website \"New Zealand: A Nation Under Siege\" (bishoptamaki.org.nz) Tamaki declared the government of New Zealand to be \"inherently evil\", pointing out that some members of Parliament chose not to swear on the Bible, and one (Ashraf Choudhary) swore on the Qur'an, when being sworn into government. In a June 2005 interview, Tamaki said Destiny was ready to wage war on \"secular humanism, liberalism, relativism, pluralism\", on \"a Government gone evil\", on the \"modern-day witchcraft\" of the media, and on the \"radical homosexual agenda\".\n\nFollowing this pledge, the church was labelled as a cult by several New Zealand media outlets and other observers.\n\nIn an interview with TVNZ, Mark Vrankovich of Cultwatch criticised the covenant, saying Mr Tamaki was \"taking a kingship position\", and\n\nIn the same interview following the reports of October 2009, Mr Tamaki and Richard Lewis defended the pledge on the basis that it was taken willingly, and simply attempted to set standards and codify established practice within the church. Lewis denied the \"cult\" claims, noting that church services are open to the public. Tamaki denied the existence of a \"cult of personality\", saying that he was simply setting a visible example for men to follow; and that the church helps a lot of people from difficult backgrounds.\n\n\"Campbell Live\", a current affairs programme, made use of a covert camera and an unidentified witness to critique church practices and the Momentum conference. The church later issued a response, stating that \"a number of comments made by the individual were grossly inaccurate\", that the source was not credible, and the report reflected \"poor practice\".\n\nIn a separate report Peter Lineham, associate professor at Massey University, expressed similar concerns but stopped short of using the word 'cult':\n\nCult allegations resurfaced in 2010, when Cultwatch accused Tamaki of denying the bodily resurrection of Jesus, the claims and Tamaki's denial of the cult status generated substantial media coverage.\n\nMedia articles using former Destiny Church members as sources have alleged that Tamaki's has an outspoken autocratic style and highlighted the church's frequent appeals for tithe contributions, and its insular culture. The Sunday Star Times highlighted Tamaki's visible wealth and personal luxury, questioning its consistency with the church's tithing system. Church pastors agree to a restraint of trade that applies in the event that they withdraw as pastors.\n\nThe church's Brisbane pastor resigned in March 2010 over a difference in doctrine. 25 members of the congregation followed him out of the church, some expressed their support for him to the media, saying that the church was a money-making cult. \n\nOn 29 August 2017, Destiny Church co-founder and senior pastor Hannah Tamaki attracted media attention for purchasing a new Mercedes-Benz AMG GLE63 S SUV worth NZ$207,900. This coincided with reports that the Charities Services was considering stripping three of Destiny Church's charities of their charitable status for failing to file returns. Some critics have regarded these expenses as extravagant luxuries that come at the expense of church members.\n\nIn late March 2010, controversy arose over allegations against two adult children of Destiny Church Taranaki Pastors Robyn and Lee Edmonds, it was alleged that their son had indecently assaulted a thirteen-year-old girl and their daughter had been involved with a sixteen-year-old boy in foster care. Charges were withdrawn by Police with their son as there was no evidence. The Edmonds resigned from Destiny Church Taranaki leadership.\n\nIn early October 2017, the Department of Internal Affairs issued notice to strip two of Destiny Church's biggest charities, Destiny International Trust and Te Hahi o Nga Matamua Holdings, of their charitable status for failing to file the required annual returns. 15 Destiny-associated charities had repeatedly failed to file their returns in accordance with the Charities Act 2005 for the past two years. This news accompanied reports that more than 100,000 people had signed a petition calling for the New Zealand Government to revoke Destiny Church's tax-free status in response to Tamaki's remarks blaming gays for the 2010 and 2011 Christchurch earthquakes, and church co-founder Hannah Tamaki's extravagant purchase of a brand new Mercedes-Benz in mid-August 2017. After Destiny Church failed to respond to the Department's requests, the Charities Registration Board stripped Destiny International Trust and Te Hari O Nga Matamua Holdings of their charitable status, effective 20 December. These two charities are Destiny Church's biggest charities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1957632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957632", "title": "Directorate of Ukraine", "text": "Directorate of Ukraine\n\nThe Directorate, or Directory (, \"Dyrektoriya\") was a provisional collegiate revolutionary state committee of the Ukrainian People's Republic, initially formed on November 13–14, 1918 during a session of the Ukrainian National Union in rebellion against Skoropadsky's regime. During the overthrow of Pavlo Skoropadsky it was named as the \"Executive Council of the State Affairs\" (). Its authority was extended by the Labor Congress of Ukraine on January 23–28, 1919.\n\nAfter unsuccessful attempts to gather members of the committee, it dissolved on November 10, 1920. On November 12, 1920 by the 'Law on the Temporary Supreme Authority and the Legislative System of the UNR' the executive council was reformed into a single person government position.\n\nThe Directory was formed until a new council was to be elected to form the professional government. It was decided not to restore functioning of the Central Rada which was favored by the SR-centrists Mykhailo Hrushevsky and Vsevolod Holubovych. The new council, the Labor Congress, appointed the Directory as the Extraordinary Government Body in the protection of the republic. It was charged to enact laws in the absence of the Labor Congress due to the political situation in the country, while the Council of the People's Ministers was invested with the executive powers. The Directory consisted of five delegates from various parties and representation groups.\n\nVynnychenko left the government (10 February 1919) in the hope that the Directory would establish friendly talks with representatives of the Entente while Petliura left the SDPists, thus demonstrating that the Ukrainian government had changed its political agenda and was not the same one that had signed the treaty in Brest-Litovsk on 9 February 1918. In light of that a new Prime Minister was appointed as well, Serhiy Ostapenko, who headed his non-socialist government from February 11, 1919. When talks failed Ostapenko was replaced by Borys Martos on April 9, 1919.\n\n\n\nOver two years (December 1918 to November 1920) there were five governments before the Directorate went into official exile at the end of 1920. Between 15 December and 25 December 1918 a stand-off took place between the Revolutionary Committee in Kiev and the provisional Executive Council of State Affairs (TRZDS) in Vinnytsia. It took couple of weeks before the new government was formed on December 26 headed by Volodymyr Chekhivsky as President of the Council of People's Ministers (Prime Minister).\n\nIn December 1918 Hetman of the Ukrainian State Pavlo Skoropadskyi was deposed and the Directorate was established.\n\nWith the defeat of the Central Powers in World War I, Skoropadsky could no longer rely on Germany and Austria-Hungary's support. On November 13, 1918 Skoropadky's opponents set up a rival body known as the Directory, whose forces were headed by the newly reformed Sich Rifles. Most of Skoropadsky's troops joined with the Directory during a month long the Ukrainian Civil War. Skoropadsky then turned to some of the Russian officers who were fighting alongside Denikin, forming them into a Special Corps, but these troops were not able to face the Directory troops. On December 19, 1918, the Directory troops took Kiev and overthrew Skoropadsky's regime.\n\nThe Directory re-established the Ukrainian People's Republic (UNR). The new regime was torn between the pro-nationalistic, including the party of peasant-democrats, and the factions for the federal union with Russia. At the end the idea to reestablish the Central Rada was set aside as well as to recover all its legal acts yet the most important one were preserved. On December 26, 1918 the Directory released its declaration to eliminate the Hetman regime.\n\nBy the end of 1918 the Directory began to be dominated by the Ukrainian military leader, Symon Petliura.\n\nFaced by many enemies on all sides the UNR's army was organised to face each threat. To the North-east were the Bolsheviks, to the south-east were the Russian Whites, to the south-west Romanians who had claims on territory in Bucovina and Halychyna, and the French intervention force took Odessa in December 1918 to fill the power vacuum left by the withdrawing Austrians and Germans. Coming quickly to some understanding with the French and the Romanians, the UNR's army was able to employ more men on other fronts.\n\nWith major fighting breaking out in January 1919, the Ukrainians were pushed back and Kiev fell in February 1919. The government moved to Vinnytsia on February 5, 1919. A political trick took place that the Directory tried to play with Volodymyr Vynnychenko resignation to demonstrate a change of powers in the Ukrainian government and maybe attain a possible acceptance with the Entente. Symon Petliura has left the party and replaced the Vynnychenko's position who was too well known. Petliura has assumed the position of the Directory's chairman on February 11, 1919, a week after the government moved to Podillia. The talks, alias, were proved to be without results. By May 1919, the Directory's armies had been squeezed into a narrow strip of land around Brody. Soviets then negotiated with the Poles, who were attacking the Ukrainians from behind, with this ceasefire, the Ukrainians were able to counter-attack and re-take Podilia and established a new capital in Kamianets-Podilskyi. In June, the UNR's forces were joined by the Western Ukrainian Republic's forces, who had been pushed out of Galicia by the Poles. During that time (May 1919), General Denikin and his white army launched an offensive against the Reds, during the summer and autumn of that year. The \"White Guards\" forces pushed the Reds out of the Central and Eastern Ukraine, thus, given the Directory another chance to reclaim Kiev. But the constant \"Red Guards\" counter-attacks and a deadly typhus epidemic caused the Petliura forces to be pushed out of Ukraine completely into the well established territory of Poland. A political crisis took place inside the Directory members of which were heavily interfered in the affairs of the Council of People's Ministers. Because of that Shvets and Makarenko were sent on the state matters abroad. Later in May 1920 on the request of Petliura to return they did not reply and were dismissed.\n\nIn 1920, the Polish Army reorganized with the help from the two new Ukrainian divisions to prepare an offensive against the Denikin's forces. A UNR-Polish Treaty in April 1920 provided for combined operations between the two armies under overall Polish command while recognizing the Polish sovereignty over the territory of the former West Ukrainian People's Republic with the border passing along the Zbruch river. In the Soviet-Polish war of 1920, the Poles and Ukrainians advanced side by side, and the UNR was set up again when they re-took Kiev. But less than a month later the Soviet's summer counter-offensive left the Poles and Ukrainians retreating, an armistice was signed in late 1920. With this great disappointment, the UNR forces launched an attack on their own against the Reds from Polish territory, however that was quickly beaten. They were forced back into Galicia. In 1920 Poland concluded a border dispute by the Treaty of Riga with the Soviet Union, thus, canceling the Treaty of Warsaw (1920). The Treaty of Riga divided Western Ukraine among Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary and gave the Soviet Union control over the rest of (current) Ukraine (which became the Ukrainian SSR).\n\nAt the first stage the Directory recovered all of the rights of peasants and workers that were established by the laws passed by the Central Rada.\n\n\"Until the complete solution of the Land Reform, the Directory of the Ukrainian People's Republic declares that all small peasant's holdings and all worker's holdings to be left for use of their previous owners, while the rest of lands to be transferred to the peasant with little or no land holdings with the priorities to those joined the Republican forces against the struggle with the former Hetman. The Supreme subordination over the land carries the Directory of the Ukrainian People's Republic. This statement concerns also the monastery, church, and government land holdings. For introduction of the Reform there was organized the People's Land Committee...\"\n\nThe Directory canceled all the codes of the former Hetmanate government concerning workers policies. The eight-hour working day was reestablished as well as the practice of cooperative agreements, the rights on coalition and activist strikes, and various other normative acts.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7841314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7841314", "title": "Distinguished Intelligence Medal", "text": "Distinguished Intelligence Medal\n\nThe Distinguished Intelligence Medal is awarded by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency for performance of outstanding services or for achievement of a distinctly exceptional nature in a duty or responsibility. \n\nThis list includes only those publicly acknowledged to have received this award. Due to the nature of the clandestine services, an unknown number of additional individuals may have been awarded this medal in secret for actions on classified missions.\nCIA medals are often referred to as \"jock strap medals\" since they are often awarded secretly (due to the classification level of the respective operation) and cannot be displayed, or on occasion, acknowledged publicly.\n\n"}
{"id": "620513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620513", "title": "Dominant-party system", "text": "Dominant-party system\n\nA dominant-party system, or one-party dominant system, is a system where there is \"a category of parties/political organisations that have successively won election victories and whose future defeat cannot be envisaged or is unlikely for the foreseeable future.\" Many are \"de facto\" one-party systems, and often devolve into \"de jure\" one-party systems. Usually, the dominant party consistently holds majority government, without the need for coalitions.\n\nExamples commonly cited include: United Russia (CP) in Russia, the Justice and Development Party (AKP) in Turkey, Serbian Progressive Party (SNS) in Serbia, Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro (DPS) in Montenegro, the People's Action Party (PAP) in Singapore, the African National Congress (ANC) in South Africa, the Liberal Democratic Party in Japan, Awami League in Bangladesh, MPLA in Angola and the ZANU-PF in Zimbabwe.\n\nOpponents of the \"dominant party\" system or theory argue that it views the meaning of democracy as given, and that it assumes that only a particular conception of representative democracy (in which different parties alternate frequently in power) is valid. One author argues that \"the dominant party 'system' is deeply flawed as a mode of analysis and lacks explanatory capacity. But it is also a very conservative approach to politics. Its fundamental political assumptions are restricted to one form of democracy, electoral politics and hostile to popular politics. This is manifest in the obsession with the quality of electoral opposition and its sidelining or ignoring of popular political activity organised in other ways. The assumption in this approach is that other forms of organisation and opposition are of limited importance or a separate matter from the consolidation of their version of democracy.\"\n\nOne of the dangers of dominant parties is \"the tendency of dominant parties to conflate party and state and to appoint party officials to senior positions irrespective of their having the required qualities.\" However, in some countries this is common practice even when there is no dominant party. In contrast to one-party systems, dominant-party systems can occur within a context of a democratic system. In a one-party system other parties are banned, but in dominant-party systems other political parties are tolerated, and (in democratic dominant-party systems) operate without overt legal impediment, but do not have a realistic chance of winning; the dominant party genuinely wins the votes of the vast majority of voters every time (or, in authoritarian systems, claims to). Under authoritarian dominant-party systems, which may be referred to as \"electoralism\" or \"soft authoritarianism\", opposition parties are legally allowed to operate, but are too weak or ineffective to seriously challenge power, perhaps through various forms of corruption, constitutional quirks that intentionally undermine the ability for an effective opposition to thrive, institutional and/or organizational conventions that support the status quo, occasional but not omnipresent political repression, or inherent cultural values averse to change.\n\nIn some states opposition parties are subject to varying degrees of official harassment and most often deal with restrictions on free speech (such as press club), lawsuits against the opposition, and rules or electoral systems (such as gerrymandering of electoral districts) designed to put them at a disadvantage. In some cases outright electoral fraud keeps the opposition from power. On the other hand, some dominant-party systems occur, at least temporarily, in countries that are widely seen, both by their citizens and outside observers, to be textbook examples of democracy. The reasons why a dominant-party system may form in such a country are often debated: Supporters of the dominant party tend to argue that their party is simply doing a good job in government and the opposition continuously proposes unrealistic or unpopular changes, while supporters of the opposition tend to argue that the electoral system disfavors them (for example because it is based on the principle of first past the post), or that the dominant party receives a disproportionate amount of funding from various sources and is therefore able to mount more persuasive campaigns. In states with ethnic issues, one party may be seen as being the party for an ethnicity or race with the party for the majority ethnic, racial or religious group dominating, e.g., the African National Congress in South Africa (governing since 1994) has strong support amongst Black South Africans, the Ulster Unionist Party governed Northern Ireland from its creation in 1921 until 1972 with the support of the Protestant majority.\n\nSub-national entities are often dominated by one party due the area's demographic being on one end of the spectrum. For example, the current elected government of the District of Columbia has been governed by Democrats since its creation in the 1970s, Bavaria by the Christian Social Union since 1957, Madeira by the Social Democrats since 1976, and Alberta by Progressive Conservatives 1971–2015. On the other hand, where the dominant party rules nationally on a genuinely democratic basis, the opposition may be strong in one or more subnational areas, possibly even constituting a dominant party locally; an example is South Africa, where although the African National Congress is dominant at the national level, the opposition Democratic Alliance is strong to dominant in the Province of Western Cape.\n\n\n\nFederally, a multi-party system exists, although only two federal parties have ever held power, the Conservative Party and the Liberal Party. However, in some provinces, a party holds hegemonic status over all other parties.\n\n\nAs a whole, the nation has a two-party system, with the main parties since the mid-19th century being Democratic Party and the Republican Party. However, some states and cities have been dominated by one of these parties for up to several decades. Generally, the Democratic Party dominate in the urban metropolitan areas, while the Republican Party dominate in the rural areas. Since 2010, majority of the states are dominated by the Republican Party. With control in both the Senate and House of Representatives, and Donald Trump's victory in the 2016 elections, the Republican Party dominate in both federal and state levels. \n\nDominated by the Democratic Party:\n\nDominated by the Republican Party:\n\nDominant-party systems can also exist on native reservations with republican forms of government. The Seneca Nation of Indians, a tribe with territory within the bounds of New York State, has had the Seneca Party as the dominant party in its political system for several decades.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Formerly its predecessors People's Labor Party (with SHP), People's Democracy Party, Democratic People's Party, Thousand Hope Candidates and Labour, Democracy and Freedom Bloc.\n\nThe predecessors of the ÖVP are the Christian Social Party ruled from 1907 to the renaming 1933 and the Fatherland Front ruled from 1933 to the Anschluss 1938.\n\nThe predecessors of the CSU are the Bavarian Patriotic Party ruled from 1869 (won in the Zollparlament election, 1868) to the renaming 1887, the Bavarian Center Party ruled from 1887 to the November Revolution 1918 and the BVP ruled from 1919 to the Machtergreifung 1933 (In 1919, the BVP joined the Zentrum as a CVP.).\n\n"}
{"id": "57096536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57096536", "title": "Felon disenfranchisement in Florida", "text": "Felon disenfranchisement in Florida\n\nIn the state of Florida, persons convicted of a felony are stripped of their voting rights in addition to other sentencing. This restriction lasts for life, and the right can only be restored through special permissions from both the governor and the state clemency board. This practice is known as felony disenfranchisement, a common punishment across the United States, being law in 48 states (not practiced in Vermont and Maine). However, Florida is one of only twelve states that bans convicted felons from voting post-sentence and one of only four that maintains that ban for life. \n\nA referendum held on November 6, 2018, to restore the voting rights of Florida's nonviolent felons passed by nearly 65%. The initiative will go into effect January. Those convicted of murder or sexual abuse, however, remain disenfranchised.\n\nFelony disenfranchisement in Florida began with the 1838 ratification of the state constitution. Article VI Section 13 of the original state constitution states, “laws shall be made by the General Assembly, to exclude from office, and from suffrage, those who shall have been or may thereafter be convicted of bribery, perjury, forgery, or other high crime, or misdemeanor.” This law took effect in 1845 when Florida became a U.S. state and remained largely intact despite notable wording changes in 1868 and 1968 until 2007.\n\nDuring the 1868 state constitutional convention, Florida largely overhauled its constitution: A small expansion of the felon voting section was changed to say, “nor shall any person convicted of felony be qualified to vote at any election unless restored to civil rights… the Legislature shall have power and shall enact the necessary laws to exclude from every office of honor, power, trust, or profit, civil or military, within the State, and from the right of suffrage, all persons convicted of bribery, perjury, larceny, or of infamous crime.” Although minor, this rewrite marks the first instance of the word “felony” in official documents to describe actions that warrant exclusion from voting rights.\n\nThere were no reform efforts of note nor any changes to the felon voting section of the constitution until 1968, where the section was simplified to include only felonies as reasons to ban criminals from voting; bribery, perjury, larceny, and infamous crimes were struck. This version of the law would stand until 2007.\n\nIn 1974, the Florida Legislature passed a bill that would allow felons to regain the right to vote upon the conclusion of their sentences. However, the Supreme Court of Florida ruled that the bill was unconstitutional because it bypassed the governor’s clemency power. Though, many spoke out throughout the rest of the 20th century, this remained the only real attempt at reform until the 21st century.\n\nOn September 22, 2000, the Brennan Center for Justice represented eight ex-felons that filed a civil complaint against the state of Florida claiming its implementation of felony disenfranchisement violated the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965 as well as the First, Fourteenth, Fifteenth, and Twenty-fourth amendments of the U.S. Constitution. The case, \"Johnson v. Bush\", lasted the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit ruled in 2005 that the law would stand.\n\nOn April 5, 2007, Governor Charlie Crist was able to pass legislation that allowed ex-felons to regain the right to vote if approved by the Parole Commission. Crist intended this reform to include automatic reinstatement for all ex-felons that were not convicted of murder or violent sex crimes; however, other public officials at the time felt the reform was too lenient on criminals. This reform ultimately allowed over 150,000 ex-felons to regain the right to vote but was reversed in March 2011 under Governor Rick Scott. Scott also added the additional barrier of a five-year waiting period between the end of a sentence and application for voting reinstatement. This current iteration of the law has remained unchanged through today.\n\nOn February 1, 2018, federal judge Mark Walker ruled that Florida’s process of choosing which ex-felons should have their voting rights restored was unconstitutional. Walker argued that Florida’s system for re-enfranchisement is too broad for interpretation. As such, Walker claimed the decision to reinstate voting rights falls within the personal discretion of the governor and the clemency board, potentially allowing for personal bias to influence decisions.\n\nAccording to ProCon.org:\n\n\nA felony is “a crime, typically one involving violence, regarded as more serious than a misdemeanor, and usually punishable by imprisonment for more than one year or by death.” \n\nIn Florida, there are four categories of felonies: third-degree, second-degree, first-degree, and capital or life felonies. While the severity of sentencing depends on the category the act falls in, all felons are automatically disenfranchised.\n\n"}
{"id": "435160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435160", "title": "First Baptist Church of Jacksonville", "text": "First Baptist Church of Jacksonville\n\nThe First Baptist Church of Jacksonville is a large Southern Baptist church in Downtown Jacksonville, Florida, U.S. As of 2011, First Baptist Church has 28,000 members and an average attendance of around 7,500 for Sunday services, making it the third largest church in the Southern Baptist Convention. The main Downtown Campus comprises nine square blocks of property connected by above-ground crosswalks. The campus includes several auditoriums for services, a Sunday school building, and facilities for First Baptist Academy, a private K-10 school. \n\nFirst Baptist Church has its origins in the oldest Baptist congregation in Jacksonville, Bethel Baptist Church, established in 1838. The church experienced a period of considerable growth in the mid-20th century, and now encompasses eleven square blocks of downtown Jacksonville. Several former pastors, including Homer G. Lindsay, Jr. and Jerry Vines, were widely influential in the Southern Baptist Convention, leading it in both growth and a shift towards conservatism.\n\nFirst Baptist Church traces its origins to Bethel Baptist Church (now Bethel Baptist Institutional Church), the earliest Baptist church to be founded in Jacksonville. Bethel Baptist was established under co-pastors James McDonald and Ryan Frier in July 1838 with only six charter members, four whites and two blacks, the latter of whom were slaves of white members.. Membership quickly grew, with most early congregants being black slaves who received day passes from their masters to attend. The first meetings were held at \"Mother Sam's\", a local plantation, and in 1861 a permanent meeting hall was erected in Downtown Jacksonville at Church and Julia Streets. The Bethel Baptist Church remained interracial until after the American Civil War, at which point the decision was made to segregate the congregation by race. White members attempted to force out the blacks, and took their case to court. However, the court found in favor of the blacks, who were in the majority, determining that they were the rightful owners of the Bethel Baptist name and property. As a result the whites left the congregation, forming Tabernacle Baptist Church, which was eventually renamed First Baptist Church. Bethel Baptist Institutional Church now numbers its congregation at approximately 10,000 members.\n\nIn 1866 Tabernacle Baptist Church purchased the Church Street property from Bethel Baptist Church, as was required by the court. The church went through a number of changes over the next years, and in 1892 it moved to its current location between Church and Hogan Streets, adopting the name First Baptist Church. The building was entirely destroyed in the Great Fire of 1901, which ravaged downtown Jacksonville. In 1903 the foundation was laid for a new building, which was completed within a year. This building, now known as Hobson Auditorium, still serves as part of the larger First Baptist complex.\n\nThe church did not fare well in the early 20th century. By 1940, First Baptist had accumulated a debt of $125,000 and saw its educational building repossessed by its creditors. That year, the church hired Homer Lindsay, Sr. as their senior pastor. Under his leadership the church reversed its fortunes, and within a few years it paid off its debt, acquired a new education building, and grew its congregation. In 1969 First Baptist hired Lindsay's son, Homer Lindsay, Jr., as co-pastor; he took over sole pastoral duties upon his father's retirement in 1975. Under Lindsay, Jr. the church experienced even faster growth, emerging as a megachurch with thousands of members and many new buildings, including a new 3,500-seat auditorium.\n\nJerry Vines joined Lindsay as co-pastor in 1982. First Baptist grew even further, becoming a major power in the Southern Baptist Convention and adding a 10,000-seat auditorium in 1993. Vines became a key leader in the growing Convention and was a major figure in its shift toward strict conservatism. Vines and First Baptist Church received national attention in June 2002 for Vines' controversial statements regarding Islam. Lindsay died in 2000 and Vines retired in 2006; Mac Brunson was hired as senior pastor that year. Recent developments include the establishment of First Baptist Academy and of a satellite campus of the church in neighboring St. Johns County. Heath Lambert is the current senior pastor.\n\nFirst Baptist Church of Jacksonville has two satellite campuses. Their South Campus meets in the Ponte Vedra High School auditorium in St. Johns County. They recently purchased land in the Nocatee community and will build a full campus on the land. In 2013, the Ortega Campus was opened after FBC JAX acquired Ortega Baptist Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4877755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4877755", "title": "Fisheries Research Services Marine Laboratory", "text": "Fisheries Research Services Marine Laboratory\n\nThe Fisheries Research Services (FRS) Marine Laboratory is situated in Aberdeen, Scotland. It was formerly an agency of the Scottish Executive Environment and Rural Affairs Department and is now part of the Scottish Government.\n\nFRS provides advice to the Scottish Government and UK Government on fishing and other marine issues.\n\nThe FRS Marine Laboratory is a member of the Aberdeen Research Consortium which also includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11107", "title": "Food and Agriculture Organization", "text": "Food and Agriculture Organization\n\nThe Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO; , ) is a specialized agency of the United Nations that leads international efforts to defeat hunger. Serving both developed and developing countries, FAO acts as a neutral forum where all nations meet as equals to negotiate arguments and debate policy.\n\nFAO is also a source of knowledge and information, and helps developing countries in transition modernize and improve agriculture, forestry and fisheries practices, ensuring good nutrition and food security for all. Its Latin motto, \"\", translates as \"let there be bread\". , The FAO has 197 member states, including the European Union (a \"member organization\"), Niue and The Cook Islands (States in free-association with New Zealand), and the Faroe Islands and Tokelau, which are associate members.\nThe idea of an international organization for food and agriculture emerged in the late 19th and early 20th century advanced primarily by the US agriculturalist and activist David Lubin. In May–June 1905, an international conference was held in Rome, Italy, which led to the creation of the International Institute of Agriculture by the King of Italy Victor Emmanuel III.\n\nLater in 1943, the United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt called a United Nations Conference on Food and Agriculture. Representatives from forty-four governments gathered at The Homestead Resort in Hot Springs, Virginia, US, from 18 May to 3 June. They committed themselves to founding a permanent organization for food and agriculture, which happened in Quebec City, Canada, on 16 October 1945 with the conclusion of the Constitution of the Food and Agriculture Organization. The First Session of the FAO Conference was held in the Château Frontenac in Quebec City from 16 October to 1 November 1945.\n\nWorld War II effectively ended the International Agricultural Institute, though it was only officially dissolved by resolution of its Permanent Committee on 27 February 1948. Its functions were then transferred to the recently established FAO.\n\nFrom the late 1940s on, FAO attempted to make its mark within the emerging UN system, focusing mostly on supporting agricultural and nutrition research and providing technical assistance to member countries to boost production in agriculture, fishery, and forestry.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, FAO partnered with many different international organizations in development projects.\n\nIn 1951, FAO's headquarters were moved from Washington, DC, United States, to Rome, Italy. The agency is directed by the Conference of Member Nations, which meets every two years to review the work carried out by the organization and to Work and Budget for the next two-year period. The Conference elects a council of 49 member states (serve three-year rotating terms) that acts as an interim governing body, and the Director-General, that heads the agency.\n\nFAO is composed of eight departments: Agriculture and Consumer Protection, Climate, Biodiversity, Land and Water Department, Economic and Social Development, Fisheries and Aquaculture, Forestry, Corporate Services and Technical Cooperation and Programme Management.\n\nBeginning in 1994, FAO underwent the most significant restructuring since its founding, to decentralize operations, streamline procedures and reduce costs. As a result, savings of about US$50 million, €35 million a year were realized.\n\nFAO's Regular Programme budget is funded by its members, through contributions set at the FAO Conference. This budget covers core technical work, cooperation and partnerships including the Technical Cooperation Programme, knowledge exchange, policy and advocacy, direction and administration, governance and security.\n\nThe total FAO Budget planned for 2016–2017 is USD 2.6 billion. The voluntary contributions provided by members and other partners support mechanical and emergency (including rehabilitation) assistance to governments for clearly defined purposes linked to the results framework, as well as direct support to FAO's core work. The voluntary contributions are expected to reach approximately US$1.6 billion in 2016–2017.\n\nThis overall budget covers core technical work, cooperation and partnerships, leading to Food and Agriculture Outcomes at 71 per cent; Core Functions at 11 per cent; the Country Office Network – 5 per cent; Capital and Security Expenditure – 2 per cent; Administration – 6 per cent; and Technical and Cooperation Program – 5 per cent.\n\nThe world headquarters are located in Rome, in the former seat of the Department of Italian East Africa. One of the most notable features of the building was the Axum Obelisk which stood in front of the agency seat, although just outside the territory allocated to FAO by the Italian Government. It was taken from Ethiopia by Benito Mussolini's troops in 1937 as a war chest, and returned on 18 April 2005.\n\n\n\n\nFAO has outlined the following priorities in its fight against hunger.\nTwo fundamental areas of work – gender and governance - are fully integrated in the above strategic objective action plans.\n\nFAO and the World Health Organization created the Codex Alimentarius Commission in 1961 to develop food standards, guidelines and texts such as codes of practice under the Joint FAO/ WHO Food Standards Programme. The main aims of the programme are protecting consumer health, ensuring fair trade and promoting co-ordination of all food standards work undertaken by intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations.\n\nIn 1996, FAO organized the World Food Summit, attended by 112 Heads or Deputy Heads of State and Government. The Summit concluded with the signing of the Rome Declaration, which established the goal of halving the number of people who suffer from hunger by the year 2015. At the same time, 1,200 civil society organizations (CSOs) from 80 countries participated in an NGO forum. The forum was critical of the growing industrialization of agriculture and called upon governments – and FAO – to do more to protect the 'Right to Food' of the poor.\n\nIn 1997, FAO launched TeleFood, a campaign of concerts, sporting events and other activities to harness the power of media, celebrities and concerned citizens to help fight hunger. Since its start, the campaign has generated close to US$28 million, €15 million in donations. Money raised through TeleFood pays for small, sustainable projects that help small-scale farmers produce more food for their families and communities.\n\nThe projects provide tangible resources, such as fishing equipment, seeds and agricultural implements. They vary enormously, from helping families raise pigs in Venezuela, through creating school gardens in Cape Verde and Mauritania or providing school lunches in Uganda and teaching children to grow food, to raising fish in a leper community in India.\n\nThe FAO Goodwill Ambassadors Programme was initiated in 1999. The main purpose of the programme is to attract public and media attention to the unacceptable situation that some 1 billion people continue to suffer from chronic hunger and malnutrition in a time of unprecedented plenty. These people lead a life of misery and are denied the most basic of human rights: the right to food.\n\nGovernments alone cannot end hunger and undernourishment. Mobilization of the public and private sectors, the involvement of civil society and the pooling of collective and individual resources are all needed if people are to break out of the vicious circle of chronic hunger and undernourishment.\n\nEach of FAO's Goodwill Ambassadors – celebrities from the arts, entertainment, sport and academia such as Nobel Prize winner Rita Levi Montalcini, actress Gong Li, the late singer Miriam Makeba, International Singers Ronan Keating, and Anggun. and soccer players Roberto Baggio and Raúl, to name a few – have made a personal and professional commitment to FAO's vision: a food-secure world for present and future generations. Using their talents and influence, the Goodwill Ambassadors draw the old and the young, the rich and the poor into the campaign against world hunger. They aim to make Food for All a reality in the 21st century and beyond.\n\nIn 2004 the Right to Food Guidelines were adopted, offering guidance to states on how to implement their obligations on the right to food.\n\nIn December 2007, FAO launched its Initiative on Soaring Food Prices to help small producers raise their output and earn more. Under the initiative, FAO contributed to the work of the UN High-Level Task Force on the Global Food Crisis, which produced the Comprehensive Framework for Action. FAO has carried out projects in over 25 countries and inter-agency missions in nearly 60, scaled up its monitoring through the Global Information and Early Warning System on Food and Agriculture, provided policy advice to governments while supporting their efforts to increase food production, and advocated for more investment in agriculture. s also worked hand-in-hand with the European Union. One example of its work is a US$10.2 million, €7.5 billion scheme to distribute and multiply quality seeds in Haiti, which has significantly increased food production, thereby providing cheaper food and boosting\n\nIn May 2009, FAO and the European Union signed an initial aid package worth €125 million to support small farmers in countries hit hard by rising food prices. The aid package falls under the EU's €1 billion Food Facility, set up with the UN Secretary-General's High-Level Task Force on the Global Food Crisis and FAO to focus on programmes that will have a quick but lasting impact on food security. FAO is receiving a total of around €200 million for work in 25 countries, of which €15.4 million goes to Zimbabwe.\n\nThe Special Programme for Food Security is FAO's flagship initiative for reaching the goal of halving the number of hungry in the world by 2015 (currently estimated at close to 1 billion people), as part of its commitment to the Millennium Development Goals. Through projects in over 100 countries worldwide, the programme promotes effective, tangible solutions to the elimination of hunger, undernourishment and poverty. Currently 102 countries are engaged in the programme and of these approximately 30 have begun shifting from pilot to national programmes. To maximize the impact of its work, FAO strongly promotes national ownership and local empowerment in the countries in which it operates.\n\nThe 1billionhungry project became the EndingHunger campaign in April 2011. Spearheaded by FAO in partnership with other UN agencies and private nonprofit groups, the EndingHunger movement pushes the boundaries of conventional public advocacy. It builds on the success in 2010 of The 1billonhungry project and the subsequent chain of public events that led to the collection of over three million signatures on a global petition to end hunger (www.EndingHunger.org). The petition was originally presented to representatives of world governments at a ceremony in Rome on 30 November 2010.\n\nThe web and partnerships are two pivotal and dynamic aspects of EndingHunger. The campaign relies on the assistance of organizations and institutions that can facilitate the project's diffusion, by placing banners on their own websites or organizing events aimed to raise awareness of the project. In its 2011 season, the campaign expanded its multimedia content, pursued mutual visibility arrangements with partner organizations, and sharpened its focus on 14- to 25-year-olds, who were encouraged to understand their potential as a social movement to push for the end of hunger.\n\nMoreover, the EndingHunger project is a viral communication campaign, renewing and expanding its efforts to build the movement through Facebook, Twitter and other social networks. Those who sign the petition can spread the link of the EndingHunger website to their friends, via social media or mail, in order to gain awareness and signatures for the petition. The next interim objective is to grow the EndingHunger movement's Facebook community to 1 million members. As with the petition, the more people who get involved, the more powerful the message to governments: \"We are no longer willing to accept the fact that hundreds of millions live in chronic hunger.\" Groups and individuals can also decide on their own to organize an event about the project, simply by gathering friends, whistles, T-shirts and banners (whistles and T-shirts can be ordered, and petition sign sheets downloaded, on the endinghunger.org website) and thereby alert people about chronic hunger by using the yellow whistle.\n\nThe original 1billionhungry campaign borrowed as its slogan the line \"I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore!\", used by Peter Finch in the 1976 film, \"Network\". Meanwhile, the yellow whistle has been the campaign symbol from the start, from 1billionhungry to Ending Hunger. (The creative concept was provided by the McCann Erickson Italy Communication Agency.) It symbolizes the fact that we are \"blowing the whistle\" on the silent disaster of hunger. It is both a symbol and – at many live events taking place around the world – a physical means of expressing frustration and making some noise about the hunger situation.\n\nBoth The 1billionhungry and the EndingHunger campaigns have continued to attract UN Goodwill Ambassadors from the worlds of music and cinema, literature, sport, activism and government. Some of the well known individuals who have become involved include former Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, former presidents of Chile Ricardo Lagos and Michelle Bachelet, actress Susan Sarandon, actors Jeremy Irons and Raul Bova, singers Céline Dion and Anggun, authors Isabelle Allende and Andrea Camilleri, musician Chucho Valdés and Olympic track-and-field legend Carl Lewis.\n\nFAO created the International Plant Protection Convention or IPPC in 1952. This international treaty organization works to prevent the international spread of pests and plant diseases in both cultivated and wild plants. Among its functions are the maintenance of lists of plant pests, tracking of pest outbreaks, and coordination of technical assistance between member nations. As of July 2018, 183 contracting parties have ratified the treaty.\n\nThe Alliance Against Hunger and Malnutrition (AAHM) aims to address how countries and organizations can be more effective in advocating and carrying out actions to address hunger and malnutrition. As a global partnership, AAHM creates global connections between local, regional, national and international institutions that share the goals of fighting hunger and malnutrition. The organization works to address food security by enhancing resources and knowledge sharing and strengthening hunger activities within countries and across state lines at the regional and international levels.\n\nFollowing the World Food Summit, the Alliance was initially created in 2002 as the 'International Alliance Against Hunger (IAAH)' to strengthen and coordinate national efforts in the fight against hunger and malnutrition. The mission of the Alliance originates from the first and eight UN Millennium Development Goals; reducing the number of people that suffer from hunger in half by 2015 (preceded by the \"Rome Declaration\" in 1996) and developing a global partnership for development. The Alliance was founded by the Rome-based food agencies – the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), UN World Food Programme (WFP), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), – and Bioversity International.\n\nAAHM connects top-down and bottom-up anti-hunger development initiatives, linking governments, UN organizations, and NGOs together in order to increase effectiveness through unity.\n\nDuring the 1990s, FAO took a leading role in the promotion of integrated pest management for rice production in Asia. Hundreds of thousands of farmers were trained using an approach known as the Farmer Field School (FFS). Like many of the programmes managed by FAO, the funds for Farmer Field Schools came from bilateral Trust Funds, with Australia, Netherlands, Norway and Switzerland acting as the leading donors. FAO's efforts in this area have drawn praise from NGOs that have otherwise criticized much of the work of the organization.\n\nFAO established an \"Emergency Prevention System for Transboundary Animal and Plant Pests and Diseases\" in 1994, focusing on the control of diseases like rinderpest, foot-and-mouth disease and avian flu by helping governments coordinate their responses. One key element is the \"Global Rinderpest Eradication Programme\", which has advanced to a stage where large tracts of Asia and Africa have now been free of the cattle disease rinderpest for an extended period of time. Meanwhile, \"Locust Watch\" monitors the worldwide locust situation and keeps affected countries and donors informed of expected developments.\n\nThe Global Partnership Initiative for Plant Breeding Capacity Building (GIPB) is a global partnership dedicated to increasing plant breeding capacity building. The mission of GIPB is to enhance the capacity of developing countries to improve crops for food security and sustainable development through better plant breeding and delivery systems. The ultimate goal is to ensure that a critical mass of plant breeders, leaders, managers and technicians, donors and partners are linked together through an effective global network.\n\nIncreasing capacity building for plant breeding in developing countries is critical for the achievement of meaningful results in poverty and hunger reduction and to reverse the current worrisome trends. Plant breeding is a well recognized science capable of widening the genetic and adaptability base of cropping systems, by combining conventional selection techniques and modern technologies. It is essential to face and prevent the recurrence of crises such as that\nof the soaring food prices and to respond to the increasing demands for crop based sources of energy.\n\nFAO's technical cooperation department hosts an Investment Centre that promotes greater investment in agriculture and rural development by helping developing countries identify and formulate sustainable agricultural policies, programmes and projects. It mobilizes funding from multilateral institutions such as the World Bank, regional development banks and international funds as well as FAO resources.\n\nThe Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems (GIAHS) Partnership Initiative was conceptualized and presented by Parviz Koohafkan the Task Manager of Chapter 10 of Agenda 21 in Food and Agricultural Organization of United Nations, FAO in 2002 during World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, South Africa. This UN Partnership Initiative aims to identify, support and safeguard Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems and their livelihoods, agricultural and associated biodiversity, landscapes, knowledge systems and cultures around the world. The GIAHS Partnership recognizes the crucial importance of the well-being of family farming communities in an integrated approach while directing activities towards sustainable agriculture and rural development.\n\nFAO has a unit focused on Animal Genetic Resources, which are defined as “those animal species that are used, or may be used, for the production of food and agriculture, and the populations within each of them. These populations within each species can be classified as wild and feral populations, landraces and primary populations, standardised breeds, selected lines, varieties, strains and any conserved genetic material; all of which are currently categorized as Breeds.\" FAO assists countries in implementation of the Global Plan of Action for Animal Genetic Resources. FAO supports a variety of \"ex situ\" and \"in situ\" conservation strategies including cryoconservation of animal genetic resources.\n\nOne of FAO's strategic goals is the sustainable management of the world's forests. The \"Forestry Department\" works to balance social and environmental considerations with the economic needs of rural populations living in forest areas. FAO serves as a neutral forum for policy dialogue, as a reliable source of information on forests and trees and as a provider of expert technical assistance and advice to help countries develop and implement effective national forest programmes.\n\nFAO is both a global clearinghouse for information on forests and forest resources and a facilitator that helps build countries' local capacity to provide their own national forest data. In collaboration with member countries, FAO carries out periodic global assessments of forest resources, which are made available through reports, publications and the FAO's Web site. The \"Global Forest Resources Assessment\" provides comprehensive reporting on forests worldwide every five years. FRA 2015 is the most recent global assessment. The results, data and analyses are available online in different formats, including the FAO synthesis report \"Global Forest Resources Assessment 2015: How are forests changing?\", the Global Forest Resources Assessment 2015 Desk Reference containing summary tables, 234 country reports and the FRA 2015 Infographics. Moreover, in 2015, the journal \"Forest Ecology and Management\" published a special issue, \"Changes in Global Forest Resources from 1990 to 2015\" reporting forest change over the period 1990–2015.\n\nEvery two years, FAO publishes the \"State of the World's Forests\", a major report covering current and emerging issues facing the forestry sector.\n\nSince 1947, FAO has published the FAO Yearbook of Forest Products, a compilation of statistical data on basic forest products from over 100 countries and territories of the world. It contains data on the volume of production; and the volume, value and direction of trade in forest products.\n\n\"Unasylva\", FAO's peer-reviewed journal on forestry, has been published in English, French and Spanish on a regular basis since 1947, the longest-running multilingual forestry journal in the world.\n\nThe FAO is an official sponsor of International Day of Forests, on 21 March each year, as proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly on 28 November 2012.\n\nEvery 6 years since 1926, FAO and a host member state hold the World Forestry Congress. It is a forum for the sharing of knowledge and experience regarding the conservation, management and use of the world's forests, and covers such issues as international dialogue, socio-economic and institutional aspects, and forest policies.\nThe Forestry Department is also organized geographically in several groups covering the whole world's forest ecosystems. One of them is the Silva mediterranea workgroup, covering the pan-mediterranean region.\n\nThe FAO Fisheries and Aquaculture Department is defined through its vision and mission statements:\n\nThe work of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Department centers on the \"Sustainable management and use of fisheries and aquaculture resource,\" embracing normative as well as operational activities, whether implemented from headquarters or from the field.\n\nThe FAO Statistical Division produces FAOSTAT, which offers free and easy access to data for 245 countries and 35 regional areas from 1961 through the most recent year available. Enhanced features include browsing and analysis of data, an advanced interactive data download, and enhanced data exchange through web services. \n\nThe Land and Water Division maintains a database of global water statistics, Aquastat.\n\nEvery year, FAO publishes a number of major ‘State of the World’ reports related to food, agriculture, forestry, fisheries and natural resources.\n\n\nThere are a total of 197 members comprising 194 member nations, 1 member organization and 2 associate members.\n\n\nThe UN member state that is a non-member of the FAO is Liechtenstein.\n\nSome countries may denote specific representatives to the FAO, for instance the United States Ambassador to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, who has ambassador rank and is also part of the United States Mission to the UN Agencies in Rome.\n\nThere has been public criticism of FAO for at least 30 years. Dissatisfaction with the organization's performance was among the reasons for the creation of two new organizations after the World Food Conference in 1974, namely the World Food Council and the International Fund for Agricultural Development; by the early eighties there was intense rivalry among these organizations. At the same time, the World Food Programme, which started as an experimental three-year programme under FAO, was growing in size and independence, with the Directors of FAO and WFP struggling for power.\n\nEarly in 1989, the organization came under attack from The Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank based in Washington, DC. The Foundation wrote that \"The sad fact is that the FAO has become essentially irrelevant in combating hunger. A bloated bureaucracy known for the mediocrity of its work and the inefficiency of its staff the FAO in recent years has become increasingly politicised\". In September of the same year, the journal \"Society\" published a series of articles about FAO that included a contribution from the Heritage Foundation and a response by FAO staff member, Richard Lydiker, who was later described by the Danish Minister for Agriculture (who had herself resigned from the organization) as \"FAO's chief spokesman for non-transparency\".\n\nEdouard Saouma, the Director-General of FAO, was also criticized in Graham Hancock's book \"Lords of Poverty\", published in 1989. Mention is made of Saouma's \"fat pay packet\", his \"autocratic\" management style, and his \"control over the flow of public information\". Hancock concluded that \"One gets the sense from all of this of an institution that has lost its way, departed from its purely humanitarian and developmental mandate, become confused about its place in the world – about exactly what it is doing, and why.\" Despite the criticism, Edouard Saouma served as DG for three consecutive terms from 1976 to 1993.\n\nIn 1990, the US State Department expressed the view that \"The Food and Agriculture Organization has lagged behind other UN organizations in responding to US desires for improvements in program and budget processes to enhance value for money spent\".\n\nA year later, in 1991, \"The Ecologist\" magazine produced a special issue under the heading \"The UN Food and Agriculture Organization: Promoting World Hunger\". The magazine included articles that questioned FAO's policies and practices in forestry, fisheries, aquaculture, and pest control. The articles were written by experts such as Helena Norberg-Hodge, Vandana Shiva, Edward Goldsmith, Miguel A. Altieri and Barbara Dinham.\n\nThe 2002 Food Summit organized by FAO was considered to be a waste of time by many of the official participants. Social movements, farmers, fisherfolk, pastoralists, indigenous peoples, environmentalists, women's organizations, trade unions and NGOs expressed their \"collective disappointment in, and rejection of the official Declaration of the ... Summit\".\n\nIn 2004, FAO produced a controversial report called 'Agricultural Biotechnology: meeting the needs of the poor?'. The report claimed that \"agricultural biotechnology has real potential as a new tool in the war on hunger\". In response to the report, more than 650 organizations from around the world signed an open letter in which they said \"FAO has broken its commitment to civil society and peasants' organisations\". The letter complained that organizations representing the interests of farmers had not been consulted, that FAO was siding with the biotechnology industry and, consequently, that the report \"raises serious questions about the independence and intellectual integrity of an important United Nations agency\". The Director General of FAO responded immediately, stating that decisions on biotechnology must \"be taken at the international level by competent bodies\" (in other words, not by non-governmental organizations). He acknowledged, however, that \"biotechnology research is essentially driven by the world's top ten transnational corporations\" and \"the private sector protects its results with patents in order to earn from its investment and it concentrates on products that have no relevance to food in developing countries\".\n\nIn May 2006, a British newspaper published the resignation letter of Louise Fresco, one of eight Assistant Directors-General of FAO. In her letter, Fresco stated that \"the Organization has been unable to adapt to a new era\", that \"our contribution and reputation have declined steadily\" and \"its leadership has not proposed bold options to overcome this crisis\".\n\nThe 32nd Session of FAO's Committee on World Food Security in 2006, attended by 120 countries, was widely criticized by non-governmental organizations, but largely ignored by the mainstream media. Oxfam called for an end to the talk-fests while Via Campesina issued a statement that criticised FAO's policy of Food Security.\n\nOn 18 October 2007, the final report of an Independent External Evaluation of FAO was published. More than 400 pages in length, the evaluation was the first of its kind in the history of the Organization. It had been commissioned by decision of the 33rd Session of the FAO Conference in November 2005. The report concluded that \"The Organization is today in a financial and programme crisis\" but \"the problems affecting the Organization today can all be solved\". Among the problems noted by the IEE were: \"The Organization has been conservative and slow to adapt\"; \"FAO currently has a heavy and costly bureaucracy\", and \"The capacity of the Organization is declining and many of its core competencies are now imperilled\". Among the solutions offered were: \"A new Strategic Framework\", \"institutional culture change and reform of administrative and management systems\". In conclusion the IEE stated that, \"If FAO did not exist it would need to be invented\".\n\nThe official response from FAO came on 29 October 2007. It indicated that management supported the principal conclusion in the report of the IEE on the need for \"reform with growth\" so as to have an FAO \"fit for this century\". Meanwhile, hundreds of FAO staff signed a petition in support of the IEE recommendations, calling for \"a radical shift in management culture and spirit, depoliticization of appointments, restoration of trust between staff and management, [and] setting strategic priorities of the organization\".\n\nIn November 2008, a Special Conference of FAO member countries agreed a US$42.6 million (€38.6 million), three-year Immediate Plan of Action for \"reform with growth\", as recommended by the IEE. Under the plan US$21.8 million would be spent on overhauling the financial procedures, hierarchies and human resources management.\n\nIn 2015 FAO was criticized by \"The Economist\" for giving a diploma to Venezuela for being one of 72 countries that had “reached the UN Millennium Development Goal of halving the percentage of their populations suffering from hunger”. It argued that the positive conclusion reached by FAO about the performance of a country experiencing major economic difficulties was based on false statistics and that the percentage of the Venezuelan population suffering from hunger had actually increased. It quoted FAO as saying that it had no reason to doubt the Venezuelan statistics.\n\nIn 2016/17 FAO was heavily criticized for recruiting Nadine Heredia Alarcón de Humala, wife of the former president of Peru, Ollanta Humala, to a senior position, at a time when she was being investigated by Peru following corruption allegations. Critics included Transparency International.\n\nAt the end of April 2017, FAO staff unions addressed the organization’s Governing Council to complain about the practice of issuing short-term contracts that \"exploit employees without providing job security, social security and paid leave\". Other complaints included the increasing centralization of management processes, despite claims that FAO was being decentralized, and the failure to follow United Nations recommendations regarding increasing the retirement age. The staff representative also complained about the high percentage of unfilled positions, increasing the workload for others who were under pressure to deliver more with less. She also noted that contacts between Management and the staff bodies were becoming less and less frequent.\n\nIn May 2008, while talking about the ongoing world food crisis, President Abdoulaye Wade of Senegal expressed the opinion that FAO was \"a waste of money\" and that \"we must scrap it\". Wade said that FAO was itself largely to blame for the price rises, and that the organization's work was duplicated by other bodies that operated more efficiently, like the UN's International Fund for Agricultural Development. However, this criticism may have had more to do with personal animosity between the President and the Director-General, himself a Senegalese, particularly in light of the significant differences in the work carried out by the two organizations.\n\nIn 2008, the FAO sponsored the High-Level Conference on World Food Security. The summit was notable for the lack of agreement over the issue of biofuels.\n\nThe response to the summit among non-governmental organizations was mixed, with Oxfam stating that \"the summit in Rome was an important first step in tackling the food crisis but greater action is now needed\", while Maryam Rahmanian of Iran's Centre for Sustainable Development said \"We are dismayed and disgusted to see the food crisis used to further the policies that have led us to the food crisis in the first place\". As with previous food summits, civil society organizations held a parallel meeting and issued their own declaration to \"reject the corporate industrial and energy-intensive model of production and consumption that is the basis of continuing crises.\"\n\nThe FAO Conference in November 2007 unanimously welcomed the IEE report and established a Conference Committee for the Follow-up to the Independent External Evaluation of FAO (CoC-IEE) to be chaired by the Independent Chairperson of Council, and open to full participation by all Members. The CoC-IEE was charged to review the IEE report and its recommendations and develop an Immediate Plan of Action (IPA) for their implementation.\n\nA comprehensive programme of organizational reform and culture change began in 2008 after the release of an Independent External Evaluation. Headquarters restructuring and delegation of decision making created a flatter more responsive structure and reduced costs. Modernizing and streamlining of administrative and operational processes took place. Improved internal teamwork and closer external partnerships coupled with upgrading of IT infrastructure and greater autonomy of FAO's decentralized offices now allows the Organization to respond quickly where needs are greatest. As FAO is primarily a knowledge based organization, investing in human resources is a top priority. Capacity building including a leadership programme, employee rotation and a new junior professional programme were established. Individual performance management, an ethics and ombudsman officer and an independent office of evaluation were designed to improve performance through learning and strengthened oversight.\n\nIn January 2012, the Director-General José Graziano da Silva acted upon the commitment made during his campaign to bring the FAO reform to a successful and anticipated completion. In addition, the new Director-General shifted the focus of the reform process to realization of its benefits and mainstreaming the reform into the work of the Organization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12868923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12868923", "title": "Friends of Garrity Creek", "text": "Friends of Garrity Creek\n\nThe Friends of Garrity Creek (FGC) is a political organization in Contra Costa County, California which promote the preservation of Garrity Creek.\n\nThe Friends was formed in 2001 when development on steep slopes near the creek's artesian spring source threatened its existence and quality. The friends were eventually successful in preventing the later determined illegal development which was in violation of grade limits for steepness.\n\nThe FGC fund-raise money and work to create awareness of the watershed and its importance to the area. The creek passes through Hilltop Green, under Interstate 80 via pipes, down a small canyon alongside Hilltop Plaza Shopping Center, and then through culverts to a gorge where it has been dammed to create Hilltop Lake. At that point the creek appears as a small lake, surrounded by Hilltop Lake Park. The creek then continues through undeveloped land to its mouth at the shoreline of San Pablo Bay. The friends occasionally have organized volunteer events to clean up trash and to remove invasive species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11399120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11399120", "title": "General Service Unit (Kenya)", "text": "General Service Unit (Kenya)\n\nThe General Service Unit (GSU) is a paramilitary wing in the National Police Service of Kenya, consisting of highly trained police officers, transported by seven dedicated Cessnas and three Bell helicopters Having been in existence since the late 1940s, the GSU has fought in a number of conflicts in and around Kenya, including the 1963 – 1969 Shifta War and the 1982 Kenyan coup. The Kenyan police outlines the objectives of the GSU as follows: to deal with situations affecting internal security throughout the Republic, to be an operational force that is not intended for use on duties of a permanent static nature, and primarily, to be a reserve force to deal with special operations and civil disorders.\n\nInitially created as the Emergency Company or Regular Police Reserve in 1948, the GSU began as a unit of 50 men armed with Bren guns carriers and armoured cars and was involved in a number of uprisings including the Mau Mau Uprising before being renamed the General Service Unit in September 1953. The newly designated GSU consisted of 47 European officers and 1058 Africans divided into 5 regional companies each consisting of a number of 39-man platoons. In 1957 further reorganisations took place and the GSU was brought under one commander, a Mr. S. G. Thomson. In 1961 the unit left Kenya for the first time to deal with civil unrest in Zanzibar, and then from 1963 until 1969 the GSU fought the secessionists during the Shifta War.\n\nDuring the 1990s the GSU worked in central Kenya to quell socialist political unrest and demonstrations against the Kenyan government, such as the Saba Saba Day (7 July) celebrations of 1990, where 30 people were killed as the police and General Service Units took action. More recently, in July 2005, troops of the GSU were sent to northern Kenya to seek out those responsible for the deaths of 76 people, 22 of them children, at a school in the area. The GSU helped prevent further friction between feuding Gabra and Borana communities when they were transported to the region by two police and two military helicopters, as well as two ministers from the Kenyan government. Currently, the GSU has around 5,000 paramilitary troops, of which 2000 are the Israeli trained and battle hardened 'Recce group'. It is regulated under chapter nine of the Kenya Police Force Standing Orders.\n\nOriginally, GSU members were drawn from the existing ranks of the Kenyan Police force, were from a number of ethnic backgrounds, and were trained in the Kenya Police College and placed on a two-year tour of duty. However, with the increase of Africanisation in 1963, the majority of members were by 1967 from native Kenyan tribes such as the Luo or the Kikuyu who total 5.9 million, equal to about 13% and 7.4 million, equal to about 22% of Kenya's total population, respectively Most recently, all GSU members have been trained at the GSU-specific Training School in Embakasi and its Field Training Camp in Magadi, on 10-month-long courses, with further 5-month long courses required for promotion. As with various branches of the Kenyan armed forces, the GSU also sends its officers to Great Britain to be trained in such facilities as the Britannia Royal Naval College and Sandhurst.\n\nThe GSU is organised in companies each under a company commander. Four of these companies have commanding officers and they are regarded as the 'big four'\nThese are \n\nThe other companies are listed in alphabetical order starting from 'A' company to 'Q' company. There is no 'o' company.\nEach company consists of three platoons and the company headquarters personnel. Originally a platoon consisted of 30 personnel but nowadays a platoon can have as many as 60 members.\n\n\nPrinted Sources:\n\n\nWebsites:\n\n"}
{"id": "41249252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41249252", "title": "Gosplan", "text": "Gosplan\n\nThe State Planning Committee, commonly known as Gosplan (Russian: , ),\nwas the agency responsible for central economic planning in the Soviet Union. Established in 1921 and remaining in existence until the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Gosplan had as its main task the creation and administration of a series of five-year plans governing the economy of the USSR.\n\nThe time of the October Revolution and the Russian Civil War which followed was a period of virtual economic collapse. Production and distribution of necessary commodities were severely tested as factories were shuttered and major cities such as Petrograd were depopulated, with urban residents returning to the countryside to claim a place in land redistribution and in order to avoid the unemployment, lack of food, and lack of fuel which had become endemic. By 1919 hyperinflation had emerged, further pushing the struggling economic system of Soviet Russia towards total collapse.\n\nAn \"ad hoc\" system remembered to history as Military Communism emerged. The Soviet government's Council of Workers' and Peasants' Defense rushed from economic bottleneck to economic bottleneck in a frenzied effort to sustain what remained of Russian industry on behalf of the Red Army, locked in a life or death struggle with the anti-Bolshevik White movement, backed by the foreign military intervention of Great Britain, France, Japan, the United States of America, and other countries. In the countryside food requisitions, often backed by brute force, took place under the nominal auspices of the People's Commissariat of Agriculture.\n\nIn the midst of such chaos the mere idea of long-term economic planning remained a utopian dream during these first years of existence of Soviet Russia. It was not until the Civil War had drawn to a successful conclusion for the Bolsheviks in 1920 that serious attention was paid to the question of systematic planning for the Soviet economy. In March 1920 the Council of Workers' and Peasants' Defense was given a new name — the Council of Labor and Defense (STO) — and a broader planning mission.\n\nSTO was established as a commission of the Council of People's Commissars (Sovnarkom), to be headed by the leading People's Commissars themselves, a representative of the Russian trade unions, and the chief of the Central Statistical Agency. STO was directed to establish a single economic plan for Soviet Russia and to direct the work of the individual People's Commissariats toward this plan's fulfillment, so that \"for the first time the RSFSR had a general planning organ with clearly defined functions,\" as historian E. H. Carr has observed.\n\nThe State Committee for Planning, commonly known as \"Gosplan,\" was launched as a permanent advisory subcommittee of STO, assigned with the task of conducting detailed economic investigations and providing expert recommendations to the decision-making STO.\n\nGosplan was formally established by a Sovnarkom decree, dated 22 February 1921. Ironically, the decree was passed on the same day that an article by Soviet leader V. I. Lenin was published in \"Pravda\" criticizing advocates of a \"single economic plan\" for their \"idle talk\" and \"boring pedantry\" and arguing that the GOELRO plan for national electrification was the \"one serious work on the question of the single economic plan.\" Other members of Sovnarkom were more optimistic, however, and Lenin sustained a defeat on the establishment of another planning entity, Gosplan. As a compromise measure uniting the mission of the two planning entities, head of GOELRO Gleb Krzhizhanovsky was tapped to head Gosplan.\n\nInitially Gosplan had an advisory function, with its entire staff consisting of just 34 people at the time of its April 1921 launch. These were selected on the basis of academic expertise in specialized aspects of industry; just 7 were members of the Russian Communist Party (bolsheviks). With the ongoing turn to a market-based system of production as part of the New Economic Policy (NEP), very real constraints existed on the possible extent of central planning during the initial phase of Gosplan's institutional life.\n\nGosplan quickly became a leading bureaucratic advocate for central planning and expanded investment in heavy industry, with Leon Trotsky one of the leading political patrons of the agency. In June 1922 a new decree further expanded Gosplan's purview, with the agency directed to compose both \"long-term\" and \"immediate\" plans of production. Gosplan was to be consulted regarding proposed economic and financial decrees submitted to the Council of People's Commissars by the various economic People's Commissariats. An administrative rivalry ensued between Gosplan and the People's Commissariat of Finance (Narkomfin), the latter the agency most in favor of currency stabilization and expansion of the general economy through the regulated market.\n\nGosplan had no power of compulsion in this early interval, but was forced to work through Sovnarkom, STO, or the People's Commissariats to have its suggestions implemented by decree. The agency's economic calculations and policy suggestions remained largely abstract throughout the first half of the 1920s, with Gosplan's desires and actual policy largely disjointed.\n\nTension continued between Narkomfin and Gosplan throughout the NEP period, with Narkomfin advocating for increased grain exports as a means of bolstering the currency by balancing imports and exports while simultaneously bolstering peasant prosperity, while Gosplan emerged as the chief advocate of cheap food and planned development of industry.\n\nDuring 1925 Gosplan started creating annual economic plans, known as \"control numbers\" ().\n\nIts work was coordinated with the USSR Central Statistical Directorate, the People's Commissariat of Finance, and the Supreme Soviet of the National Economy (Vesenkha), and later with the State Bank (Gosbank) and State Supply Committee (Gossnab).\n\nWith the introduction of five-year plans in 1928, Gosplan became responsible for their creation and supervision according to the objectives declared by the All-Russian Communist Party (bolsheviks).\n\nDuring 1930 the Statistical Directorate was merged into Gosplan, and on 3 February 1931 Gosplan was resubordinated to the Sovnarkom.\n\nDuring May 1955 Gosplan was divided into two commissions: the USSR Council of Ministers State Commission for Advanced Planning and the USSR Council of Ministers Economic Commission on Current Planning. These were, respectively, tasked with predictive and immediate planning. The work of the latter was based on the five-year plans delivered by Gosplan, with Gosplan planning 10–15 years ahead.\n\nGosplan was headquartered at the building now occupied by the State Duma, in Moscow.\n\nThe introduction of the first five-year plan in 1928 led to a re-examination of the roles of Gosplan and VSNKh, the supreme state organization for management of the economy at this time. This re-examination of roles was required because VSNKh itself also had responsibility for planning through the Industrial Planning Commission (Promplan). Re-examination of roles was also required as the introduction of the first five-year plan meant that Gosplan's role was no longer one of prognosis and drafting of 'control figures' since plans had now become orders to act.\n\nIn order to ensure the success of the plan it was necessary to ensure that inputs from one part of the economy matched outputs from another part of the economy. Gosplan achieved this using a methodology called the system of 'material balances'. For a plan period (in detail for one year and in lesser detail for a five-year plan) Gosplan drew up a balance sheet in terms of units of material (i.e. money was not used as part of the accounting process).\n\nThe first step in the process was to assess how much steel, cement, wool cloth, etc. would be available for the next year. This calculation was based on the following formula: production minus exports plus imports plus or minus changes in stocks. \nThe second step was to identify where there were mismatches between levels of outputs of one material that was used as an input in another part of the economy i.e. where there were differences between supply and demand within the economy. If mismatches between supply and demand were identified then, for the one-year plan, utilization plans for a particular input material could be cut or alternatively effort was made to increase supply. For the five-year plan mismatches between supply and demand could be mitigated by modifying long terms plans to increase productive capacity.\n\nUsing this method any changes in the plan to remove mismatches between inputs and outputs would result in hundreds, even thousands, of changes to material balances. This meant that, without the aid of information technology, Gosplan could only deal with the economy in very general terms.\n\nIdeological bias resulted in unrealistic plans that were impossible to execute. Pressure to execute them anyway resulted in widespread falsification of statistics on all levels of reporting. Falsified plan realization feedback further resulted in Gosplan preparing plans even more detached from reality:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47569748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47569748", "title": "Indecent Exposure (Sharpe novel)", "text": "Indecent Exposure (Sharpe novel)\n\nIndecent Exposure is a satirical novel by British writer Tom Sharpe, originally published in 1973. The sequel to \"Riotous Assembly\", the author’s debut novel, this story also successfully lampoons the South African police under apartheid.\n\nSet in the fictional South African town of Piemburg, where local police, headed by Kommandant van Heerden, Luitenant Verkramp and Konstabel Els, are determined to maintain the government policy of apartheid. While the Kommandant is absent at the country home of a snobbish upper class English couple, Luitenant Verkramp enlists the help of a female psychiatrist to provide the police garrison with aversion therapy, with the aim of stopping them from fraternising with black girls. However, this goes horribly awry and turns the town’s entire police force into homosexuals. Called back from his holiday, Kommandant van Heerden attempts to restore some order.\n"}
{"id": "38646318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38646318", "title": "International Meeting of Communist and Workers Parties", "text": "International Meeting of Communist and Workers Parties\n\nThe International Meeting of Communist and Workers' Parties (IMCWP) is an annual conference attended by communist and workers' parties from several nations. It originated in 1998 when the Communist Party of Greece (KKE) invited communist and workers' parties to participate in an annual conference where parties could gather to share their experiences and issue a joint declaration.\n\nThe meetings are held annually, with participants from all around the globe. Additionally there are occasionally extraordinary meetings such as the meeting in Damascus 28–30 September 2009 on \"Solidarity with the heroic struggle of the Palestinian people and the other people in Middle East\". In December 2009, the communist and workers parties agreed to the creation of the \"International Communist Review\", which is published annually in English and Spanish and has a website.\n\nThe participants of the meeting have created a working group to address all aspects of organizing the meetings. As of May 2018, the working group is composed by communist and worker's parties of Brazil, China, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, India (CPI and CPI(Marxist)), Iran, Kazakhstan, Korea (DPRK), Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan, Palestine, Portugal, Russian Federation (CP of the Russian Federation and Russian Communist Worker's Party), Syria, South Africa, Spain (CP of Spain and CP of the Peoples of Spain), Turkey, Venezuela, Vietnam and Ukraine. The working group is in charge of defining the agenda for each meeting, as well as general organization.\n\nThe 20th International Meeting of Communist and Workers' Parties, with the theme ““The contemporary working class and its alliance. The tasks of its political vanguard – the Communist and Worker’s Parties – in the struggle against exploitation and imperialist wars, for the rights of the workers and of the peoples, for peace, for socialism””, will take place in Athens, Greece from 23rd to 25th of November 2018. \n\nThe 19th International Meeting of Communist and Workers' Parties, with the theme “The 100th Anniversary of the Great October Socialist Revolution:the ideals of the Communist Movement,revitalizing the struggle against imperialistic wars, for peace, socialism”, took place in St Petersburg, Russia from 2 to 3 November 2017 and in Moscow, Russia from 5 to 7 November 2017 .\n\nThe 18th International Meeting of Communist and Workers' Parties took place in Hanoi, Vietnam from 28 to 30 October 2016.\n\nThe 17th International Meeting of Communist and Workers' Parties took place in Istanbul, Turkey from 30 October to 1 November 2015.\n\nThe 16th International Meeting of Communist and Workers' Parties took place from 13 to 15 November 2014 in Guayaquil, Ecuador. It was attended by 85 delegates representing 53 parties from 44 countries.\n\nThe 15th International Meeting of Communist and Workers' Parties took place from 8 to 10 November 2013 in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\nThe 14th International Meeting of Communist and Workers' Parties took place from 22 to 25 November 2012 in Beirut, Lebanon.\n\nThe 13th meeting was held in Athens, Greece, from 9 to 11 December 2011 and was hosted by the Communist Party of Greece (KKE). Under the motto \"Socialism is the future!\", it was attended by 80 parties, while additional eight parties sent a message.\n\nThe 13th meeting was held in Johannesburg, South Africa, from 3 to 5 December 2010 and was hosted by the South African Communist Party.\n\nThe 11th meeting was held in New Delhi, India, from 20 to 22 November 2009 and was hosted by both the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Communist Party of India. It was attended by 89 participants representing 57 communist and workers' parties and 48 countries.\n\nThe 10th meeting was held in São Paulo, Brazil, from 21 to 23 November 2008 and was hosted by the Communist Party of Brazil (PCdoB). It was attended by dlegations of 65 communist and workers' parties from 55 countries.\n\nThe 9th meeting was held in Minsk, Belarus, from 3 to 5 November 2007 and was hosted by the Communist Party of Brazil (PCdoB). It was attended by 154 representatives of 72 communist and\nworkers' parties, representing 59 countries.\n\nThe following table is a list of participants in each meeting.\n\nKey:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50701310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50701310", "title": "International tourism", "text": "International tourism\n\nInternational tourism refers to tourism that crosses national borders. Globalization has made tourism a popular global leisure activity. The World Tourism Organization defines tourists as people \"traveling to and staying in places outside their usual environment for not more than one consecutive year for leisure, business and other purposes\". The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that up to 500,000 people are in flight at any one time.\nAs a result of the late-2000s recession, international travel demand suffered a strong slowdown from the second half of 2008 through the end of 2009. This negative trend intensified during 2009, exacerbated in some countries due to the outbreak of the H1N1 influenza virus, resulting in a worldwide decline of 4.2% in 2009 to 880 million international tourists arrivals, and a 5.7% decline in international tourism receipts. In 2010, international tourism reached US$919B, growing 6.5% over 2009, corresponding to an increase in real terms of 4.7%. In 2010, there were over 940 million international tourist arrivals worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "844824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844824", "title": "Jharkhand Disom Party", "text": "Jharkhand Disom Party\n\nJharkhand Disom Party was a political party in India. The party was founded 2002 by Bharatiya Janata Party Member of Parliament Salkhan Murmu. The party works for the rights of the Adivasi peoples. For example the party works for more quotas and reservations for Adivasis.\n\nIn 2003, JDP launched the \"Jharkhand Front\" together with four other parties, namely Jharkhand People's Party, Jharkhand Party (Naren), Jharkhand Party (Horo) and Jharkhand Vikas Dal. \n\nIn the Lok Sabha elections in 2004, the JDP launched four candidates from West Bengal, two from Bihar and one from Jharkhand.\n\nJharkhand Disom Party supports Raj Thackeray's Maharashtra Navnirman Sena's agitations against North Indians in Maharashtra.\n\nIn August 2014, Salkhan Murmu merged his Jharkhand Disom Party into the BJP in presence of former Jharkhand Chief Minister Arjun Munda.\n\n"}
{"id": "27001662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27001662", "title": "Journal for the Study of Antisemitism", "text": "Journal for the Study of Antisemitism\n\nThe Journal for the Study of Antisemitism is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal which covers anthropological, sociological, psychological, legal, historical, philosophical, and political aspects of contemporary antisemitism.\n\nThe journal was established in 2009. Its founding editors were Steven K. Baum and Neal E. Rosenberg. An issue of the journal typically features five or six major articles, several essays and reviews.\n\nThe inaugural issue of the journal edited by Michael Berenbaum was mired in politics when an article critical of the Berlin Centre for Antisemitism Research led to the temporary dismissal of editorial board member Clemens Heni. Several other board members resigned, but returned when Heni was reinstated.\n"}
{"id": "39560472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39560472", "title": "Journal of Policy History", "text": "Journal of Policy History\n\nThe Journal of Policy History is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal of public policy.\n\nThe journal is published by Cambridge University Press, in collaboration with the School of Historical, Philosophical, and Religious Studies at Arizona State University and the Political History Institute. Its editors-in-chief are Donald T. Critchlow (Arizona State University) and David B. Robertson (University of Missouri–St. Louis).\n"}
{"id": "387673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387673", "title": "King Mob", "text": "King Mob\n\nKing Mob was an English radical group based in London during the late 1960s/early 1970s.\n\nIt was a cultural mutation of the Situationists and the anarchist group UAW/MF. It sought to emphasise the cultural anarchy and disorder being ignored in Britain, with the ultimate aim of promoting proletarian revolution. It derived its name from Christopher Hibbert's 1958 book on the Gordon Riots of June 1780, in which rioters daubed the slogan \"His Majesty King Mob\" on the walls of Newgate Prison, after gutting the building.\n\nKing Mob appreciated pop culture and distributed its ideas and political ideas through various posters and through its publication \"King Mob Echo\", which provoked reaction by celebrating killers like Jack the Ripper, Mary Bell and John Christie. One flyer in particular celebrated Valerie Solanas' 1968 shooting of Andy Warhol and included a hit-list of Yoko Ono, Mick Jagger, Bob Dylan, Richard Hamilton, Mario Amaya (who was also shot by Solanas), David Hockney, Mary Quant, Twiggy, Marianne Faithfull and the \"IT\" editor Barry Miles.\n\nThe King Mob group allegedly planned a series of audacious actions, including blowing up a waterfall in the Lake District, painting the poet Wordsworth's house with the words \"Coleridge Lives\", and hanging peacocks in Holland Park, London. However, none of the aforementioned plans were executed. An action that was carried out, inspired by the New York-based Black Mask's \"mill-in at Macy's\", involved King Mob appearing at the Selfridges store in London, with one member, dressed as Father Christmas, attempting to distribute all of the store's toys to children. Police subsequently forced the children to return the toys. This action involved Malcolm McLaren who reputedly applied the group's situationist ideas in the promotion of the Sex Pistols.\n\nKing Mob was also responsible for attacks on art galleries and for organising a battle between local skinheads (whom they considered to be \"the working class avant-garde\") and greasers in central London.\n\nGraffiti attributed to King Mob was observed in many places particularly in the Notting Hill area, including, \"\"I don't believe in nothing - I feel like they ought to burn down the world - just let it burn down baby.\"\n\nThe most celebrated graffiti attributed to King Mob was the slogan which was painted along a half-mile section of the wall beside the tube (railway) commuter route into London between Ladbroke Grove and Westbourne Park tube stations in west London:\n\nThe \"Mask of King Mob\" can be seen in the background of the comic book \"Watchmen\", written by Alan Moore. It is in what appears to be a trophy room of the Minutemen, noticeable during the infamous scene where The Comedian tries to rape the original Silk Specter.\n\nA protagonist in the comic book series \"The Invisibles\" (authored by Grant Morrison) is codenamed \"King Mob\". The Invisibles is organized anti-hierarchically, and is dedicated to defeating a global conspiracy which deceives and preys upon the world's population. The character \"King Mob\" describes himself as an anarchist.\n\nGraffiti referencing King Mob appears in season 2 episode 7 of Stranger Things.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9410620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9410620", "title": "League of Russian Revolutionary Social Democracy Abroad", "text": "League of Russian Revolutionary Social Democracy Abroad\n\nLeague of Russian Revolutionary Social-Democracy Abroad was a Russian emigre political organisation, founded by Lenin in October 1901. The Iskra organisation abroad and the Sotsial-Demokrat revolutionary organisation (which included the Emancipation of Labour group) united to form the League. The League's task was to disseminate the ideas of revolutionary Social-Democracy and promote militant revolutionary Social-Democracy.\n\n\"The above paragraph has been copied verbatim from, as permitted by its Creative Commons copyright license. If you edit this page, please remove this notice. \"\n"}
{"id": "2393541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393541", "title": "List of Singaporean dissidents", "text": "List of Singaporean dissidents\n\nThis is a list of Singaporean political dissidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "43496893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43496893", "title": "Maria da Penha", "text": "Maria da Penha\n\nMaria da Penha Maia Fernandes is a Brazilian biopharmacist and women human rights defender. She advocates for women rights, particularly against domestic violence. Born in 1945 in Fortaleza, in the Brazilian state of Ceará, Maria da Penha was a victim of domestic violence by her husband. She brought a case against her attacker to be condemned, first in the Federal Court of Brazil and later in the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.\n\nOn August 7, 2006, the president of Brazil Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva put the Federal Brazilian Law 11340 into practice. Now known as the Law Maria da Penha, it increased the severity of punishment for domestic violence against women, whenever it occurred in a domestic or family environment.\n\nIn 1983, her husband, Colombian schoolteacher Marco Antonio Heredia Viveros, attempted to kill her twice. The first time he shot her in her sleep, but she survived, the second time he tried to electrocute her while she showered. Penha was left paraplegic due to these attacks. In the following year Maria da Penha began a legal process against Viveros. Seven years later, he was sentenced to 15 years in prison. The defense appealed the sentence and the conviction was overturned. A new trial was held in 1996 and a sentence of 10 years was applied. In 2001, Viveros was sentenced to eight years in prison. Through legal resources, he was jailed for two years. Viveiros was released in 2002.\n\nIn 2001, the episode came to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American States (OAS) and for the first time in history it was considered a crime of domestic violence. The Commission published a report blaming the Brazilian government for negligence and omission regarding domestic violence. On August 7, 2001 the Brazilian government sanctioned the law against domestic violence toward women, entering into force on September 22 of that year.\n\nToday, Penha is coordinator of studies of the Associação de Parentes e Amigos de Vítimas de Violência (APAVV), in the Brazilian state of Ceará. She attended the ceremony of the sanction of Brazilian law that bears her name, together with other ministers and representatives of the Brazilian feminist movement.\n"}
{"id": "3759022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3759022", "title": "Michael Bray", "text": "Michael Bray\n\nRev. Michael Bray is an American Lutheran minister who was convicted in 1985 of two counts of conspiracy and one count of possessing unregistered explosive devices in relation to ten bombings of women's health clinics and offices of liberal advocacy groups in Washington, D.C., Maryland and Virginia. He is considered \"the intellectual father of the extreme radical fringe of the antiabortion movement which engages in terrorism.\" Initially sentenced to ten years in prison, he agreed to a plea bargain and served 46 months from 1985 to 1989. \nHe and his wife, Jayne, are named defendants in the Supreme Court decision \"Bray v. Alexandria\". He is considered to be a terrorist by the National Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism.\n\nIn 1994, the F.B.I. suspected that he and other anti-abortion figures might be developing \"a conspiracy that endeavors to achieve political or social change through activities that involve force or violence\", as stated in a confidential Teletype message sent to all 56 F.B.I. field offices.\n\nMichael Bray is a former Midshipman at the United States Naval Academy. He was based in Bowie, Maryland, and later moved to Wilmington, Ohio, where he professes to be a member of the Army of God, considered a terrorist organization by the US Federal Bureau of Investigation. Bray's writings can be found on the Army of God website.\n\n"}
{"id": "1159061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1159061", "title": "Military budget", "text": "Military budget\n\nA military budget (or military expenditure), also known as a defense budget, is the amount of financial resources dedicated by a state to raising and maintaining an armed forces or other methods essential for defense purposes.\n\nMilitary budgets often reflect how strongly a country perceives the likelihood of threats against it, or the amount of aggression it wishes to conjure. It also gives an idea of how much financing should be provided for the upcoming fiscal year. The size of a budget also reflects the country's ability to fund military activities. Factors include the size of that country's economy, other financial demands on that entity, and the willingness of that entity's government or people to fund such military activity. Generally excluded from military expenditures is spending on internal law enforcement and disabled veteran rehabilitation. The effects of military expenditure on a nation's economy and society, and what determines military expenditure, are notable issues in political science and economics. There are controversial findings and theories regarding these topics. Generally, some suggest military expenditure is a boost to local economies. Still, others maintain military expenditure is a drag on development.\n\nEvery year in April is the Global Day of Action on Military Spending (GDAMS), which aims to gather people and create a global movement that persuades governments to reallocate their military spending to essential human needs such as food, education, health care, social services and environmental concerns.\n\nAmong the countries maintaining some of the world's largest military budgets, China, France, Germany, Japan, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States are frequently recognized to be great powers.\n\nAccording to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, in 2014, total world military expenditure amounted to 1.8 trillion US$.\n\nThe \"Saturday Review\" magazine in February 1898 outlined the levels of military expenditure as a percentage of \"tax revenue\" spent by the then great powers for the year 1897:\n\nA 2014 academic report from the United Kingdom's Ministry of Defence outlines projected defence expenditure of major powers for the year 2045.\n"}
{"id": "26910171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26910171", "title": "Ministry of National Food Security and Research", "text": "Ministry of National Food Security and Research\n\nThe Ministry of National Food Security & Research or Ministry of Agricultulre (, abbreviated as MoA) is a Cabinet-level ministerial department of Government of Pakistan, responsible for implementing, enforcing, developing, and executing the policy on agriculture, rice, livestock, fishing, and farming. The ministry is governed by the Minister of National Food Security and Research, who must be a member of Parliament of Pakistan. that Minister is Sikandar Bosan and the Parliamentary Secretary For National Food Security & Research is Mr. Rajab Ali Khan Baloch.\n\nAgriculture Prices Commission was established in 1981 and re-constituted as Agriculture Policy Institute (API) in 2006 as attached department with ministry.\n\nProvide seed certification and quality control cover for various crops and field inspection of the crops of registered varieties and released varieties.\n\nRegulate the import, export and quarantine of animals and animal products, in order to prevent the introduction or spread of exotic diseases and maintain quarantine services of high standards, to protect the livestock industry of Pakistan and other countries.\n\nNational Veterinary Laboratory is a national institution for service and regulatory support to national livestock wealth. These state of the art laboratories are capable of catering needs in advanced applied biotechnology, bacteriology, virology, analytical chemistry, biochemistry, immunology, molecular biology, toxicology, pathology, parasitology and exotic diseases.\n\nThe department Quarantines and routinely locust Survey and control.\n\nPakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) is the apex national organization working in close collaboration with other federal provincial institutions in the country to provide science-based solutions to agriculture of Pakistan. The organization promote and coordinate agricultural research, arrange expeditious utilization of research results and establish research establishments to fill in the gaps in existing agricultural research system.\n\nPASSCO is a public Limited Company, its functions include maintaining strategic reserves of wheat and other specified commodities\nand procurement of food commodities at Government’s fix price.\n\nPakistan Oil-seed Development Board (PODB) was established in 1995 to enhance indigenous oil-seed production. PODB serves as an important national institution for the development of oilseed sector in the country, besides providing regulatory and policy framework to this sector.\n\nPlan, promote, facilitate and coordinate livestock, poultry and dairy sectors development of Pakistan.\n\nFisheries Development Board is set up to provide and maintain a platform for enhancing and promoting fisheries sector in Pakistan. The board Coordinates with national and provincial activities with relation to aquaculture and shrimp farming and development of market infrastructure and improvement of marketing of fisheries products \n\nPakistan Dairy Development Company (PDDC or Dairy Pakistan) has been established to drive the development of the Pakistan dairy sector. Dairy Pakistan is a Public-Private sector joint initiative to bring about structural long term change in the dairy industry in Pakistan. Dairy Pakistan is chartered to coordinate, manage and facilitate initiatives leading to the development of the dairy sector in the country.\n\nFederal Water Management Cell serves as an arm of the Ministry to deal with all the matters related to irrigation water management and agriculture mechanization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1053707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1053707", "title": "NKVD troika", "text": "NKVD troika\n\nNKVD troika or Special troika (), in Soviet history, were the People's Commissariat of Internal Affairs (NKVD which would later be the beginning of the KGB) of three persons who issued sentences to people after simplified, speedy investigations and without a public and fair trial. The three members were judge and jury, though they themselves did not carry out the sentences they dealt. These commissions were employed as instruments of extrajudicial punishment introduced to supplement the Soviet legal system with a means for quick and secret execution or imprisonment. It began as an institution of the Cheka, then later became prominent again in the NKVD, when it was used during the Great Purge to execute many hundreds of thousands of Soviet citizens. Defendants in the Troika’s proceeding were typically not entitled to legal aid or the presumption of innocence. Convictions usually did not include information about actual incriminating evidence and basically contained only information about indictment and sentencing. The outcome of such trials was often determined before it even began due to targeted numbers of citizens to be executed or imprisoned in gulags.\n\n\"Troika\" means \"a group of three\" or \"triad\" in Russian.\n\nThe first troika was instituted in 1918, the members being Felix Dzerzhinsky, Yakov Peters, and Left SR V. Aleksandrovich.\n\nThe first \"operational troikas\" (оперативная тройка) were introduced in the \"centre\", in the Moscow military okrug in 1929. The qualifier \"operational\" denotes they were based on the \"operational departments\" of the state police (OGPU). The troikas were tasked with administering quick punishment of anti-Soviet elements, without public trial or investigation. The sentences that were doled out, executions, were to be held in secret.\n\nIn January 1930, as part of the collectivization program, the Soviet Politburo authorized the state police to screen the peasant population of the entire Soviet Union. Normal legal procedures were suspended and the corresponding OGPU order of the 2nd of February, specified the measures needed for \"the liquidation of the kulaks as a class\". This instituted a regional based system for these troikas to work, so that the operations could be handed locally and with a quicker result. In each region, the troikas would decide the fate of the peasants branded as \"kulaks\". The troika, composed of a member of the state police, a local communist party secretary, and a state procurator, had the authority to issue rapid and severe verdicts (death or exile) without the right to appeal. In effect they served as judges, juries, and executioners.\n\nThe secret police troikas became an execution machine, implementing persecutions and torture of priests or other \"anti-Soviet elements.\" This was done in secret and the victims of these trials often stood no chance at fighting the claims placed before them. They were often forced to give evidence against themselves and watch as the members of the troika sentenced them, often times to death.\n\nGradually, troikas were introduced to other parts of the Soviet Union for various and different purposes: \"court troikas\" (судебная тройка), \"extraordinary troikas\" (чрезвычайная тройка), and \"special troikas\" (специальная тройка).\nAt the beginning of the Great Patriotic War the NKVD was tasked with deporting thousands of Germans from the Volga German Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. This decree issued from Moscow in 1941 was the responsibility of the Troika and all measures of decrees execution were left in the hands of the so-called three who made up this particular Troika. After the war responsibilities within the government began to shift and in 1952 two special Troikas were crested. The first Troika consisted of Georgy Malenkov, Nikita Khrushchev (who was also heavily involved with the Great Purge and Show trial), and Nikolai Bulganin. The second consisted of Lavrentiy Beria, Mikhail Pervukhin, and Maksim Saburov. These troikas were created to make sure there were clear duties between party and state, although it was common to be involved on both party and state committees this blurred the lines between party and state functions.\n\n On June 28, 1937, the Politburo issued a decree to set up a troika in West Siberia. While the original intent was to discover if there was a plot stemming from the ROVS, a group of white officers based in Paris, this can be seen as the first step in the creation of order NKVD Order no. 00447. \n\nThe NKVD Order no. 00447 by July 30, 1937 \"О репрессировании бывших кулаков, уголовников и других антисоветских элементов\" (\"Concerning the repression of former kulaks, criminals, and other anti-Soviet elements\") undersigned by Nikolai Yezhov. By this order, troikas were created on the levels of republic, krai and oblast. Investigation was to be performed by 'operative groups' \"in a speedy and simplified way\" and the results were to be delivered to troikas for trials. The regional troikas had the power and of choice of the target groups, the size of the initial limits, the extension of the deadline for completing the operation, the relationship between the initial limits and the final number of victims\" Initially, the target groups were limited to only Kulaks and criminals. After some time it broaden to enemies of the Motherland.\n\nThe chairman of a troika was the chief of the corresponding territorial subdivision of NKVD (People's Commissar of a republican NKVD, etc.). Usually a troika included the prosecutor of the republic/krai/oblast in question; if not, he was allowed to be present at the session of a troika. The third person was usually the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) secretary of the corresponding regional level. The staff of these troikas were personally specified in the Order № 00447. While Order 00447 decreed the personal constitution of all \"troikas\", in the course of the Purge many members of \"troikas\" were repressed themselves, so the staff of \"troikas\" varied over time.\n\nProtocols of a troika session were passed to the corresponding operative group for executions of sentences. Times and places of executions of death sentences were ordered to be held in secret. Troikas of this purpose were established for a period of 4 months, but functioned for about a year. \n\nWhen Operation № 00447 was finally stopped, on November 17, 1938, by the Decree about Arrests, Prosecutor Supervision and Course of Investigation, issued jointly by the Sovnarkom and Central Committee of the CPSU, it is estimated that up to 767,000 persons had been condemned, of whom 387,000 had been executed by shooting.\n\nOn August 11, 1937, following a Politburo top-secret resolution taken two days earlier, Nikolai Ezhov issued another secret directive, Order № 00485, aimed at \"the complete liquidation of local branches of the Polish Military Organization (POW) and its networks of spies, wreckers and terrorists in industry, transport and agriculture\".\n\nDue to a backlog of people being processed by \"dvoikas\" (two person extrajudicial commissions) as part of the Polish Operations, on September 15, 1938 the Politburo issued the resolution (# П64/22) about the creation of special troikas (Особая тройка) for the period of the Polish operation of the NKVD.\n\nOrder № 00485 served as a model for a series of similar NKVD \"National Operations\" targeting a number of the Soviet Union's diaspora nationalities and ethnic groups: the German, Finnish, Latvian, Estonian, Romanian, Greek, and Chinese. The NKVD referred to these decrees collectively as \"the National Operations\" directed against \"nationalities of foreign governments\".\n\nAccording to NKVD statistics, from July 1937 to November 1938, 335,513 persons were sentenced by troikas in the course of the implementation of the National Operations. Among them, 247,157 (or 73.6%) were executed by shooting.\n\nThe American Jewish Joint Agricultural Cooperation, 1924-1938 (Agro-Joint) worked to permanently resettle Jews from Shtelts (small Jewish settlements) into new agriculture based settlements across Southern Ukraine and Crimea. Agro-Joint had aided in the resettlement of German-Jewish doctors to help grow the living standards of the communities. Germans were among the top nationalities being repressed and eliminated in Soviet Russia during the thirties while Stalin prepared for war with Hitler. During the Great Purge, 1937–38, there was a directive to rid the Soviet lands of all those with outside (non-Soviet) ties or connections. Members of the Agro-Joint, as well as foreign colonies and national diasporas such as the settlements they established, fell squarely within those parameters. Although the Agro-Joint was never intended as a permanent program the swiftness and fierceness with which it was dismantled by the Soviet Regime shocked those involved, in particular, its leader Joseph Rosen whose network of internal Soviet connections fell to the purges.\n\nIn total around 60 high ranking members of the Agro-Joint staff were arrested, the bulk of which were tried and sentenced by NKVD Troikas on the grounds of being counter-revolutionaries, nationalists, or spies.\n\nHappening in conjunction with the resettlements by the Agro-Joint was the Soviet Union's attempt at giving the Jewish population a homeland. This was the Jewish Autonomous Region commonly referred to by its central city Birobidzhan established in 1928, though not officially recognized as an Autonomous Region by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of USSR until May 1934. Though conditions were tough and approximately 2/3rds of the original settlers left upon seeing that things were not as promised, those that remained founded Birofeld, the first Jewish collective farm in 1928. In 1936, barely a year after the official recognition as an Autonomous Region, The Great Terror began and the Jewish Party leadership both in Moscow and Birobidzhan was decimated by arrests and fast trials (by troika), resulting either imprisonment or execution on charges such as \"bourgeois nationalism\" or being spies for the Germans. Prominent Jewish writer Moyshe Litvakov confessed to being an agent for the gestapo.\n\nThe Katyn Massacre was a mass execution of around 15,000 Polish military officers carried out by the NKVD during the spring of 1940. The killings took place in the Katyn forest in Russia and other cites. After a request from Polish general, Władysław Anders, on the whereabouts of the 15,000 Polish POWs in 1941, the Soviet Union replied that the soldiers had fled and were not able to be located. The whereabouts of these prisoners remained unknown until 1943. Approximately 4,000 bodies of the victims were found by German soldiers at the Katyn location. Physical evidence suggested that the soldiers were shot in the back of the head and then buried in large piles. The Soviet Union went on to deny these killings until 1990 when Soviet leader, Mikhail Gorbachev acknowledged that the Soviet Union was, in fact, responsible for the deaths. Many of the documents surrounding the massacre were destroyed, and others were not made public until 2010.\n\nAccording to the released documents, the executions were authorized by a troika consisting of Vsevolod Merkulov, Bogdan Kobulov, and Leonid Bashtakov.\n\nOn April 7, 2010, a commemoration ceremony was held marking the 70th anniversary of the massacre. Russian Prime Minister, Vladimir Putin, and Polish Prime Minister took part, making it the first time the leaders of Russia and Poland held a joint ceremony honoring the victims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40673799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40673799", "title": "Nancy M. Dowdy", "text": "Nancy M. Dowdy\n\nNancy M. O'Fallon Dowdy is an American nuclear physicist who was instrumental in nuclear disarmament negotiations between the U.S. and the Soviet Union after the Cold War. She received her doctorate in physics in 1966. After she developed her career as a nuclear physicist, she turned to politics, where she served as a representative of the United States on a commission for arms control. In 1992 she was nominated by Pres. George H. W. Bush to be Special Representative for Arms Control Negotiation and Disarmament in the aftermath of the Cold War. She has been designated a Fellow of the American Physical Society, in recognition of her role on treaty verification, her research accomplishments and leadership in research, and leadership and service on behalf of women in physics.\n\nDowdy received her B.S. in electrical engineering from St. Louis University in 1960. She then received her M.S. in nuclear engineering from University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign in 1961, where she stayed to earn her doctorate in physics in 1966.\n\nUpon finishing her graduate studies, she was appointed a teaching position at the University of Missouri-St. Louis as an Assistant Professor of Physics in 1967. From 1974 to 1976 she was an Assistant Physicist at Argonne National Laboratory. In 1976 she was promoted to Physicist at Argonne, where she worked until 1983, when she was appointed to be the Assistant Vice President for Research at the University of ChicagoIn 1989 she turned to politics, becoming a representative to the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaties delegation for the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency for three years. She was also the Chief Science Advisor at the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.Starting in 1991, she was also a Representative to the Joint Compliance and Inspection Commission in Geneva. From 1992 to 1993 she was the Special Representative for Arms Control and Disarmament Negotiations, a position for which she was nominated by President George H.W. Bush. In 1993 she returned to industry and joined Battelle-Pacific Northwest Laboratory as Senior Program Manager. She retired in 1995 and runs a national security consulting service with her husband under the name Dowdy Associates.\n\nShe was a William C. Foster Fellow for the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency from 1987-1989. In 1992, she received the Superior Honor Award from the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. The next year, she was awarded the Meritorious Honor Award, also from the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. In 1996 she was appointed a fellow of the American Physical Society.\n\nDowdy has collaborated on several journal articles throughout her career. In one article entitled \"Instrumentation and Monitoring\" written by Bernard R. Cooper and William A. Ellingson, she \"provided leadership in development of synthetic fuels instrumentation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6791315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6791315", "title": "National Center for Digital Government", "text": "National Center for Digital Government\n\nNational Center for Digital Government is a research center at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. The center is directed by Jane Fountain, professor of political science and public policy. Charles Schweik, associate professor of natural resources conservation and public policy, is the associate director of NCDG. The center, established with support from the National Science Foundation, focuses on the interface between technology, government and institutions. \n\nPrior to 2005, the center was based at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, where Fountain was an associate professor. The successor program to the National Center for Digital Government at Harvard, the Program on Networked Governance, was launched at the Kennedy School of Government following the National Center's departure. The Program on Networked Governance is directed by David Lazer and is also supported by the National Science Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10828599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10828599", "title": "National communism", "text": "National communism\n\nNational communism refers to the various forms in which communism has been adopted and/or implemented by leaders in different countries. In each independent state, empire, or dependency, the relationship between class and nation had its own particularities. The Ukrainian communists Shakhrai and Mazlakh and then Muslim Sultan Galiyev considered the interests of the Bolshevik Russian state at odds with those of their countries. This was followed after 1945 by the Yugoslav communist leader Josip Broz Tito when he attempted to pursue an independent foreign policy.\n\nCommunism as Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels envisioned it was meant to be very internationalist as proletarian internationalism was expected to place class conflict well ahead of nationalism as a priority for the working class. Nationalism was seen as a tool that the bourgeoisie used to divide and rule the proletariat (bourgeois nationalism). Whereas the influence of international communism was very strong from the late 19th century through the 1920s, the decades after that—beginning with socialism in one country and progressing into the Cold War and the Non-Aligned Movement—made national communism a larger political reality.\n\nDuring the decade of the 1840s, the word \"communist\" came into general use to describe those who hailed the left-wing of the Jacobin Club of the French Revolution as their ideological forefathers. In 1847, the Communist League was founded in London. The League asked Karl Marx and Frederick Engels to draft \"The Communist Manifesto\", which was adopted by the league and published in 1848. The \"Communist Manifesto\" included a number of views of the role of the nation in the implementation of the manifesto. The preamble notes that \"The Communist Manifesto\" arose from Europeans from various nations coming together in London to publish their shared views, aims and tendencies. Chapter one then discusses how the rise of the bourgeoisie has led to globalisation and the place of national issues:\n\nMaxime Rodinson wrote in \"Marxism and the Muslim World\" the following:\n\nAccording to Roman Rozdolsky: \"When the Manifesto says that the workers 'have no country', this refers to the bourgeois national state, not to nationality in the ethnical sense. The workers 'have no country' because according to Marx and Engels, they must regard the bourgeois national state as a machinery for their oppression[19]-and after they have achieved power they will likewise have 'no country' in the political sense, inasmuch as the separate socialist national states will be only a transitional stage on the way to the classless and stateless society of the future, since the construction of such a society is possibly only on the international scale\".\n\nMilovan Djilas popularized the term in his \"New Class\" (1957): “No single form of communism [...] exists in any other way than as national communism. In order to maintain itself it must become national\". A few years earlier, ex communist Manabendra Roy noted: “Communism in Asia is essentially nationalism painted Red\". The Dutch Social Democrat Anton Pannakoek and Russian monarchists Nicholas Ustrialov and Vasilii Shulgin pointed out in 1920 that Russians first \"nationalized\" communism. They thus drew attention to how far the Bolsheviks differed from all other European social democratic parties in terms of structure and ideology and to the fact Vladimir Lenin's Bolshevik Party (formed from the left-wing of the Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party) can be considered the first national communist party. In March 1918, Lenin renamed his party the Russian Communist Party. National communism also refers to non-Russian communist currents that arose in the former tsarist empire after Lenin seized power in October 1917 and to the various communist regimes that emerged after 1945 in other parts of the world.\n\nIn the wake of their Russian counterparts, left-wing socialists in Ukraine and the Muslim areas of the former tsarist empire also developed distinct variants of communism that continued in the Soviet Union until 1928. Ukrainian and Muslim variants differed from each other on two points in particular. The Muslims believed the fate of world revolution depended on events in Asia and not Europe. They also argued alliances with the national bourgeoisie were necessary for the duration of the liberation struggle. Class divisions had to be ignored, otherwise the national bourgeoisie would turn away from national liberation, ally with their imperial counterparts and thus ensure the ultimate collapse of any revolutionary struggle and national liberation. In its Muslim variant, it was a synthesis of nationalism, communism and anarchism as well as religion. Muslim communists included people from both left and right-wing groups which predated the Russian Revolution, joining the Russian Bolshevik Party between 1917 and 1920—some of whom later were Narkomnats under the People's Commissar Joseph Stalin.\n\nIn 1918, the book \"Do Khvyli\" (translated into English as \"On The Current Situation in the Ukraine\", P. Potichnyj ed. [1970]), written by the Ukrainian communists Serhii Mazlakh and Vasyl' Shakhrai, challenged what they saw as Russian domination over Ukraine under Bolshevik rule. The precursors of the Ukrainian communists, the Ukrainian left-social democrats in March 1919 tried to direct the mass anti-Bolshevik uprising that began then in Ukraine, but failed to win control over a sizable territory. Their main military force under Danylo Zeleny was defeated by July 1919. Faced with Anton Denikin's successful offensive, they decided to stop further military activity and ally with the Bolsheviks as the lesser evil. In January 1920, they formed the Ukrainian Communist Party which recognized Russian communist rule over Soviet Ukraine, but criticized Bolshevik administrative, cultural, political, party and economic centralization. In a letter submitted to the Third International that year, they extended the analysis of Shakhrai and Mazlakh.\n\nOpen conflict between prominent Muslim theorists such as Mirsäyet Soltanğäliev and Lenin and Stalin broke out in 1919 at the Second Congress of the Communist International over the autonomy of the Muslim Communist Party as well as at the Congress of the Peoples of the East and the First Conference of the Turkic Peoples' Communists of Soviet Russia and significantly at the Tenth Congress of the Bolshevik Party (April 1921). The crisis resulted in the purge of the Communist Party of Turkestan in December 1922 and the arrest of Sultan Galiev in 1923. Galiev was the first Bolshevik Party member to be arrested by Stalin. The immediate cause of his arrest were his comments on the 12th Congress resolutions regarding concessions to non-Russians. Stalin was infuriated that Galiev rejected his juxtaposition of \"great power chauvinism\" with \"local nationalism\". Reaction to great-power chauvinism, Galiev explained, was not \"nationalism\" and it was simply reaction to great power chauvinism. Nine days later, he was arrested.\n\nDuring this time, Soltanğäliev, Turar Ryskulov, Nariman Narimanov and Ahmet Baytursunov were very influential especially through the Communist University of the Toilers of the East which opened in 1921 and was very active until its staff was purged in 1924. Communists from outside the Soviet Union such as Manabendra Nath Roy, Henk Sneevliet and Sultan Zade also taught there, formulating similar political positions. Students of the university included Sen Katayama, Tan Malaka, Liu Shaoqi and Ho Chi Minh.\n\nThe great purge in the Muslim republics began in 1928 with executions of Veli Ibrahimov of the Tatar Communist Party and Milli Firka followed by the leaders of Hummet, Tatar Communist Party and even the Tatar Union of the Godless. It also happened in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and the Young Bukharians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7984666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7984666", "title": "No Pokies", "text": "No Pokies\n\nNo Pokies was an independent South Australian Legislative Council ticket that ran upper house candidates at the 1997, 2002 and 2006 state elections. Poker machines or \"pokies\" are the Australian version of slot machines. It was replaced by the Nick Xenophon Team in 2013.\n\nIndependents elected from this ticket consist of: \n\n\nXenophon's vote at the election came approximately equally from Labor and Liberal party voters.\n\nXenophon resigned from the South Australian Legislative Council in early October 2007 to stand for the Australian Senate as an independent at the 2007 federal election in which he was successful, on a primary vote of 14.78 percent. ABC election analyst Antony Green had stated prior to the election that Xenophon would win a seat, while Centrebet speculated his odds would start on a favourable $1.50 for and $2.70 against. Nick Minchin \"urged people not to vote for Mr Xenophon\", with the Liberal Party's 2006 upper house vote only 5.5 percent higher, and polled lower than Xenophon in some booths.\n\nXenophon's federal platform consists of anti-gambling, pro-consumer protection, attention to the water crisis, ratifying Kyoto, opposition against what he calls a decrease in state rights, and opposition to WorkChoices. Xenophon shared the balance of power with the Greens and Family First during the 2008–11 Senate parliamentary session, with the Greens holding the sole balance of power since July 2011. Xenophon has been reported in the media as \"left-of-centre\", whilst Hansard reveals that Xenophon and the Greens have found common ground on a number of issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32194239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32194239", "title": "North–South model", "text": "North–South model\n\nThe North–South model, developed largely by Columbia University economics professor Ronald Findlay, is a model in developmental economics that explains the growth of a less developed \"South\" or \"periphery\" economy that interacts through trade with a more developed \"North\" or \"core\" economy. The North–South model is used by dependencia theorists as a theoretical economic justification for dependency theory.\n\nThe model makes a few critical assumptions about the North and the South, as well as the relationship between the two.\n\n\nThe North–South model begins by defining the relevant equations for the economies of each country, and concludes that the growth rate of the South is locked by the growth rate of the North. This conclusion relies heavily on an analysis of the terms of trade between the two countries; i.e., the price ratio between manufactures and primary products. The terms of trade, formula_1, are defined as\n\nformula_2\n\nTo determine equilibrium, we need only to look at the market for one of the goods, as per Walras' law. We consider the market for the South's goods: primary products. The demand for imports, M, from the South is a positive function of per capita consumption in the North and a negative function of the terms of trade, formula_1, (higher formula_1 means relative price of primary products is high and less will be demanded). The supply side comes from export of primary products by the South, X, and is a positive function of the terms of trade and the South’s aggregate consumption of primary products.\n\nThis graph makes it clear that the real terms of trade decreases when the growth rate is higher in the South than in the North (because, thanks to unity in elasticity of demand, the export line would shift to the right faster than the import line). The resultant decrease in the terms of trade, however, means a lower growth rate for the South. This creates a negative feedback cycle in which the growth rate of the South is exogenously determined by that of the North. Note that the growth rate of the north, g, is equal to n + m, where n is population growth and m is growth of labor-augmenting technical progress, as per the Solow-Swan model.\n\nThe conclusion, which fits in with dependency theory, is that the South can never grow faster than the North, and thus will never catch up.\n\nEconomic theories such as the North–South model have been used to justify arguments for import substitution. Under this theory, less developed countries should use barriers to trade such as protective tariffs to shelter their industries from foreign competition and allow them to grow to the point where they will be able to compete globally.\n\nIt is important to note, however, that the North–South model only applies to countries that are completely specialized; that is, they are not competing with foreign markets – they are the only ones producing whichever good they are producing. The way around the terms of trade trap predicted by the North–South model is to produce goods that do compete with foreign goods. For example, the Asian Tigers are famous for pursuing development strategies that involved using their comparative advantage in labor to produce labor-intensive goods like textiles more efficiently than the United States and Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "28951338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28951338", "title": "Opposition (Croatia)", "text": "Opposition (Croatia)\n\nIn Croatia, the Opposition () comprises all political parties represented in the Croatian Parliament that are not part of the Government which is supported by the parliamentary majority.\n\nThe Leader of the Opposition () is the unofficial title held by the leader of the largest party with no representatives within the government. Where one party wins outright this is usually the leader of the second largest political party in the Parliament (usually the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) or the Social Democratic Party (SDP)). \n\nThe current Leader of the Opposition is Davor Bernardić, leader of the Social Democratic Party, who was elected to the party leadership on 26 November 2016.\n\nIn the Sixth assembly of the Croatian Parliament (2007–2011), the parties in Sabor that included the opposition were:\n\nThe leader of the opposition was Zoran Milanović, leader of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia.\n\nIn the Seventh assembly of the Croatian Parliament (2011–2015), the parties in Sabor that include the opposition were:\n\nIn the Eight assembly of the Croatian Parliament (2015–2016), the parties in Sabor that include the opposition are:\n\nIn the Ninth assembly of the Croatian Parliament (2016–), the parties in Sabor that include the opposition are:\n\n\nThe leader of the opposition from 14 October 2016 until 26 November 2016 was Zoran Milanović and since 26 November 2016 it has been Davor Bernardić, the leader of the Social Democratic Party.\n\n (3)\n\n1. Dražen Budiša 7 years, 167 days<br>\n2. Zoran Milanović 5 years, 148 days<br>\n3. Ivica Račan 4 years, 157 days<br>\n4. Tomislav Karamarko 3 years, 246 days<br>\n5. Ivo Sanader 3 years, 237 days<br>\n6. Davor Bernardić <br>\n7. Jadranka Kosor 150 days<br>\n8. \"Vladimir Šeks\" (Acting) 93 days<br>\n9. \"Željka Antunović\" (Acting) 52 days\n\n"}
{"id": "23299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23299", "title": "Provisional Irish Republican Army", "text": "Provisional Irish Republican Army\n\nThe Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA or Provisional IRA or Provos) was an Irish republican revolutionary organisation that sought to end British rule in Northern Ireland, facilitate the reunification of Ireland and bring about an independent socialist republic encompassing all of Ireland. It was the biggest and most active republican paramilitary group during the Troubles. It saw itself as the successor to the original IRA and called itself simply the Irish Republican Army (IRA), or \"Óglaigh na hÉireann\" in Irish, and was broadly referred to as such by others. The IRA was designated an unlawful terrorist organisation in the United Kingdom and an unlawful organisation in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe Provisional IRA emerged in December 1969, following a split in the republican movement. It was so-called to mirror the 1916 Provisional Government of the Irish Republic, and also to designate it as temporary pending reorganisation of the movement. Although this eventually happened in 1970, the name \"Provisional\" stuck with them. The Troubles had begun shortly before when a largely Catholic, nonviolent civil rights campaign was met with violence from both Ulster loyalists and the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC), culminating in the August 1969 riots and deployment of British troops. The IRA initially focused on defence of Catholic areas, but it began an offensive campaign in 1971 (see timeline). The IRA's primary goal was to force the United Kingdom to negotiate a withdrawal from Northern Ireland. It used guerrilla tactics against the British Army and RUC in both rural and urban areas. It also carried out a bombing campaign in Northern Ireland and England against what it saw as political and economic targets.\n\nThe IRA called a final ceasefire in July 1997, after its political wing Sinn Féin was re-admitted into the Northern Ireland peace talks. It supported the 1998 Good Friday Agreement and in 2005 it disarmed under international supervision. An internal British Army document (released in 2007 under the Freedom of Information Act) examining its 37 years of deployment in Northern Ireland, describes the IRA as \"a professional, dedicated, highly skilled and resilient force\", while loyalist paramilitaries and other republican groups are described as \"little more than a collection of gangsters\". American media usually described the IRA as \"activists\" and \"guerillas\", while the British press widely dubbed them \"terrorists\". Several splinter groups have been formed as a result of splits within the IRA, including the Continuity IRA which emerged from a split in 1986 but did not become active until the Provisional IRA ceasefire of 1994, and the Real IRA after the final 1997 ceasefire, both of which are still active in the low-level dissident Irish republican campaign.\n\nThe IRA's initial strategy was to use guerrilla tactics to cause the collapse of the government of Northern Ireland and to inflict enough casualties on British forces that the British government would be forced by public opinion in Britain to withdraw from the region. This policy involved recruitment of volunteers, increasing after the 1972 Bloody Sunday incident in which the British armed forces killed unarmed protesters, and launching attacks against British military and economic targets. The campaign was supported by arms and funding from Libya and from some Irish American groups. The IRA agreed to a ceasefire in February 1975, which lasted nearly a year before the IRA concluded that the British were drawing them away from military action without offering any guarantees in relation to the IRA's goals (as well as launching an intelligence offensive), and hopes of a quick victory receded. As a result, the IRA launched a new strategy known as \"the Long War\". This saw them conduct a war of attrition against the British and increased emphasis on political activity, via the political party Sinn Féin.\n\nThe success of the 1981 Irish hunger strike in mobilising support and winning elections led to the Armalite and ballot box strategy, with more time and resources devoted to political activity. The abortive attempt at an escalation of the military part of that strategy led republican leaders increasingly to look for a political compromise to end the conflict, with a broadening dissociation of Sinn Féin from the IRA. Following negotiations with the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) and secret talks with representatives of both the Irish and British governments, the IRA ultimately called a ceasefire in 1994 on the understanding that Sinn Féin would be included in political negotiations for a settlement. When the British government, dependent on Ulster Unionist Party votes at Westminster, then demanded the disarmament of the IRA before it allowed Sinn Féin into multiparty talks, the IRA called off its ceasefire in February 1996. The British demand was quickly dropped after the May 1997 general election in the UK. The IRA ceasefire was then reinstated in July 1997 and Sinn Féin was admitted into all-party talks, which produced the Good Friday Agreement of 1998.\n\nThe IRA's armed campaign, primarily in Northern Ireland but also in England and mainland Europe, caused the deaths of approximately 1,800 people. The dead included around 1,100 members of the British security forces, and about 640 civilians. The IRA itself lost 275–300 members and an estimated 10,000 imprisoned at various times over the 30-year period.\n\nOn 28 July 2005, the IRA Army Council announced an end to its armed campaign, stating that it would work to achieve its aims using \"purely political and democratic programmes through exclusively peaceful means\", and shortly afterwards completed decommissioning. In September 2008, the nineteenth report of the Independent Monitoring Commission stated that the IRA was \"committed to the political path\" and no longer represented \"a threat to peace or to democratic politics\", and that the Army Council was \"no longer operational or functional\". The organisation remains classified as a proscribed terrorist group in the UK and as an illegal organisation in the Republic of Ireland. Two small groups split from the Provisional IRA, the Continuity IRA in 1986, and the Real IRA in 1997. Both reject the Good Friday Agreement and continue to engage in paramilitary activity.\n\nOn 26 July 2012, it was announced that some former members of the Provisional Irish Republican Army were merging with the Real Irish Republican Army, other independent republican paramilitary groups and the vigilante group Republican Action Against Drugs (but not with the Continuity Irish Republican Army) into a unified formation known simply as the \"Irish Republican Army\". This new IRA group is estimated by Police Service of Northern Ireland intelligence sources to have between 250 and 300 active militants and many more supporting associates.\n\nThe Provisional IRA was organised hierarchically. At the top of the organisation was the IRA Army Council, headed by the IRA Chief of Staff.\n\nAll levels of the organisation were entitled to send delegates to IRA General Army Conventions (GACs). The GAC was the IRA's supreme decision-making authority. Before 1969, GACs met regularly. Since 1969, there have only been three, in 1970, 1986, and 2005, owing to the difficulty in organising such a large gathering of an illegal organisation in secret.\n\nThe GAC in turn elected a 12-member IRA Executive, which selected seven volunteers to form the IRA Army Council. For day-to-day purposes, authority was vested in the Army Council which, as well as directing policy and taking major tactical decisions, appointed a Chief of Staff from one of its number or, less often, from outside its ranks.\nThe Chief of Staff would appoint an adjutant general as well as a General Headquarters (GHQ), which consisted of heads of the following departments:\n\nThe IRA was divided into a Northern Command, which operated in the nine Ulster counties as well as the border counties of Leitrim and Louth, and a Southern Command, operating in the rest of Ireland. The Provisional IRA was originally commanded by a leadership based in Dublin. However, in 1977, parallel to the introduction of cell structures at local level, command of the \"war-zone\" was given to the Northern Command. According to Ed Moloney, these moves at re-organisation were the idea of Ivor Bell, Gerry Adams and Brian Keenan.\n\nThe IRA referred to its ordinary members as volunteers (or \"óglaigh\" in Irish). Until the late 1970s, IRA volunteers were organised in units based on conventional military structures. Volunteers living in one area formed a company as part of a battalion, which could be part of a brigade, although many battalions were not attached to a brigade.\n\nIRA brigades usually followed county lines, which were sometimes subdivided (especially when they included major urban areas). The Belfast Brigade had three battalions, in the west, north and east of the city. In the early years of the Troubles, the IRA in Belfast expanded rapidly; in August 1969, the Belfast Brigade had just 50 active members – by the end of 1971, it had 1,200 members, giving it a large but loosely controlled structure.\n\nThe Derry Battalion became the Provisional IRA Derry Brigade in 1972 after a rapid increase in membership following Bloody Sunday when 1 PARA killed 13 unarmed demonstrators at a civil rights march. The Derry Brigade also controlled parts of northern County Londonderry and northeast County Donegal.\n\nCounty Armagh had four battalions, two very active ones in South Armagh and two less active unit in North Armagh. For this reason the Armagh IRA unit is often referred to as the South Armagh Brigade. Tyrone in particular had a large I.R.A. presence with three Brigades formed in the county, the West, Mid and notorious East Tyrone Brigades. The East Tyrone Brigade also drew in volunteers from nearby county Monaghan. The leadership structure at battalion and company level was the same: each had its own commanding officer, quartermaster, explosives officer and intelligence officer. There was sometimes a training officer or finance officer.\n\nFrom 1973, the IRA started to move away from the larger conventional military organisational principle owing to its security vulnerability. A system of two parallel types of unit within an IRA brigade was introduced in place of the battalion structures. Firstly, the old \"company\" structures were used for tasks such as \"policing\" nationalist areas, intelligence-gathering, and hiding weapons. These were essential support activities. However, the bulk of actual attacks were the responsibility of a second type of unit, the active service unit (ASU). To improve security and operational capacity, these ASUs were smaller, tight-knit cells, usually consisting of five to eight members. The ASU's weapons were controlled by a brigade's quartermaster. It was estimated that in the late 1980s the IRA had roughly 300 members in ASUs and about another 450 serving in supporting roles.\n\nThe exception to this reorganisation was the South Armagh Brigade, which retained its traditional hierarchy and battalion structure and used relatively large numbers of volunteers in its actions. South Armagh did not have the same problems with security that other brigades had.\n\nThe IRA's Southern Command, located in the Republic of Ireland, consists of a Dublin Brigade and a number of smaller units in rural areas. These were charged mainly with the importation and storage of arms for the Northern units and with raising finances through robberies and other means.\n\nIn August 1969, a confrontation between Catholic residents of the Bogside and the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) in Derry following an Apprentice Boys of Derry march led to a large communal riot now referred to as the Battle of the Bogside – three days of fighting between rioters throwing stones and petrol bombs on one side, and police who saturated the area with CS gas and other unionists on the other.\n\nProtests organised by the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association in support of the Bogsiders were held elsewhere in the region, sparking retaliation by Protestant mobs; the subsequent burning, damage to property and intimidation, largely against the minority community, forced 1,800 people (mostly Catholics) from their homes in Belfast in what became known as the Northern Ireland riots of August 1969, with over 200 Catholic homes being destroyed or requiring major repairs. A number of people were killed on both sides, some by the police. The Irish Republican Army had been poorly armed and its defence of Catholic-majority areas from Ulster loyalists, which had been considered one of its traditional roles since the 1920s, was seen by many as inadequate.\n\nVeteran republicans were critical of the IRA's Dublin leadership which, for political reasons, had refused to prepare for aggressive action in advance of the violence. On 24 August Joe Cahill, Seamus Twomey, Dáithí Ó Conaill, Billy McKee and several other future Provisional leaders came together in Belfast intending to remove the Belfast leadership and turn back to traditional militant republicanism. Although the pro-Goulding commander Billy McMillen stayed in command, he was told it was only for three months and he was not to have any communication with the IRA's Dublin based leadership.\n\nTraditional republicans formed the \"Provisional\" Army Council in December 1969, after an IRA convention was held at Knockvicar House in Boyle, County Roscommon. The two main issues were the acceptance of the \"National Liberation Strategy\" and a motion to end abstentionism and to recognise the British, Irish and Northern Ireland parliaments. While the motion on the \"National Liberation Strategy\" was passed unanimously the motion on abstentionism was only passed by 28 votes to 12. Opponents of this change argued strongly against the ending of abstentionism, and when the vote took place, Seán Mac Stíofáin, present as IRA Director of Intelligence, announced that he no longer considered that the IRA leadership represented republican goals. However, there was no walkout. Those opposed, who included Mac Stíofáin and Ruairí Ó Brádaigh, refused to go forward for election to the new IRA Executive.\n\nWhile others canvassed support throughout Ireland, Mac Stíofáin was a key person making a connection with the Belfast IRA under Billy McKee and Joe Cahill, who had refused to take orders from the IRA's Dublin leadership since September 1969, in protest at their failure to defend Catholic areas in August. Nine out of thirteen IRA units in Belfast sided with the Provisionals in December 1969, roughly 120 activists and 500 supporters. The first \"Provisional\" Army Council was composed of Seán Mac Stíofáin, Ruairí Ó Brádaigh, Paddy Mulcahy, Sean Tracey, Leo Martin, and Joe Cahill. They issued their first public statement on 28 December 1969, stating:\n\nWe declare our allegiance to the 32 county Irish republic, proclaimed at Easter 1916, established by the first Dáil Éireann in 1919, overthrown by forces of arms in 1922 and suppressed to this day by the existing British-imposed six-county and twenty-six-county partition states.\n\nThe Provisional IRA issued all its public statements under the pseudonym \"P. O'Neill\" of the \"Irish Republican Publicity Bureau, Dublin\". According to Ruairí Ó Brádaigh, it was Seán Mac Stiofáin, as chief of staff of the IRA, who invented the name. However, under his usage, the name was written and pronounced according to Irish orthography and pronunciation as \"P. Ó Néill\". According to Danny Morrison, the pseudonym \"S. O'Neill\" was used during the 1940s.\n\nThe Sinn Féin party split along the same lines on 11 January 1970, when a third of the delegates walked out of the Ard Fheis in protest at the party leadership's attempt to force through the ending of abstentionism, despite its failure to achieve a two-thirds majority vote of delegates required to change the policy. Despite the declared support of that faction of Sinn Féin, the early Provisional IRA was extremely suspicious of political activity, arguing rather for the primacy of armed struggle.\n\nWhat would become the Provisional IRA received arms and funding from the Fianna Fáil-led Irish government in 1969, resulting in the 1970 Arms Crisis in which criminal charges were pursued against two former government ministers and others. Roughly £100,000 was donated by the Irish government to \"Defence Committees\" in Catholic areas and, according to historian Richard English, \"there is now no doubt that some money did go from the Dublin government to the proto-Provisionals\".\n\nThe Provisionals maintained the principles of the pre-1969 IRA; they considered both British rule in Northern Ireland and the government of the Republic of Ireland to be illegitimate, insisting that the Provisional IRA's Army Council was the only valid government, as head of an all-island Irish Republic. This belief was based on a series of perceived political inheritances which constructed a legal continuity from the Second Dáil (see also Irish republican legitimatism).\n\nBy 1971, the Provisionals had inherited most of the existing IRA organisation in the north, as well as the more militant IRA members in the rest of Ireland. In addition, they recruited many young nationalists from the north, who had not been involved in the IRA before but had been radicalised by the violence that broke out in 1969. These people were known in republican parlance as \"sixty niners\", having joined after 1969. The Provisional IRA adopted the phoenix as symbol of the Irish republican rebirth in 1969. One of its slogans was \"out of the ashes rose the Provisionals\".\n\nFollowing the violence of August 1969, the IRA began to arm and train to protect nationalist areas from further attack. After the Provisionals' split from the Official IRA, the Provisional IRA began planning for offensive action against what it viewed as British occupation.\n\nThe Official IRA were opposed to such a campaign because they felt it would lead to sectarian conflict, which would defeat their strategy of uniting the workers from both sides of the sectarian divide. The IRA Border Campaign in the 1950s had avoided actions in urban centres of Northern Ireland to avoid civilian casualties and probable resulting sectarian violence. The Provisional IRA, by contrast, was primarily an urban organisation, based originally in Belfast and Derry.\n\nThe Provisional IRA's strategy was to use force to cause the collapse of the government of Northern Ireland and to inflict such casualties on the British forces that the British government would be forced by public opinion to withdraw from Ireland. According to journalist Brendan O'Brien, \"the thinking was that the war would be short and successful. Chief of Staff Seán Mac Stíofáin decided they would 'escalate, escalate and escalate' until the British agreed to go\". This policy involved recruitment of volunteers and carrying out attacks on British forces, as well as mounting a bombing campaign against economic targets. In the early years of the conflict, IRA slogans spoke of, \"Victory 1972\" and then \"Victory 1974\". Its inspiration was the success of the \"Old IRA\" in the Irish War of Independence (1919–1922), which also relied on British public opinion to achieve its aims. In their assessment of the IRA campaign, the British Army would describe the years 1970–72 as the \"insurgency phase\".\n\nThe British government held secret talks with the IRA leadership in 1972 to try and secure a ceasefire based on a compromise settlement, after the events of Bloody Sunday led to an increase in IRA recruitment and support. The IRA agreed to a temporary ceasefire from 26 June to 9 July. In July 1972, Seán Mac Stíofáin, Dáithí Ó Conaill, Ivor Bell, Seamus Twomey, Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness met a British delegation led by William Whitelaw. The republicans refused to consider a peace settlement that did not include a commitment to British withdrawal, a retreat of the British Army to its barracks, and a release of republican prisoners. The British refused and the talks broke up.\n\nAt this time the IRA brought out the \"Éire Nua\" (New Ireland) policy, which advocated an all-Ireland federal republic, with decentralised governments and parliaments for each of the four historic provinces of Ireland.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, the hopes of the IRA leadership for a quick military victory were receding and the British military was unsure of when it would see any substantial success against the IRA. Secret meetings between Provisional IRA leaders Ruairí Ó Brádaigh and Billy McKee with British Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Merlyn Rees secured an IRA ceasefire which began in February 1975. The IRA initially believed that this was the start of a long-term process of British withdrawal, but later came to the conclusion that the British were unwilling and/or unable to make concessions in areas they deemed crucial. Critics of the IRA leadership, most notably Gerry Adams, felt that the ceasefire was disastrous for the IRA, leading to infiltration by British informers, the arrest of many activists and a breakdown in IRA discipline resulting in sectarian killings and a feud with fellow republicans in the Official IRA. At this time, the IRA leadership, short of money, weapons and members, was on the brink of calling off the campaign. However, the ceasefire was ended in January 1976 instead.\n\nThereafter, the IRA evolved a new strategy which they called the \"Long War\". This underpinned IRA strategy for the rest of the Troubles and involved the re-organisation of the IRA into small cells, an acceptance that their campaign would last many years before being successful and an increased emphasis on political activity through Sinn Féin. A republican document of the early 1980s states: \"Both Sinn Féin and the IRA play different but converging roles in the war of national liberation. The Irish Republican Army wages an armed campaign... Sinn Féin maintains the propaganda war and is the public and political voice of the movement\". The 1977 edition of the Green Book, an induction and training manual used by the IRA, describes the strategy of the \"Long War\" in these terms:\n\n\nConfidential documents released on 30 December 2008 from the British state archives show that the IRA leadership proposed a ceasefire and peace talks to the British government in 1978. The British refused the offer. Prime Minister James Callaghan decided that there should be \"positive rejection\" of the approach on the basis that the republicans were not serious and \"see their campaign as a long haul\". Republic of Ireland state documents from the same period say that the IRA had made a similar offer to the British the previous year. An Irish Defence Forces document, dated 15 February 1977, states that \"It is now known that feelers were sent out at Christmas by the top IRA leadership to interest the British authorities in another long ceasefire.\" The \"Éire Nua\" policy was discontinued by the Army Council in 1979 but remained Sinn Féin policy until 1982, reflecting the sequence in which the old leadership of the republican movement were being sidelined.\n\nIRA prisoners convicted after March 1976 did not have Special Category Status applied in prison. In response, more than 500 prisoners refused to wear prison clothes. This activity culminated in the 1981 Irish hunger strike, when seven IRA and three Irish National Liberation Army members starved themselves to death in pursuit of political status. The hunger strike leader Bobby Sands and Anti H-Block activist Owen Carron were elected to the British Parliament, and two other protesting prisoners were elected to the Dáil. In addition, there were work stoppages and large demonstrations all over Ireland in sympathy with the hunger strikers. More than 100,000 people attended the funeral of Sands, the first hunger striker to die.\n\nAfter the success of IRA hunger strikers in mobilising support and winning elections on an Anti H-Block platform in 1981, republicans increasingly devoted time and resources to electoral politics, through the Sinn Féin party. Danny Morrison summed up this policy at a 1981 Sinn Féin Ard Fheis (annual meeting) as a \"ballot paper in this hand and an Armalite in the other\".\n\nThe success of the 1981 Irish hunger strike in mobilising support and winning elections led to what was referred to by Danny Morrison as, \"the Armalite and ballot box strategy\" with more time and resources devoted to political activity. The perceived stalemate along with British government's hints of a compromise and secret approaches in the early 1990s led republican leaders increasingly to look for a political agreement to end the conflict, with a broadening dissociation of Sinn Féin from the IRA. Following negotiations with the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) and secret talks with British civil servants, the IRA ultimately called a ceasefire in 1994 on the understanding that Sinn Féin would be included in political talks for a settlement. When the British government then demanded the disarmament of the IRA before it allowed Sinn Féin into multiparty talks, the organisation called off its ceasefire in February 1996. The renewed bombings caused severe economic damage, with the Manchester bombing and the Docklands bombing causing approximately £800 million in combined damage. After the ceasefire was reinstated in July 1997, Sinn Féin was admitted into all-party talks, which produced the Good Friday Agreement of 1998. The IRA's armed campaign, primarily in Northern Ireland but also in England and mainland Europe, caused the deaths of approximately 1,800 people. The dead included around 1,100 members of the British security forces, and about 630 civilians. The IRA itself lost 275–300 members, of an estimated 10,000 total over the 30-year period. Between 1970 and 2005, the IRA had detonated 19,000 improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in the United Kingdom, an average of one every 17 hours for three and a half decades, arguably making it \"the biggest terrorist bombing campaign in history\".\n\nAccording to author Ed Moloney, the IRA made an attempt to escalate the conflict with the so-called \"Tet Offensive\" in the 1980s, which was reluctantly approved by the Army Council and did not prove successful. On the other hand, public speeches from two Northern Ireland Secretaries of State, Peter Brooke and Patrick Mayhew hint that, given the cessation of violence, a political compromise with the IRA was possible. Gerry Adams entered talks with John Hume, the leader of the moderate nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) in 1993, and secret talks were also conducted since 1991 between Martin McGuinness and a senior MI6 officer, Michael Oatley. Thereafter, Adams increasingly tried to disassociate Sinn Féin from the IRA, claiming they were separate organisations and refusing to speak on behalf of the IRA. Within the Republican Movement (the IRA and Sinn Féin), the new strategy was described by the acronym \"TUAS\", meaning either \"Tactical Use of Armed Struggle\" or \"Totally Unarmed Strategy\".\n\nThe IRA ceasefire in 1997 formed part of a process that led to the 1998 Belfast (Good Friday) Agreement. One aim of the Agreement is that all paramilitary groups in Northern Ireland cease their activities and disarm by May 2000. In October 1997, the US stopped designating the IRA as a terrorist organisation.\n\nCalls from Sinn Féin led the IRA to commence disarming in a process that was monitored by Canadian General John de Chastelain's decommissioning body in October 2001. However, following the collapse of the Stormont power-sharing government in 2002, which was partly triggered by allegations that republican spies were operating within Parliament Buildings and the Civil Service, the IRA temporarily broke off contact with General de Chastelain.\n\nIn December 2004, attempts to persuade the IRA to disarm entirely collapsed when the Democratic Unionist Party, under Ian Paisley, insisted on photographic evidence. Justice Minister Michael McDowell (in public, and often) insisted that there would need to be a complete end to IRA activity.\n\nAt the beginning of February 2005, the IRA declared that it was withdrawing from the disarmament process, but in July 2005 it declared that its campaign of violence was over, and that transparent mechanisms would be used, under the de Chastelain process, to satisfy the Northern Ireland communities that it was disarming totally.\n\nOn 28 July 2005, the IRA Army Council announced an end to the armed campaign, stating that it would work to achieve its aims solely by peaceful political means. The Army Council stated that it had ordered volunteers to dump all weapons and to end all paramilitary activity. It also announced that the IRA would complete the process of disarmament as quickly as possible.\n\nThis was not the first time that an organisation calling itself the IRA had issued orders to dump arms. After its defeat in the Irish Civil War in 1924 and at the end of its unsuccessful Border Campaign in 1962, the IRA Army Council issued similar orders. However, this was the first time that an IRA had voluntarily decided to dispose of its arms. Some authors, like Patrick McCarthy, Peter Taylor and Brendan O'Brien concluded that, unlike previous IRA campaigns, the provisionals were not defeated.\n\nIn September 2005, international weapons inspectors supervised the full disarmament of the IRA. On 26 September, the Independent International Commission on Decommissioning (IICD) announced that \"the totality of the IRA's arsenal\" had been decommissioned. The IRA invited two independent witnesses to view the secret disarmament work: Catholic priest Father Alec Reid and Protestant minister Reverend Harold Good. Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), complained that the witnesses were not unbiased, because they were appointed by the IRA itself. Nationalists saw his comments as reflecting his opposition to nationalists in government.\n\nSince then, there have been occasional claims in the media that the IRA had not decommissioned all of its weaponry. In response to such claims, the Independent Monitoring Commission (IMC) stated in its tenth report that the IRA had decommissioned all weaponry \"under its control\". It said that if any weapons had been kept, they would have been kept by individuals and against IRA orders.\n\nThere have also been claims that the IRA is still active and has carried out punishment shootings (see Chronology of Provisional Irish Republican Army actions (2000–09)). In August 2008, \"The Sunday Times\" quoted a \"senior Garda intelligence officer\" as saying that the IRA was being maintained \"in shadow form\"; that it had recruited in recent years, still had weapons and was still capable of carrying out attacks. PSNI Assistant Chief Constable Peter Sheridan, said it was unlikely the IRA as a whole would formally disband in the foreseeable future.\n\nIn September 2008, the Independent Monitoring Commission stated in its nineteenth report that the IRA was \"committed to the political path\" and was no longer \"a threat to peace or to democratic politics\". It concluded that the IRA as an organisation was being allowed to wither away and was \"beyond recall\": it had disbanded its military departments, stopped recruiting or training members, lost its military capability, and the Army Council was \"no longer operational\". The report also said that the IRA is not involved in any criminal activity, but that some members have engaged in criminal activity without the sanction or support of the organisation.\n\nSinn Féin President Gerry Adams said in 2011: \"The war is over. The IRA is gone. The IRA embraced, facilitated and supported the peace process. When a democratic and peaceful alternative to armed struggle was created the IRA left the stage.\" In 2014 Adams said: \"The IRA is gone. It is finished\". However, the Assessment on Paramilitary Groups in Northern Ireland in October 2015 concluded that the Provisional IRA, while committed to peace, continues to exist in a reduced form.\n\nIn February 2015, the Garda Commissioner stated that Gardaí have no evidence that the IRA's military structure remains or that the IRA is engaged in crime.\n\nIn August 2015, the PSNI Chief Constable stated that the IRA no longer exists as a paramilitary organisation. He said that some of its structure remains, but that the group is committed to following a peaceful political path and is not engaged in criminal activity or directing violence. However, he added that some members have engaged in criminal activity or violence for their own ends. The statement was in response to the recent killings of two former IRA members. In May, former IRA commander Gerard Davison was shot dead in Belfast. He had been involved in Direct Action Against Drugs and it is believed he was killed by an organized crime gang. Three months later, former IRA member Kevin McGuigan was also shot dead in Belfast. It is believed he was killed by the group Action Against Drugs, in revenge for the Davison killing. The Chief Constable believed that IRA members collaborated with Action Against Drugs, but without the sanction of the IRA. In response, the UK government commissioned the Independent Assessment of Paramilitary Organisations.\n\nThe organisation remains classified as a proscribed terrorist group in the UK and as an illegal organisation in the Republic of Ireland. Two small groups split from the IRA, the Continuity IRA in 1986, and the Real IRA in 1997. Both reject the Good Friday Agreement and continue to engage in paramilitary activity.\n\nIn the early days of the Troubles the IRA was very poorly armed, mainly with old World War II weaponry such as M1 Garands and Thompson submachine guns, but starting in the early 1970s it procured large amounts of modern weaponry from such sources as supporters in the United States, Libyan leader Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, and arms dealers in Europe, America, the Middle East and elsewhere. The Libyans supplied the IRA with the RPG-7.\n\nIn the first years of the conflict, the IRA's main activities were providing firepower to support nationalist rioters and defending nationalist areas from attacks. The IRA gained much of its support from these activities, as they were widely perceived within the nationalist community as being defenders of Irish nationalist and Roman Catholic people against aggression.\n\nFrom 1971–1994, the IRA launched a sustained offensive armed campaign that mainly targeted the British Army, the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC), the Ulster Defence Regiment (UDR), and economic targets in Northern Ireland. In addition, some IRA members carried out attacks against Protestant civilians.\n\nThe IRA was chiefly active in Northern Ireland, although it took its campaign to England and mainland Europe. The IRA also targeted certain British government officials, politicians, judges, establishment figures, British Army and police officers in England, and in other areas such as the Republic of Ireland, West Germany and the Netherlands. By the early 1990s, the bulk of the IRA activity was carried out by the South Armagh Brigade, well known through its sniping operations and attacks on British Army helicopters. The bombing campaign principally targeted political, economic and military targets, and approximately 60 civilians were killed by the IRA in England during the conflict.\n\nIt has been argued that this bombing campaign helped convince the British government (who had hoped to contain the conflict to Northern Ireland with its Ulsterisation policy) to negotiate with Sinn Féin after the IRA ceasefires of August 1994 and July 1997.\n\nBy the 1990s the IRA had become skilled in using mortars and were on a level that was comparable to military models. Seven IRA mortar attacks resulted in fatalities or serious injuries. The IRA's development of mortar tactics was a response to the heavy fortifications on RUC and British Army bases. Mortars were useful to the IRA as they could hit targets at short range, which could lead to effective attacks in built-up urban areas. The mortars used by the IRA were often self made and developed by the Engineering Department of the Army General Headquarters.\n\nOn 31 August 1994, the IRA declared an indefinite ceasefire. However, from February 1996 until July 1997, the IRA called off its 1994 ceasefire because of its dissatisfaction with the state of negotiations. They re-instated the ceasefire in July 1997, and it has been in operation since then.\n\nThe IRA decommissioned all of its remaining arms between July and September 2005. The decommissioning of its weaponry was supervised by the Independent International Commission on Decommissioning (IICD). Among the weaponry, estimated by Jane's Information Group, to have been destroyed as part of this process were:\n\nHaving compared the weapons destroyed with the British security forces' estimates of the IRA weaponry, and because of the IRA's full involvement in the process of destroying the weapons, the IICD arrived at their conclusion that all IRA weaponry has been destroyed.\n\nSince the process of decommissioning was completed, unnamed sources in MI5 and the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) have reported to the press that not all IRA arms were destroyed during the process. This claim remains unsubstantiated so far. In its report dated April 2006 the Independent Monitoring Commission (IMC) stated that it had no reason to disbelieve the IRA or to suspect that it had not fully decommissioned. It believed that any weaponry that had not been handed in had been retained locally and against the wishes of the IRA leadership. The Russian and British Intelligence services alleged that during the decommissioning process the IRA secretly purchased a consignment of 20 Russian special forces AN-94 rifles in Moscow.\n\nIn mid-July 2013, the Gardaí displayed arms and explosives (Semtex) recently recovered from dissident republicans in the Dublin area. The Gardaí believe this Semtex to have come from the Libyan connection back in the 1980s and therefore should have been decommissioned.\n\nApart from its armed campaign, the IRA has also been involved in many other activities.\n\nThe IRA publicly condemned sectarianism and sectarian attacks. However, some IRA members did carry out sectarian attacks. Of those killed by the IRA, Sutton classifies 130 (about 7%) of them as sectarian killings of Protestants. Unlike loyalists, the IRA denied responsibility for sectarian attacks and the members involved used covernames, such as \"Republican Action Force\". They claimed that their attacks on Protestants were \"retaliation\" for attacks on Catholics. Many in the IRA opposed these sectarian attacks, but others deemed them effective in preventing sectarian attacks on Catholics.\n\nSome unionists allege that the IRA took part in \"ethnic cleansing\" of the Protestant minority in rural border areas, such as Fermanagh. Many local Protestants allegedly believed that the IRA tried to force them into leaving. However, most Protestants killed by the IRA in these areas were members of the security forces, and there was no exodus of Protestants.\n\nTo fund its campaign, the IRA was allegedly involved in criminal activities such as robberies, counterfeiting, protection rackets, kidnapping for ransom, fuel laundering and cigarette smuggling. The IRA also raised funds through donations and by running legitimate businesses such as taxi firms, social clubs, pubs and restaurants. It is estimated that, by the 1990s, the IRA needed £10.5 million a year to operate.\n\nIRA supporters argue that the IRA's \"securing of funds by extralegal methods is justified as a means to achieve a political goal. Unlike crimes committed for personal gain, IRA operations are considered strategic attacks against an oppressive state\". However, this activity allowed the British Government to portray the IRA as no more than a criminal gang.\n\nIt was estimated that the IRA carried out 1,000 armed robberies in Northern Ireland, mostly of banks and post offices. It was accused of involvement in the biggest bank raid in Irish history—the 2004 Northern Bank robbery—when £26.5 million was stolen from the Northern Bank in Belfast city centre. The PSNI, the Independent Monitoring Commission and the British and Irish governments all accused the IRA of involvement. It is suggested that the IRA needed the money to pay pensions to its volunteers, and to ensure that hardliners stuck with the peace strategy. The IRA denied involvement, however.\n\nGenerally, the IRA was against drug dealing and prostitution, \"both for 'moral' reasons and because it would be unpopular within its own communities\". The Chief of the RUC's Drugs Squad, Kevin Sheehy, said \"the Provisional IRA did its best to stop volunteers from becoming directly involved [in drugs]\" and noted one occasion when an IRA member caught with a small amount of cannabis was \"disowned and humiliated\" in his local area. The IRA often targeted drug dealers. Many were given punishment shootings or banished, and some were killed. However, there are claims the IRA \"licensed\" certain dealers to operate and forced them to pay protection money.\n\nSpeaking in 2005, Gerry Adams said \"There is no place in republicanism for anyone involved in criminality\". However, he went on to say \"we refuse to criminalise those who break the law in pursuit of legitimate political objectives\".\n\nIn 2008, the Independent Monitoring Commission stated that the IRA was no longer involved in criminality, but that some members have engaged in criminality for their own ends, without the sanction or support of the IRA.\n\nDuring the conflict, the IRA took on the role of policing in some Catholic/nationalist areas of Northern Ireland. Many Catholics/nationalists did not trust the official police force—the Royal Ulster Constabulary—and saw it as biased against their community. The RUC found it difficult to operate in certain nationalist neighbourhoods and only entered in armoured convoys, due to the threat of attack from rioters and the IRA. In these neighbourhoods, many residents expected the IRA to act as a policing force, and such policing \"provided the IRA a certain propaganda value\". The IRA also sought to minimize contact between residents and the RUC, because residents might pass on information or be forced to become a police informer. The IRA set up arbitration panels that would adjudicate and investigate complaints from locals about criminal or 'anti-social' activities. Those responsible for minor offences would be given a warning, be made to compensate the offendee, or be made to do community work. Those responsible for more serious and repeat offences could be given a punishment beating or kneecapping, or be banished from the community.\n\nThe IRA's vigilantism has been repeatedly condemned as \"summary justice\". However, on several occasions the British authorities have recognized the IRA's policing role. In January 1971, the IRA and British Army held secret talks aimed at stopping persistent rioting in Ballymurphy. It was agreed that the IRA would be responsible for policing there, but the agreement was short-lived. During the 1975 ceasefire, the government agreed to the setting up of 'incident centres' in nationalist areas. They were staffed by Sinn Féin members and were to deal with incidents that might endanger the truce. Residents went there to report crime as well as to make complaints about the security forces. The incident centres were seen by locals as 'IRA police stations' and gave some legitimacy to the IRA as a policing force.\n\nPolitical opponents accused the IRA and Sinn Féin of a coverup. The Sinn Féin leader apologized to victims who were \"let down\" by the IRA and admitted it \"was ill-equipped to deal with such matters\".\n\nThe IRA took a hard line against anyone believed to be an informer – i.e. secretly passing information about IRA activity to British forces. The IRA regarded them as traitors and a threat to the organisation and lives of its members. Suspected informers were dealt with by the IRA's Internal Security Unit (ISU). It carried out an investigation, interrogated the suspect and passed judgement. IRA members who confessed to being informers were killed with a shot to the head. Civilian informers were regarded as collaborators and were usually either killed or exiled. The IRA killed 59 alleged informers, about half of them IRA members and half of them Catholic civilians. The bodies of alleged informers were usually left in public as a warning to others. Twelve, however, were secretly buried and became known as \"the Disappeared\".\n\nOne particularly controversial killing of an alleged informer was that of Jean McConville. A Catholic civilian and widowed mother-of-ten, her body was secretly buried and not found until thirty years later. The IRA has since issued a general apology, saying it \"regrets the suffering of all the families whose loved ones were killed and buried by the IRA\".\n\nThe original IRA, as well as loyalist paramilitaries, also had a policy of killing alleged informers.\n\nThe IRA has also feuded with other republican paramilitary groups such as the Official IRA in the 1970s and the Irish People's Liberation Organisation in the 1990s.\n\nLeading Real Irish Republican Army (RIRA) member Joseph O'Connor was shot dead in Ballymurphy, west Belfast on 11 October 2000. Claims have been made by O'Connor's family and people associated with the RIRA that he was killed by the IRA as the result of a feud between the organisations, but Sinn Féin denied the claims. No-one has been charged with his killing.\n\n\"This is a summary. For a detailed breakdown of casualties caused by and inflicted on the IRA see Provisional IRA campaign 1969-1997#Casualties\"\n\nThe IRA was responsible for more deaths than any other organisation during the Troubles. Two detailed studies of deaths in the Troubles, the Conflict Archive on the Internet (CAIN), and the book \"Lost Lives\", differ slightly on the numbers killed by the IRA and the total number of conflict deaths. According to CAIN, the IRA was responsible for at least 1,707 deaths, about 48% of the total conflict deaths. Of these, at least 1,009 (about 59%) were members or former members of the British security forces, while at least 508 (about 29%) were civilians. According to \"Lost Lives\" (2006 edition), the IRA was responsible for 1,768 deaths, about 47% of the total conflict deaths. Of these, 934 (about 52%) were members of the British security forces, while 639 (about 36%) were civilians (including 61 former members of the security forces). The civilian figure also includes civilians employed by British forces, politicians, members of the judiciary, and alleged criminals and informers. Most of the remainder were loyalist or republican paramilitary members; including over 100 IRA members accidentally killed by their own bombs or shot for being security force agents or informers. Overall, the IRA was responsible for 87–90% of the total British security force deaths, and 27–30% of the total civilian deaths in the conflict.\n\nA little under 300 IRA members were killed in the Troubles. In addition, roughly 50–60 members of Sinn Féin were killed. However, many more IRA volunteers were imprisoned than killed. Journalists Eamonn Mallie and Patrick Bishop estimate in their book \"The Provisional IRA\" that roughly 8,000 people passed through the ranks of the IRA in the first 20 years of its existence, many of them leaving after arrest (senior officers are required to surrender their post after being arrested), retiring from the armed campaign or \"disillusionment\". They give 10,000 as the total number of past and present IRA members at that time.\n\nThe IRA is a proscribed organisation in the United Kingdom under the Terrorism Act 2000 and an unlawful organisation in the Republic of Ireland under the Offences Against the State Acts. Harold Wilson's secret 1971 meeting with IRA leaders with the help of John O'Connell angered the Irish government; Garret FitzGerald wrote 30 years later that \"the strength of the feelings of our democratic leaders ... was not, however, publicly ventilated at the time\" because Wilson was a former and possible future British prime minister. Members of IRA are tried in the Republic of Ireland in the Special Criminal Court. In Northern Ireland, the IRA are referred to as terrorists by the Ulster Unionist Party, the Democratic Unionist Party, the Progressive Unionist Party, the Alliance Party of Northern Ireland, and the Social Democratic and Labour Party. On the island of Ireland, the largest political party to state that the IRA is not a terrorist organisation is Sinn Féin. Sinn Féin is widely regarded as the political wing of the IRA, but the party insists that the two organisations are separate.\n\nAmerican media tended to describe the Provisional IRA as \"activists\" and \"guerillas\", while the British counterpart commonly used the term \"terrorists\", particularly the BBC as part of its official guidelines, published in 1989.\n\nPeter Mandelson, a former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, contrasted the post-1997 activities of the IRA with those of Al-Qaeda, describing the latter as \"terrorists\" and the former as \"freedom fighters\" (though Mandelson subsequently denied this sentiment). The IRA prefer the terms freedom fighter, soldier, activist, or volunteer. The US Department of State lists them in the category 'other selected terrorist groups also deemed of\nrelevance in the global war on terrorism.' The organisation has also been described as a \"private army\" by a number of commentators and politicians.\n\nThe IRA described its actions throughout \"The Troubles\" as a military campaign waged against the British Army, the RUC, other security forces, judiciary, loyalist politicians and loyalist paramilitaries in Northern Ireland, England and Europe. The IRA considers these groups to be all part of the same apparatus. As noted above, the IRA seeks to draw a direct descendancy from the original IRA and those who engaged in the Irish War of Independence. The IRA sees the previous conflict as a guerrilla war which accomplished some of its aims, with some remaining \"unfinished business\".\n\nA process called \"Criminalisation\" was begun in the mid-1970s as part of a British strategy of \"Criminalisation, Ulsterisation, and Normalisation\". The policy was outlined in a 1975 British strategy paper titled \"The Way Ahead\", which was not published but was referred to by Labour's first Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Merlyn Rees, and came to be the dominant British political theme in the conflict as it raged into the 1980s.\n\nAnother categorisation avoids the terms \"guerrilla\" or \"terrorist\" but does view the conflict in military terms. The phrase originated with the British military strategist Frank Kitson who was active in Northern Ireland during the early 1970s. In Kitson's view, the violence of the IRA represented an \"insurrection\", with the enveloping atmosphere of belligerence representing a \"low intensity conflict\" – a conflict where the forces involved in fighting operate at a greatly reduced tempo, with fewer combatants, at a reduced range of tactical equipment and limited scope to operate in a military manner.\n\nMembership of the IRA remains illegal in both the UK and the Republic of Ireland, but IRA prisoners convicted of offences committed before 1998 have been granted conditional early release as part of the Good Friday Agreement. In the United Kingdom a person convicted of membership of a \"proscribed organisation\", such as the IRA, still nominally faces imprisonment for up to 10 years.\n\nIt is unclear how many people joined the IRA during the troubles, however in the early to mid-1970s, the numbers recruited by the IRA may have reached several thousand. Official membership reduction coincided with the adoption by the IRA in 1979 of a 'cell structure' in an attempt to counter security force penetration through the use of informers. In addition to members in Ireland the IRA also had one or two 'active service units' in Britain and mainland Europe.\n\nAn RUC report of 1986 estimated that the IRA had 300 or so members in Active Service Units and up to 750 active members in total in Northern Ireland. This does not take into consideration the IRA units in the Republic of Ireland or those in Britain, continental Europe, and throughout the world. In 2005, the then Irish Minister for Justice, Equality and Law Reform, Michael McDowell told the Dáil that the organisation had \"between 1,000 and 1,500\" active members.\n\nAccording to the book \"The Provisional IRA\" (by Eamon Mallie and Patrick Bishop), roughly 8,000 people passed through the ranks of the IRA in the first 20 years of its existence, many of them leaving after arrest, \"retirement\" or disillusionment. In later years, the IRA's strength has been somewhat weakened by members leaving the organisation to join hardline splinter groups such as the Continuity IRA and the Real IRA. According to former Irish Minister for Justice Michael McDowell, these organisations have little more than 150 members each.\n\nAccording to Sinn Féin MLA Gerry Kelly speaking in an interview with Rowan Hand in October 2013 he said about 30,000 members passed through the ranks of the IRA between 1969 and 1997 with most leaving after a short period of time.\n\nPopular support for the IRA's campaign in the Troubles is hard to gauge, given that Sinn Féin, the IRA's political wing, did not stand in elections until the early 1980s. Most nationalists in Northern Ireland voted for the moderate Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) until 2001. After the 1981 hunger strike, Sinn Féin mobilised large electoral support and won 105,000 votes, or 43% of the nationalist vote in Northern Ireland, in the 1983 UK general election, only 34,000 votes behind the SDLP. However, by the 1992 general election, the SDLP won 184,445 votes and four seats to Sinn Féin's 78,291 votes and no seats. In the 1993 Local District Council Elections in Northern Ireland, the SDLP won 136,760 votes to Sinn Féin's 77,600 votes.\n\nFew Protestant voters voted for Sinn Féin. In 1992, many of them voted for SDLP West Belfast candidate Joe Hendron rather than a unionist candidate to make sure Gerry Adams of Sinn Féin lost his seat in the constituency.\nThe IRA enjoyed some popular support in the Republic of Ireland in the early 1970s. However, the movement's appeal was hurt badly by bombings such as the killing of civilians attending a Remembrance Day ceremony at the cenotaph in Enniskillen in 1987 (Remembrance Day bombing), and the death of two children when a bomb exploded in Warrington, which led to tens of thousands of people demonstrating on O'Connell Street in Dublin to call for an end to the IRA's campaign. In the 1987 Irish General Election, they won only 1.7% of the votes cast. They did not make significant electoral gains in the Republic until after the IRA ceasefires and the Good Friday Agreement of 1998. By the 2011 Irish general election Sinn Féin's proportion of the popular vote had reached 9.9 percent.\n\nSinn Féin now has 29 members of the Northern Ireland Assembly (out of 108), 7 Westminster MPs (out of 18 from Northern Ireland) and 23 Republic of Ireland TDs (out of 166).\n\nThe IRA have had contacts with foreign governments and other illegal armed organisations.\n\nLibya had been the biggest single supplier of arms and funds to the IRA, donating large amounts: three shipments of arms in the early 1970s and another three in the mid-1980s, the latter reputedly enough to arm two regular infantry battalions.\n\nThe IRA has also received weapons and logistical support from Irish Americans in the United States. Apart from the Libyan aid, this has been the main source of overseas IRA support. American support has been weakened by the \"War on Terror\", and the fallout from the events of 11 September 2001.\n\nIn the United States in November 1982, five men were acquitted of smuggling arms to the IRA after they claimed the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had approved the shipment, although the CIA denied this. There are allegations of contact with the East German Stasi, based on the testimony of a Soviet defector to British intelligence Vasili Mitrokhin. Mitrokhin revealed that although the Soviet KGB gave some weapons to the Marxist Official IRA, it had little sympathy with the Provisionals.\nThere was tight contact between the IRA and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and specifically the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) starting from the mid-1970s which included the intensive training of IRA volunteers. In 1977, the Provisionals received a 'sizeable' arms shipment from the PLO, including arms, rocket launchers and explosives, but this was intercepted at Antwerp after the Israeli intelligence alerted its European counterparts. Afterwards, they declined on the grounds that it was impossible to smuggle arms out of the Levant region without alerting Israeli intelligence. Tim Pat Coogan wrote that assistance from the PLO has dried up in the late-1980s after the PLO had forged stronger links with the government of the Republic of Ireland.\n\nIt has been alleged that the IRA had a co-operative relationship with Basque militant group ETA since the early 1970s. In 1973 it was accused of providing explosives for the assassination of Luis Carrero Blanco in Madrid. In the 1970s, ETA also exchanged a quantity of handguns for training in explosives with the IRA. In addition, the leaders of the political wings of the respective Irish republican and Basque separatist movements have exchanged visits on several occasions to express solidarity with each other's cause. Prominent former IRA prisoners such as Brendan McFarlane and Brendan Hughes have campaigned for the release of ETA prisoners. In the mid-1990s after the IRA ceasefire, Basque media outlets followed the process carefully, sending a team to follow the families of those killed on Bloody Sunday as they campaigned for apology.\n\nIn May 1996, the Federal Security Service (FSB), Russia's internal security service, publicly accused Estonia of arms smuggling, and claimed that the IRA had contacted representatives of Estonia's volunteer defence force, Kaitseliit, and some non-government groups to buy weapons. In 2001, three Irish men, who later became known as the Colombia Three, were arrested after allegedly training Colombian guerrillas, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), in bomb making and urban warfare techniques. The US House of Representatives Committee on International Relations in its report of 24 April 2002 concluded \"Neither committee investigators nor the Colombians can find credible explanations for the increased, more sophisticated capacity for these specific terror tactics now being employed by the FARC, other than IRA training\".\n\nIn December 2013 the report of the Smithwick Tribunal concluded that \"on the balance of probability\" collusion took place between the IRA and members of the Garda Síochána in the 1989 killing of two RUC officers; however, the report could not conclusively prove this.\n\nThroughout the Troubles, some members of the IRA passed information to the security forces. Members of the IRA suspected of being informants were usually killed. In the 1980s, many more IRA members were imprisoned on the testimony of former IRA members known as \"supergrasses\" such as Raymond Gilmour. A Belfast newspaper has claimed that secret documents show that half of the IRA's top men were also British informers.\n\nThere have been some high-profile allegations of senior IRA figures having been British informers. In May 2003, a number of newspapers named Freddie Scappaticci as the alleged identity of the British Force Research Unit's most senior informer within the IRA, code-named \"Stakeknife\", who is thought to have been head of the IRA's internal security force, charged with rooting out and executing informers. Scappaticci denies that this is the case and, in 2003, failed in a legal bid to force the then NIO Minister, Jane Kennedy, to state he was not an informer. She has refused to do so, and since then Scappaticci has not launched any libel actions against the media making the allegations.\n\nOn 16 December 2005, senior Sinn Féin member Denis Donaldson appeared before TV cameras in Dublin and confessed to being a British spy for twenty years. He was expelled from Sinn Féin and was said to have been debriefed by the party. Donaldson was a former IRA volunteer and subsequently highly placed Sinn Féin party member. Donaldson had been entrusted by Gerry Adams with the running of Sinn Féin's operations in the US in the early 1990s. On 4 April 2006, Donaldson was found shot dead at his retreat near Glenties in County Donegal. When asked whether he felt Donaldson's role as an informer in Sinn Féin was significant, the IRA double agent using the pseudonym \"Kevin Fulton\" described Donaldson's role as a spy within Sinn Féin as \"the tip of the iceberg\". The Real IRA claimed responsibility for his assassination on 12 April 2009.\n\nOn 8 February 2008, Roy McShane was taken into police protection after being unmasked as an informant. McShane, a former IRA member, had been Gerry Adams' personal driver for many years. Adams said he was \"too philosophical\" to feel betrayed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10812093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10812093", "title": "Public consultation", "text": "Public consultation\n\nPublic consultation, or simply consultation, is a regulatory process by which the public's input on matters affecting them is sought. Its main goals are in improving the efficiency, transparency and public involvement in large-scale projects or laws and policies. It usually involves \"notification\" (to publicise the matter to be consulted on), \"consultation\" (a two-way flow of information and opinion exchange) as well as \"participation\" (involving interest groups in the drafting of policy or legislation). A frequently used tool for understanding different levels of community participation in consultation is known as Arnstein's ladder.\n\nThe process is typical of Commonwealth countries such as the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand or Australia, though most democratic countries have similar systems. In the United States, for example, this process is called \"public notice and comment\" (see Rulemaking). Some organisations such as the OECD also use such processes. In Canada, the word \"consultation\" has a special meaning among some First Nations Groups: \"it is the duty of the Crown and third parties to consult with First Nations who have asserted, but not proved, aboriginal rights or title.\"\n\nThere is great variation of public consultations. In some countries there is a list of all consultations, or consultations are mentioned in normal news feed. Depending on the country there can be national or regional public consultations.\n\nIneffective consultations are considered to be cosmetic consultations that were done due to obligation or show and not true participatory decision making.\n\n\nAustralian consultations\n\nCanadian consultations\n\nNew Zealand consultations\nUnited Kingdom consultations\n\nUSA / Federal level\n\nEuropean Commission / European Union level\n"}
{"id": "11294229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11294229", "title": "Rachid Mesli", "text": "Rachid Mesli\n\nRachid Mesli is a French Algerian human rights lawyer and activist, now living in Geneva and acting as the Director of the Legal Department of Alkarama (Human rights organisation based in Geneva).\n\nIn 1991, he became part of the defense lawyer team defending the case of the arrested leaders of the Islamic Salvation Front, Abbassi Madani and Ali Belhadj. On 31 July 1996, he was abducted at gunpoint from his car by four assailants who turned out to be members of the security forces. He was then detained secretly for over a week, repeatedly beaten and threatened with death, and eventually charged with belonging to a terrorist group. In July 1997, he was acquitted of this charge and instead convicted of having \"encouraged terrorism\", a charge that had not been brought against him in the trial and against which he had no opportunity to defend himself. Amnesty International said the trial had \"clearly violated international standards for fair trial\". In December 1998, his conviction was quashed by the Supreme Court; he was kept in prison while awaiting retrial, contrary to Algerian law. In June 1999, he was found guilty of belonging to a terrorist group and sentenced to three years' imprisonment. He was released in July 1999, one and a half weeks before his sentence was to end, as part of a presidential pardon. In 2000, fearing for his and his family's safety, he left the country to live in Geneva.\n\nSince moving to Geneva, he has continued his human rights activism. In 2001, he co-founded Justitia Universalis, a non-governmental organisation dedicated to fighting impunity. In the same year, he submitted the cases of Abbassi Madani and Ali Belhadj, the detained leaders of the banned Islamic Salvation Front, to the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention in Geneva, which ruled that both were being detained arbitrarily, since their 1992 trial had failed to comply with international standards. This verdict greatly displeased the Algerian government, which subsequently charged Rachid Mesli with belonging to an \"armed terrorist group\" operating abroad, issuing an unenforceable arrest warrant. According to Amnesty International, several Algerians (Tahar Facouli, Brahim Ladada, and Abdelkrim Khider) have been arrested and tortured mainly for being in contact with him. In 2007, he co-founded Rachad, an organisation dedicated to overthrowing the Algerian government through mass nonviolent resistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "26316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26316", "title": "Racial segregation", "text": "Racial segregation\n\nRacial segregation is the separation of people into racial or other ethnic groups in daily life. It may apply to activities such as eating in a restaurant, drinking from a water fountain, using a public toilet, attending school, going to the movies, riding on a bus, or in the rental or purchase of a home or of hotel rooms. Segregation is defined by the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance as \"the act by which a (natural or legal) person separates other persons on the basis of one of the enumerated grounds without an objective and reasonable justification, in conformity with the proposed definition of discrimination. As a result, the voluntary act of separating oneself from other people on the basis of one of the enumerated grounds does not constitute segregation\". According to the UN Forum on Minority Issues, \"The creation and development of classes and schools providing education in minority languages should not be considered impermissible segregation, if the assignment to such classes and schools is of a voluntary nature\".\n\nRacial segregation is generally outlawed, but may exist \"de facto\" through social norms, even when there is no strong individual preference for it, as suggested by Thomas Schelling's models of segregation and subsequent work. Segregation may be maintained by means ranging from discrimination in hiring and in the rental and sale of housing to certain races to vigilante violence (such as lynchings). Generally, a situation that arises when members of different races mutually prefer to associate and do business with members of their own race would usually be described as \"separation\" or \"de facto separation\" of the races rather than \"segregation\". In the United States, segregation was mandated by law in some states and came with anti-miscegenation laws (prohibitions against interracial marriage). Segregation, however, often allowed close contact in hierarchical situations, such as allowing a person of one race to work as a servant for a member of another race. Segregation can involve spatial separation of the races, and mandatory use of different institutions, such as schools and hospitals by people of different races.\n\nWherever there have been multiracial communities, there has been racial segregation. Only areas with extensive miscegenation, or mixing, such as Hawaii and Brazil, despite some social stratification, seem to be exempt.\n\nFollowing its conquest of Ottoman controlled Algeria in 1830, for well over a century France maintained colonial rule in the territory which has been described as \"quasi-apartheid\". The colonial law of 1865 allowed Arab and Berber Algerians to apply for French citizenship only if they abandoned their Muslim identity; Azzedine Haddour argues that this established \"the formal structures of a political apartheid\". Camille Bonora-Waisman writes that, \"[i]n contrast with the Moroccan and Tunisian protectorates\", this \"colonial apartheid society\" was unique to Algeria.\n\nThis \"internal system of apartheid\" met with considerable resistance from the Muslims affected by it, and is cited as one of the causes of the 1954 insurrection and ensuing independence war.\n\nIn fifteenth-century north-east Germany, people of Wendish, i.e. Slavic, origin were not allowed to join some guilds. According to Wilhelm Raabe, \"down into the eighteenth century no German guild accepted a Wend.\"\n\nGerman praise for America's institutional racism, previously found in Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\", was continuous throughout the early 1930s, and radical Nazi lawyers were advocates of the use of American models. Race based U.S. citizenship laws and anti-miscegenation laws directly inspired the two principal Nuremberg Laws—the Citizenship Law and the Blood Law. The ban on interracial marriage (anti-miscegenation) prohibited sexual relations and marriages between people classified as \"Aryan\" and \"non-Aryan.\" Such relationships were called \"Rassenschande\" (race defilement). At first the laws were aimed primarily at Jews but were later extended to \"Gypsies, Negroes and their bastard offspring\". Aryans found guilty could face incarceration in a concentration camp, while non-Aryans could face the death penalty. To preserve the so-called purity of the German blood, after the war began, the Nazis extended the race defilement law to include all foreigners (non-Germans).\n\nUnder the General Government of occupied Poland in 1940, the Nazis divided the population into different groups, each with different rights, food rations, allowed housing strips in the cities, public transportation, etc. In an effort to split Polish identity they attempted to establish ethnic divisions of Kashubians and Gorals (Goralenvolk), based on these groups' alleged \"Germanic component.\"\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s, Jews in Nazi-controlled states were made to wear yellow ribbons or stars of David, and were, along with Romas (Gypsies), discriminated against by the racial laws. Jewish doctors were not allowed to treat Aryan patients nor were Jewish professors permitted to teach Aryan pupils. In addition, Jews were not allowed to use any public transportation, besides the ferry, and were able to shop only from 3–5 pm in Jewish stores. After \"Kristallnacht\" (\"The Night of Broken Glass\"), the Jews were fined 1,000,000 marks for damages done by the Nazi troops and SS members.\n\nJews and Roma were subjected to genocide as \"undesirable\" racial groups in the Holocaust. The Nazis established ghettos to confine Jews and sometimes Romas into tightly packed areas of the cities of Eastern Europe, turning them into \"de facto\" concentration camps. The Warsaw Ghetto was the largest of these ghettos, with 400,000 people. The Łódź Ghetto was the second largest, holding about 160,000.\n\nBetween 1939 and 1945, at least 1.5 million Polish citizens were transported to the Reich for forced labour (in all, about 12 million forced laborers were employed in the German war economy inside Nazi Germany). Although Nazi Germany also used forced laborers from Western Europe, Poles, along with other Eastern Europeans viewed as racially inferior, were subject to deeper discriminatory measures. They were forced to wear a yellow with purple border and letter \"P\" (for Polen/Polish) cloth identifying tag sewn to their clothing, subjected to a curfew, and banned from public transportation.\n\nWhile the treatment of factory workers or farm hands often varied depending on the individual employer, Polish laborers as a rule were compelled to work longer hours for lower wages than Western Europeans – in many cities, they were forced to live in segregated barracks behind barbed wire. Social relations with Germans outside work were forbidden, and sexual relations (\"Rassenschande\" or \"racial defilement\") were punishable by death.\n\nSeveral laws enforcing racial segregation of foreigners from Chinese were passed by the Han chinese during the Tang dynasty. In 779 the Tang dynasty issued an edict which forced Uighurs to wear their ethnic dress, stopped them from marrying Chinese females, and banned them from pretending to be Chinese. Chinese disliked Uighurs because they practiced usury. The magistrate who issued the orders may have wanted to protect \"purity\" in Chinese custom. In 836, when Lu Chun was appointed as governor of Canton, he was disgusted to find Chinese living with foreigners and intermarriage between Chinese and foreigners. Lu enforced separation, banning interracial marriages, and made it illegal for foreigners to own property. Lu Chun believed his principles were just and upright. The 836 law specifically banned Chinese from forming relationships with \"Dark peoples\" or \"People of colour\", which was used to describe foreigners, such as \"Iranians, Sogdians, Arabs, Indians, Malays, Sumatrans\", among others.\n\nThe Qing Dynasty was founded not by the Han Chinese who form the majority of the Chinese population, but the Manchus, who are today an ethnic minority of China. The Manchus were keenly aware of their minority status, however, it was only later in the dynasty that they banned intermarriage.\n\nHan defectors played a massive role in the Qing conquest of China. Han Chinese Generals who defected to the Manchu were often given women from the Imperial Aisin Gioro family in marriage while the ordinary soldiers who defected were given non-royal Manchu women as wives. The Manchu leader Nurhaci married one of his granddaughters to the Ming General Li Yongfang after he surrendered Fushun in Liaoning to the Manchu in 1618. Jurchen (Manchu) women married most the Han Chinese defectors in Liaodong. Aisin Gioro women were married to the sons of the Han Chinese Generals Sun Sike (Sun Ssu-k'o), Geng Jimao (Keng Chi-mao), Shang Kexi (Shang K'o-hsi), and Wu Sangui (Wu San-kuei).\n\nA mass marriage of Han Chinese officers and officials to Manchu women numbering 1,000 couples was arranged by Prince Yoto and Hongtaiji in 1632 to promote harmony between the two ethnic groups.\n\nGeng Zhongming, a Han bannerman, was awarded the title of Prince Jingnan, and his son Geng Jingmao managed to have both his sons Geng Jingzhong and Geng Zhaozhong become court attendants under Shunzhi and get married to Aisin Gioro women, with Haoge's (a son of Hong Taiji) daughter marrying Geng Jingzhong and Prince Abatai's (Hong Taiji) granddaughter marrying Geng Zhaozhong.\n\nThe Qing differentiated between Han Bannermen and ordinary Han civilians. Han Bannermen were made out of Han Chinese who defected to the Qing up to 1644 and joined the Eight Banners, giving them social and legal privileges in addition to being acculturated to Manchu culture. So many Han defected to the Qing and swelled up the ranks of the Eight Banners that ethnic Manchus became a minority within the Banners, making up only 16% in 1648, with Han Bannermen dominating at 75%. It was this multi-ethnic force in which Manchus were only a minority, which conquered China for the Qing.\n\nIt was Han Chinese Bannermen who were responsible for the successful Qing conquest of China, they made up the majority of governors in the early Qing and were the ones who governed and administered China after the conquest, stabilizing Qing rule. Han Bannermen dominated the post of governor-general in the time of the Shunzhi and Kangxi Emperors, and also the post of governors, largely excluding ordinary Han civilians from the posts.\n\nTo promote ethnic harmony, a 1648 decree from the Manchu Shunzhi Emperor allowed Han Chinese civilian men to marry Manchu women from the Banners with the permission of the Board of Revenue if they were registered daughters of officials or commoners or the permission of their banner company captain if they were unregistered commoners, it was only later in the dynasty that these policies allowing intermarriage were done away with.\n\nThe Qing implemented a policy of segregation between the Bannermen of the Eight Banners (Manchu Bannermen, Mongol Bannermen, Han Bannermen) and Han Chinese civilians. This ethnic segregation had cultural and economic reasons: intermarriage was forbidden to keep up the Manchu heritage and minimize sinicization. Han Chinese civilians and Mongol civilians were banned from settling in Manchuria. Han civilians and Mongol civilians were banned from crossing into each other's lands. Ordinary Mongol civilians in Inner Mongolia were banned from even crossing into other Mongol Banners. (A banner in Inner Mongolia was an administrative division and not related to the Mongol Bannermen in the Eight Banners)\n\nThese restrictions did not apply Han Bannermen, who were settled in Manchuria by the Qing. Han bannermen were differentiated from Han civilians by the Qing and treated differently.\n\nThe Qing Dynasty started colonizing Manchuria with Han Chinese later on in the dynasty's rule, but the Manchu area was still separated from modern-day Inner Mongolia by the Outer Willow Palisade, which kept the Manchu and the Mongols in the area separate.\n\nThe policy of segregation applied directly to the banner garrisons, most of which occupied a separate walled zone within the cities in which they were stationed. Manchu Bannermen, Han Bannermen, and Mongol Bannermen were separated from the Han civilian population. While the Manchus followed the governmental structure of the preceding Ming dynasty, their ethnic policy dictated that appointments were split between Manchu noblemen and Han Chinese civilian officials who had passed the highest levels of the state examinations, and because of the small number of Manchus, this insured that a large fraction of them would be government officials.\n\nIn 1938, the fascist regime led by Benito Mussolini, under pressure from the Nazis, introduced a series of Italian Racial Laws instituting an official segregationist policy in the Italian Empire, especially aimed against Jews. This policy enforced various segregationist norms, like the prohibition for Jews to teach or study in ordinary schools and universities, to own industries reputed of major national interest, to work as journalists, to enter the military, and to wed non-Jews.\nSome of the immediate consequences of the introduction of the 'provvedimenti per la difesa della razza' (norms for the defence of the race) included many of the best Italian scientists leaving their job, or even Italy. Amongst these, world-renowned physicists Emilio Segrè, Enrico Fermi (whose wife was Jewish), Bruno Pontecorvo, Bruno Rossi, Tullio Levi-Civita, mathematicians Federigo Enriques and Guido Fubini and even the fascist propaganda director, art critic and journalist Margherita Sarfatti, who was one of Mussolini's mistresses. Rita Levi-Montalcini, who would successively win the Nobel Prize for Medicine, was forbidden to work at the university. Albert Einstein, upon approval of the racial law, resigned from honorary membership of the Accademia dei Lincei.\n\nAfter 1943, when Northern Italy was occupied by the Nazis, Italian Jews were rounded up for the Holocaust.\n\nJews in Europe generally were forced, by decree or by informal pressure, to live in highly segregated ghettos and shtetls. In 1204 the papacy required Jews to segregate themselves from Christians and to wear distinctive clothing. Forced segregation of Jews spread throughout Europe during the 14th and 15th centuries. In the Russian Empire, Jews were restricted to the so-called Pale of Settlement, the Western frontier of the Russian Empire corresponding roughly to the modern-day countries of Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine. By the early 20th century, the majority of European Jews lived in the Pale of Settlement.\n\nJewish population were confined to mellahs in Morocco beginning from the 15th century. In cities, a \"mellah\" was surrounded by a wall with a fortified gateway. In contrast, rural \"mellahs\" were separate villages inhabited solely by the Jews.\n\nIn the middle of the 19th century, J. J. Benjamin wrote about the life of Persian Jews:\nSpanish colonists created caste systems in Latin American countries based on classification by race and race mixture. An extensive nomenclature developed, including the familiar terms \"mulatto\", \"mestizo\", and \"zambo\" (the latter the origin of \"sambo\"). The Spanish had practiced a form of caste system in Hispania before their expulsion of the Jews and Muslims. While many Latin American countries have long since rendered the system officially illegal through legislation, usually at the time of independence, prejudice based on degrees of perceived racial distance from European ancestry combined with one's socioeconomic status remain, an echo of the colonial caste system.\n\nOn 16 May 1940 the \"Administrasjonsrådet\" asked Rikskommisariatet why radio receivers had been confiscated from Jews in Norway. That \"Administrasjonsrådet\" thereafter \"quietly\" accepted racial segregation between Norwegian citizens, has been claimed by Tor Bomann-Larsen. Furthermore, he claimed that this segregation \"created a precedent. 2 years later (with \"NS-styret\" in the ministries of Norway) Norwegian police arrested citizens at the addresses where radios had previously been confiscated from Jews.\n\nFollowing a dispute over the terms for the granting of full independence, the British self-governing colony of Rhodesia, governed by a predominantly white minority government, unilaterally declared independence in 1965. Led by Prime Minister Ian Smith, it endured as an unrecognized state under white rule for the next 14 years, with majority rule coming in 1979 with the Internal Settlement between Smith's government and moderate black nationalists, the associated multiracial elections and the reconstitution of the country as Zimbabwe Rhodesia, with Bishop Abel Muzorewa at the helm of a coalition cabinet comprising 12 blacks and five whites. This new order also failed to win legitimacy in the eyes of the world, and British control returned to the country in December 1979, following the Lancaster House Agreement. New elections were held in 1980, and Zimbabwe gained recognized independence in April 1980, with Robert Mugabe as prime minister.\n\nLaws enforcing segregation had been around before 1965, although many institutions simply ignored them. One highly publicized legal battle occurred in 1960 involving the opening of a new theatre that was to be open to all races; the proposed unsegregated public toilets at the newly built Reps Theatre in 1959 caused an argument called \"The Battle of the Toilets\".\n\nThe apartheid system carried out by Afrikaner minority rule enacted a nationwide social policy \"separate development\" with the National Party victory in 1948, following the \"colour bar\"-discriminatory legislation dating back to the beginning of the Union of South Africa and the Boer republics before which, while repressive to black South Africans along with other minorities, had not gone nearly so far.\n\nApartheid laws can be generally divided into following acts. Firstly, the Population Registration Act in 1950 classified residents in South Africa into four racial groups: \"black\", \"white\", \"Coloured\", and \"Indian\" and noted their racial identities on their identifications. Secondly, the Group Areas Act in 1950 assigned different regions according to different races. People were forced to live in their corresponding regions and the action of passing the boundaries without a permit was made illegal, extending pass laws that had already curtailed black movement. Thirdly, under the Reservation of Separate Amenities Act in 1953, amenities in public areas, like hospitals, universities and parks, were labeled separately according to particular races. In addition, the Bantu Education Act in 1953 segregated national education in South Africa as well. Additionally, the government of the time enforced the pass laws, which deprived black South Africans of their right to travel freely within their own country. Under this system black people were severely restricted from urban areas, requiring authorisation from a white employer to enter.\n\nUprisings and protests against apartheid appeared immediately when apartheid arose. As early as 1949, the youth wing of the African National Congress (ANC) advocated the ending of apartheid and suggested fighting against racial segregation by various methods. During the following decades, hundreds of anti-apartheid actions occurred, including those of the Black Consciousness Movement, students' protests, labor strikes, and church group activism etc. In 1991, the Abolition of Racially Based Land Measures Act was passed, repealing laws enforcing racial segregation, including the Group Areas Act. In 1994, Nelson Mandela won in the first multiracial democratic election in South Africa. His success fulfilled the ending of apartheid in South African history.\n\nAfter Jim Crow laws were passed that segregated African Americans and Whites, the lives of those who were negatively affected saw no progress in their quest for equality. Racial segregation was not a new phenomenon, as almost four million blacks had been slaves before the Civil War. The laws passed segregated African Americans from Whites. Signs were used to show non whites where they could legally walk, talk, drink, rest, or eat. For those places that were racially mixed, blacks had to wait until all White customers were dealt with. Rules were also enforced that restricted African Americans from entering white stores. Segregated facilities extended from white only schools to white only graveyards. \n\nAfter the Thirteenth Amendment abolished slavery in America, racial discrimination became regulated by the so-called Jim Crow laws, which mandated strict segregation of the races. Though many such laws were instituted shortly after fighting ended, they only became formalized after the 1877 end of the Reconstruction period. The period that followed is known as the nadir of American race relations. The legislation (or in some states, such as Florida, the state constitutions) that mandated segregation lasted at least until Brown v. Board of Education (1954). \n\nWhile the U.S. Supreme Court majority in the 1896 \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" case explicitly permitted \"separate but equal\" facilities (specifically, transportation facilities), Justice John Marshall Harlan, in his dissent, protested that the decision was an expression of white supremacy; he predicted that segregation would \"stimulate aggressions … upon the admitted rights of colored citizens,\" \"arouse race hate,\" and \"perpetuate a feeling of distrust between [the] races. Feelings between whites and blacks were so tense, even the jails were segregated.\"\nElected in 1912, President Woodrow Wilson ordered segregration throughout the federal government. In World War I, blacks served in the United States Armed Forces in segregated units. Black soldiers were often poorly trained and equipped, and were often put on the frontlines in suicide missions. The U.S. military was still heavily segregated in World War II. The air force and the marines had no blacks enlisted in their ranks. There were blacks in the Navy Seabees. The army had only five African-American officers. In addition, no African-American would receive the Medal of Honor during the war, and their tasks in the war were largely reserved to noncombat units. Black soldiers had to sometimes give up their seats in trains to the Nazi prisoners of war. \nAmerican sports were racially segregated until the mid-twentieth century. In baseball, the \"Negro leagues\" were established by Rube Foster for non-white players, such as Negro league baseball, which ran through the early 1950s. In basketball, the Black Fives (all-black teams) were established in 1904, and emerged in New York City, Washington, D.C., Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, and other cities. Racial segregation in basketball lasted until 1950, when the NBA became racially integrated. On September 11, 1964, John Lennon announced The Beatles would not play to a segregated audience in Jacksonville, Florida. City officials relented following this announcement. A contract for a 1965 Beatles concert at the Cow Palace in California specifies that the band \"not be required to perform in front of a segregated audience\".\n\nIn the reception to honor his Olympic success Jesse Owens was not permitted to enter through the main doors of the Waldorf Astoria New York and instead forced to travel up to the event in a freight elevator. The first black Oscar recipient Hattie McDaniel was not permitted to attend the premiere of \"Gone with the Wind\" with Georgia being racially segregated, and at the Oscars ceremony in Los Angeles she was required to sit at a segregated table at the far wall of the room; the hotel had a no-blacks policy, but allowed McDaniel in as a favor.\n\nMany U.S. states banned interracial marriage. While opposed to slavery in the U.S, in a speech in Charleston, Illinois in 1858, Abraham Lincoln stated, \"I am not, nor ever have been in favor of bringing about in any way the social and political equality of the white and black races, that I am not, nor ever have been in favor of making voters or jurors of negroes, nor of qualifying them to hold office, nor to intermarry with white people. I as much as any man am in favor of the superior position assigned to the white race\". In 1967, Mildred Loving, a black woman, and Richard Loving, a white man, were sentenced to a year in prison in Virginia for marrying each other. Their marriage violated the state's anti-miscegenation statute, the Racial Integrity Act of 1924, which prohibited marriage between people classified as white and people classified as \"colored\" (persons of non-white ancestry). In the \"Loving v. Virginia\" case in 1967, the Supreme Court invalidated laws prohibiting interracial marriage in the U.S.\n\nInstitutionalized racial segregation was ended as an official practice during the civil rights movement by the efforts of such civil rights activists as Clarence M. Mitchell Jr., Rosa Parks, and Martin Luther King Jr., working for social and political freedom during the period from the end of World War II through the passage of the Civil Rights Act in 1964 and the Voting Rights Act in 1965 supported by President Lyndon B. Johnson. Many of their efforts were acts of non-violent civil disobedience aimed at disrupting the enforcement of racial segregation rules and laws, such as refusing to give up a seat in the black part of the bus to a white person (Rosa Parks), or holding sit-ins at all-white diners.\n\nBy 1968 all forms of segregation had been declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, and by 1970 support for formal legal segregation had dissolved. \"Brown v. Board of Education\" of Topeka, Kansas in 1954 outlawed segregation in public schools. The Fair Housing Act of 1968, administered and enforced by the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, prohibited discrimination in the sale and rental of housing on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, and disability. Formal racial discrimination became illegal in school systems, businesses, the American military, other civil services and the government.\n\nOn 28 April 2007, the lower house of Bahraini Parliament passed a law banning unmarried migrant workers from living in residential areas. To justify the law MP Nasser Fadhala, a close ally of the government said \"bachelors also use these houses to make alcohol, run prostitute rings or to rape children and housemaids\".\n\nSadiq Rahma, technical committee head, who is a member of Al Wefaq said: \"The rules we are drawing up are designed to protect the rights of both the families and the Asian bachelors (..) these labourers often have habits which are difficult for families living nearby to tolerate (..) they come out of their homes half dressed, brew alcohol illegally in their homes, use prostitutes and make the neighbourhood dirty (..) these are poor people who often live in groups of 50 or more, crammed into one house or apartment,\" said Mr Rahma. \"The rules also state that there must be at least one bathroom for every five people (..) there have also been cases in which young children have been sexually molested.\"\n\nBahrain Centre for Human Rights issued a press release condemning this decision as discriminatory and promoting negative racist attitudes towards migrant workers. Nabeel Rajab, then BCHR vice president, said: \"It is appalling that Bahrain is willing to rest on the benefits of these people's hard work, and often their suffering, but that they refuse to live with them in equality and dignity. The solution is not to force migrant workers into ghettos, but to urge companies to improve living conditions for workers – and not to accommodate large numbers of workers in inadequate space, and to improve the standard of living for them.\"\n\nSince the 1970s, there has been a concern expressed by some academics that major Canadian cities are becoming more segregated on income and ethnic lines. Reports have indicated that the inner suburbs of post-merger Toronto and the southern bedroom communities of Greater Vancouver have become steadily more immigrant and visible minority dominated communities and have lagged behind other neighbourhoods in average income. A CBC panel in Vancouver in 2012 discussed the growing public fear that the proliferation of ethnic enclaves in Greater Vancouver (such as Han Chinese in Richmond and Punjabis in Surrey) amounted to a type of self-segregation. In response to these fears, many minority activists have pointed out that most Canadian neighbourhoods remain predominately White, and yet Whites are never accused of \"self-segregation\".\n\nThe Mohawk tribe of Kahnawake has been criticized for evicting non-Mohawks from the Mohawk reserve. Mohawks who marry outside of their tribal nation lose their right to live in their homelands. The Mohawk government claims that its policy of nationally exclusive membership is for the preservation of its identity, but there is no exemption for those who adopt Mohawk language or culture. The policy is based on a 1981 moratorium which was made law in 1984. All interracial couples are sent eviction notices regardless of how long they have lived on the reserve. The only exemption is for mixed national couples married before the 1981 moratorium.\n\nAlthough some concerned Mohawk citizens contested the nationally exclusive membership policy, the Canadian Human Rights Tribunal ruled that the Mohawk government may adopt policies it deems necessary to ensure the survival of its people.\n\nA long-standing practice of national segregation has also been imposed upon the commercial salmon fishery in British Columbia since 1992 when separate commercial fisheries were created for select aboriginal groups on three B.C. river systems. Canadians of other nations who fish in the separate fisheries have been arrested, jailed and prosecuted. Although the fishermen who were prosecuted were successful at trial (see the decision in R. v. Kapp), the decision was overturned on appeal. On final appeal, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in favour of the program on the grounds that segregation of this workplace is a step towards equality in Canada. Affirmative action programs in Canada are protected from equality rights challenges by s. 15(2) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Segregation continues today, but more than 35%of the fishermen in the BC commercial fishery are of aboriginal ancestry, yet Canadians of aboriginal ancestry comprise less than 4% of BC's population.\n\nTwo military coups in Fiji in 1987 removed a democratically elected government led by an Indo Fijian. The coup was supported principally by the ethnic Fijian population. A new constitution was promulgated in 1990, establishing Fiji as a republic, with the offices of President, Prime Minister, two-thirds of the Senate, and a clear majority of the House of Representatives reserved for ethnic Fijians; ethnic Fijian ownership of the land was also entrenched in the constitution. Most of these provisions were ended with the promulgation of the 1997 Constitution, although the President, and 14 of the 32 Senators were still selected by the all-indigenous Great Council of Chiefs. The last of these distinctions were removed by the 2013 Constitution.\n\nFiji's case is a situation of de facto ethnic segregation. Fiji has a long complex history with more than 3500 years as a divided tribal nation. Unification under the British rule as a colony for 96 years brought other racial groups, particularly immigrants from the Indian subcontinent.\n\nIsraeli Declaration of Independence proclaims equal rights to all citizens regardless of ethnicity, denomination or race. Israel has a substantial list of laws that demand racial equality (such as prohibition of discrimination, equality in Employment, libel based on race or ethnicity.). There is however, in practice, significant institutional, legal, and societal discrimination against the country's Arab citizens.\n\nIn 2010, the Israeli supreme court sent a message against racial segregation in a case involving the Slonim Hassidic sect of the Ashkenazi Jews, ruling that segregation between Ashkenazi and Sephardi students in a school is illegal. They argue that they seek \"to maintain an equal level of religiosity, not from racism.\" Responding to the charges, the Slonim Haredim invited Sephardi girls to school, and added in a statement: \"All along, we said it's not about race, but the High Court went out against our rabbis, and therefore we went to prison.\"\n\nDue to many cultural differences, and animosity towards a minority perceived to wish to annihilate Israel, a system of passively co-existing communities, segregated along ethnic lines has emerged in Israel, with Arab-Israeli minority communities being left \"marooned outside the mainstream\". This de facto segregation also exists between different Jewish ethnic groups (\"edot\") such as Sepharadim, Ashkenazim and Beta Israel (Jews of Ethiopian descent), which leads to de facto segregated schools, housing and public policy. The government has embarked on a program to shut down such schools, in order to force integration, but some in the Ethiopian community complained that not all such schools have been closed. In a 2007 poll commissioned by the Center Against Racism and conducted by the GeoCartographia Institute, 75% of Israeli Jews would not agree to live in a building with Arab residents, 60% would not accept any Arab visitors at their homes, 40% believed that Arabs should be stripped of their right to vote, and 59% believe that the culture of Arabs is primitive. In 2012, a public opinion poll showed that 53% of the polled Israeli Jews said they would not object to an Arab living in their building, while 42% said they would. Asked whether they would object to Arab children being in their child's class in school, 49% said they would not, 42% said they would. The secular Israeli public was found to be the most tolerant, while the religious and Haredi respondents were the most discriminatory.\n\nThe end of British colonial rule in Kenya in 1964 led to an inadvertent increase in ethnic segregation. Through private purchases and government schemes, farm land previously held by European farmers was transferred to African owners. These farms were further sub-divided into smaller localities, and, due to joint migration, many adjacent localities were occupied by members of different ethnic groups. This separation along these boundaries persists today. Kimuli Kasara, in a study of recent ethnic violence in the wake of the disputed 2007/2008 Kenyan elections, used these post-colonial boundaries as an instrument for the degree of ethnic segregation. Through a 2 Stage Least Squares Regression analysis, Kasara showed that increased ethnic segregation in Kenya's Rift Valley Province is associated with an increase in ethnic violence.\n\nLiberian Constitution limits Liberian nationality to Negro people (see also Liberian nationality law).\n\nFor example, Lebanese and Indian nationals are active in trading, as well as in the retail and service sectors. Europeans and Americans work in the mining and agricultural sectors. These minority groups have long tenured residence in the Republic, but many are precluded from becoming citizens as a result of their race.\n\nMalaysia has an article in its constitution which distinguishes the ethnic Malays and indigenous peoples of Malaysia—i.e. bumiputra—from the non-Bumiputra such as ethnic Chinese and Indians under the social contract, of which by law would guarantee the former certain special rights and privileges. To question these rights and privileges however is strictly prohibited under the Internal Security Act, legalised by the 10th Article(IV) of the Constitution of Malaysia. The privileges mentioned herein covers—few of which—the economical and education aspects of Malaysians, e.g. the Malaysian New Economic Policy; an economic policy recently criticised by Thierry Rommel—who headed a European Commission's delegation to Malaysia—as an excuse for \"significant protectionism\" and a quota maintaining higher access of Malays into public universities.\n\nWhile legal racial segregation in daily life is not practiced, self-segregation does exist.\n\nSlavery in Mauritania was finally criminalized in August 2007. It was already abolished in 1980 though it was still affecting the black Africans. The number of slaves in the country was not known exactly, but it was estimated to be up to 600,000 men, women and children, or 20% of the population.\n\nFor centuries, the so-called Haratin lower class, mostly poor black Africans living in rural areas, have been considered natural slaves by white Moors of Arab/Berber ancestry. Many descendants of the Arab and Berber tribes today still adhere to the supremacist ideology of their ancestors. This ideology has led to oppression, discrimination and even enslavement of other groups in the region of Sudan and Western Sahara. \n\nThe United Kingdom has no legally sanctioned system of racial segregation and has a substantial list of laws that demand racial equality. However, due to many cultural differences between the pre-existing system of passively co-existing communities, segregation along racial lines has emerged in parts of the United Kingdom, with minority communities being left \"marooned outside the mainstream\".\n\nThe affected and 'ghettoised' communities are often largely representative of Pakistanis, Indians and other Sub-Continentals, and has been thought to be the basis of ethnic tensions, and a deterioration of the standard of living and levels of education and employment among ethnic minorities in poorer areas. These factors are considered by some to have been a cause of the 2001 race riots in Bradford, Oldham and Burnley in the north of England which have large Asian communities.\n\nThere may be some indication that such segregation, particularly in residential terms, seems to be the result of the unilateral 'steering' of ethnic groups into particular areas as well as a culture of vendor discrimination and distrust of ethnic minority clients by some estate agents and other property professionals. This may be indicative of a market preference amongst the more wealthy to reside in areas of less ethnic mixture; less ethnic mixture being perceived as increasing the value and desirability of a residential area. This is likely as other theories such as \"ethnic self segregation\" have sometimes been shown to be baseless, and a majority of ethnic respondents to a few surveys on the matter have been in favour of wider social and residential integration.\n\nDe facto segregation in the United States has increased since the civil rights movement. The Supreme Court ruled in Milliken v. Bradley (1974) that de facto racial segregation was acceptable, as long as schools were not actively making policies for racial exclusion; since then, schools have been segregated due to myriad indirect factors.\n\nRedlining is the practice of denying or increasing the cost of services, such as banking, insurance, access to jobs, access to health care, or even supermarkets to residents in certain, often racially determined, areas. The most devastating form of redlining, and the most common use of the term, refers to mortgage discrimination. Over the next twenty years, a succession of further court decisions and federal laws, including the \"Home Mortgage Disclosure Act\" and measure to end mortgage discrimination in 1975, would completely invalidate \"de jure\" racial segregation and discrimination in the U.S., although \"de facto\" segregation and discrimination have proven more resilient. According to the Civil Rights Project at Harvard University, the actual de facto desegregation of U.S. public schools peaked in the late 1980s; since that time, the schools have, in fact, become more segregated mainly due to the ethnic segregation of the nation with whites dominating the suburbs and minorities the urban centers. According to Rajiv Sethi, an economist at Columbia University, black-white segregation in housing is slowly declining for most metropolitan areas in the US. Racial segregation or separation can lead to social, economic and political tensions. Thirty years (the year 2000) after the civil rights era, the United States remained in many areas a residentially segregated society, in which blacks, whites and Hispanics inhabit different neighborhoods of vastly different quality.\n\nDan Immergluck writes that in 2002 small businesses in black neighborhoods still received fewer loans, even after accounting for businesses density, businesses size, industrial mix, neighborhood income, and the credit quality of local businesses. Gregory D. Squires wrote in 2003 that it is clear that race has long affected and continues to affect the policies and practices of the insurance industry. Workers living in American inner cities have a harder time finding jobs than suburban workers.\n\nThe desire of many whites to avoid having their children attend integrated schools has been a factor in white flight to the suburbs. A 2007 study in San Francisco showed that groups of homeowners of all races tended to self-segregate in order to be with people of the same education level and race. By 1990, the legal barriers enforcing segregation had been mostly replaced by decentralized racism, where whites pay more than blacks to live in predominantly white areas. Today, many whites are willing to pay a premium to live in a predominantly white neighborhood. Equivalent housing in white areas commands a higher rent. These higher rents are largely attributable to exclusionary zoning policies that restrict the supply of housing. Regulations ensure that all housing units are expensive enough to prevent access by undesirable groups. By bidding up the price of housing, many white neighborhoods effectively shut out blacks, because blacks are unwilling, or unable, to pay the premium to buy entry into these expensive neighborhoods. Conversely, equivalent housing in black neighborhoods is far more affordable to those who are unable or unwilling to pay a premium to live in white neighborhoods. Through the 1990s, residential segregation remained at its extreme and has been called \"hypersegregation\" by some sociologists or \"American Apartheid\".\n\nIn February 2005, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"Johnson v. California\" that the California Department of Corrections' unwritten practice of racially segregating prisoners in its prison reception centers—which California claimed was for inmate safety (gangs in California, as throughout the U.S., usually organize on racial lines)—is to be subject to strict scrutiny, the highest level of constitutional review.\n\nIn Yemen, the Arab elite practices a form of discrimination against the lower class Akhdam people based on their racial system.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5151535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5151535", "title": "Secrecy of correspondence", "text": "Secrecy of correspondence\n\nThe secrecy of correspondence (, ) or literally translated as secrecy of letters, is a fundamental legal principle enshrined in the constitutions of several European countries. It guarantees that the content of sealed letters is never revealed and letters in transit are not opened by government officials or any other third party. It is thus the main legal basis for the assumption of privacy of correspondence.\n\nThe principle has been naturally extended to other forms of communication, including telephony and electronic communications on the Internet as the constitutional guarantees are generally thought to cover also these forms of communication. However, national telecommunications privacy laws may allow lawful interception, i.e. wiretapping and monitoring of electronic communications in cases of suspicion of crime. Paper letters have in most jurisdictions remained outside the legal scope of law enforcement surveillance, even in cases of \"reasonable searches and seizures\".\n\nWhen applied to electronic communication, the principle protects not only the content of the communication, but also the information on when and to whom any messages (if any) have been sent (see: Call detail records), and in the case of mobile communication, the location information of the mobile units. As a consequence, in jurisdictions with a safeguard on secrecy of letters, location data collected from mobile phone networks has a higher level of protection than data collected by vehicle telematics or transport tickets.\n\nIn the United States there is no specific constitutional guarantee on the privacy of correspondence. The secrecy of letters and correspondence is derived through litigation from the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution. In an 1877 case the U.S. Supreme Court stated:\nNo law of Congress can place in the hands of officials connected with the Postal Service any authority to invade the secrecy of letters and such sealed packages in the mail; and all regulations adopted as to mail matter of this kind must be in subordination to the great principle embodied in the fourth amendment of the Constitution.\n\nThe protection of the Fourth Amendment has been extended beyond the home in other instances. A protection similar to that of correspondence has even been argued to extend to the contents of trash cans outside one's house, although unsuccessfully. Like all rights derived through litigation, the secrecy of correspondence is subject to interpretations. By Supreme Court precedent, rights derived from the Fourth Amendment are limited by the legal test of a \"reasonable expectation of privacy\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4510663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4510663", "title": "Special Frontier Force", "text": "Special Frontier Force\n\nThe Special Frontier Force (SFF) is a paramilitary special force of India created on 14 November 1962. Its main goal originally was to conduct covert operations behind Chinese lines in the event of another Sino-Indian War.\n\nThe SFF is also known as 'Establishment 22' or just '22' due to its first Inspector General, Major General Sujan Singh Uban (Retd.) of Indian Army, who used to be commander of 22 Mountain Regiment during World War II, a Military Cross holder and a legendary figure in the British India Army. Singh commanded the 22nd Mountain Regiment during World War II in Europe and a Long Range Desert Group Squadron (LRDS) in North Africa.\n\nBased in Chakrata, Uttarakhand, the force was put under the direct supervision of the Intelligence Bureau, and later, the Research and Analysis Wing, India's external intelligence agency.\n\nEthnic Tibetans have been a part and parcel of the modern Indian Army for as long as it has existed. Independent formations of Tibetan (including Ladakhi, Bön, and Sikkimese) units were to patrol and police the lands they were native to. During the time of the Great Game, the British Indian Army began to employ Tibetans as spies, intelligence agents, and even covert militia in northern India and Tibet proper.\n\nAt the time of Indian independence, the Northern Mountain covered region of India remained the most isolated and strategically overlooked territory of the subcontinent. During the 1950s, the American Central Intelligence Agency and the Indian Intelligence Bureau established Mustang Base in Mustang in Nepal, which trained Tibetans in guerilla warfare. The Mustang rebels brought the 14th Dalai Lama to India during the 1959 Tibetan Rebellion.\n\nAfter the Sino-Indian war and towards the end of 1962, after hectic lobbying by Intelligence Bureau (IB), the Nehru government ordered the raising of an elite commando unit and specialised mountain divisions primarily composed of Tibetan resistance fighters. Chushi Gangdruk leaders were contacted for recruitment of Khampas into this new unit. An initial strength of 5000 men, mostly Khampas were recruited at its new Mountain Training Facility at Chakrata, Dehradun.\n\nThe SFF made its home base at Chakrata, 100 km from the city of Dehra Dun. Chakrata was home to the large Tibetan refugee population and was a mountain town in the foothills of the Himalayas. Starting with a force of 12,000 men, the SFF commenced six months of training in rock climbing and guerrilla warfare. The Intelligence agencies from India and the US also helped in raising the force; namely CIA & RAW. The SFF's weapons were all provided by the US and consisted mainly of M-1, M-2 and M-3 machine guns. Heavy weapons were not provided.\n\nEstablished under the direct supervision of the Prime Minister and on the advice of Bhola Nath Mullik, the then director of the Intelligence Bureau of India and Biju Patnaik, a World War II veteran and the then chief minister of Odisha, the unit under the operational command of IB and later R&AW, was designated the Special Frontier Force (SFF), and was primarily used for conducting clandestine intelligence gathering and commando operations along the Chinese Theatre. Initial training was conducted by the CIA paramilitary officers and the IB's own special operations unit. In 1968 SFF, with the help of the Aviation Research Centre which provided airlift facilities, became fully airborne-qualified and a dedicated mountain and jungle warfare unit.\n\nDuring this period, the Indian government also formed the Ladakh Scouts and the Nubra Guards paramilitary force on similar lines. Many SFF members are Gorkha Rifles members due to their bodies being able to perform much better in high altitudes against others. SFF was later incorporated in the Special Services Bureau (SSB) of R&AW. By late 1963, inter-service rivalry led to severe criticism by the Indian Army. To prove that the SFF's worth, the Inspector General sent 120 men from the SFF for a field exercise, codenamed Garuda, with the Army. The exercise proved to be a dramatic success for the SFF and the Army was now less inclined to criticise the force. In 1964, the SFF led by the Inspector General, began its airborne training at Agra. The SFF then began its own airborne training program at Sarsawa airbase near Saharanpur. By the late 1960s, the SFF was organised into six battalions for administrative purposes. Each battalion, consisting of six companies, was commanded by Tibetan who had a rank equivalent to a lieutenant colonel in the Army. A Tibetan major or captain commanded each company, which was the primary unit used in operations. Females also participated in the force and they were in the signal and medical companies. During this time, the SFF was never used against its intended enemy, China. However, the unit did conduct limited cross-border reconnaissance operations, as well as highly classified raids to place sensors in the Himalayas to detect Chinese nuclear and missile tests.\n\nSFF was raised with covert operations in mind, mainly along the Indo-China border, however SFF has been fielded by R&AW and the Indian government in various covert and overt operation theatres.\n\nIn 1964 intelligence reports kept indicating that China was preparing to test a nuclear bomb at its Lop Nor nuclear installation in Xinjiang. On 16 October 1964 China tested a nuclear weapon in Xinjiang. It was expected but not enough details were known. Later in November 1964, the CIA launched a U2 flight out of Aviation Research Centre (ARC)'s Charbatia Air Base in Orissa, but its return turned out to be a bit of a mishap. The U2 overshot the runway and got stuck in slushy ground caused by heavy rain in the monsoons. Following the normalization of Sino-Indian Relations after Deng Xiaoping's market reform the SFF ceased most of their operations within the PRC.\n\nGetting it unstuck and out of India without being noticed by the Indian press, then even much more subject to leftist influences and hence antagonistic to the USA, was another clandestine operation. This gave all concerned quite a scare and it was decided to rely on other technical means. So CIA decided to launch an ELINT operation along with R&AW and ARC to track China's nuclear tests and monitor its missile launches.\n\nThe operation, in the garb of a mountaineering expedition to Nanda Devi involved celebrated Indian climber M S Kohli who along with operatives of Special Frontier Force and CIA (most notably Jim Rhyne, a veteran STOL pilot), was to place a permanent ELINT device, a transceiver powered by a plutonium battery, that could detect and report data on future nuclear tests carried out by China. The plan to install a snooping device was hatched far away in Washington D.C., in the offices of the National Geographic Society. Barry Bishop, a photographer with the magazine, interested Gen. Curtis LeMay of the US Air Force in the idea.\n\nThe actual efforts called for to place a permanent electronic intelligence (ELINT) device powered by a nuclear SNAP 19C power pack fuel cell. The first attempt to place this device on the Nanda Devi, by a Kohli-led SFF team under the cover of a mountaineering expedition failed as the team had to retreat in the face of adverse conditions and left the device in a small unmarked mountain cave after having hauled the device to just short of the 25,645 feet peak. When another Kohli-led expedition returned the following year to recover the device, it was found to be missing.\n\nIn the meantime the Chinese not only kept testing nuclear weapons at regular intervals but also ballistic missiles. The urgency to gather information was never greater. Another mission was launched in 1967 to place a similar device on the Nanda Kot. This mission was successful but a couple of years later another problem cropped up; snow would pile up over the antenna and render it blind. So Kohli and a SFF team were sent once again to bring it down, this time they retrieved it successfully.\n\nIn October 1967 the Chinese began testing an ICBM capable of reaching targets 6000 miles away. There was renewed urgency to find out more. So SFF mountaineers went off on one more mission in December 1969 to successfully place a gas powered device on an undisclosed mountain supposedly in Chinese controlled areas. But by the following year, the US had the first generation of the TRW spy satellites in place and did not have to rely on the old ELINT devices.\n\nSFF was extremely successful against Pakistan during the Indo-Pakistan Military Conflict of 1971. Elements of the force were sent to Mizoram in late November 1971. A strong Task Force was deployed and conducted pre-emptive strike operations in support of the Indian army formations along the Chittagong Hill Tracts.\n\n1971 saw the SFF being used in major combat in the Indo-Pak war. Elements of the force were sent to Mizoram in late October. By November 1971, around 3000 SFF members were deployed next to the Chittagong Hill Tracts. With cross-border attacks becoming more frequent, the SFF was then ordered to attack the Chittagong Hill Tracts. For this operation, code-named 'Eagle', the SFF members were given Bulgarian AK-47s and US carbines. This operation saw the first Dapon, Tibetan equivalent of a Brigadier, to command part of the SFF task force.\n\nWith war right around the corner, the SFF was given several mission plans, including the destruction of the Kaptai Dam and other bridges. The Inspector General urged that the SFF be used to capture Chittagong, but this was found not favourable, since SFF members did not have artillery or airlift support to conduct a mission of that magnitude. After three weeks of border fighting, the SFF divided its six battalions into three columns and moved into East Pakistan on 3 December 1971. After capturing several villages in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, the Tibetans were given mortars and recoilless rifles and also two Indian Air Force Mi-4 helicopters.\n\nWith the Pakistani Lt. General A.A.K. Niazi surrendering on 16 December, the SFF had lost 56 men and nearly 190 wounded. The SFF was able to block a potential escape route for East Pakistani forces into Burma. They also halted members of Pakistan's 97 Independent Brigade and 2 Commando Battalion in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. For their bravery and courage in battle, 580 SFF members were awarded cash prizes by the Indian Govt. In 1973, the original Inspector General of the SFF was replaced and in 1975 a new rule pertaining to the SFF was issued. This prohibited the SFF from being deployed within 10 km of the Indo-Chinese border. This came about after several incidents in which SFF commandos had crossed the border and conducted unsanctioned cross-border operations.\n\nThey trained the Bangladeshi underground unit, Mujib Bahini for their secret missions. For the Bangladeshi campaign, designated \"Operation Mountain Eagle\", the SFF members were issued Bulgarian AK-47's and US carbines. SFF conducted several mission, including the destruction of the Kaptai Dam and other bridges.\n\nSFF was used in combating communal riots in mid 1970s. During the Operation Blue Star in 1984 the force was used to clear up Akal Takht of the Golden Temple. It was also used briefly for VIP security in late 1984 around the Prime Minister following the assassination of Indira Gandhi. Later this role fell upon the Special Protection Group.\n\nIn 1975 a new rule pertaining to the SFF was issued, this prohibited the SFF from being deployed to within 10 km of the Indo-Chinese border unless under explicit instructions. This came about after several incidents in which SFF was found to be conducting unsanctioned cross-border raids and intelligence operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "53271040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53271040", "title": "Stand Up For Europe", "text": "Stand Up For Europe\n\nStand Up for Europe is a pan-European citizens' movement that campaigns for a more democratic and federal Europe.\n\nStand Up For Europe was launched at the 6th European Federalist Convention in Brussels on 3 December 2016, through the integration of three eurofederalist movements: Stand up for the United States of Europe, the European Federalist Party, and United States of Europe Now. It was one of several new pro-European civil movements that sprang up in response to the anti-European outcome of the Brexit referendum and the election of Donald Trump as U.S. President.\n\nOn 6 May 2017, Stand Up For Europe was one of the co-sponsors of a day-long debate in Brussels, led by the European Committee of the Regions's chair Markku Markkula, on the future of the European Union, and how to advance European integration.\n\nStand Up For Europe is set up as a nonprofit organisation (\"Association sans but lucratif\", ASBL) under Belgian law. Richard Laub, Georgios Kostakos, Olivier Boruchowitch, and Pietro De Matteis are listed as its founders. The organisation has the following bodies: (i) General Meeting, (ii) Executive Board, (iii) Group of Advisors, (iv) Dispute Committee, (v) Auditor, and (vi) Ombudsman. The General Meeting is convened at least once per calendar year between November and February. It appoints the members of the Executive Board by simple majority vote for a renewable period of one year. Among others, the Board comprises the following positions, which are filled by the following persons:\n\nAs an urban civil movement, Stand Up For Europe's activities are organised around 20 \"city teams\" and seven university groups (February 2017). It participates in pro-European rallies in various cities with like-minded groups, to help the process of Europeanisation in people's minds and actions.\nStand Up For Europe aims for greater European integration, more direct democracy, and more solidarity.\n\nFurthermore, Stand Up For Europe seeks to merge or cooperate with other similar organisations, such as Volt Europa, Pulse of Europe, Young European Federalists and the New Europeans.\n\n"}
{"id": "27885725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27885725", "title": "Tertiary Institutions Service Centre", "text": "Tertiary Institutions Service Centre\n\nTertiary Institutions Service Centre (TISC) is an incorporated administrative agency involved with the processing of applications for admission to undergraduate programmes for Western Australian state universities.\n\nThe agency was established in 1975 by the four public universities in Western Australia; Curtin University of Technology, Edith Cowan University, Murdoch University and The University of Western Australia.\n\nThe role of TISC is to process university enrollment applications by assessing applicants and ranking eligible applicants in order of merit for each programme following the rules and criteria given by the individual universities. TISC does not approve who will be enrolled into a programme or university but coordinates the process as an intermediary between the applicant and the university. They also relay offers on behalf of participating universities to the applicants.\n\nIt is not a statutory or government body and is funded both by the participating universities and the processing fees charged to applicants.\n\n"}
{"id": "14603175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14603175", "title": "The Great Illusion", "text": "The Great Illusion\n\nThe Great Illusion is a book by Norman Angell, first published in the United Kingdom in 1909 under the title \"Europe's Optical Illusion\" and republished in 1910 and subsequently in various enlarged and revised editions under the title \"The Great Illusion\".\n\nIn \"The Great Illusion\", Angell's primary thesis was, in the words of historian James Joll, that \"the economic cost of war was so great that no one could possibly hope to gain by starting a war the consequences of which would be so disastrous.\" For that reason, a general European war was very unlikely to start, and if it did, it would not last long. He argued that war was economically and socially irrational and that war between industrial countries was futile because conquest did not pay. J. D. B. Miller writes: \"The 'Great Illusion' was that nations gained by armed confrontation, militarism, war, or conquest.\" \n\nAccording to Angell, the economic interdependence between industrial countries would be \"the real guarantor of the good behavior of one state to another\", as it meant that war would be economically harmful to all the countries involved. Moreover, if a conquering power confiscated property in the territory it seized, \"the incentive [of the local population] to produce would be sapped and the conquered area be rendered worthless. Thus, the conquering power had to leave property in the hands of the local population while incurring the costs of conquest and occupation.\"\n\nFurther, the nature of modern capitalism was such that nationalist sentiment did not motivate capitalists, because \"the capitalist has no country, and he knows, if he be of the modern type, that arms and conquests and jugglery with frontiers serve no ends of his, and may very well defeat them.\"\n\nAngell said that arms build-up, for example the naval race between England and Germany that was happening as he wrote the book in the 1900s, was not going to secure peace. Instead, it would lead to increased insecurity and thus ratchet up the likelihood of war. The only viable route to peace would be respect for international law, implemented in a world court, in which issues would be dealt with rationally and peacefully.\n\n\"The Great Illusion\" was a best-selling popular success and was quickly translated into eleven languages, becoming something of a \"cult\", spawning study groups at British universities \"devoted to propagating its dogma.\" The book was taken up by Viscount Esher, a courtier who was charged with remodeling the British Army after the Boer War. Also enamored of the book was Admiral John Fisher, the First Sea Lord, who called it \"heavenly manna\". Historian Niall Ferguson uses the receptiveness to the book of these paragons of the British military and naval establishments as evidence that it was not the pacifist work it superficially seemed to be, but instead a \"Liberal imperialist tract directed at German opinion\", with the aim of discouraging Germany from continuing its bid to become a great naval power, a program which had begun the fierce, and expensive, naval arms race between the United Kingdom and Germany. The fact that Angell was employed as editor of the \"Continental Daily Mail\" by Lord Northcliffe, a press baron whom Ferguson refers to as an \"arch-scaremonger\", is to Ferguson further evidence of a deeper, non-pacifist purpose to the book.\n\nIt is sometimes said that the outbreak of World War I disproved Angell's argument in \"The Great Illusion,\" but Angell had not maintained that a war was impossible, rather that it would be futile. Although some aspects of Angell's argument have dated, his discussion of economic interdependence \"was important and innovative.\"\n\nA new edition of \"The Great Illusion\" was published in 1933; it added \"the theme of collective defence.\" Angell was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1933.\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "35244938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35244938", "title": "Valerie Aurora", "text": "Valerie Aurora\n\nValerie Anita Aurora is a software engineer and feminist activist. She was the co-founder of the Ada Initiative, a non-profit organization that sought to increase women's participation in the free culture movement, open source technology, and open source culture. Aurora is also known within the Linux community for advocating new developments in filesystems in Linux, including ChunkFS and the Union file system. Her birth name was Val Henson, but she changed it shortly before 2009, choosing her middle name after the computer scientist Anita Borg. In 2012, Aurora, and Ada Initiative co-founder Mary Gardiner, were named two of the most influential people in computer security by \"SC Magazine\". In 2013, she won the O'Reilly Open Source Award.\n\nAurora was raised in New Mexico, and was home-schooled. She became involved in computer programming when she attended DEF CON in 1995. She studied computer science and mathematics at the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology.\n\nShe first became involved with file systems when she worked with ZFS in 2002 at Sun Microsystems. She later moved to IBM where she worked in the group of Theodore Ts'o, where they considered extensions to the ext2 and ext3 Linux file systems. While working at Intel, she implemented the ext2 dirty bit and relative atime. Along with Arjan van de Ven, she came up with the idea for ChunkFS, which simplifies file system checks by dividing the file system into independent pieces. She also co-organized the first Linux File Systems Workshop in order to figure out how to spread awareness of and raise funding for file system development. As of 2009, she worked for Red Hat as a file systems developer as well as a part-time science writer and Linux consultant.\n\nAlready an activist for women in open source, she joined Mary Gardiner and members of the Geek Feminism blog to develop anti-harassment policies for conferences after Noirin Shirley was sexually assaulted at ApacheCon 2010. Aurora quit her job as a Linux kernel developer at Red Hat and, with Gardiner, founded the Ada Initiative in February 2011. The organization was named after Ada Lovelace, who worked with Charles Babbage and is considered to be the world's first computer programmer. Two years later, Aurora founded Double Union, a hackerspace for women, with Amelia Greenhall and Liz Henry. The Ada Initiative was shut down in October 2015.\n\nMaintaining a blog since 2007, Aurora has written extensively about coding and the experiences of women in open source. This has included descriptions of DEF CON and the harassment that took place there. In 2013, Aurora provided a comment to \"The Verge\" about the Electronic Frontier Foundation's involvement in the legal defense of Andrew Auernheimer, who was in prison for hacking and had previously harassed Kathy Sierra. Aurora said \"This is another case where they're saying, 'The cases we care about are the ones white men are interested in. We’re less interested in protecting women on the web.'\" This comment was received negatively by the EFF's Director of International Freedom of Expression, Jillian York.\n\nAnother 2013 controversy that received commentary from Aurora was Donglegate in which PyCon attendee Adria Richards faced backlash for reporting a conversation overheard between two men sitting near her. Aurora condemned the threats sent to Richards and stated that Anonymous, by using large numbers of computers, was \"distorting social pressure\". When asked if firing one of the males was an appropriate response, she said \"I don't have enough information to know that.\" Two years later, Aurora praised the gender ratio at PyCon and called Guido van Rossum and the Python community \"the biggest success story for women in open source.\" In the same interview, she approved of the culture of the website Tumblr and stated that Linus Torvalds' daughter Patricia was a positive role-model.\n\n\n\n"}
