{"id": "45517288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45517288", "title": "2004 in Portuguese television", "text": "2004 in Portuguese television\n\nThis is a list of Portuguese television related events from 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50795880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50795880", "title": "Anna Wåhlin", "text": "Anna Wåhlin\n\nAnna Wåhlin is a Swedish researcher on the Antarctic and the polar seas. She is a professor of physical oceanography at the University of Gothenburg and co-chair of the Southern Ocean Observing System (SOOS).\n\nWåhlin was born in 1970 in Gothenburg, Sweden. She completed her undergraduate degree at the University of Gothenburg in the Department of Oceanography and completed her PhD in 2001 from the Department of Earth Sciences. Wåhlin was then a post-doc at the University of Oslo Department of Geophysics from 2003-2006.\n\nWåhlin is a Professor of Physical Oceanography at the Department of Marine Sciences, University of Gothenburg. Her research focus is in the field of Polar Oceanography, mostly in the Southern Ocean. Specifically her research investigates several aspects of dynamics of polar seas including physical oceanography, ocean circulation, topographic effects, ice shelf melt processes and air-sea-ice interaction. When Wåhlin was appointed professor in 2015 she became Sweden's first woman full Professor of Oceanography.\n\nWåhlin is co-chair of the joint Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR) and SCOR initiative Southern Ocean Observing System (SOOS). She is an Associate Editor of the journal, \"Advances in Polar Science\" and was a member of IOW scientific advisory board (2016-2019).\n\nWåhlin's awards include being a Fulbright Scholar (2007-2008), receiving a Crafoord Research Stipend from the Swedish Royal Academy of Science (2010) and being a SCAR visiting professor (2013).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "566272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=566272", "title": "Ashanti–Akim–Akwapim War", "text": "Ashanti–Akim–Akwapim War\n\nThe Ashanti–Akim–Akwapim War, also known as the Ashanti Invasion of the Gold Coast was the expansion of West African Empire of Ashanti against the alliance of Akyem and Akuapem tribes from 1814 until 1816 for access to the coast. This battle was not a direct war on Akyem states which were never subdued by any power but, a war to get access to the coasts in which the Akyem along with Akuapem forces allied for. \n\nIn 1814 the Ashanti, under the leadership of Asantehene Osei Bonsu, defeated the outnumbered Akim-Akwapim alliance. \n\nAfter the war and with access to the coast the Ashanti followed up their victory by pillaging the coastal Ga people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7333728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7333728", "title": "Coats of arms of Estonian Counties", "text": "Coats of arms of Estonian Counties\n\nThe coats of arms of the 15 counties of Estonia are presented below.\n\nSee also: Flags of Estonian counties\n"}
{"id": "5865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5865", "title": "Council of Europe", "text": "Council of Europe\n\nThe Council of Europe (CoE; ) is an international organisation whose stated aim is to uphold human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Europe. Founded in 1949, it has 47 member states, covers approximately 820 million people and operates with an annual budget of approximately half a billion euros.\n\nThe organisation is distinct from the 28-nation European Union (EU), although it is sometimes confused with it, partly because the EU has adopted the original European Flag which was created by the Council of Europe in 1955, as well as the European Anthem. No country has ever joined the EU without first belonging to the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is an official United Nations Observer.\n\nUnlike the EU, the Council of Europe cannot make binding laws, but it does have the power to enforce select international agreements reached by European states on various topics. The best known body of the Council of Europe is the European Court of Human Rights, which enforces the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe Council's two statutory bodies are the Committee of Ministers, comprising the foreign ministers of each member state, and the Parliamentary Assembly, composed of members of the national parliaments of each member state. The Commissioner for Human Rights is an independent institution within the Council of Europe, mandated to promote awareness of and respect for human rights in the member states. The Secretary General heads the secretariat of the organisation. Other major CoE bodies include the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and the European Audiovisual Observatory.\n\nThe headquarters of the Council of Europe are in Strasbourg, France. English and French are its two official languages. The Committee of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Congress also use German, Italian, Russian, and Turkish for some of their work.\n\nBritain's wartime leader Sir Winston Churchill was the first to suggest the creation of \"a Council of Europe\" in a BBC radio broadcast on 21 March 1943, while the second world war was still raging. In his own words, he tried to \"peer through the mists of the future to the end of the war\", once victory had been achieved, and think about how to re-build and maintain peace on a shattered continent. Given that Europe had been at the origin of two world wars, the creation of such a body would be, he suggested, \"a stupendous business\". He returned to the idea during a well-known speech at the University of Zurich on 19 September 1946, throwing the full weight of his considerable post-war prestige behind it.\n\nThe future structure of the Council of Europe was discussed at a specific congress of several hundred leading politicians, government representatives and civil society in The Hague, Netherlands, in 1948. There were two schools of thought competing: some favoured a classical international organisation with representatives of governments, while others preferred a political forum with parliamentarians. Both approaches were finally combined through the creation of a Committee of Ministers (in which governments were represented) and a Consultative Assembly (in which parliaments were represented), the two main bodies mentioned in the Statute of the Council of Europe. This dual intergovernmental and inter-parliamentary structure was later copied for the European Communities, North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe.\n\nThe Council of Europe was founded on 5 May 1949 by the Treaty of London. The Statute was signed in London on that day by ten states: Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Three months later, on 10 August 1949, 100 members of the Council's Consultative Assembly, parliamentarians drawn from twelve nations (Turkey and Greece had by then joined the original ten founding members), met in Strasbourg for its first plenary session, held over 18 sittings and lasting nearly a month. They debated how to reconcile and reconstruct a continent still reeling from war, yet already facing a new East-West divide, launched the concept of a trans-national court to protect the basic human rights of every European citizen, and took the first steps towards what would in time become the European Union. \nIn August 1949, Paul-Henri Spaak of Belgium was elected president of the first session of the its assembly. Spaak helped develop a network of intergovernmental contacts in many fields, such as human rights, local government, education, culture, sports, and youth policy. However, the organization only played an advisory role, and was not nearly strong enough to achieve Spaak's long-term goals of European unification.\n\nIn 2018 an archive of all speeches made to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe by heads of state or government since the Council of Europe's creation in 1949 appeared online, the fruit of a two-year project entitled \"Voices of Europe\". At the time of its launch, the archive comprised 263 speeches delivered over a 70-year period by some 216 Presidents, Prime Ministers, monarchs and religious leaders from 45 countries - though it continues to expand, as new speeches are added every few months. \n\nSome very early speeches by individuals considered to be \"founding fathers\" of the European institutions, even if they were not heads of state or government at the time, are also included (such as Sir Winston Churchill or Robert Schuman). Addresses by eight monarchs appear in the list (such as King Juan Carlos I of Spain, King Albert II of Belgium and Grand Duke Henri of Luxembourg) as well as the speeches given by religious figures (such as Pope John Paul II) and several leaders from countries in the Middle East and North Africa (such as Shimon Peres, Yasser Arafat, Hosni Mubarak, Léopold Sédar Senghor or King Hussein of Jordan). \n\nThe full text of the speeches is given in both English and French, regardless of the original language used. The archive is searchable by country, by name, and chronologically.\n\nArticle 1(a) of the Statute states that \"The aim of the Council of Europe is to achieve a greater unity between its members for the purpose of safeguarding and realising the ideals and principles which are their common heritage and facilitating their economic and social progress.\" Membership is open to all European states who seek harmony, cooperation, good governance and human rights, accepting the principle of the rule of law and are able and willing to guarantee democracy, fundamental human rights and freedoms.\n\nWhile the member states of the European Union transfer part of their national legislative and executive powers to the European Commission and the European Parliament, Council of Europe member states maintain their sovereignty but commit themselves through conventions/treaties (international law) and co-operate on the basis of common values and common political decisions. Those conventions and decisions are developed by the member states working together at the Council of Europe. Both organisations function as concentric circles around the common foundations for European co-operation and harmony, with the Council of Europe being the geographically wider circle. The European Union could be seen as the smaller circle with a much higher level of integration through the transfer of powers from the national to the EU level. \"The Council of Europe and the European Union: different roles, shared values.\" Council of Europe conventions/treaties are also open for signature to non-member states, thus facilitating equal co-operation with countries outside Europe.\n\nThe Council of Europe's most famous achievement is the European Convention on Human Rights, which was adopted in 1950 following a report by the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, and followed on from the United Nations 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights' (UDHR). The Convention created the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The Court supervises compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights and thus functions as the highest European court. It is to this court that Europeans can bring cases if they believe that a member country has violated their fundamental rights and freedoms.\n\nThe various activities and achievements of the Council of Europe can be found in detail on its official website. The Council of Europe works in the following areas:\n\n\nThe institutions of the Council of Europe are:\n\n\n\nThe CoE system also includes a number of semi-autonomous structures known as \"Partial Agreements\", some of which are also open to non-member states:\n\n\nThe seat of the Council of Europe is in Strasbourg, France. First meetings were held in Strasbourg's University Palace in 1949, but the Council of Europe soon moved into its own buildings. The Council of Europe's eight main buildings are situated in the \"Quartier européen\", an area in the northeast of Strasbourg spread over the three districts of Le Wacken, La Robertsau and Quartier de l'Orangerie, where are also located the four buildings of the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, the Arte headquarters and the seat of the International Institute of Human Rights.\n\nBuilding in the area started in 1949 with the predecessor of the Palais de l'Europe, the House of Europe (demolished in 1977), and came to a provisional end in 2007 with the opening of the New General Office Building, later named \"Agora\", in 2008. The Palais de l'Europe (Palace of Europe) and the Art Nouveau Villa Schutzenberger (seat of the European Audiovisual Observatory) are in the Orangerie district, and the European Court of Human Rights, the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and the Agora Building are in the Robertsau district. The Agora building has been voted \"best international business center real estate project of 2007\" on 13 March 2008, at the MIPIM 2008. The European Youth Centre is located in the Wacken district.\n\nBesides its headquarters in Strasbourg, the Council of Europe is also present in other cities and countries. The Council of Europe Development Bank has its seat in Paris, the North-South Centre of the Council of Europe is established in Lisbon, Portugal, and the Centre for Modern Languages is in Graz, Austria. There are European Youth Centres in Budapest, Hungary, and in Strasbourg. The European Wergeland Centre, a new Resource Centre on education for intercultural dialogue, human rights and democratic citizenship, operated in cooperation with the Norwegian Government, opened in Oslo, Norway, in February 2009.\n\nThe Council of Europe has offices in Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Moldova, Montenegro, Serbia, and Ukraine; information offices in Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Republic of Macedonia, and Ukraine; and a projects office in Turkey. All these offices are establishments of the Council of Europe and they share its juridical personality with privileges and immunities.\n\nDue to persistent budgetary shortages, the Council of Europe is expected to cut down significantly the number of its activities, and thus the number of its employees, from 2011 on. This will notably affect the economy of the city of Strasbourg, where a total of 2,321 people (on 1 January 2010) are doing salaried work for the CoE. Most offices in foreign countries are expected to be closed as well.\n\nThe Council of Europe was founded on 5 May 1949 by Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Greece and Turkey joined three months later, and Iceland and West Germany the next year. It now has 47 member states, with Montenegro being the latest to join.\n\nArticle 4 of the Council of Europe Statute specifies that membership is open to any \"European\" State. This has been interpreted liberally from the beginning, when Turkey was admitted, to include transcontinental states (such as Georgia and Azerbaijan) and states that are geographically Asian but socio-politically European (such as Armenia and Cyprus).\n\nNearly all European states have acceded to the Council of Europe, with the exceptions of Belarus (human rights concerns), Kazakhstan (human rights concerns), and the Vatican City (a theocracy), as well as some of the territories with limited recognition.\n\nBesides the status as a full member, the Council of Europe has established other instruments for cooperation and participation of non-member states: observer, applicant, special guest, and partner for democracy.\n\nThe Council of Europe works mainly through conventions. By drafting conventions or international treaties, common legal standards are set for its member states. However, several conventions have also been opened for signature to non-member states. Important examples are the Convention on Cybercrime (signed for example, by Canada, Japan, South Africa and the United States), the Lisbon Recognition Convention on the recognition of study periods and degrees (signed for example, by Australia, Belarus, Canada, the Holy See, Israel, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, New Zealand and the United States), the Anti-doping Convention (signed, for example, by Australia, Belarus, Canada and Tunisia) and the Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats (signed for example, by Burkina Faso, Morocco, Tunisia and Senegal as well as the European Community). Non-member states also participate in several partial agreements, such as the Venice Commission, the Group of States Against Corruption (GRECO), the European Pharmacopoeia Commission and the North-South Centre.\n\nInvitations to sign and ratify relevant conventions of the Council of Europe on a case-by-case basis are sent to three groups of non-member entities:\n\nThe Council of Europe is not to be confused with the Council of the European Union (the \"Council of Ministers\") or the European Council. These belong to the European Union, which is separate from the Council of Europe, although they have shared the same European flag and anthem since the 1980s because they both work for European integration. The Council of Europe is not to be confused with the European Union itself.\n\nThe Council of Europe is an entirely separate body from the European Union. It is not controlled by it.\n\nCooperation between the European Union and the Council of Europe has recently been reinforced, notably on culture and education as well as on the international enforcement of justice and Human Rights.\n\nThe European Union is expected to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights (the Convention). There are also concerns about consistency in case law – the European Court of Justice (the EU's court in Luxembourg) is treating the Convention as part of the legal system of all EU member states in order to prevent conflict between its judgements and those of the European Court of Human Rights (the court in Strasbourg interpreting the Convention). Protocol No. 14 of the Convention is designed to allow the EU to accede to it and the EU Treaty of Lisbon contains a protocol binding the EU to join. The EU would thus be subject to its human rights law and external monitoring as its member states currently are.\n\nThe beginning of co-operation between the CoE and the UN started with the agreement signed by the Secretariats of these institutions on 15 December 1951. On 17 October 1989, the General Assembly of the United Nations approved a resolution on granting observer status to the Council of Europe which was proposed by several member states of the CoE. Currently Council of Europe holds observer status with the United Nations and is regularly represented in the UN General Assembly. It has organised the regional UN conferences against racism and on women and co-operates with the United Nations at many levels, in particular in the areas of human rights, minorities, migration and counter-terrorism. In November 2016, the UN General Assembly adopted by consensus Resolution (A/Res/71/17) on Cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe whereby it acknowledged the contribution of Council of Europe to the protection and strengthening of human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, welcomed the ongoing co-operation in a variety of fields.\n\nNon-governmental organisations (NGOs) can participate in the INGOs Conference of the Council of Europe and become observers to inter-governmental committees of experts. The Council of Europe drafted the European Convention on the Recognition of the Legal Personality of International Non-Governmental Organisations in 1986, which sets the legal basis for the existence and work of NGOs in Europe. Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights protects the right to freedom of association, which is also a fundamental norm for NGOs. The rules for Consultative Status for INGOs appended to the resolution (93)38 \"On relation between the Council of Europe and non-governmental organisations\", adopted by the Committee of Ministers on 18 October 1993 at the 500th meeting of the Ministers' Deputies.\nOn 19 November 2003 the Committee of Ministers changed the consultative status into a participatory status, \"considering that it is indispensable that the rules governing the relations between the Council of Europe and NGOs evolve to reflect the active participation of international non-governmental organisations (INGOs) in the Organisation's policy and work programme\".\n\nOn 30 May 2018, the Council of Europe signed a Memorandum of understanding with the European football confederation UEFA.\n\nThe Council of Europe also signed an agreement with FIFA in which the two agreed to strengthen future cooperation in areas of common interests. The deal which included cooperation between member states in the sport of football and safety and security at football matches, was finalized in October 2018. \n\nThe General Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe grants the organisation certain privileges and immunities.\n\nThe working conditions of staff are governed by the Council's staff regulations, which are public. Salaries and emoluments paid by the Council of Europe to its officials are tax-exempt on the basis of Article 18 of the General Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe.\n\nThe Council of Europe created, and has since 1955 used as its official symbol, the European Flag with 12 golden stars arranged in a circle on a blue background.\n\nIts musical anthem since 1972, the \"European Anthem\", is based on the \"Ode to Joy\" theme from Ludwig van Beethoven's Ninth symphony.\n\nOn 5 May 1964, the 15th anniversary of its founding, the Council of Europe established 5 May as Europe Day.\n\nThe wide private and public use of the European Flag is encouraged to symbolise a European dimension. To avoid confusion with the European Union which subsequently adopted the same flag in the 1980s, as well as other European institutions, the Council of Europe often uses a modified version with a lower-case \"e\" surrounding the stars which is referred to as the \"Council of Europe Logo\".\n\nIn recent years, the Council of Europe has been criticised for doing too little to stand up to the transgressions of some of its members. In 2013 \"The Economist\" agreed, saying that the \"Council of Europe's credibility is on the line\". Both Human Rights Watch and the European Stability Initiative have called on the Council of Europe to undertake concrete actions to show that it is willing and able to return to its \"original mission to protect and ensure human rights\".\n\nIssues have been raised regarding Azerbaijan's relationship to the Council of Europe, including allegations that Azerbaijan has, over a sustained period, provided bribes to Council members to vote down criticism of the authoritarian rule of the Aliyev regime and support motions advantageous to Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan joined the Council of Europe in 2001. Since September 2014 Human Rights Watch, said that Azerbaijan's \"systematic crackdown on human rights defenders and other perceived government critics shows sheer contempt for its commitments to the Council of Europe\". In 2017 Council member and Italian politician Luca Volontè was accused by Italian prosecutors of receiving over 2.3 million euros in bribes in exchange for working for Azerbaijan in the parliamentary assembly, and that in 2013 he played a key role in orchestrating the defeat of a highly critical report on the abuse of political prisoners in Azerbaijan. The money was paid to Volontè in monthly installments of 100,000 euros, starting in 2013, via four anonymous offshore companies. The payments stopped in 2014 when Volontè's bank reported them as suspicious transactions to the Milan prosecutor's office. Arif Mammadov, former head of the Azerbaijan representation at the Council of Europe, has stated that Azerbaijan's delegation at the Council had 25 million dollars available to \"bribe members of the delegations and Pace generally\".\n\nSince 2014, Russia's voting rights have been suspended by the Council due to Moscow's annexation of Crimea from Ukraine. In response, Russia has started to withhold its annual membership dues in the amount of 33 million euros, placing the institution under financial strain. Russia claims that its suspension by the Council is unfair and demands the restoration of voting rights. European Council secretary-general Thorbjørn Jagland organized a special committee to find a compromise with Russia in early 2018, a move that has been criticized as giving in to Russian pressure by Council members and academic observers, especially if voting sanctions were lifted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33431370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33431370", "title": "Dacian fortress of Sprâncenata", "text": "Dacian fortress of Sprâncenata\n\nIt was a Dacian fortified town.\n\n"}
{"id": "1558354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558354", "title": "Demographics of Europe", "text": "Demographics of Europe\n\nFigures for the population of Europe vary according to how one defines the boundaries of Europe. According to the United Nations, the population within the standard physical geographical boundaries comprised 737 million in 2010. In 2010 the population was 711 million, defining Europe's boundaries as the continental divides of the Caucasus and Ural mountains and the Bosporous, and including the European parts of the countries of Russia and of Turkey. \n\nEurope's population growth is comparatively low, and its median age comparatively high, in relation to the world's other continents, especially compared to Asia, Africa and Latin America. Most of Europe is in a mode of sub-replacement fertility, which means that each new(-born) generation is becoming less populous than the older. Nonetheless most European countries still have growing populations due to immigration, population momentum and increases in life expectancy. Some current and past factors in European demography have included emigration, ethnic relations, economic immigration, a declining birth rate and an ageing population. \n\nEstimates for historical population sizes of Europe (including Central Asia, listed under \"former USSR\") based on Maddison (2007), in millions, with estimated percentage of world population:\n\n330,000,000 people lived in Europe in 1916. In 1950 there were 549,000,000. The population of Europe in 2015 was estimated to be 741 million according to the United Nations, which was slightly less than 11% of the world population. The precise figure depends on the exact definition of the geographic extent of Europe. The population of the European Union (EU) was 509 million as of 2015. Non-EU countries situated in Europe in their entirety account for another 94 million. Five transcontinental countries have a total of 247 million people, of which about half reside in Europe proper.\n\nAs it stands now, around 12% of the world's people live in Europe. If demographic trends keep their pace, its share may fall to around 7% in 2050, but still amounting to 716 million people in absolute numbers, according to the United Nations estimate. (The decline in the percentage is partly due to high fertility rates in other parts of the world.) The sub-replacement fertility and high life expectancy in most European states mean a declining and aging population as it is not offset by the current immigration level. This situation is expected to be a challenge for their economies, political and social institutions. Countries on the edges of Europe, except for southern Europe, have generally stronger growth than Central European counterparts. Albania and Ireland have strong growth, hitting over 1% annually.\n\nAccording to different definitions, such as consideration of the concept of Central Europe, the following territories and regions may be subject to various other categorisations aside from geographic conventions.\n\nMirroring their mostly sub-replacement fertility and high life expectancy, European countries tend to have older populations overall. They had nine of the top ten highest median ages in national populations in 2005. Only Japan had an older population.\n\nOver the last several centuries, religious practice has been on the decline in a process of secularization. Several European countries have experienced a decline in church attendance as well as a decline in the number of people professing a religious belief. The 2010 Eurobarometer survey found that, on average, 51% of the citizens of the EU member states state that they believe there is a God, 26% believe there is some sort of spirit or life force and 20% don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force. 3% declined to answer. The Eurobarometer survey must be taken with caution, however, as there are discrepancies between it and national census results. For example, in the United Kingdom, the 2001 census revealed that over 70% of the population regarded themselves as \"Christians\" with only 15% professing to have no religion, though the wording of the question has been criticized as \"misleading\" by the British Humanist Association. The 2011 census showed a dramatic reduction to less than 60% of the population regarding themselves as \"Christians\".\n\nDespite its decline, Christianity is still the largest religion in Europe. According to a survey published in 2010, 76.2% of Europeans identified themselves as Christians. Catholics were the largest Christian group in Europe, accounting for more than 48% of European Christians. The second-largest Christian group in Europe was the Orthodox, who made up 32% of European Christians. And about 19% of European Christians were part of the Protestant tradition.\n\nAccording to a 2003 study, 47% of French people declared themselves as agnostics in 2003. This situation is often called \"Post-Christian Europe\". A decrease in religiousness and church attendance in western Europe (especially in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Norway, the Netherlands and Sweden) has been noted. According to a survey published in 2012 Atheists and Agnostics make up about 18.2% of the European population. According to the same survey the religiously unaffiliated make up the majority of the population only in two European countries: Czech Republic (75%) and Estonia (60%).\n\nAccording to another survey about Religiosity in the European Union from 2012 by Eurobarometer, Christianity was the largest religion in the European Union (accounting for 72% of the EU population), Catholics were with 48% the largest Christian group in EU, Protestants made up 12%, Eastern Orthodox made up 8% and other Christians accounted for 4% of the EU population. non-believers/agnostics accounted for 16%, atheists accounted for 7% and Muslims accounted for 2%.\n\nPan and Pfeil (2004) count 87 distinct \"peoples of Europe\", of which 33 form the majority population in at least one sovereign state, while the remaining 54 constitute ethnic minorities. The total number of national minority populations in Europe is estimated at 105 million people, or 14% of 770 million Europeans. (including Europeans in Asian Russia)\n\nThe largest ethnic groups are the Russians, of whom 92 million reside in Europe and the Germans, with 72 million. In some countries such as the United Kingdom, France and Spain, the designation of nationality may controversially take on ethnic aspects, subsuming smaller ethnic groups such as Scots, Welsh, Bretons and Basques, making it difficult to quantify a \"British\" or \"French\" ethnicity, for example.\n\nApproximately 20 million non-Europeans live in the EU, 4% of the overall population.\n\nMost of the languages of Europe belong to the Indo-European language family. This family is divided into a number of branches, including Romance, Germanic, Baltic, Slavic, Albanian, Celtic and Greek. The Uralic languages, which include Hungarian, Finnish, and Estonian, also have a significant presence in Europe. The Turkic and Mongolic families also have several European members, while the North Caucasian and Kartvelian families are important in the southeastern extremity of geographical Europe. The Basque language of the western Pyrenees is an isolate unrelated to any other group, while Maltese is the only Semitic language in Europe with national language status.\n\nThe European Union (EU), which currently excludes many European countries (i.e. Norway, Russia and Switzerland), recognises 23 official languages as of 2007. According to the same source, the eight most natively spoken languages in the EU are (percentage of total EU population):\n\n\nThese figures change when foreign language skills are taken into account. The list below shows the top eight European languages ordered by total number of speakers in the EU:\n\n\nThis makes German the most frequently spoken native language and English the most frequently spoken non-native language overall in the European Union, with German the second-most common language overall.\n\nLanguages that are not official state languages are protected in many European countries by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. These can include languages spoken by relatively many people, such as Catalan and Basque in Spain, as well as languages spoken by relatively few such as Welsh, Cornish and Scottish Gaelic in the United Kingdom.\n\n\"Homo sapiens\" appeared in Europe roughly 40,000 years ago, with the settlement of the Cro-magnons. Over the prehistoric period there was continual immigration to Europe, notably by the immediate descendants of the Proto-Indo-Europeans who migrated west after the advent of the Neolithic revolution.\n\nStudies of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) have suggested substantial genetic homogeneity of European populations, with only a few geographic or linguistic isolates appearing to be genetic isolates as well. On the other hand, analyses of the Y chromosome and of autosomal diversity have shown a general gradient of genetic similarity running from the southeast to the northwest of the continent.\n\nListed here are the average frequencies of human Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups found in indigenous people of geographical Europe (including only the European parts of Russia and Turkey).\n\nA study in May 2009 that examined 19 populations from Europe using 270,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) highlighted the genetic diversity of European populations corresponding to the northwest to southeast gradient and distinguished \"several distinct regions\" within Europe:\n\nIn this study, Fst (Fixation index) was found to correlate considerably with geographic distances ranging from ≤0.0010 for neighbouring populations to 0.0230 for Southern Italy and Finland. For comparisons, pair-wise Fst of non-European samples were as follows: Europeans – Africans (Yoruba) 0.1530; Europeans – Chinese 0.1100; Africans (Yoruba) – Chinese 0.1900.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36280665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36280665", "title": "Elektra (band)", "text": "Elektra (band)\n\nElektra is a pop rock band from Iceland formed in 2009.\n\nElektra is an all-girl band from Reykjavík. The lead singer is Nana Alfreds. Their manager is Valgeir Magnússon.\n\nIn February 2009, with the song \"Got No Love\", they finished third in the national selection for Eurovision Song Contest. This single was number 1 in Iceland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35629277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35629277", "title": "Embassy of Canada in Zagreb", "text": "Embassy of Canada in Zagreb\n\nThe Embassy of Canada to Croatia in Zagreb is the diplomatic mission of Canada to Croatia. This embassy also represents Canadian diplomatic relations with Kosovo. Visas for immigration to Canada are not processed in Zagreb, as they are processed at the Visa Section of the Embassy of Canada to Austria in Vienna.\n\nThe building in which the embassy is located is rented from the Serbian orthodox Metropolitanate of Zagreb and Ljubljana. The building was built between 1886 and 1887, and it was architecturally designed by Kuno Vajdman. \n\nBy the beginning of the War in Croatia, the building was the seat of the metropolitanate and its museum, archive and library. On April 11, 1992, the building was dynamited, after which the seat of the metropolitanate was moved to another building. After the metropolitanate restored the building, they rented it to the embassy.\n"}
{"id": "27451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27451", "title": "Eswatini", "text": "Eswatini\n\nEswatini ( ), officially the Kingdom of Eswatini () and also known as Swaziland (), is a landlocked country in Southern Africa. It is bordered by Mozambique to its northeast and South Africa to its north, west and south. The country and the Swazi people take their names from Mswati II, the 19th-century king under whose rule Swazi territory was expanded and unified.\n\nAt no more than north to south and east to west, Eswatini is one of the smallest countries in Africa; despite this, its climate and topography are diverse, ranging from a cool and mountainous highveld to a hot and dry lowveld. The population is primarily ethnic Swazis, whose language is siSwati. They established their kingdom in the mid-18th century under the leadership of Ngwane III; the present boundaries were drawn up in 1881 in the midst of the Scramble for Africa. After the Second Boer War, Swaziland was a British protectorate from 1903 until it regained its independence on 6 September 1968. On 19 April 2018, the official English name was changed from Kingdom of Swaziland to Kingdom of Eswatini, mirroring its Swazi name.\n\nThe government is an absolute diarchy, ruled jointly by \"Ngwenyama\" (\"King\") Mswati III and \"Ndlovukati\" (\"Queen Mother\") Ntfombi Tfwala since 1986. The former is the administrative head of state and appoints the country's prime ministers and a number of representatives of both chambers (the Senate and House of Assembly) in the country's parliament, while the latter is the national head of state, serving as keeper of the ritual fetishes of the nation and presiding during the annual \"Umhlanga\" rite. Elections are held every five years to determine the House of Assembly and the Senate majority. The current constitution was adopted in 2005. \"Umhlanga\", held in August/September, and \"incwala\", the kingship dance held in December/January, are the nation's most important events.\n\nEswatini is a developing country with a small economy. With a GDP per capita of $9,714, it is classified as a country with a lower-middle income. As a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), its main local trading partner is South Africa; in order to ensure economic stability, Eswatini's currency, the lilangeni, is pegged to the South African rand. Eswatini's major overseas trading partners are the United States and the European Union. The majority of the country's employment is provided by its agricultural and manufacturing sectors. Eswatini is a member of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), the African Union, the Commonwealth of Nations and the United Nations.\n\nThe Swazi population faces major health issues: HIV/AIDS and, to a lesser extent, tuberculosis are widespread. It is estimated that 26% of the adult population is HIV-positive. As of 2018, Eswatini has the 12th lowest life expectancy in the world, at 58 years. The population of Eswatini is fairly young, with a median age of 20.5 years and people aged 14 years or younger constituting 37.5% of the country's total population. The present population growth rate is 1.2%.\n\nArtifacts indicating human activity dating back to the early Stone Age, around 200,000 years ago, have been found in the Kingdom of Eswatini. Prehistoric rock art paintings dating from as far back as c. 27,000 years ago, to as recent as the 19th century, can be found in various places around the country.\n\nThe earliest known inhabitants of the region were Khoisan hunter-gatherers. They were largely replaced by the Kashian hunter-tribe during the Bantu migrations. These peoples hailed from the Great Lakes regions of eastern and central Africa. Evidence of agriculture and iron use dates from about the 4th century. People speaking languages ancestral to current Sotho and Nguni languages began settling no later than the 11th century.\n\nThe Swazi settlers, then known as \"the Ngwane\" (or \"bakaNgwane\") before entering Swaziland, had been settled on the banks of the Pongola River. Before that they were settled in the area of the Tembe River near present-day Maputo, Mozambique. Continuing conflict with the Ndwandwe people pushed them further north, with Ngwane III establishing his capital at Shiselweni at the foot of the Mhlosheni hills.\n\nUnder Sobhuza I, the Ngwane people eventually established their capital at Zombodze in the heartland of present-day Eswatini. In this process, they conquered and incorporated the long established clans of the country known to the Swazi as \"Emakhandzambili\".\n\nSwaziland derives its name from a later king named Mswati II. \"KaNgwane\", named for Ngwane III, is an alternative name for Swaziland the surname of whose royal house remains \"Nkhosi Dlamini\". \"Nkhosi\" literally means \"king\". Mswati II was the greatest of the fighting kings of Swaziland, and he greatly extended the area of the country to twice its current size. The \"Emakhandzambili\" clans were initially incorporated into the kingdom with wide autonomy, often including grants of special ritual and political status. The extent of their autonomy however was drastically curtailed by Mswati, who attacked and subdued some of them in the 1850s.\n\nWith his power, Mswati greatly reduced the influence of the \"Emakhandzambili\" while incorporating more people into his kingdom either through conquest or by giving them refuge. These later arrivals became known to the Swazis as \"Emafikamuva\". The clans who accompanied the Dlamini kings were known as the \"Bemdzabuko\" or \"true Swazi\".\n\nThe autonomy of the Swaziland nation was influenced by British and Dutch rule of southern Africa in the 19th and early 20th centuries. In 1881 the British government signed a convention recognizing Swazi independence despite the Scramble for Africa that was taking place at the time. This independence was also recognized in the convention of 1884.\n\nBecause of controversial land/mineral rights and other concessions, Swaziland had a triumviral administration in 1890 following the death of King Mbandzeni in 1889. This government represented the British, the Dutch republics and the Swazi people. In 1894 a convention placed Swaziland under the South African Republic as a protectorate. This continued under the rule of Ngwane V until the outbreak of the Second Boer War in October 1899.\n\nKing Ngwane V died in December 1899 during incwala after the outbreak of the Boer war. His successor Sobhuza II was four months old. Swaziland was indirectly involved in the war with various skirmishes between the British and the Boers occurring in the country until 1902.\n\nIn 1903, after British victory in the Anglo-Boer war, Swaziland became a British protectorate. Much of its early administration (for example, postal services) was carried out from South Africa until 1906 when the Transvaal colony was granted self-government. Following this, Swaziland was partitioned into European and non-European (or native reserves) areas with the former being two-thirds of the total land. Sobhuza's official coronation was in December 1921 after the regency of Labotsibeni after which he led an unsuccessful deputation to the Privy council in London in 1922 regarding the issue of the land.\n\nIn the period between 1923 and 1963, Sobhuza II established the Swazi Commercial Amadoda which was to grant licences to small businesses on the Swazi reserves and also established the Swazi National School to counter the dominance of the missions in education. His stature grew with time and the Swazi royal leadership was successful in resisting the weakening power of the British administration and the incorporation of Swaziland into the Union of South Africa.\n\nThe constitution for independent Swaziland was promulgated by Britain in November 1963 under the terms of which legislative and executive councils were established. This development was opposed by the Swazi National Council (liqoqo). Despite such opposition, elections took place and the first Legislative Council of Swaziland was constituted on 9 September 1964. Changes to the original constitution proposed by the Legislative Council were accepted by Britain and a new constitution providing for a House of Assembly and Senate was drawn up. Elections under this constitution were held in 1967.\n\nFollowing the 1967 elections, Swaziland was a protected state until independence was regained in 1968.\n\nFollowing the elections of 1973, the constitution of Swaziland was suspended by King Sobhuza II who thereafter ruled the country by decree until his death in 1982. At this point Sobhuza II had ruled Swaziland for 83 years, making him the longest-reigning monarch in history. A regency followed his death, with Queen Regent Dzeliwe Shongwe being head of state until 1984 when she was removed by the Liqoqo and replaced by Queen Mother Ntfombi Tfwala. Mswati III, the son of Ntfombi, was crowned king on 25 April 1986 as King and \"Ingwenyama\" of Swaziland.\n\nThe 1990s saw a rise in student and labour protests pressuring the king to introduce reforms. Thus, progress toward constitutional reforms began, culminating with the introduction of the current Swazi constitution in 2005. This happened despite objections by political activists. The current constitution does not clearly deal with the status of political parties.\n\nThe first election under the new constitution, took place in 2008. Members of parliament were elected from 55 constituencies (also known as tinkhundla). These MPs served five-year terms which ended in 2013.\n\nIn 2011, Swaziland suffered an economic crisis, due to reduced SACU receipts. This caused the government of Swaziland to request a loan from neighbouring South Africa. However, they did not agree with the conditions of the loan, which included political reforms.\n\nDuring this period, there was increased pressure on the Swazi government to carry out more reforms. Public protests by civic organisations and trade unions became more common. Starting in 2012, improvements in SACU receipts have eased the fiscal pressure on the Swazi government. A new parliament, the second since promulgation of the constitution, was elected on 20 September 2013. This saw the reappointment of Sibusiso Dlamini, by the king, as prime minister for the third time.\n\nOn 19 April 2018, King Mswati III announced that the Kingdom of Swaziland had renamed itself the Kingdom of Eswatini, reflecting the extant Swazi name for the state \"eSwatini\", to mark the 50th anniversary of Swazi independence. The new name, Eswatini, means \"land of the Swazis\" in the Swazi language, and was partially intended to prevent confusion with the similarly named Switzerland. \n\nOn 19 September 2018, Eswatini workers continued their anti-government protests against low salaries. They went on a three-day strike organized by Trade Union Congress of Swaziland (TUCOSWA).\n\nEswatini is an absolute diarchy with constitutional provisions and Swazi law and customs. The functional head of state is the king or \"Ngwenyama\" (lit. \"Lion\"), currently King Mswati III, who ascended to the throne in 1986 after the death of his father King Sobhuza II in 1982 and a period of regency. According to the country's constitution, the Ingwenyama is a symbol of unity and the eternity of the Swazi nation.\n\nBy tradition, the king reigns along with his mother (or a ritual substitute), the \"Ndlovukati\" (lit. \"She-Elephant\"). The former was viewed as the administrative head of state and the latter as a spiritual and national head of state, with real power counterbalancing that of the king, but, during the long reign of Sobhuza II, the role of the \"Ndlovukati\" became more symbolic.\n\nThe king appoints the prime minister from the legislature and also appoints a minority of legislators to both chambers of the Libandla (parliament) with help from an advisory council. The king is allowed by the constitution to appoint some members to parliament to represent special interests. These special interests are citizens who might have been electoral candidates who were not elected, or might not have stood as candidates. This is done to balance views in parliament. Special interests could be people of particular gender or race, people of disability, the business community, civic society, scholars, chiefs and so on.\n\nThe Swazi bicameral Parliament or Libandla consists of the Senate (30 seats; 10 members appointed by the House of Assembly and 20 appointed by the monarch; to serve five-year terms) and the House of Assembly (65 seats; 10 members appointed by the monarch and 55 elected by popular vote; to serve five-year terms). The elections are held every five years after dissolution of parliament by the king. The last elections were held on 20 September 2013. The balloting is done on a non-party basis in all categories. All election procedures are overseen by the elections and boundaries commission.\n\nAt Eswatini's independence on 6 September 1968, Eswatini adopted a Westminster-style constitution. On 12 April 1973 King Sobhuza II annulled it by decree, assuming supreme powers in all executive, judicial and legislative matters. The first non-party elections for the House of Assembly were held in 1978, and they were conducted under the tinkhundla as electoral constituencies determined by the King, and established an Electoral Committee appointed by the King to supervise elections.\n\nUntil the 1993 election, the ballot was not secret, voters were not registered and they did not elect representatives directly. Instead, voters elected an electoral college by passing through a gate designated for the candidate of choice while officials counted them. Later on, a constitutional review commission was appointed by King Mswati III in July 1996 comprising chiefs, political activists and unionists to consider public submissions and draft proposals for a new constitution.\n\nDrafts were released for comment in May 1999 and November 2000. These were strongly criticized by civil society organisations in Swaziland and human rights organisations elsewhere. A 15-member team was announced in December 2001 to draft a new constitution; several members of this team were reported to be close to the royal family.\n\nIn 2005, the constitution was put into effect. There is still much debate in the country about the constitutional reforms. From the early seventies, there was active resistance to the royal hegemony.\n\nNominations take place at the chiefdoms. On the day of nomination, the name of the nominee is raised by a show of hand and the nominee is given an opportunity to indicate whether he or she accepts the nomination. If he or she accepts it, he or she must be supported by at least ten members of that chiefdom. The nominations are for the position of Member of Parliament, Constituency Headman (Indvuna) and the Constituency Executive Committee (Bucopho). The minimum number of nominees is four and the maximum is ten.\n\nPrimary elections also take place at the chiefdom level. It is by secret ballot. During the Primary Elections, the voters are given an opportunity to elect the member of the executive committee (Bucopho) for that particular chiefdom. Aspiring members of parliament and the constituency Headman are also elected from each chiefdom. The secondary and final elections takes place at the various constituencies called Tinkhundla.\n\nCandidates who won primary elections in the chiefdoms are considered nominees for the secondary elections at inkhundla or constituency level. The nominees with majority votes become the winners and they become members of parliament or constituency headman.\n\nEswatini is a member of the United Nations, the Commonwealth of Nations, the African Union, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, and the Southern African Development Community.\n\nThe judicial system in Eswatini is a dual system. The 2006 constitution established a court system based on the western model consisting of four regional Magistrates Courts, a High Court and a Court of Appeal (the Supreme Court), which are independent of crown control. In addition traditional courts (Swazi Courts or National Courts) deal with minor offenses and violations of traditional Swazi law and custom.\n\nJudges are appointed by the King and are usually expatriates from South Africa. The Supreme Court, which replaced the previous Court of Appeal, consists of the Chief Justice and at least four other Supreme Court judges. The High Court consists of the Chief Justice and at least four High Court judges.\n\n\nThe Military of Eswatini (Umbutfo weSwatini Defence Force) is used primarily during domestic protests, with some border and customs duties. The military has never been involved in a foreign conflict. The King is the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Force and the substantive Minister of the Ministry of Defence.\n\nThere are approximately 3,000 personnel in the defence force, with the army being the largest component. There is a small air wing, which is mainly used for transporting the King as well as cargo and personnel, surveying land with search and rescue functions, and mobilising in case of a national emergency.\n\nEswatini is divided into four regions: Hhohho, Lubombo, Manzini and Shiselweni. In each of the four regions, there are several \"tinkhundla\" (singular \"inkhundla\"). The regions are managed by a regional administrator, who is aided by elected members in each inkhundla.\n\nThe local government is divided into differently structured rural and urban councils depending on the level of development in the area. Although there are different political structures to the local authorities, effectively the urban councils are municipalities and the rural councils are the tinkhundla. There are twelve municipalities and 55 tinkhundla.\n\nThere are three tiers of government in the urban areas and these are city councils, town councils and town boards. This variation considers the size of the town or city. Equally there are three tiers in the rural areas which are the regional administration at the regional level, tinkhundla and chiefdoms. Decisions are made by full council based on recommendations made by the various sub-committees. The town clerk is the chief advisor in each local council council or town board.\n\nThere are twelve declared urban areas, comprising two city councils, three town councils and seven town boards. The main cities and towns in Eswatini are Manzini, Mbabane, Nhlangano and Siteki which are also regional capitals. The first two have city councils and the latter two have town councils. Other small towns or urban area with substantial population are Ezulwini, Matsapha, Hlatikhulu, Pigg's Peak, Simunye and Big Bend.\n\nAs noted above, there are 55 tinkhundla in Eswatini and each elects one representative to the House of Assembly of Eswatini. Each inkhundla has a development committee (bucopho) elected from the various constituency chiefdoms in its area for a five-year term. Bucopho bring to the inkhundla all matters of interest and concern to their various chiefdoms, and take back to the chiefdoms the decisions of the inkhundla. The chairman of the bucopho is elected at the inkhundla and is called \"indvuna ye nkhundla\".\n\nThese are the administrative regions of Eswatini. The major towns and regional capitals are also shown.\n\nEswatini lies across a fault which runs from the Drakensberg Mountains of Lesotho, north through the Eastern highlands of Zimbabwe, and forms the Great Rift Valley of Kenya.\n\nA small, landlocked kingdom, Eswatini is bordered in the North, West and South by the Republic of South Africa and by Mozambique in the East. Eswatini has a land area of 17,364 km. Eswatini has four separate geographical regions. These run from North to South and are determined by altitude. Eswatini is at approximately 26°30'S, 31°30'E. Eswatini has a wide variety of landscapes, from the mountains along the Mozambican border to savannas in the east and rain forest in the northwest. Several rivers flow through the country, such as the Great Usutu River.\n\nAlong the eastern border with Mozambique is the Lubombo, a mountain ridge, at an altitude of around 600 metres. The mountains are broken by the canyons of three rivers, the Ngwavuma, the Usutu and the Mbuluzi River. This is cattle ranching country. The western border of Eswatini, with an average altitude of 1200 metres, lies on the edge of an escarpment. Between the mountains rivers rush through deep gorges. Mbabane, the capital, is on the Highveld.\n\nThe Middleveld, lying at an average 700 metres above sea level is the most densely populated region of Eswatini with a lower rainfall than the mountains. Manzini, the principal commercial and industrial city, is situated in the Middleveld.\n\nThe Lowveld of Eswatini, at around 250 metres, is less populated than other areas and presents a typical African bush country of thorn trees and grasslands. Development of the region was inhibited, in early days, by the scourge of malaria.\n\nEswatini is divided into four climatic regions, the Highveld, Middleveld, Lowveld and Lubombo plateau. The seasons are the reverse of those in the Northern Hemisphere with December being mid-summer and June mid-winter. Generally speaking, rain falls mostly during the summer months, often in the form of thunderstorms.\n\nWinter is the dry season. Annual rainfall is highest on the Highveld in the West, between depending on the year. The further East, the less rain, with the Lowveld recording per annum.\n\nVariations in temperature are also related to the altitude of the different regions. The Highveld temperature is temperate and seldom uncomfortably hot, while the Lowveld may record temperatures around in summer.\n\nThe average temperatures at Mbabane, according to seasons:\n\nThere are known to be 507 bird species in Eswatini, including 11 globally threatened species and four introduced species, and 107 mammal species endemic to Eswatini, including the critically endangered South-central black rhinoceros and seven other endangered or vulnerable species.\n\nProtected areas of Eswatini include seven nature reserves, four frontier conservation areas and three wildlife or game reserves. Hlane Royal National Park, the largest park in Eswatini, is rich in bird life, including white-backed vultures, white-headed, lappet-faced and Cape vultures, raptors such as martial eagles, bateleurs, and long-crested eagles, and the southernmost nesting site of the marabou stork.\n\nEswatini's economy is diverse, with agriculture, forestry and mining accounting for about 13% of GDP, manufacturing (textiles and sugar-related processing) representing 37% of GDP and services – with government services in the lead – constituting 50% of GDP. Title Deed Lands (TDLs), where the bulk of high value crops are grown (sugar, forestry, and citrus) are characterised by high levels of investment and irrigation, and high productivity.\n\nAbout 75% of the population is employed in subsistence agriculture upon Swazi Nation Land (SNL). In contrast with the commercial farms, Swazi Nation Land suffers from low productivity and investment. This dual nature of the Swazi economy, with high productivity in textile manufacturing and in the industrialised agricultural TDLs on the one hand, and declining productivity subsistence agriculture (on SNL) on the other, may well explain the country's overall low growth, high inequality and unemployment.\n\nEconomic growth in Eswatini has lagged behind that of its neighbours. Real GDP growth since 2001 has averaged 2.8%, nearly 2 percentage points lower than growth in other Southern African Customs Union (SACU) member countries. Low agricultural productivity in the SNLs, repeated droughts, the devastating effect of HIV/AIDS and an overly large and inefficient government sector are likely contributing factors. Eswatini's public finances deteriorated in the late 1990s following sizeable surpluses a decade earlier. A combination of declining revenues and increased spending led to significant budget deficits.\n\nThe considerable spending did not lead to more growth and did not benefit the poor. Much of the increased spending has gone to current expenditures related to wages, transfers, and subsidies. The wage bill today constitutes over 15% of GDP and 55% of total public spending; these are some of the highest levels on the African continent. The recent rapid growth in SACU revenues has, however, reversed the fiscal situation, and a sizeable surplus was recorded since 2006. SACU revenues today account for over 60% of total government revenues. On the positive side, the external debt burden has declined markedly over the last 20 years, and domestic debt is almost negligible; external debt as a percent of GDP was less than 20% in 2006.\n\nEswatini's economy is very closely linked to the economy of South Africa, from which it receives over 90% of its imports and to which it sends about 70% of its exports. Eswatini's other key trading partners are the United States and the EU, from whom the country has received trade preferences for apparel exports (under the African Growth and Opportunity Act – AGOA – to the US) and for sugar (to the EU). Under these agreements, both apparel and sugar exports did well, with rapid growth and a strong inflow of foreign direct investment. Textile exports grew by over 200% between 2000 and 2005 and sugar exports increasing by more than 50% over the same period.\n\nThe continued vibrancy of the export sector is threatened by the removal of trade preferences for textiles, the accession to similar preferences for East Asian countries, and the phasing out of preferential prices for sugar to the EU market. Eswatini will thus have to face the challenge of remaining competitive in a changing global environment. A crucial factor in addressing this challenge is the investment climate.\n\nThe recently concluded Investment Climate Assessment provides some positive findings in this regard, namely that Eswatini firms are among the most productive in Sub-Saharan Africa, although they are less productive than firms in the most productive middle-income countries in other regions. They compare more favourably with firms from lower middle income countries, but are hampered by inadequate governance arrangements and infrastructure.\n\nEswatini's currency, the lilangeni, is pegged to the South African rand, subsuming Eswatini's monetary policy to South Africa. Customs duties from the Southern African Customs Union, which may equal as much as 70% of government revenue this year, and worker remittances from South Africa substantially supplement domestically earned income. Eswatini is not poor enough to merit an IMF programme; however, the country is struggling to reduce the size of the civil service and control costs at public enterprises. The government is trying to improve the atmosphere for foreign direct investment.\n\nThe majority of Eswatini’s population is ethnically Swazi, mixed with a small number of Zulu and White Africans, mostly people of British and Afrikaner descent. Traditionally Swazi have been subsistence farmers and herders, but most now mix such activities with work in the growing urban formal economy and in government. Some Swazi work in the mines in South Africa.\n\nEswatini also received Portuguese settlers and African refugees from Mozambique. Christianity in Eswatini is sometimes mixed with traditional beliefs and practices. Many traditionalists believe that most Swazi ascribe a special spiritual role to the monarch.\n\nThis is a list of major cities and towns in Eswatini. The table below also includes the population and region.\n\n\"SiSwati\" (also known as \"Swati\", \"Swazi\" or \"Siswati\") is a Bantu language of the Nguni Group, spoken in Eswatini and South Africa. It has 2.5 million speakers and is taught in schools. It is an official language of Eswatini, along with English, and one of the official languages of South Africa. English is the medium of communication in schools and in conducting business including the press.\n\nAbout 76,000 people in the country speak Zulu. Tsonga, which is spoken by many people throughout the region is spoken by about 19,000 people in Eswatini. Afrikaans is also spoken by some residents of Afrikaner descent. Portuguese has been introduced as a third language in the schools, due to the large community of Portuguese speakers from Mozambique or Northern and Central Portugal.\n\nEighty-three percent of the total population adheres to Christianity in Eswatini. Anglican, Protestant and indigenous African churches, including African Zionist, constitute the majority of Christians (40%), followed by Roman Catholicism at 20% of the population. On 18 July 2012, Ellinah Wamukoya, was elected Anglican Bishop of Swaziland, becoming the first woman to be a bishop in Africa. Fifteen percent of the population follows traditional religions; other non-Christian religions practised in the country include Islam (2%), the Bahá'í Faith (0.5%), and Hinduism (0.2%). There were 14 Jewish families in 2013.\n\nThe Kingdom of Eswatini does not recognise non-civil marriages such as Islamic-rite marriage contracts.\n\nSee Health in Eswatini\n\nEducation in Eswatini begins with pre-school education for infants, primary, secondary and high school education for general education and training (GET), and universities and colleges at tertiary level. Pre-school education is usually for children 5-year or younger after that the students can enroll in a primary school anywhere in the country. In Eswatini early childhood care and education (ECCE) centres are in the form of preschools or neighbourhood care points (NCPs). In the country 21.6% of preschool age children have access to early childhood education.\n\nPrimary education in Eswatini begins at the age of six. It is a seven-year programme that culminates with an end of Primary school Examination [SPC] in grade 7 which is a locally based assessment administered by the Examinations Council through schools. Primary Education is from grade 1 to grade 7.\n\nThe secondary and high school education system in Eswatini is a five-year programme divided into three years junior secondary and two years senior secondary. There is an external public examination (Junior Certificate) at the end of the junior secondary that learners have to pass to progress to the senior secondary level. The Examinations Council of Eswatini (ECESWA) administers this examination. At the end of the senior secondary level, learners sit for a public examination, the Swaziland General Certificate of Secondary Education (SGCSE) and International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) which is accredited by the Cambridge International Examination (CIE). A few schools offer the Advanced Studies (AS) programme in their curriculum.\n\nThere are 830 public schools in Eswatini including primary, secondary and high schools. There also 34 recognized private schools with an additional 14 unrecognised. The biggest number of schools is in the Hhohho region. Education in Eswatini as of 2009 is free at primary level mainly first through the fourth grade and also free for orphaned and vulnerable children but not compulsory.\n\nIn 1996, the net primary school enrollment rate was 90.8%, with gender parity at the primary level. In 1998, 80.5% of children reached grade five. Eswatini is home to a United World College. In 1963 Waterford school, later named Waterford Kamhlaba United World College of Southern Africa, was founded as southern Africa's first multiracial school. In 1981 Waterford Kamhlaba joined the United World Colleges movement as the first and only United World College on the African continent.\n\nAdult and non-formal education centres are Sebenta National Institute for adult basic literacy and Emlalatini Development Centre which provides alternative educational opportunities for school children and young adults who have not been able to complete their schooling.\n\nThe University of Eswatini, Southern African Nazarene University and Swaziland Christian University (SCU) are the institutions that offer university education in the country. A campus of Limkokwing University of Creative Technology can be found at Sidvwashini, a suburb of the capital Mbabane. There are some teaching and nursing assistant colleges around the country. Ngwane Teacher's College and William Pitcher College are the country's teaching colleges. The Good Shepherd Hospital in Siteki is home to the College for Nursing Assistants.\n\nThe University of Eswatini is the national university which was established in 1982 by act of parliament and is headquartered at Kwaluseni with two more campuses in Mbabane and Luyengo. The Southern African Nazarene University (SANU) was established in 2010 as a merger of the Nazarene College of Nursing, College of Theology and the Nazarene Teachers College. It is in Manzini next to the Raleigh Fitkin Memorial Hospital.\n\nThe SCU, focusing on medical education and established in 2012, is Eswatini's newest university. It is in Mbabane. The campus of Limkokwing University was opened in Swaziland in 2012 and is at Sidvwashini in Mbabane.\n\nThe main centre for technical training in Eswatini is the Swaziland College of Technology (SCOT) which is slated to become a full university. It aims to provide and facilitating high quality training and learning in technology and business studies in collaboration with the Commercial, Industrial and Public Sectors. Other technical and vocational institutions are the Gwamile Vocational and Commercial Training Institute in Matsapha and the Manzini Industrial and Training Centre (MITC) in Manzini. Other vocational institutions include Nhlangano Agricultural Skills Training Center and Siteki Industrial Training Centre.\n\nIn addition to these institutions, the kingdom also has the Swaziland Institute of Management and Public Administration (SIMPA) and Institute of Development Management (IDM). SIMPA is a government owned management and development institute and IDM is a regional organisation in Botswana, Lesotho and Eswatini that provides training, consultancy, and research in management. North Carolina State University's Poole College of Management is a sister school of SIMPA. The Mananga management centre was established as Mananga Agricultural Management Centre in 1972 as an International Management Development Centre catering for middle and senior managers, it is at Ezulwini.\n\nThe principal Swazi social unit is the homestead, a traditional beehive hut thatched with dry grass. In a polygamous homestead, each wife has her own hut and yard surrounded by reed fences. There are three structures for sleeping, cooking, and storage (brewing beer). In larger homesteads there are also structures used as bachelors' quarters and guest accommodation.\n\nCentral to the traditional homestead is the cattle byre, a circular area enclosed by large logs interspaced with branches. The cattle byre has ritual as well as practical significance as a store of wealth and symbol of prestige. It contains sealed grain pits. Facing the cattle byre is the great hut which is occupied by the mother of the headman.\n\nThe headman is central to all homestead affairs and he is often polygamous. He leads through example and advises his wives on all social affairs of the home as well as seeing to the larger survival of the family. He also spends time socialising with the young boys, who are often his sons or close relatives, advising them on the expectations of growing up and manhood.\n\nThe Sangoma is a traditional diviner chosen by the ancestors of that particular family. The training of the Sangoma is called \"kwetfwasa\". At the end of the training, a graduation ceremony takes place where all the local sangoma come together for feasting and dancing. The diviner is consulted for various reasons, such as the cause of sickness or even death. His diagnosis is based on \"kubhula\", a process of communication, through trance, with the natural superpowers. The Inyanga (a medical and pharmaceutical specialist in western terms) possesses the bone throwing skill (\"kushaya ematsambo\") used to determine the cause of the sickness.\n\nThe most important cultural event in Eswatini is the Incwala ceremony. It is held on the fourth day after the full moon nearest the longest day, 21 December. Incwala is often translated in English as \"first fruits ceremony\", but the King's tasting of the new harvest is only one aspect among many in this long pageant. Incwala is best translated as \"Kingship Ceremony\": when there is no king, there is no Incwala. It is high treason for any other person to hold an Incwala.\n\nEvery Swazi may take part in the public parts of the Incwala. The climax of the event is the fourth day of the Big Incwala. The key figures are the King, Queen Mother, royal wives and children, the royal governors (indunas), the chiefs, the regiments, and the \"bemanti\" or \"water people\".\n\nEswatini's most well-known cultural event is the annual Umhlanga Reed Dance. In the eight-day ceremony, girls cut reeds and present them to the queen mother and then dance. (There is no formal competition.) It is done in late August or early September. Only childless, unmarried girls can take part. The aims of the ceremony are to preserve girls' chastity, provide tribute labour for the Queen mother, and to encourage solidarity by working together. The royal family appoints a commoner maiden to be \"induna\" (captain) of the girls and she announces over the radio the dates of the ceremony. She will be an expert dancer and knowledgeable on royal protocol. One of the King's daughters will be her counterpart.\n\nThe Reed Dance today is not an ancient ceremony but a development of the old \"umchwasho\" custom. In \"umchwasho\", all young girls were placed in a female age-regiment. If any girl became pregnant outside of marriage, her family paid a fine of one cow to the local chief. After a number of years, when the girls had reached a marriageable age, they would perform labour service for the Queen Mother, ending with dancing and feasting. The country was under the chastity rite of \"umchwasho\" until 19 August 2005.\n\nEswatini is also known for a strong presence in the handcrafts industry. The formalised handcraft businesses of Eswatini employ over 2,500 people, many of whom are women (per \"TechnoServe Swaziland Handcrafts Impact Study\", February 2011). The products are unique and reflect the culture of Eswatini, ranging from housewares, to artistic decorations, to complex glass, stone, or wood artwork.\n\n"}
{"id": "11159134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11159134", "title": "European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment", "text": "European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment\n\nThe European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment was adopted by the member states of the Council of Europe, meeting at Strasbourg on 26 November 1987. It was subsequently amended by two Protocols that entered into force on 1 March 2002. Overseeing compliance with its provisions of the Convention is the task of the Committee for the Prevention of Torture, which was set up by the Convention.\n\nAfter the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention for the Prevention of Torture is widely regarded as being one of the most important of the Council of Europe's treaties. It has been ratified by all 47 of the Council of Europe's member states, and ratification of the Convention has been a pre-condition for all states who have joined the Council of Europe in the last few years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8837373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837373", "title": "European charter for equality of women and men in local life", "text": "European charter for equality of women and men in local life\n\nThe Council of European Municipalities and Regions launched in May 2006 a European charter for equality of women and men in local life. This charter is addressed to the local and regional governments of Europe, who are invited to sign it, to make a formal public commitment to the principle of equality of women and men, and to implement, within their territory, the commitments set out within the Charter.\n\n\nCEMR has always worked to eliminate all types of discriminations, including on men/women equality issues. \nThroughout 2005, CEMR, with the financial support of the European Commission, led a project on The town for equality. That project aimed mainly at collecting best practice cases of gender equality in European local governments as well as at setting up a methodology to help local representatives achieve true gender equality in their municipalities.\nAt the end of the project, CEMR, still with the support of the European Commission, started a new project to draft a European charter for equality of women and men in local life. Its aim was to encourage local politicians to sign it, thus committing themselves publicly to implement the measures in the charter in their municipalities.\n\n"}
{"id": "14179734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14179734", "title": "Eurotrash (term)", "text": "Eurotrash (term)\n\n\"Eurotrash\" is a derogatory term for certain Europeans, particularly those perceived to be arrogant, affluent, and expatriates in the United States.\n\nAmong the early printed uses of the term was in the early 1980s, when Taki Theodoracopulos, a wealthy Greek living in New York City, wrote a newspaper column entitled \"Eurotrash\" in \"The East Side Express.\" The term was also used into the 1990s, with American band Cracker releasing a single called \"Euro-Trash Girl\". The song's narrator describes a dissolute life, drifting across Europe in pursuit of an \"angel in black,\" the titular Euro-trash girl. \n\n"}
{"id": "21850145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21850145", "title": "Fascism in Asia", "text": "Fascism in Asia\n\nFascism in Asia refers to political ideologies in Asia that adhered to fascist policies, which gained popularity in many countries in Asia during the 1930s.\n\nFascism in Iran was adhered to by the SUMKA (\"Hezb-e Sosialist-e Melli-ye Kargaran-e Iran\" or the Iran National-Socialist Workers Group), a neo-Nazi party founded by Davud Monshizadeh in 1952. SUMKA copied not only the ideology of the Nazi Party but also that group's style, adopting the swastika, the black shirt and the Hitler salute while Monshizadeh even sought to cultivate an appearance similar to that of Adolf Hitler. The group became associated with opposition to Mohammad Mosaddegh and the Tudeh Party while supporting the Shah over Mossadegh.\n\nThe Revisionist Maximalist short-term movement formed by Abba Achimeir in 1930 was the ideology of the right-wing fascist faction Brit HaBirionim within the Zionist Revisionist Movement (ZRM). Achimeir was a self-described fascist who wrote a series of articles in 1928 titled \"From the Diary of a Fascist\". Achimeir rejected humanism, liberalism, and socialism; condemned liberal Zionists for only working for middle-class Jews; and stated the need for an integralist, \"pure nationalism\" similar to that in Fascist Italy under Benito Mussolini. Achimeir refused to be part of reformist Zionist coalitions and insisted that he would only support revolutionary Zionists who were willing to utilize violence. Anti-Jewish violence in 1929 in the British Mandate of Palestine resulted in a rise in support for Revisionist Maximalists and lead Achimeir to decry British rule, claiming that the English people were declining while the Jewish people were ready to flourish, saying:\nIn 1930, Achimeir and the Revisionist-Maximalists became the largest faction within the ZRM and they called for closer relations with Fascist Italy and the Italian people, based on Achimeir's claim that Italians were deemed the least anti-Semitic people in the world.\n\nIn 1932, the Revisionist Maximalists pressed the ZRM to adopt their policies, titled the \"Ten Commandments of Maximalism\", made \"in the spirit of complete fascism\". Moderate ZRM members refused to accept this and moderate ZRM member Yaacov Kahan pressured the Revisionist Maximalists to accept the democratic nature of the ZRM and not push for the party to adopt fascist dictatorial policies.\n\nIn spite of the Revisionist Maximalists' opposition to the anti-Semitism of the Nazi Party, Achimeir was initially controversially supportive of the Nazi Party in early 1933, believing that the Nazis' rise to power was positive because it recognized that previous attempts by Germany to assimilate Jews had finally been proven to be failures. In March 1933, Achimeir wrote about the Nazi party, stating, \"The anti-Semitic wrapping should be discarded but not its anti-Marxist core...\" Achimeir personally believed that the Nazis' anti-Semitism was just a nationalist ploy that did not have substance.\n\nAfter Achimeir supported the Nazis, other Zionists within the ZRM quickly condemned Achimeir and the Revisionist Maximalists for their support of Hitler. Achimeir, in response to the outrage, in May 1933 reversed their position and opposed Nazi Germany and began to burn down German consolates and tear down Germany's flag. However, in 1933, Revisionist Maximalist' support quickly deteriorated and fell apart, they would not be reorganized until 1938, after Achimeir was replaced by a new leader.\n\nWithin Lebanon two pre-war groups emerged that took their inspiration from the fascist groups active in Europe at the time. In 1936 the Kataeb Party was founded by Pierre Gemayel and this group also took its inspiration from the European fascists, also using the Hitler salute and a brown shirted uniform. This group also espoused a strong sense of nationalism and a leadership cult but it did not support totalitarianism and as a result it could not be characterised as fully fascist. Both groups are still active although neither of them demonstrates the characteristics of fascism now.\n\nThe Syrian Social Nationalist Party was founded in 1932 by Antun Saadeh with the aim of restoring independence to Syria and taking its lead from Nazism and fascism. This group also used the Hitler salute and a symbol similar to the swastika while Saadeh borrowed elements of Nazi ideology, notably the cult of personality and the yearning for a mythical, racially pure golden age. A youth group, based on the Hitler Youth template, was also organised.\n\nIn 1952, the Syrian dictator and military officer Adib Shishakli founded the Arab Liberation Movement, based on the ideas' of \"Greater Syria\" (similar to the SSNP, Shishakli's former party) and Arab nationalism, but also with fascist-type elements. After the 1963 Syrian coup d'état the party was banned.\n\nWang Jingwei, a right-wing nationalist and anti-communist member of the Kuomintang (Nationalist Party of China), and in particular the left-wing nationalist \"Kai-tsu p'ai\" (Reorganization) faction, was originally hostile towards fascism in Europe, but it gradually drifted to be in favour of fascism, especially towards the economic policies of Nazism in the late 1930s. Wang Jingwei visited Germany in 1936, and changed his views on fascism, speaking positively about European fascist states, saying, \"Several advanced countries have already expanded their national vitality and augmented their people's strength, and are no longer afraid of foreign aggression.\" Publicist T'iang Leang-Li of the People's Tribune newspaper associated with the \"Kai-tsu p'ai\" promoted the good nature of fascism in Europe while attempting to distance \"Kai-tsu p'ai\" from the overtly negative aspects of fascism and wrote in 1937: \"Whatever we may think about fascist and Nazi methods and policies, we must recognize the fact that their leaders have secured the enthusiastic support of their respective nations.\" T'iang Leang-Li claimed that the \"foolish, unwise, and even cruel things\" done in the fascist states had been done in a positive manner to bring about \"tremendous change in the political outlook of the German and Italian people\". T'iang Leang-Li wrote articles that positively assessed the \"socialist\" character of Nazism. Similarly, Shih Shao-pei of the \"Kai-tsu p'ai\" rebuked Chinese critics of Nazism by saying \"We in China <nowiki>[...]</nowiki> have heard too much about the 'national' and other flagwaving activities of the Nazis, and not enough about the 'socialist' work they are doing.\" Shih Shao-pei wrote about reports of improved working conditions in German factories, the vacations given to employees by \"Kraft durch Freude\", improved employer-employee relations, and the provision of public service work camps for the unemployed. Other works made by the People's Tribune spoke positively about Nazism, saying that it was bringing the \"integration of the working classes ... into the National Socialist state and the abolition of ... the evil elements of modern capitalism\".\n\nThe was created by Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoe on 12 October 1940 and it evolved into a \"militaristic\" political party, which aimed to remove sectionalism from the politics and economics of the Empire of Japan in order to create a totalitarian one-party state, which would maximize the efficiency of Japan’s total-war effort during World War II.\n\nTohokai was a Japanese Nazi party formed by Seigo Nakano.\n\nThe National Socialist Japanese Workers' Party is a small neo-nazi party which is classified as an uyoku dantai.\n\n"}
{"id": "30728290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30728290", "title": "Federation of Egyptian Trade Unions", "text": "Federation of Egyptian Trade Unions\n\nThe Egyptian Federation of Independent Trade Unions (also referred to as the Egyptian Independent Trade Union Federation or the Federation of Egyptian Trade Unions) is the first independent trade union organization since the 2011 Egyptian Revolution. Labor organization had previously been completely under government control.\nFor the years leading up to the Revolution, workers had been engaged in strikes and actions against the Mubarak regime. These actions eventually coalesced into the Revolution itself and formed the movement behind the establishment of the Federation. On 30 January 2011, as part of the 2011 Egyptian protests, a meeting convened in Tahrir square led to the formation of the Federation of Egyptian Trade Unions in response to the effective state control of the Egyptian Trade Union Federation.\n\nThe founding declaration of the Constitutional Body was issued in the name of the following organisations, as well as various workers’ independent groups in industries:\n\nThe first acts of the new federation were to call for a general strike in support of the opposition movement's demands for change, and to publish a list of demands for wage reform, welfare reform, workers rights and the release of opposition detainees. These demands received support from a number of Labour organisations internationally, including the International Trade Union Confederation and the British Trades Union Congress Touchstone Blogger, Owen Tudor. In July 2011, the federation called for Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) against Israel and the expulsion of Histadrut from the ITUC, which won the backing of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU).\n"}
{"id": "17144344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17144344", "title": "German occupation of Estonia during World War I", "text": "German occupation of Estonia during World War I\n\nThe occupation of Estonia by the German Empire occurred during the later stages of the First World War. On October 11–21, 1917, when the Imperial German Army occupied the West Estonian archipelago (Moonsund archipelago), consisting of the islands of Saaremaa (\"Ösel\"), Hiiumaa (\"Dagö\"), and Muhu (\"Mühn\").\n\nFighting ceased whilst negotiations over the Treaty of Brest-Litowsk took place. These broke down in February and to put on the pressure against the new Bolshevik regime of Soviet Russia to sign the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk the Germans landed on the mainland of Estonia on February 18, 1918 and marched in Haapsalu (\"Hapsal\") on February 21, 1918. The Germans occupied Valga (\"Walk\") on February 22, Pärnu (\"Pernau\"), Viljandi (\"Fellin\"), Tartu (\"Dorpat\") on February 24. Tallinn (\"Revel\"), was occupied on February 25, 1918 and the rest of Estonia, last town taken being Narva, on March 4, 1918, putting an end to both the republican regime which had declared Estonia's independence on February 24, 1918 at Tallinn, and the rule of local Russian-Estonian Red Guards. The last Red Guards escaped over River Narva on March 5, 1918.\n\nLieutenant General Adolf von Seckendorff arrived in Tallinn on February 28, 1918. He had acted as Military Commander of Third Kommandatur at the head of the German military administration of the West Estonian archipelago. Later in 1918, with the signing of the Treaty of Brest-Litowsk, the Bolsheviks renounced all claims to Estonia and Germany was free to create Baltic client states. Estonia became part of the German Ober Ost military administration for Curonia, Estonia, Livonia, Ösel, and Riga.\n\nFirst part of today's Estonia what was occupied was island Ruhnu (then part of Governorate of Livonia) in 1915.\n\nDuring the occupation of Estonia the Germans suffered total 368 dead and about 1400 wounded soldiers. They took 20,000 Russian POW's and captured several Russian warships. One older Russian warship, battleship \"Slava\", was sunk during the Battle of Moon Sound just outside Muhu island. The Imperial German Army used its 60th Corps (19th Infantry Division, 77th Reserve Division, and 4th Cavalry Division) to attack Northern Livonia and Estonia. The 6th Corps (205th and 219th Infantry Divisions, and 1st Cavalry Division) attacked from West Estonian archipelago to Lihula, Virtsu, and Haapsalu.\n\nBetween retreating Russian and advancing German troops, the Occupation of Estonia by the German Empire approaching, the Salvation Committee of the Estonian National Council, Maapäev, declared the independence of Estonia on 24 February 1918. However, the German forces did not recognise the independence.\n\nOn March 23, 1918 the Commander of German 68th Corps declared the just formed Estonian Army illegal. The arrests of the leaders of the national independence movement started in June 1918. The elected head of state Konstantin Päts was sent to Germany to be kept in prison. During this whole period the Estonian Salvation Committee continued its underground activities, entering into relation with the Western Allied powers. Great Britain recognised Estonian independence (de facto) on May 3, 1918, followed by France on May 18, and Italy on May 29, 1918, giving the committee a legal status of the representative of the Estonian nation.\n\nAfter the German Revolution, between 11 and 14 November 1918 the representatives of Germany formally handed over political power in Estonia to the national government. The departure of German troops left a void and the Russian Bolshevik troops moved in. The Estonian War of Independence followed. On 2 February 1920, the Peace Treaty of Tartu was signed by the Republic of Estonia and Bolshevist Russia. The Republic of Estonia obtained international recognition and became a member of the League of Nations in 1921.\n\nThe Baltic German minority tried to found the United Baltic Duchy. When signing the Treaty of Brest-Litowsk on March 3, 1918 Soviet Russia formally transferred Estonia to German military administration, its future status having to be determined later.\n\nOn April 12, 1918 the German Balts assembled Landesversammlung at Riga asking the forming of United Duchy of Estland, Livland and Kurland to be incorporated to Imperial Germany in personal union with Hohenzollern family, a request presented by the Landesrat in Riga to the Emperor of Germany.\n\nTallinn, Tartu, and Narva were placed direct under the German military administration (Ober Ost), but the rest of the country were divided and administrated as Amtsbezirks and smaller Ortsbezirks. Usually representatives of the Baltic nobility (Baltic German feudal landowners) were appointed as local heads of administration. All Estonian language newspapers, except the German minded Rewaler Tagesblatt / Tallinna Päevaleht were forbidden. This situation lasted until November 10, 1918. Germany denounced the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with all its (then secret) additional protocols on 5 November 1918. August Winnig, the last German representative in Estonia signed the treaty with the Estonian Provisional Government on November 19, 1918 giving all the administration power to the Estonian Provisional Government. Soviet Russia invaded Estonia on November 28, 1918, starting the Estonian War of Independence.\n\nThree German military administrations (Etappenverwaltungen) - Estonia, Livonia and Ösel - were set up as German advance progressed. The military administrators were at first subordinated to the Ober Ost 1917 -\n1918 and then to the Head of the Military Administration of the Baltic Lands.\n\nHead of the Administration\nVerwaltungschefs\n\nHead of the Military Administration\nVerwaltungschefs\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26438833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26438833", "title": "Gibraltar Police Authority", "text": "Gibraltar Police Authority\n\nThe Gibraltar Police Authority is an independent body that is responsible for securing that the Royal Gibraltar Police operates efficiently and effectively. It was created under Section 48 of the Gibraltar Constitution Order 2006. It is a corporate body whose responsibilities and powers are set out in the Police Act 2006 (amended in 2010).\n"}
{"id": "43948451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43948451", "title": "Global Relations Forum", "text": "Global Relations Forum\n\nGlobal Relations Forum (GRF) is an independent, non-profit membership association founded on May 11, 2009 in Turkey with the committed support of 40 Turkish men and women who have assumed prominent roles in international fora and have received international recognition for their efforts throughout their careers. The founding members include former secretaries of state, university presidents, central bank governors, ECHR justice and retired ambassadors as well as leading business leaders, scholars, artists, and journalists. GRF is committed to being a platform for engaging, informing and stimulating its members and all interested individuals in all matters related to international affairs and global issues.\n\nGRF advocates a global order of shared influence and accountability and seeks a constructive role for Turkey in that order.\n\nRahmi Koç , Memduh Karakullukçu, Hanzade Doğan Boyner, Lucien Arkas, Aslı Başgöz, Hasan T. Çolakoğlu, Salim Dervişoğlu, Suzan Sabancı Dinçer , Ali Doğramacı , Metin Fadıllıoğlu, Sönmez Köksal , Gülsün Sağlamer, Özdem Sanberk, Ferit Şahenk , İlter Türkmen\n\nGRF Task Forces are independent commissions that strive to propose policy recommendations on matters that involve medium to long-term uncertainty.\nTask Force members are diverse in professional backgrounds, experience and opinion but unite around the principles of consultation and search for common ground. Task Force members participate in the Task Force in their individual capacities; their views do not necessarily represent those of their institutions.\n\nGRF has published 2 Task Force Reports since 2009:\n\nGRF Community is composed of individuals who participated in one of GRF Programs.\nYS and YSA programs have been created by GRF to provide its participants with a platform where they can analyse and debate global issues. Students are selected from current undergraduates studying at world’s leading universities and leading universities in Istanbul. \n\nYAc brings together young academics that are either in the last year of their doctorate studies or have completed their Ph.D. in Turkey or abroad within the last three years.\nParticipants of YPr are expected to have worked in a private company, a public institution, or an NGO for at least four years, and to be no older than 38.\n\nGRF members are Turkish men and women who have assumed prominent roles in international fora and have received international recognition for their efforts throughout their careers.\nCorporate membership is designed for globally engaged companies, that can contribute significantly to GRF’s work.\n\n"}
{"id": "32614655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32614655", "title": "Gospel of Cividale", "text": "Gospel of Cividale\n\nThe Gospel of Cividale (, , or , ), at first named the Codex of Aquileia (Latin: , Slovene: ), is a medieval Latin transcript of the Gospel of Mark, written on parchment. It is named after Cividale del Friuli, a town in Friuli-Venezia Giulia (Northern Italy) where it is kept. It contains about 1500 Slavic and German names of pilgrims to the monastery of San Giovanni di Duino (), written in the second half of the 9th and the first half of the 10th century. The monastery was a property of the Patriarchate of Aquileia.\n\nThe Gospel contains the first known Croatian autographs in a Latin text.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11709514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11709514", "title": "Hortobágyi palacsinta", "text": "Hortobágyi palacsinta\n\nHortobágyi palacsinta is a savoury Hungarian pancake, filled with meat (usually veal). The meat is prepared as a stew; minced meat is fried with onions and spices like the \"pörkölt\" or the \"paprikás\" dish, using veal, veal with mushrooms, chicken, or Hungarian sausage.The pancakes are filled with the minced meat, tucking in the ends, and are baked in the oven with a paprika and \"tejföl\" (sour cream) sauce, then topped with fresh parsley.\n\nThe dish does not originate from the Hortobágy National Park region of the Great Hungarian Plain and has nothing to do with Hortobágy. It was originally invented for the 1958 Brussels World Fair. However, some Hungarian recipe books already featured a similar recipe in the 1930s. The name of the food is simply a marketing trick.\n\n"}
{"id": "19652713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19652713", "title": "Ja samo pjevam", "text": "Ja samo pjevam\n\nJa samo pjevam (English: \"I'm Only Singing\") is the sixth album by Croatian singer Severina. It was released in 1999 and sold more than 50,000 copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "10660387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10660387", "title": "Jääpeili", "text": "Jääpeili\n\nJääpeili is a 1928 poetry collection by Finnish poet Aaro Hellaakoski, considered by contemporary Finnish literature critics to be one of his best works.\n\nThe poetry's innovative pictorial typography in the poems \"Sade\" and \"Dolce far niente\" recalled Apollinaire's \"Calligrammes\" (1918); \"Sade\" especially recalls his \"Il pleut\", and both are classified as visual poetry. Other sources of inspiration for the poems were extracted from Cubism and the works of the Italian poet F.T. Marinetti, writer of the Manifeste du futurisme (1912).\n\nHellaakoski's enthusiasm about urban visual landscape is present in the poems that also had connections with the youthful romanticism of other Finnish writers such as Mika Waltari and Olavi Paavolainen.\n\n"}
{"id": "8869805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8869805", "title": "King's Medal of Merit", "text": "King's Medal of Merit\n\nThe King's Medal of Merit (Norwegian: \"Kongens fortjenstmedalje\") is a Norwegian award. It was instituted in 1908 to reward meritorious achievements in the fields of art, science, business, and public service. It is divided in two classes: gold and silver. The medal in gold is rewarded for extraordinary achievements of importance to the nation and society. The medal in silver may be awarded for lesser achievements. The medal is suspended from a ribbon in the colours of the Royal Standard of Norway.\n\nThe medal in gold is ranked eighth in the ranking of Norwegian orders and medals. The medal in silver is ranked 11th.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20723203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20723203", "title": "Lara de los Infantes", "text": "Lara de los Infantes\n\nLara de los Infantes is a town with 26 inhabitants in the province of Burgos in the autonomous region of Castille y León in Spain. \n\nIt is the seat of the municipality of Jurisdicción de Lara, which includes a few more inhabitants as it includes other localities like Paúles de Lara, and Aceña de Lara. It is situated in the shire of Sierra de la Demanda 45 kilometers from the city of Burgos.\n\nAlthough sparsely populated today, the area was important in Roman times. In the Middle Ages it formed part of the Alfoz of Lara, where the Lara family had its hereditary base, and its full name, Lara de los Infante (Lara of the Princes) reflects that family's legend, told in the \"Cantar de los Siete Infantes de Lara\".\n"}
{"id": "1129893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1129893", "title": "Lichnowsky", "text": "Lichnowsky\n\nThe House of Lichnowsky or House of Lichnovský is a Czech aristocratic family of Silesian and Moravian origin, documented since the 14th century.\n\nThe noble family first appeared in the Duchy of Pless (Pszczyna) in Upper Silesia, when one Estepan de Woszyczyki, probably from Woszczyce () near Orzesze, on 17 March 1377 obtained the office of a \"Schultheiß\" reeve in Lędziny from the Přemyslid duke John of Opava. His descendant Hanuš (John) of Woszczyki, judge in the Upper Silesian Duchy of Krnov from 1498 to 1507, by marriage acquired the estates of Lichnov in Moravia. He is first mentioned with his surname Lichnovský in a 1494 deed.\n\nThe head of the family was an hereditary member of the Prussian House of Lords from 12 October 1854 and was granted the title of \"Durchlaucht\" (Serene Highness) in Prussia on 8 March 1860.\n\n\nGenealogy of the Lichnowsky family\n"}
{"id": "47037534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47037534", "title": "List of bridges in Andorra", "text": "List of bridges in Andorra\n\nThis list of bridges in Andorra lists bridges of particular historical, scenic, architectural or engineering interest. Road and railway bridges, viaducts, aqueducts and footbridges are included.\n"}
{"id": "12540097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12540097", "title": "Long-haired rousette", "text": "Long-haired rousette\n\nThe long-haired rousette (\"Rousettus lanosus\") is a species of megabat in the family Pteropodidae found in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montane forests.\n"}
{"id": "794249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794249", "title": "Louis Bernacchi", "text": "Louis Bernacchi\n\nLouis Charles Bernacchi (8 November 1876 – 24 April 1942), a physicist and astronomer, is best known for his role in several expeditions to the Antarctic.\n\nBernacchi was born in Belgium to Italian parents, who migrated to Tasmania in 1884. His father, Diego Bernacchi, established a vineyard on Maria Island in 1884. He was educated in Hobart, Tasmania, at the Hutchins School. He trained in astronomy at the Melbourne Observatory in the use of sextants and magnetic instruments. During this period he developed an interest in Antarctic exploration, expressed in letters to the press and by following the proceeding of Antarctic Exploration Committees.\n\nHe joined Carstens Borchgrevink's Southern Cross expedition (1898–1900) which wintered at Cape Adare, Antarctica, joining the expedition in New Zealand after the previous physicist candidate had been rejected on medical grounds. The expedition was the first to spend the winter on the Antarctic continent (the Belgian Antarctic Expedition having been first to overwinter in 1898) and the first to sledge towards the South Pole. He wrote a book about the expedition \"To the south polar regions: expedition of 1898-1900\" published in 1900. His granddaughter Janet Crawford has edited a version of his diaries from the expedition under the title \"The First Antarctic Winter: The story of the Southern Cross Expedition of 1898-1900\".\n\nHe was again a physicist on the Discovery expedition led by Robert Falcon Scott (1901–1904). Bernacchi was the only man on this expedition who had previously been to the Antarctic. During the trip, he made extensive magnetic observations. Following the trip, Bernacchi was awarded the Royal Geographical Society and King's Antarctic Medal as well as the Légion d'honneur. Scott was the best man at Bernacchi's marriage in 1906.\n\nFollowing two short expeditions to Africa and the upper Amazon Basin in Peru, Bernacchi made two unsuccessful attempts to run for the House of Commons as a Liberal Party candidate, standing in Widnes in 1910. He also invested in rubber plantations in Malaya, Java and Borneo.\n\nDuring World War I, he served subsequently in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve, the Admiralty and the United States Navy. In 1919, he received both an Order of the British Empire and the United States Navy Cross. Following the war, he returned to his interests in rubber.\n\nHe remained active in scientific organisations, most notably the Royal Geographical Society, serving as a council member between 1928 and 1932. Bernacchi planned his own expedition to the Antarctic in 1925, but failed to raise sufficient funds. In 1930, he organised the British Polar Exhibition and helped to organise the Second International Polar Year in 1932.\n\nBernacchi wrote a number of books on the Antarctic including a biography of Lawrence Oates called \"A Very Gallant Gentleman\" published in 1933 and \"Saga of the Discovery\" in 1938. In World War II, he returned to the Royal Naval Reserve Volunteers before his death in 1942.\n\nThree landmarks in Antarctica are named after him: Bernacchi Head, on Franklin Island, Cape Bernacchi and Bernacchi Bay, both on the coast of Victoria Land.\n\nA species of Antarctic fish, the Trematomus bernacchii was named in his honor. \n\nIn 2001, Australia Post issued a postal stamp in honour of the 100th anniversary of Australia's involvement in Antarctic exploration. The Premier of Tasmania, Jim Bacon, unveiled sculptures of Bernacchi and fellow explorers at Sullivans Cove.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34748080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34748080", "title": "Luceafărul Theatre (Chișinău)", "text": "Luceafărul Theatre (Chișinău)\n\nLuceafărul Theatre () in Chișinău, Moldova, is a public theatre, founded in 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24101109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24101109", "title": "Metz family", "text": "Metz family\n\nThe Metz family is a family in Luxembourg that was prominent in politics and industry in the mid- and late nineteenth century and early twentieth century. The head of the household was Jean Metz, who had nine children. This second generation included Auguste Metz, Charles Metz, and Norbert Metz, who were all leading liberal politicians during the early stages of Luxembourg's independence, in the mid-nineteenth century. These three brothers defined political and economic life in Luxembourg in the mid-nineteenth century, and their children included further political and industrial leaders.\n\nThe Metz family also inter-married with other famous and powerful Luxembourgian families, including the Le Gallais, Vannérus, Laval, and Laeis families.\n\nBelow is a partial family tree, showing some of the most prominent family members. People have the surname Metz unless stated otherwise.\n"}
{"id": "53787998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53787998", "title": "Miff Görling", "text": "Miff Görling\n\nUno \"Miff\" Görling (March 21, 1909, Stockholm - February 24, 1988, Stockholm) was a Swedish jazz bandleader, trombonist, arranger, and composer. His brother was Zilas Görling.\n\nGörling, who took his nickname from trombonist Miff Mole, got his start late in the 1920s with Frank Vernon's orchestra, where he played until 1932. He then worked with Arne Hülphers, Gösta Jonsson, Seymour Österwall, and Gösta Säfbom before organizing his own ensemble in 1938. He led bands into the 1950s, and also did arrangement and composition work for other jazz groups as well as for popular Swedish musicians.\n"}
{"id": "2099906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2099906", "title": "Narbasi", "text": "Narbasi\n\nThe Narbasi were an ancient Celtic tribe of Gallaecia, living in the province of Minho (north of modern Portugal) and nearby areas of modern Galicia (Spain).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5752365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5752365", "title": "Neka mi ne svane", "text": "Neka mi ne svane\n\n\"Neka mi ne svane\" (\"May the dawn never come\") was the Croatian entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1998, performed in Croatian by Danijela.\n\nThe song was performed first on the night, preceding Greece's Thalassa with \"Mia Krifi Evesthisia\". At the close of voting, it had received 131 points, placing 5th in a field of 25.\n\nThe song is a dramatic ballad, often described as the archetypal \"Balkan Ballad\" by fans, with Danijela wishing that she will \"cease to exist\" rather than live another day without her lover. The song begins quietly, with only Danijela's voice heard, but swells to a climax with backing vocals and light instrumentation. Memorable in her performance is when Danijela removes the black cape she wears to reveal the white evening dress beneath it and the audience starts to applause.\n\nIt is generally regarded as one of the stronger entries from the successor states of Yugoslavia.\n\nIt was succeeded as Croatian representative at the 1999 Contest by Doris with \"Marija Magdalena\". As with many Croatian Eurovision entries, an English version was also recorded, entitled \"Despair\". An instrumental version with a piano replacing the vocals also exists. \n"}
{"id": "27747605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27747605", "title": "PB Shamshad", "text": "PB Shamshad\n\nPatrol Base Shamshad is a foreign military base in Helmand Province, Afghanistan.\n\nThe camp is south of Garmsir.\n\nBoth Estonian and British troops have manned the base.\nThe base has been used to train Afghan soldiers.\n\nThe following units have been posted here at some point:\n\n"}
{"id": "20630264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20630264", "title": "Palais du Peuple (Guinea)", "text": "Palais du Peuple (Guinea)\n\nThe Palais du Peuple (Palace of the People) is a venue for important events in Conakry, Guinea. In 2008, the building underwent serious renovations prior to celebrations for Guinea's 50th anniversary of independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "51745903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51745903", "title": "Peter Coade", "text": "Peter Coade\n\nPeter Coade (born February 14, 1942) is a Canadian broadcast meteorologist. In 2013 he was certified by the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" as having had the longest career of any weather forecaster.\n\nCoade was born in north-end Halifax, Nova Scotia, one of five children of pharmacist Vincent Coade and his wife, Jessie (Preston) Coade, the first female sports journalist for the \"Halifax Herald\". Sometimes interviewing sailors aboard vessels in port, she became known as \"Messdeck Annie\".\n\nWhile in high school, Coade job-shadowed the popular Halifax meteorologist Rube Hornstein, appearing with Hornstein on television, but it would be several years before he became an on-air weather forecaster himself. He was hired by the Meteorological Service of Canada in 1962 where he received on-the-job training in meteorology. Postings with the department included Truro, Goose Bay, and Toronto. He began his broadcast career while in Goose Bay in 1967, providing the nightly weather forecasts for the local CBC affiliate CFLA-TV, which was broadcast to US troops in an agreement with the US Air Force.\n\nAbout 1970, he and his family moved to Toronto where he continued with Environment Canada as a spokesman, meanwhile also serving as staff meteorologist for radio station CFRB. While in Toronto, he was also the official meteorologist for the Canadian International Air Show. In 1990, he returned to Halifax where he began a seventeen-year tenure as the evening weatherman for ATV's \"Live at Five\" (1998–2007) and the Atlantic Satellite Network. He left ATV when he reached mandatory retirement age in 2007 and immediately re-joined CBC where he continued to forecast the weather for the CBC evening news.\nOn December 3, 2012, he became CBC Radio One's morning meteorologist, providing weather forecasts for six CBC radio stations within the three Maritime provinces, including Information Morning in Halifax.\n\nCoade's career record surpassed that of fellow Canadian Dave Devall of CTV Toronto who retired from his 48-year career in 2009. His \"Guinness Book of Records\" citation read: \"The longest career as a weather forecaster is 50 years, 8 months and 21 days, and was achieved by Peter Coade (Canada) at CBC Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada from October 1, 1962 to June 21, 2013\". This was subsequently surpassed by Dick Goddard.\n\nHe retired on September 30, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "10891098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10891098", "title": "Poporanism", "text": "Poporanism\n\nPoporanism is a Romanian version of nationalism and populism.\n\nThe word is derived from \"popor\", meaning \"people\" in Romanian. Founded by Constantin Stere in the early 1890s, poporanism is distinguished by its opposition to socialism, promotion of voting rights for all and its intent to reform the Parliament and the farming system.\n\nRegarding Romania's agrarian situation, poporanists wished to form co-operative farms for the peasants and to remove them from aristocratic control. Unlike Junimism, another popular political philosophy, poporanism focused mainly on expanding the power of the peasants. In a very nationalist manner, it was also a champion of the Romanian language and of maintaining the Romanian spirit. \n\nSeveral famous Romanians, including Ion Agârbiceanu, supported it.\n\nConstantin Dobrogeanu-Gherea, a Romanian political activist, first introduced the Russian ideas of Narodism to Romania and supported the ideas of Poporanism. The fundamental philosophy of Narodism had a lasting impact on Poporanism, spurring its rejection of capitalism and of Marxist ideas. However, unlike Narodists, Stere did not believe that a revolution was necessary in Romania. Later, Dobrogeanu-Gherea and Stere had a split of political philosophy in regards to anti-Semitism and liberalism, and Dobrogeanu-Gherea formed the Social-Democratic Worker’s Party, and Poporanists joined the National Liberal Party. \n"}
{"id": "4596020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4596020", "title": "Revolutionary Trade Unions Federation", "text": "Revolutionary Trade Unions Federation\n\nThe Revolutionary Trade Unions Federation (DEV-İŞ) is a trade union centre in Cyprus. It is affiliated with the World Federation of Trade Unions. The organization traces its origins to 1975, when workers founded several trade unions that form the basis of the DEV-İŞ confederation. \n"}
{"id": "3276059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3276059", "title": "Rhino Band", "text": "Rhino Band\n\nThe Rhino Band was a popular band in Kenya. It was in formed in 1946 from the Entertainment Unit of the King's African Rifles. Their music did not win any awards, however a prominent member, George Senoga-Zake, jointly composed the Kenyan National Anthem.\n\n"}
{"id": "12219805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12219805", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Ndalatando", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Ndalatando\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Ndalatando () is a diocese located in the city of Ndalatando in the Ecclesiastical province of Malanje in Angola.\n\n\nThe Cathedral of the diocese is Sé Catedral de São João Baptista in N'Dalatando.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18716675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18716675", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Padang", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Padang\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Padang () is a diocese located in the city of Padang in the Ecclesiastical province of Medan in Indonesia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24319519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24319519", "title": "Sebastiano Bedendo", "text": "Sebastiano Bedendo\n\nMaggiore Sebastiano Bedendo (18 July 1895-24 August 1935) was a World War I flying ace credited with five aerial victories. After completing his education postwar, he rejoined Italian military aviation. He set several world aviation flying records with a Nuvoli N.5 monoplane before dying in an air crash.\n\nSebastiano Bedendo was born on 18 July 1895 in Rovigo, in the Kingdom of Italy. He began his military service with the 5th Fortress Artillery Regiment. Bedendo was conscripted when Italy entered World War I. His time with the cannons was brief, as he quickly transferred to aerial observer duty in a kite balloon section. He was accepted for flying training on 17 April 1916; he took his first flight three days later, in a Caudron G.3. On 19 June in Busto Arsizio, he qualified as a pilot. He continued training, qualifying on the Caudron G.3 on 1 July, Farman on 1 September, and Caudron G.4 on 3 October 1916. His first assignment was flying reconnaissance on the battle fronts of northern Italy. On 7 October, he was assigned to \"48a Squadriglia\" as a G.4 pilot.\n\nOn 17 February 1917, Bedendo transferred to the \"71a Squadriglia\". He was selected for fighter training on Nieuports, which he began on 18 October in Malpensa. When training was completed, he was posted back to \"72a Squadriglia\" on 27 November 1917.\n\nBedendo was detached to serve in the Hanriot flight of \"71a Squadriglia\" on 18 January 1918. He served a month with them before returning to \"72a Squadriglia\" for a month. On 11 March 1918, he would settle into service with \"71a Squadriglia\". He would stake his first aerial victory claim while with them, on 19 March 1918. It went unconfirmed, as did his second claim on 7 June. It would not be until 29 July that he was credited with his first confirmed aerial victory. This began a string of aerial victory claims that, by competing accounts, made him an ace with five confirmed wins and four unconfirmed ones. By all accounts, he began scoring on 29 July 1918, followed by a certain second win the next day. From there the accounts differ, but in any case, after scoring his fifth win, he transferred out. On 20 October 1918, he joined the \"Squadron of Aces\", \"91a Squadriglia\", by invitation. There he participated in the war's final offensive, though with no more aerial victories.\n\nBedendo returned to his engineering studies at university. After graduation, he joined the newly formed \"Regia Aeronautica\" in 1924, in their engineering branch as a \"Capitano\". In December 1930, he was promoted to Maggiore.\n\nOn 6 March 1933, he made the maiden flight with a Nuvoli N5 light aircraft. Between April and June, Bedendo set a world aeronautical record for light aircraft, and two speed records over 100 km and 500 km courses. A French Farman 239 took one of the records, and Bedendo seized it back in 1935, using a modernized Nuvoli N.5 RR.\n\nOn 24 August 1935, Nuvoli N.5 Cab. I-NUBE lost a wing in flight. The crew of Sebastiano Bedendo, Giovanni Testore, and Giovanni Nicastro did not survive the crash at Spinosa di Ottiglio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1172760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172760", "title": "Secret broadcast", "text": "Secret broadcast\n\nA secret broadcast is, simply put, a broadcast that is not for the consumption of the general public. The invention of the wireless was initially greeted as a boon by armies and navies. Units could now be coordinated by nearly instant communications. An adversary could glean valuable and sometimes decisive intelligence from intercepted radio signals:\n\n\nIn the 1920s the United States was able to track Japanese fleet exercises even through fog banks by monitoring their radio transmissions.\n\nA doctrine was developed of having units in the field, particularly ships at sea, maintain radio silence except for urgent situations, such as reporting contact with enemy forces. Ships in formation reverted to pre-wireless methods, including semaphore and signal flags, with signal lamps used at night. Communication from headquarters were sent by one-way radio broadcasts.\n\nDuring World War II, the BBC would include \"personal messages\" in its broadcasts of news and entertainment to occupied-Europe. Often they were coded messages intended for secret agents. Leo Marks attributes this idea to Georges Bégué, an agent for the Special Operations Executive who felt their use could eliminate a lot of the two-way radio traffic that often compromised agents. Such messages were also used to authenticate agents to sources of assistance in the field. The agent would arrange to have the BBC broadcast any short phrase the other person chose.\n\nIn the mid-twentieth century, the High Frequency radio bands were used by numerous stations sending seemingly random Morse code, usually in five-letter groups. As more advanced communications methods, such as teleprinter and satellite, took over, the number of such stations diminished, but another type appeared that transmitted spoken and also seemingly random number and letter groups, the latter usually using words from a radio alphabet such as ICAO/NATO alphabet.\n\nThough there has been no official confirmation (beyond a 1998 article in \"The Daily Telegraph\" which quoted a spokesperson for the Department of Trade and Industry as saying, \"These [numbers stations] are what you suppose they are. People shouldn't be mystified by them. They are not for, shall we say, public consumption.\") there is little doubt that most of these numbers stations are primarily used to send messages to spies and other clandestine agents (additional possible uses include communication with embassies when a crisis might dictate destruction of cryptographic equipment and as a backup to normal command systems in wartime). Other intended recipients of secret broadcasts have faster and easier-to-use equipment at their disposal. But number stations are ideal for spies in that they require no special equipment, beyond a short-wave receiver. Morse code skills, once a staple of spy training, are no longer required.\n\nAn issue in the past has been the limited bandwidth of the broadcast. Morse code was typically sent at 25 words per minute. Teleprinters could operate at or above 60 words per minute. The military uses a message precedence system to prioritize critical traffic, but all too often, senior commanders insisted on high precedence for lengthy messages lacking real urgency.\n\n"}
{"id": "53925665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53925665", "title": "State Social Services (Albania)", "text": "State Social Services (Albania)\n\nThe State Social Services (SHSSH) () is a government agency in Albania whose mission is to implement policies, legislation on economic assistance, as well as to ensure the coverage of wages and social services for the disabled through its network of 28 social care institutions and 12 regional centers around the country.\n"}
{"id": "5701231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5701231", "title": "Sva bol svijeta", "text": "Sva bol svijeta\n\n\"Sva bol svijeta\" (\"All the Pain in the World\") was the Bosnia and Herzegovinian entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1993, performed in Bosnian by Fazla.\n\nThe song was the eighteenth performed that night, following Finland's Katri Helena with \"Tule luo\" and preceding the United Kingdom's Sonia with \"Better The Devil You Know\". After the vote was tallied, it had been completely underestimated, having received 27 points with one 12-point from Turkey, and placing 16th in a field of 25.\n\nThe song's title, \"all the pain in the world\" refers to the suffering of the Bosnian War which was ongoing at the time.\n\nIt was followed a year later by 1994's entry for Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Alma & Dejan performing \"Ostani kraj mene\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18574702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18574702", "title": "The Apprentice Africa", "text": "The Apprentice Africa\n\nThe Apprentice Africa is an African version of the original American Reality TV format, \"The Apprentice\", hosted by Donald Trump. The show was hosted by Mr. Biodun Shobanjo, an advertising magnate, co-founder of Insight Communications and CEO of Troyka Group. It gathered 18 contestants from across six African countries: Nigeria, Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, Cameroon and Guinea. The show was aired in Nigeria on (Nigerian Television Authority), Silverbird TV, Super Screen, and MBI Television; Ghana on (TV3); Kenya on (KTN); Uganda on (WBS); and Tanzania (TBC1); premiered in February 2008 and ended in June 2008.\n\nThe premier edition, shot in the Nigerian commercial capital Lagos, had eighteen episodes where contestants competed in seventeen business tasks requiring street smarts and corporate intelligence to conquer. Contestants were arranged into two groups and in each episode, the winning team was rewarded while the losing team meet the CEO and his associates in the boardroom to explain why they lost. The Project Manager for that task would choose two teammates perceived to be the reason for the lost or the weakest link in the team, one of whom would then be fired.\n\nIsaac Dankyi-Koranteng, a 31-year-old Sales and Marketing Manager from Ghana, won the first season. He was hired by Biodun Shobanjo. As a reward, the winner was offered a brand new car and an annual salary of $200,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2828729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2828729", "title": "The Cup (1999 film)", "text": "The Cup (1999 film)\n\nThe Cup (ཕོར་པ། or \"Phörpa\") is a 1999 Tibetan-language film directed by Khyentse Norbu. The plot involves two young football-crazed Tibetan refugee novice monks in a remote Himalayan monastery in India who desperately try to obtain a television for the monastery to watch the 1998 World Cup final.\n\nThe movie was shot in the Tibetan refugee village Bir in India (Himachal Pradesh) (almost entirely between Chokling Gompa and Elu Road).\n\nProducer Jeremy Thomas had developed a relationship with Norbu when he was an advisor on Bertolucci's \"Little Buddha\". Thomas later remembered his experience making the film:\n\n\"The Cup\" was released to DVD on November 13, 2007 in North America by Festival Media (IBFF). The DVD was mastered from a new direct-to-digital transfer from the original film, and includes a bonus documentary entitled \"Inside The Cup\", featuring the director discussing the film, cinema in general and Buddhist philosophy, along with outtakes from the film. There is also a director's commentary audio track.\n\n"}
{"id": "35457960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35457960", "title": "The Global 100", "text": "The Global 100\n\nThe Global 100 Index is a ranking of the world's most sustainable corporations. The list is compiled by Toronto-based media and investment advisory firm, Corporate Knights (CK).\n\nEach year, the latest iteration of the index is announced at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.\n\nAs at December 31, 2013 the Global 100 has outperformed its benchmark, the MSCI All Country World Index by 3.21%.\n\nThe Global 100 was created by Corporate Knights Magazine in 2005. The goal of creating the index was to devise a methodology to quantitatively compare and rank the world’s largest public companies.\n\nThe Global 100 uses a purely quantitative methodology to determine inclusion in the ranking. The Global 100 starting universe automatically considers all firms with a market capitalization of at least US$2 billion. The firms are then put through numerous screenings to test for key information, including; overall sustainability disclosure rate and sustainability disclosure rate versus GICS sector peers, a financially based Piotroski F-score to ensure financial stability, and fines, penalties or settlements paid out by the company for sustainability related violations. Companies in the GICS sub-industry categories of tobacco and those engaged primarily in defence are eliminated.\n\nThe initial screening process culminates in the Global 100 shortlist. At this point, companies are compared on priority key performance indicators (KPIs), according to GICS sector. Priority indicators are chosen based on the percentage of firms in the sector who disclose the indicator. If less than 10% disclose, than the indicator will not be considered a priority KPI for that sector. There are a maximum of 12 KPIs used in the ranking, they are:\n\n\nEach KPI is weighted equally and companies are given an overall percentage score. Failure to disclose a priority KPI will result in a zero, thus severely punishing firms for non-disclosure.\n\nThe Global 100 Index has been recognized as a leader in transparency and industry best practices for sustainability rankings, according to SustainAbility’s Rate the Raters project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3337602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3337602", "title": "Vatican lira", "text": "Vatican lira\n\nThe lira (plural \"lire\") was the currency of the Vatican City between 1929 and 2002.\n\nThe Papal States, by then reduced to a smaller area close to Rome, used its own lira between 1866 and 1870, after which it ceased to exist. In 1929, the Lateran Treaty established the State of the Vatican City and, according with the terms of the Treaty, a distinct coinage was introduced, denominated in centesimi and lire, on par with the Italian lira. Italian coins and banknotes were legal tender in the Vatican City. The Vatican coins were minted in Rome and were also legal tender in Italy and San Marino.\n\nIn 2002, the Vatican City switched to the euro at an exchange rate of 1 euro = 1936.27 lira. It has its own set of euro coins.\n\nThe development of Vatican coins largely mirrored the development of the Italian lire coins.\n\nIn 1929, copper 5 and 10 centesimi, nickel 20 and 50 centesimi, 1 and 2 lire, and silver 5 and 10 lire coins were introduced. In 1939, aluminium bronze replaced copper and, in 1940, stainless steel replaced nickel. Between 1941 and 1943, production of the various denominations was reduced to only a few thousand per year.\n\nIn 1947, a new coinage was introduced consisting of aluminium 1, 2, 5 and 10 lire. The sizes of these coins were reduced in 1951. In 1955, stainless steel 50 and 100 lire were introduced, followed by aluminium bronze 20 lire in 1957 and silver 500 lire in 1958. The 1 and 2 lire ceased production in 1977, followed by the 5 lire in 1978. Aluminium-bronze 200 lire were introduced in 1978, followed by bi-metallic 500 and 1000 lire in 1985 and 1997, respectively. The 50 and 100 lire were reduced in size in 1992.\n\nBeginning in 1967, the Vatican began issuing coins using Roman numerals for the year of issue, as opposed to the more common Arabic numerals.\n\nVatican lire coins were discontinued with the advent of the euro.\n\nVatican City has frequently issued its coins in yearly changing commemorative series, featuring a wide variety of themes. While most of these were sold in the form of uncirculated mint sets, a portion of Vatican coins were released into general circulation.\n\n"}
{"id": "32735041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32735041", "title": "Virgin Radio Turkey", "text": "Virgin Radio Turkey\n\nVirgin Radio Turkey was launched at Ankara in 2008. It is owned by Doğuş Yayın Holding. They also provide an official top 30 chart of foreign music.\n\nCurrent\n\n"}
