{"id": "22478130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22478130", "title": "2010 Islamic Solidarity Games", "text": "2010 Islamic Solidarity Games\n\nThe 2nd Islamic Solidarity Games were going to be an international sporting event scheduled to be held in Iran on 9–25 April, 2010. The Games were cancelled following a dispute between the host country and Saudi Arabia.\n\nIt was reported 3 May 2009, that Iran had suspended the games due to a dispute over the use of the term \"Persian Gulf\". Saudi Arabia and other Arabic countries disapproved of the use of the term \"Persian Gulf\" on literature and medals and insisted the term \"Arabian Gulf\" or just \"Gulf\" be used instead. Iran claimed it was still in talks to try to salvage the games.\n\nOn 17 January 2010, the governing body of the ISG reported that the event had been canceled due to the tension between Arab states and Iran over the name of the body of water.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "90839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90839", "title": "600 BC", "text": "600 BC\n\nThe year 600 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 154 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 600 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1964472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1964472", "title": "Abusive language (law)", "text": "Abusive language (law)\n\nThe use of abusive language to another person is illegal in a small number of U.S. states. Offenders are typically charged with this offense in conjunction with other crimes, such as aggressive driving or assault. However, in 1989 the New York State Court of Appeals ruled that abusive language was protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "29450189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29450189", "title": "Africa Fashion Week Paris", "text": "Africa Fashion Week Paris\n\nAfrica Fashion Week Paris is an annual fashion week held in Paris, France. It is produced by Adireé Fashion Agency, partners and sponsors to bring.\n\n\nhttps://africafashionweek.com/\n"}
{"id": "5990093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5990093", "title": "Ain al-Yaqeen", "text": "Ain al-Yaqeen\n\nAin al Yaqeen (\"Heart of the Matter\" in English) is an Arabic news magazine published weekly, focusing on political topics. \n\n\"Ain al Yaqeen\" has also an English edition. It is published online. The magazine is seen as a government publication or as a semi-official weekly political magazine.\n\nAfter it was revealed that a member of the royal family had indirectly funded one of the hijackers in the September 11 attacks, Prince Nayef in an article published in the English edition of the weekly on 29 November 2002 claimed that the Jews were behind the attacks.\n\nList of magazines in Saudi Arabia\n"}
{"id": "2530680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530680", "title": "Arts, Beats and Eats", "text": "Arts, Beats and Eats\n\nArts, Beats & Eats is a U.S. Labor Day Weekend festival held in Royal Oak, Michigan. Prior to 2010 it was held in downtown Pontiac, Michigan streets in storefront businesses and at the Phoenix Plaza Amphitheatre. The festival is sponsored by local businesses, including Ford, the naming sponsor. Proceeds from Arts, Beats & Eats benefit local charities; an estimated 1.7 million was donated in the first seven years.\n\nA juried arts exhibition, food court, concert stages with local and national acts and a charity preview gala highlight festival programming. In 2005, families were treated to special fun in the Family Village, including the following play zones:\n\n\nProgramming begins Friday afternoon and ends Monday evening. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6040043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6040043", "title": "Australian Rally Championship", "text": "Australian Rally Championship\n\nThe Australian Rally Championship (ARC) is Australia's leading off-road motor rally competition. A multi-event national championship has been held each year since 1968.\n\nThe Australian Rally Championship takes in some of the country’s most stunning and picturesque locations. The 2010 season starts with Rally Tasmania, the only tarmac round in the championship. Based in the small coastal city of Burnie, Australia's longest-running tarmac rally is celebrating its 30th Anniversary this year.\n\nThe second round sees the championship head across the country for the Quit Forest Rally. The rally is based in the coastal tourist town of Busselton, near Margaret River in Western Australia. Many of the rally stages are narrow and tree-lined, and are often covered in the notoriously slippery, ball-bearing gravel.\n\nThe third round of the championship takes place in the forest roads in the hills around Coffs Harbour, New South Wales. The Coffs Coast Rally, known for its numerous surface changes, was cancelled in 2009 due to heavy rains and road damage.\n\nThe championship then travels to South Australia for the Scouts Rally SA. The rally stages are located in the Barossa Valley, Adelaide Hills and Mount Barker regions, and are within driving distance of the state capital Adelaide. The rally stages are the smoothest and fastest in the championship, making the rally a favourite for competitors and spectators alike.\n\nRound four of the Australian Rally Championship, and also a round of the FIA Asia-Pacific Championship, is the International Rally of Queensland. The stages are held in the forests around the township of Imbil, in the Mary Valley just north of Brisbane. The stages vary between tight and technical and fast and flowing, with many rough sections that give this event a reputation as a potential car-breaker.\n\nThe final round of the ARC will be a new round in the state of Victoria. The event is set to based in the town of Drouin, located about 100 kilometres east of Melbourne. The rally stages are to be held mostly in the foothills of Mount Baw Baw, using forestry roads in the Nojoee - Neerim district.\n\nThe Championship itself is a highly competitive series, featuring a host of talented teams all racing the clock for the honour of being champion. The competition is often very close, with drivers trading stage times over the gravel and tarmac roads and often finishing just tenths of seconds ahead, or behind, their rivals. In the forest, the action is thrilling. Cars slide sideways through high-speed corners and dodge and dive over challenging crested roads as the team-work between driver and co-driver is tested to the limit.\n\nThe Australian Rally Championship caters to a range of different competitors in the series and with a number of classes and categories; competitors can start rallying at the level that best suits their budget. The outright competition is fought out amongst the names of rallying and is the ultimate test for the competitors at the pointy end of the field. The ARC’s top drivers compete in Group N (Production) - cars which have direct links to their road-going counterparts. The ARC also offers opportunities for manufacturers who don’t produce Group N cars to build comparable machinery under both the Group N (P) and FIA Super 2000 regulations. Another award that is desirable for competitors to chase is the Privateers Cup for competitors who don't have support from the manufacturer teams. The F16 Championship is the small car category (1600cc, 2WD) and a budget-level place to start rallying. The outright winner of the Championship is an Australian Champion in the small car category and is added to the record books. The Aussie Cup is the Australian award for large cars (over 2500cc) that enables competitors in the big cars to run popular passenger car models such as V6 and V8’s. Amongst the outright awards are the opportunities to chase individual class awards that are based on car capacity and specification which gives competitors the opportunity to pursue class victories.\n\nThe more successful cars in recent years of the ARC have been the 4WD 2.0L Turbo models such as the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolutions, Subaru Impreza WRX STIs and the Toyota Corolla ARC-spec cars, which are actually running Toyota Celica GT-Four engines, 4WD system, etc.. Michael Guest and Mark Stacey campaigned a RWD 2.5L normally aspirated Ford Focus during the 2006 season, switching to a Ford Fiesta prepared for the Super 2000 class in 2007. Most of the cars in the privateer fields are of a similar make, but other makes with success have been the Mitsubishi Mirage, Mitsubishi Galant VR-4, Subaru Legacy, Datsun 1600, Datsun 240Z, Nissan Stanza and the Suzuki Swift GTi.\n\nAs with the cars, it tends to be the factory-entered drivers that take the outright placings. Some of these drivers have been Colin Bond, Greg Carr. George Fury, Ross Dunkerton, Geoff Portman, Scott Pedder, Simon Evans, Neal Bates, the late Possum Bourne and Ed Ordynski. Privateer crews that have enjoyed recent success include Nathan Quinn and Steve Glenney. In 2015 Molly Taylor became the first woman to win a heat in the Australian Rally Championship.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Fred Gocentas co-drove for Greg Carr during the 1978 season while Dawson-Damer co-drove for Colin Bond while also scoring points on one occasion co-driving for Dave Morrow which enabled him to beat Gocentas to the co-driver's title.<br>\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> Kate Officer co-drove for David Officer during the 1986 season. <br>\n<nowiki>***</nowiki> Bill Hayes co-drove for Molly Taylor during the 2017 season. David Calder and Ben Searcy co-drove for Quinn in 2017. <br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12183996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12183996", "title": "Bad Newz Kennels dog fighting investigation", "text": "Bad Newz Kennels dog fighting investigation\n\nThe Bad Newz Kennels dog fighting investigation began in April 2007 with a search of property in Surry County, Virginia, owned by Michael Vick, who was at the time quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons football team, and the subsequent discovery of evidence of a dog fighting ring. Over seventy dogs, mostly pit bull terriers, with some said to be showing signs of injuries, were seized, along with physical evidence during several searches of Vick's property by local, state and federal authorities.\n\nThe case drew widespread publicity to the issues of animal abuse and dog fighting. It also drew attention to unlawful gambling and drug activities which authorities claim often accompany dog fighting. Subsequently, Vick and three other principals were convicted of federal offense conspiracy charges and imprisoned. Vick was suspended by the NFL, was ordered to pay the Atlanta Falcons back a portion of his earnings, and lost endorsement deals worth millions more. With other creditors also attempting to collect millions of dollars in debts, in July 2008, he filed for Chapter 11 (reorganization) bankruptcy protection.\n\nThe Bad Newz dog fighting investigation began in April 2007 with a search of property in Surry County, Virginia, owned by Atlanta Falcons’ football quarterback Michael Vick, and the subsequent discovery of evidence of a dog fighting ring in Newport News, Virginia. Over 70 dogs, mostly pit bull terriers, with some said to be showing signs of injuries, were seized along with physical evidence during several searches of Vick's 15-acre (60,000 m²) property by local, state and federal authorities.\n\nIn July 2007, Vick and three other men were indicted on federal offense and state felony charges relating to a six-year-long continuing criminal enterprise of an interstate dog fighting ring known as “Bad Newz Kennels,” based upon a local nickname for Newport News, Vick's hometown. Allegations included Vick's direct involvement in dog fighting, high-stakes gambling, and brutal executions of dogs. Public outcry resulted from widespread news media publicity of the details which included hanging, drowning, electrocuting, \"slamming\", and shooting dogs. There were public demonstrations by both Vick supporters and animal rights activists. In the wake, many companies who had been paying for his endorsements withdrew Vick products from retail marketing when he was convicted.\n\nBy August 20, all the defendants on the initial federal charges including Vick had agreed to guilty pleas under plea bargain agreements, apparently avoiding facing the possibility of additional and more serious charges under the powerful Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. U.S. District Court Judge Henry E. Hudson, who is not bound by sentencing recommendations in plea agreements, had previously advised two of the defendants that the aggravated circumstances involving executing the dogs warranted an upward revision of the sentencing guidelines. The single felony charges carry a maximum sentence of five years.\n\nOn November 30, Peace and Phillips were sentenced by Judge Hudson to 18 and 21 months in federal prison respectively. The punishments were higher than recommended by federal prosecutors, and included three years of supervised probation following their release from prison. During the sentencing, an attorney for Quanis Phillips argued that his client came from a culture in which dog fighting was an accepted practice. He further claimed that Phillips grew up around it and that it was a proving ground for young men to demonstrate their strength, adding \"Dogfighting was an accepted and acceptable activity in their world.\" They attended dogfights as youths. Then, after Vick signed his first NFL contract, \"...suddenly there's money for these young men to get dogs … get involved in this world.\"\n\nJudge Hudson responded that while they might have grown up seeing dogfighting as normal behavior, that didn't temper guilt in this case. As he pronounced a sentence which exceeded the guidelines and plea agreement recommendations, he stated:\n\nAt the time of the November 30 hearings for Peace and Phillips, Vick was being held at Northern Neck Regional Jail in Warsaw, Virginia where he had turned himself in early while awaiting sentencing on the federal convictions on December 10, 2007. Vick received a harsher sentence than Peace and Phillips after Hudson concluded that the suspended Atlanta Falcons quarterback lied about his direct involvement in killing dogs and about his marijuana use, which was detected in a drug test, as well as his greater role in the criminal enterprise and lesser cooperation during the earlier investigation. Taylor, who is alleged to have had a greater role in the conspiracy than Peace and Phillips was also due to be sentenced on December 10, but, like Peace and Phillips, had agreed to testify against Vick at trial before he also accepted a plea agreement.\n\nIn addition to federal actions, a parallel state investigation had also been underway since April 2007. Surry County prosecutor Gerald L. Poindexter later described the information contained in the federal plea agreements as \"a road map to indictments in Surry County.\" Plea bargains with federal prosecutors would have no official standing in the local cases against any of the four federal co-defendants. (Double jeopardy concepts would not apply to state and federal overlapping cases). In September, 2007, all four men convicted in the federal case were also indicted by the Surry County Grand Jury on state felony charges relating to dog fighting under state laws after indictments were returned by a local grand jury in Surry County, Virginia. Vick faces two felony counts under state laws and his trial in Surry County Circuit Court has been set for April 2, 2008. The maximum penalty if then convicted on the state charges would be 10 years in a state penitentiary.\n\nUnlike the other men, Vick was a millionaire and celebrity. During his time in Philadelphia he led the Eagles to the playoffs and picked up his first new endorsement deal with Unequal Technologies. Unequal Technologies makes shoulder pads for the NFL and its players.\n\nIn December 2009, Sports Illustrated named Michael Vick and the dog fighting investigation as one of the top 10 sports news stories of the decade of the 2000s.\n\nIn the following several months, various media sources revealed that Vick has close ties and business relationships with three other men who are apparently not his relatives, but were involved with the Surry County property and/or his activities with pit bulls prior to April 25. Tony Taylor, Quanis L. Phillips, and Charles W. Reamon, Jr. Both Taylor and Phillips have had drug-related brushes with the law; Reamon has had multiple firearms incidents.\n\nCharles W. (\"C.J.\") Reamon, Jr., is the nephew of Vick's former high school coach, Tommy Reamon. It was reported that in January 2006 he paid the $50 fee to renew the Moonlight Road kennel license which is listed in Taylor's name with Surry County. Reamon's uncle, Tommy Reamon, who coached Vick during his high school football career in Newport News, described his nephew as \"a good boy who works for Vick.\" Coach Reamon has recently accused the news media of \"trying to destroy\" Vick, which Newport News \"Daily Press\" columnist David Teel described as a \"tired, transparent and bogus claim.\" \n\n\"C.J.\" Reamon has three convictions related to illegal firearms or airport security, including being caught for lying about his criminal record when he was employed in security work at Norfolk International Airport (discovered during a \"sting\" investigation), and an incident in August 2006 when he was caught carrying a loaded .357 SIG Glock into the Newport News/Williamsburg International Airport terminal. In February 2007, \"C.J.\" Reamon and Vick were together when Vick was charged with a minor fishing boat sticker violation in Norfolk's Western Branch Reservoir by a Virginia game warden.\n\nESPN reported that, very shortly after the initial raid in late April, Vick \"threw Taylor off the Surry property\" and listed it with real estate agents for sale. The property includes a large brick house painted white, a small swimming pool, and a basketball court. Four outbuildings painted black are located in the woods. It was reported by the local news media as under a sales contract for approximately 50% of its assessed value with a day or so of listing. However, according to published reports, as of July 6 no transfer papers had been filed with the county clerk where deeds are recorded.\n\nDuring the subsequent weeks, Surry County Sheriff Harold D. Brown and Commonwealth's Attorney (local prosecutor) Gerald G. Poindexter repeatedly responded to media inquiries with assurances that they were proceeding carefully with the investigation and any prosecutions and that anyone \"whoever they are\" who evidence indicates had acted unlawfully will be charged. According to the Code of Virginia (3.1-796.124), illegal activities relating to dog fighting (or supporting it) are felony offenses under Virginia laws. Other Virginia criminal statutes also prohibit gambling, which has also been alleged against Vick by an ESPN source who claimed to have seen Vick bet as much as $40,000 on the outcome of a single dog fight. On May 31, when asked by a news reporter for WAVY-TV whether there was evidence that placed Vick at dog fights, Poindexter replied \"Yes\".\n\nOn June 7, Boddie, who had recently moved from Surry County to Newport News, conducted interviews with news reporters from local television stations and the Newport News \"Daily Press\" newspaper in front of the nightclub in Hampton where one of his arrests had taken place. He alleged a conspiracy by authorities dating from 2001, claiming the amount of marijuana he admits having on April 20 was not justification for the search warrant of his Surry County residence, an opinion local prosecutors from several different jurisdictions took strong objection to, according to the \"Daily Press\" on June 8. Boddie accused authorities of being dishonest regarding the quantity of drugs he had and whether he was in possession of a firearm when arrested on April 20, claiming that the authorities will do anything to make \"[him] and [his] peeps [people] look bad.\n\nFollowing weeks of increasing reports in the news media of Vick’s involvement and new evidence and witnesses reportedly coming forward to authorities, according to \"USA Today\", on June 7, federal authorities, assisted by the Virginia State Police, revealed their own investigation, and began an additional search of the property. Surry County Commonwealth's Attorney Poindexter told \"USA Today\" that an official of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Office of the Inspector General notifying him by telephone about 3 PM EDT on June 7 also advised him that the local authorities loved what he did, but were free to continue their own ongoing investigation. News media reports on WAVY-TV at 11 PM that evening placed Poindexter at the Vick home and property, apparently observing the search. Federal authorities, assisted by Virginia State Police, conducted an additional search on July 6, as reported by multiple news media sources. Federal and state police officials had not issued any public statements as of that time.\n\nDocuments filed in federal court in Richmond on July 2 and obtained by the Associated Press under the Freedom of Information Act outline an extensive multi-state dog fighting enterprise named \"Bad Newz Kennels\" which was allegedly operating from the Vick property since at least 2002. For the events, participants and dogs traveled from South Carolina, North Carolina, Maryland, New York, Texas and other states. At least three people are expected to be indicted. On July 7, the \"Free-Lance Star\" newspaper based in Fredericksburg, Virginia noted that on Vick's website, he lists his birthplace as Newport News, \"a.k.a. BadNews.\" The same day, \"The Atlanta Constitution\" noted that the Urban Dictionary lists \"Bad Newz\" as the street name for Newport News. WAVY-TV (Portsmouth, VA) posted a copy of one of the federal court document from July 2, and has made it available online at WAVY-TV online copy of July 2 document obtained under Freedom of Information request about the \"Bad Newz Kennels\" interstate dog fighting investigation.\n\nThe federal court filings of July 2 alleged that Vick's property was used as the \"main staging area for housing and training the pit bulls involved in the dog fighting venture.\" A source close to the investigation told ESPN's Len Pasquarelli that the events of Friday [July 6] were \"very helpful in the overall and ongoing investigation into an alleged dogfighting ring at that property. ... Remember, this is an investigation into what has been accepted an enterprise involving many people... From our standpoint, it never has focused on an individual and it still doesn't.\" \n\nOn July 17, a federal grand jury indicted Vick and 3 others on multiple counts, stating that Vick and three other men spent six years \"knowingly sponsoring and exhibiting in an animal fighting venture.\" Almost immediately, speculation began regarding Vick's future in the NFL.\n\nThe grand jury also charged the men with establishing a kennel to represent dogfighting competitions, purchase and train pitbulls in dogfighting competitions and \"destroying or otherwise disposing of dogs not selected to stay with the ongoing animal fighting venture.\" The case was assigned to Henry E. Hudson in the U.S. District Court in Richmond.\n\nAccording to an ESPN attorney, a new \"tough\" federal law passed by the U.S. Congress in April 2007 and signed by President George W. Bush on May 3, 2007 is being used in many ongoing investigations of dog fighting around the country. However, Vick and his codefendants were charged under the older laws, which carry lower penalties. Vick and his codefendants each face $350,000 in fines and six years in prison if convicted of the federal charges. (On the Travel Act portion of the conspiracy charges, he faces a maximum of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. The dogfighting charges carry a possible sentence of one year in prison, a $100,000 fine, or both).\n\nThe \"Virginian-Pilot\" reported that the other three men indicted were longtime associates of property-owner Vick, who was also known to members of the alleged conspiracy as \"Ookie\" according to the federal indictment.\n\nOn July 26, all four pleaded \"not guilty\" to all of the charges against them during a hearing before Judge Hudson at the Lewis F. Powell Jr. U.S. Courthouse in Richmond, and a trial date was set for November 26. \"USA Today\" reported that all four defendants were released without bond, but among the pre-trial conditions imposed on Vick by U.S. Magistrate Dennis Dohnal in a separate hearing held the same day was that he surrender any dog breeding or kennel licenses he may have. All four defendants were required to be under active supervision of the court, surrender their passports, refrain from travel outside their immediate area without prior approval, and stay away from dogs, guns, and each other. Peace, Phillips and Taylor must undergo random drug tests, but not Vick, as he has no prior convictions. Peace and Phillips were also required to submit to electronic monitoring via ankle bracelets. Taylor was ordered to undergo substance abuse evaluation and treatment.\n\nFederal prosecutors announced plans to file a superseding indictment by the end of August. According to a representative of the U.S. District Court, a superseding indictment could mean new charges and possibly new defendants in the case. ESPN legal analyst Lester Munson said given the reputation of Richmond's federal prosecutors, he anticipates that Vick will face more federal charges. Munson also believes that the threat of a superseding indictment is intended to make the defendants plead guilty and cooperate with the government.\n\nThe two hearings took a total of 25 minutes, which is typical for a court popularly known as \"the rocket docket\" for the speed with which proceedings are conducted. It was unclear whether the same bail arrangements would also apply to additional federal charges, should any result from the superseding indictment anticipated next month, or whether additional state charges would violate the terms of the bail.\n\nAfterwards, Vick issued a prepared statement through his lawyer, his first public comment since the indictment, in which he proclaimed his innocence, but apologized to his mother and his teammates. The terms of his bail theoretically left Vick free to play until the trial, provided he got permission from the court to travel outside the immediate area of his primary residence. However, Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank stated that Vick had to give up any thoughts of playing until the case is resolved.\n\nOn July 30, Tony Taylor entered a guilty plea before Judge Henry E. Hudson at the U.S. District Court in Richmond. Taylor, 34, said he was not promised any specific sentence in return for his cooperation with the government.\nThe \"Roanoke Times\" reported that Judge Hudson asked Taylor: \"You're pleading guilty and taking your chances, right?\" and \"You have agreed to cooperate fully with the United States, is that right?\"\n\nTaylor responded to each question, \"Yes.\" Hudson set sentencing for December 14.\n\nAccording to the \"Washington Post\", in the \"Summary of the Facts\" filed along with the plea and signed by Taylor, he admitted that he helped start \"Bad Newz Kennels\" with Vick and two other co-defendants in 2001 and participated fully in the enterprise before leaving in September 2004 after a disagreement with Phillips \"and others.\"\n\nTaylor's statement says the dogfighting ring's operations and gambling money \"were almost exclusively funded by Vick.\" It also says Vick paid more than $30,000 to purchase the property near Smithfield, Virginia, where the house and outbuildings for training fighting dogs were built as the home of Bad Newz Kennels.\n\nThe Norfolk \"Virginian-Pilot\" newspaper noted that Taylor's plea document described eight matches that he says Vick attended or sponsored between late 2002 and 2004, with dogs named Jane, Big Boy, Zebro, Magic, Tiny and Too Short. The group put the name \"Bad Newz Kennels\" to the operation in early 2002, according to the document. \"At one point, the defendants obtained shirts and headbands representing and promoting their affiliation with 'Bad Newz Kennels,' \"the summary says.\n\nThe newspaper made a copy of the entire 13-page \"Summary of Facts\" submitted with Taylor's plea and obtained under the Freedom of Information Act available online at: Tony Taylor \"Summary of Facts\" plea document 7-30-2007. The specific language that Vick provided almost all the funds and participated in the \"ongoing criminal enterprise\" in the plea documents fueled speculation by legal experts that Vick would face federal racketeering charges under the powerful Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. There had already been talk that the government might seek a RICO indictment, based on the specific \"continuing criminal enterprise\" language in the original indictment and in Taylor's plea agreement. A key element of proving racketeering is the existence of a \"criminal enterprise,\" and gambling is an indictable offense under RICO. RICO is relatively easy to prove in court, as it focuses on patterns of criminal behavior. If Vick had been charged under RICO, he would have faced penalties of up to 20 years in prison and pay treble damages.\n\nBy August 13, Vick's other two co-defendants, Peace and Phillips, had also agreed to also plead guilty under their own plea agreements, they were due in judge Hudson's court in consecutive hearings on August 17.\n\nNews media reported widely that Vick has been given until that date (August 17) to decide whether to seek a plea bargain; otherwise he will face a superseding indictment that will include at least two more federal charges. According to one of his public relations specialists, Vick was weighing all of his options with his legal team.\n\nThe \"Richmond Times-Dispatch\" reported on August 15 that a federal grand jury in Richmond was to begin hearing new allegations against Vick stemming from the dogfighting case beginning the week of August 20. Munson suggested that Peace and Phillips' guilty pleas put Vick in a \"legal checkmate,\" as their testimony, added to the other five potential witnesses the prosecutors already had, made it very difficult for Vick's legal team to prove reasonable doubt in court.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal-Constitution,\" Vick's legal team began talks with federal prosecutors regarding a possible plea agreement soon after Vick's co-defendants pleaded guilty. A spokesman for Vick's legal team said that the co-defendant's pleas took them by surprise.\n\nESPN reported that another sticking point in the plea negotiations was the wording of the allocution Vick would have to make. He would have to make a detailed statement as to the extent of his involvement in the operation, such as the specific methods he used to kill the dogs.\n\nOn August 17, Peace and Phillips appeared before Judge Hudson at the U.S. District Court in Richmond. They entered their guilty pleas, plea agreements, and related statement of facts documentation. They also agreed to testify if the government requests it from them. Phillips' bail was revoked due to failing a drug test.\n\nPeace and Phillips were told that because of the \"victimization and execution of pit bull dogs\" described in court filings, \"upward departure\" from the sentencing guidelines is \"necessary in this case.\" The aggravating factors will be taken into consideration at sentencing, which means they could face harsher punishments at their sentencing on November 30.\n\nThe documents filed with the court and obtained by the news media under the provisions of the U.S. Freedom of Information Act provided confirmation of portions of that contained in Taylor's earlier plea agreement and also gave more detail of co-defendant Vick's roles. Copies were made available by the \"Newport News Daily Press\" at:\n\nCo-defendant Quanis Phillips was incarcerated earlier after his August 17 plea hearing because he had failed drug tests with monitoring equipment and regulations already in place.\n\nOn August 20, 2007 Vick pleaded guilty to the federal felony dogfighting conspiracy charge. Vick's lawyer Billy Martin released this statement.\n\n\"After consulting with his family over the weekend, Michael Vick has asked that I announce today that he has reached an agreement with federal prosecutors regarding charges pending against him.\n\n\"Mr. Vick has agreed to enter a plea of guilty to those charges and to accept full responsibility for his actions and the mistakes he has made. Michael wishes to apologize again to everyone who has been hurt by this matter.\"\n\nOn August 24, 2007 it was announced that Vick had signed a plea agreement and issued a statement admitting his participation and funding of the dogfighting ring, but maintaining that he did not place any bets or take any prize money.\n\nDetails of Vick's plea agreement were made available when filed with the court on August 24. \"USA Today\" made copies available over the Internet in PDF files at:\n\nOn August 27, Vick appeared before Judge Hudson and submitted the guilty plea. In the scheduled December 10 sentencing, Vick faced a maximum of five years in prison, a fine of $250,000 and three years of supervised release. Prosecutors asked Hudson to sentence Vick to 12–18 months if Vick cooperated with the government as he had agreed to do in the terms of the original plea agreement. The terms of the plea agreement include a clause in which Vick forfeits his right to appeal any sentence imposed upon him. Though prosecutors asked for a lower-end sentence for Vick, Hudson could still increase the sentence up to the maximum limits; Hudson had informed two co-defendants that the brutality warranted exceeding the guidelines in their cases.\n\nA significant portion of the plea agreement involved Vick cooperating with federal authorities pursuing other dog fighting cases and a complete allocution on his role in the Bad Newz Kennels, including detailing his role in the killing of dogs after the fights. The allocution proved to be a \"sticking point,\" as both federal prosecutors and FBI agents reported that Vick was giving contradictory statements about how dogs were killed, what his role in the killings were, how many dogs were killed, and other details. According to reporters who spoke to Hudson after the sentencing, Vick's pre-sentencing behavior, especially during an FBI polygraph administered in October 2007 which showed that Vick was being deceptive when asked direct questions about killing dogs, was a factor in selecting the length of the sentence.\n\nOn November 30, Peace and Phillips were sentenced by Judge Hudson to 18 and 21 months in federal prison respectively. The punishments were higher than recommended by federal prosecutors, and included three years of supervised probation following their release from prison. Taylor is also due to be sentenced on December 10, but, like Peace and Phillips, had agreed to testify against Vick at trial before he also accepted a plea agreement.\n\nNews media reported that statements re the November 30 hearing made it clearer that co-defendant Tony Taylor led Bad Newz Kennels. He guided others who were newcomers to the dogfighting underworld, according to arguments presented in U.S. District Court during the sentencing hearings. An attorney for Phillips argued before Judge Hudson that Taylor was known as \"the dog man\" as \"an experienced dogfighter and trainer.\" \n\nAt the time of the November 30 hearings for Peace and Phillips, Vick was being held at Northern Neck Regional Jail in Warsaw, Virginia awaiting sentencing on the federal convictions and his April 2, 2008 trial on the Virginia state charges.\n\nVick was sentenced to 23 months in prison on the federal charges on December 10, 2007. Tony Taylor, who was the first to plead guilty, received a sentence of 60 days in jail on December 14, 2007, which was within the sentencing guidelines for no more than 6 months in prison. Allen, who sold some of the dogs used in the operation, received probation on January 25, 2008.\n\nTaylor was released from federal prison on March 20, 2008, with 9 days of time off for good behavior. State trials for Taylor, Vick, Peace, and Philips have been pushed back until logistics related to the transportation of Vick, Peace, and Philips are resolved (they are in prisons in Kansas, New Jersey, and Florida, respectively).\n\nThe property used in the operation, 1915 Moonlight Road has been purchased by Dogs Deserve Better, Inc, and is a dog rehabilitation center for chained and penned canines. It is known as the Good Newz Rehab Center, playing on the former tenants name.\n\nAs of August 18, possible additional state charges were still under investigation. Part-time Commonwealth's Attorney Gerald G. Poindexter and Sheriff Harold D. Brown in the county had been criticized for slowness, particularly by the investigative news reports of WAVY-TV, the NBC affiliate in Hampton Roads. In response, they have indicated \"doing it right\" was more a priority than speed, and that they are continuing to cooperate with federal authorities.\n\nAccording to an ESPN attorney, under Virginia law, Vick can be prosecuted if the authorities can show that he was \"aware\" of dogfighting activities on his property. According to that attorney, \"If it is proved that the fighting took place, it will be difficult for Vick to persuade anyone that he didn't know about it.\" According to other news media reports, Surry County investigators have spoken to as many as 30 people. In June, Sheriff's Department Deputy W.R. Brinkman, the lead local investigator, said he had \"more people to talk to.\" Sheriff Harold D. Brown stated in an interview published on June 28 ...\"we need to find out, if he's one of the big players or not.\"\n\nFollowing the federal indictments of July 17, local authorities in Surry County said they could possibly prosecute different crimes than those charged in the federal indictment. Poindexter and Brown said they are continuing to cooperate with federal authorities. Both Brown and Poindexter told news media that they were taken aback by the level of detail in the indictments, especially mention of dogs allegedly being executed by hanging, drowning and electrocution. \"That's revealing to me. I didn't know anything about that,\" said Poindexter, according to the \"Richmond Times-Dispatch\".\n\nAlthough the federal investigation and charges placed drew most publicity in July and August, 2007, the local investigation and consideration of charges under violations of state laws were also continuing. Plea bargains with federal prosecutors would have no official standing in the local case. Double jeopardy concepts would not apply to state and federal overlapping cases. The county grand jury would be the group which would typically consider felony indictments presented by a local prosecutor under state laws.\n\nOn July 24, Brown stated that he felt certain state indictments for additional charges in Virginia would be returned by a local grand jury during session which begins September 25. However, no individuals have been named as target(s) to date. Until August 17, there had also been no indication of how many charges might be presented to the grand jury in Surry County. Over 50 dogs were seized, in addition to carcasses recovered, and a number of the interstate fight events, all with attendant gambling activities, were allegedly hosted at Vick's Surry County estate.\n\nOn August 17, Surry County Commonwealth's Attorney Gerald Poindexter told WVEC-TV that the admissions contained in the federal plea agreements filed by Purnell Peace and Quanis Phillips were \"a road map to indictments in Surry County.\" The plea agreements implicate all four men, Peace, Phillips, Taylor and Vick in both dog fighting and the killing of dogs. It had been noted in earlier media reports that one of the agreements states that eight dogs were killed jointly by Peace, Phillips and Vick in April 2007 (prior to the April 25 search).\n\nPoindexter told the WVEC news reporter that he's looking at two felony counts: dogfighting and killing of a companion animal. The maximum sentence in Virginia for each charge is five years. \"We believed we had evidence and this is the first time someone's admitted to it. It's sad and outrageous. It's gruesome.\" he added. It was also not clear whether any state prison sentence(s) would be allowed run concurrently with any federal time, or would be served consecutively. ESPN reported on August 18 that Vick could face up to 40 years in prison under state laws.\n\nFollowing guilty pleas in the federal case, Vick, Taylor, Peace, and Phillips were indicted on state felony charges relating to dog fighting under state laws by after indictments were returned by a local grand jury in Surry County, Virginia in September, 2007.\n\nVick faced two felony counts under state laws and his jury trial in Surry County Circuit Court was to have begun on April 2, 2008. The maximum penalty if convicted on the state charges would be 10 years in prison. His co-defendants were also assigned trial dates. Purnell Peace was scheduled to face a jury trial March 5, 2008, as was Quanis Phillips, but did not ask for a jury trial. Tony Taylor, currently not in custody, was to have been tried on May 7. The trials of all four, however, were pushed back until Vick, Peace, and Philips were released from prison, because of costs associated with transportation to Virginia state courts (Taylor's trial is also delayed until the other defendants have finished their prison terms).\n\nVick, the last to plead guilty to federal charges, pleaded guilty to state charges on November 25, 2008, paying a $2,500 fine as a result and court fees. The fine would only be paid if Vick fails to stay out of trouble for four years.\n\nMichael Vick pleaded guilty to dog fighting on November 25, 2008 and received a three-year suspended sentence and was ordered to pay restitution of $3,636.97. Pernell Peace pleaded guilty to dog fighting on March 24, 2009 and received a three-year suspended sentence. Anthony \"Tony\" Taylor pleaded guilty to dog fighting on March 24, 2009 and received a two-year suspended sentence. Quantis Phillips pleaded guilty to dog fighting on May 6, 2009 and received a three-year suspended sentence.\n\nAs of October 2, 2007, the 127 dogs which were seized in April remained in animal shelters in Hampton Roads and central Virginia. An ASPCA evaluation showed that one animal, identified as #2621, was aggressive to the point the evaluation could not be completed and it has a history of biting people. U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson ordered that it be euthanized. However, the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Richmond announced in court filings that the other 48 canines may be safe enough to place in the community with strict conditions.\n\nOn October 16, Hudson acted on a government motion requesting animal law expert Rebecca J. Huss, who is a Professor of Law at Valparaiso University School of Law in Indiana, to serve as the guardian-special master to oversee the possible placement of the 48 dogs, or their euthanasia. The judge also granted a request by the U.S. attorney's office that each of the pit bulls be spayed or neutered and have microchips implanted. In a statement released by Valparaiso University, she said: \"As someone whose academic endeavors focus on the legal status and value of animals in our lives, I am honored to represent the interests of those at the heart of this case, the dogs.\"\n\nIn November 2007, Vick was observed to be liquidating some of his real estate assets, notably the dog-fighting estate property near Smithfield, Virginia and one of his multimillion-dollar homes which are located in Suffolk, Virginia, near Atlanta, Georgia, and the South Beach section of Miami Beach, Florida. ESPN reported on October 20 that the one near Atlanta was listed for sale at a $4.5 million asking price. At the request of federal authorities before his sentencing in federal court, he agreed to deposit nearly $1 million in an escrow account with attorneys for use to reimburse costs of caring for the confiscated dogs, most of which are now being offered for adoption on a selective basis under supervision of a court-appointed specialist. Experts say some of the animals will require individual care for the rest of their lives.\n\nOn July 8, 2008 an article was published by the \"Washington Post\" reporting on the status of the dogs. At the time of the article, two of the seized dogs had been euthanized - one for aggression, as mentioned previously, and one due to health problems. Of the 47 remaining dogs, 22 were sent to an animal sanctuary at the Best Friends Animal Society in Utah because of aggression toward other dogs, and 25 were placed in foster care. Several of the latter have been adopted. The dogs and therapists were featured in a \"DogTown\" episode entitled \"DogTown: Saving the Michael Vick Dogs\" on the National Geographic Channel.\n\nA program on WHYY on 20 September 2010 covered the disposition of the Michael Vick dogs. One of the participants in the program was Jim Gorant who has written a book about the dogs called \"The Lost Dogs: Michael Vick's Dogs and Their Tale of Rescue and Redemption\".\n\nNumerous athletes generated additional controversy by making public comments supporting and defending Vick. Stephon Marbury, a point guard for the Boston Celtics, called dogfighting a sport and compared it to hunting and said that we don't react the same when other animals die. Roy Jones Jr., a prominent boxer, stated, \"really two dogs fighting can happen in anyone's backyard or on the street. It happened in my backyard, two of my dogs fought and one died.\" Clinton Portis, a star running back on the Washington Redskins, stated, \"I don't know if he was fighting dogs or not, but it's his property, it's his dog. If that's what he wants to do, do it. I think people should mind their own business.\" \nDeion Sanders, a former star football and baseball player and current commentator for CBS Sports, stated, \"Why are we indicting him? Was he the ringleader? Is he the big fish? Or is there someone else? The fights allegedly occurred at a property that he purchased for a family member. They apparently found carcasses on the property, but I must ask you again, is he the ringleader? This situation reminds me of a scene in the movie \"New Jack City\" when drug dealer Nino Brown is on the witness stand and eloquently says, 'This thing is bigger than me.' Are we using Vick to get to the ringleader? Are we using him to bring an end to dogfighting in the United States? The only thing I can gather from this situation is that we're using Vick.\" \n\nDuring the furor arising around the Bad Newz Kennels investigation and prosecutions, even such diverse notables as hip-hop mogul Russell Simmons and the Reverend Al Sharpton joined with the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and PETA - People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals in calling for strong stands against animal cruelty, jointly stating:\n\nMajor League Baseball pitcher Mark Buehrle of the Chicago White Sox commented that he hoped Vick would get injured after he was reinstated to football. Buehrle, an animal rights activist, told MLB.com \"he had a great year and a great comeback, but there were times where we watched the game, and I know it's bad to say, but there were times where we hope he gets hurt...everything you've done to these dogs, something bad needs to happen to these guys.\" \n\nCompanies employing Vick for endorsements and producing or selling Vick-related products apparently reacted to the negative publicity soon after the federal indictments. According to the \"Norfolk Virginian-Pilot\", Nike was Vick's biggest endorsement deal. The company initially announced in July that it had \"suspended Michael Vick's contract without pay, and will not sell any more Michael Vick product at Nike owned retail at this time.\" although the company said it had not terminated the contract, apparently waiting for a guilty plea or a conviction to do so, as animal-rights activists had urged the company to do. However, Nike also announced it was suspending the release of the Zoom Vick V, a new line of shoes. On August 24, hours after details of Vick's guilt plea and statement of facts were made public, Nike announced it was completely terminating its relationship with him. Adidas announced its Reebok division would stop selling Vick football jerseys. The NFL said it had pulled all Vick-related items from NFLShop.com. Trading card companies including Donruss and Upper Deck soon followed with similar actions. St. Louis-based sporting goods manufacturer Rawlings, which used Vick's likeness to sell merchandise and modeled a football using his name, ended its relationship. The same day, the \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" reported that Dick's Sporting Goods and Sports Authority stores have also stopped selling Vick-related goods.\n\nSome fans of the Atlanta Falcons donated their Vick-related jerseys and shirts to the Atlanta Humane Society for use as animal bedding and cleaning rags. Others produced dog chew toys in Vick's effigy.\n\nIn 2014 Nike re-signed Michael Vick to an endorsement deal, and in early 2015 Vick confirmed reports that his signature line of Nike sneakers would be returning.\n\n"}
{"id": "23824120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23824120", "title": "Bard SummerScape", "text": "Bard SummerScape\n\nBard SummerScape is an annual seven-week-long arts festival held during the months of July and August at Bard College. Founded in 2002, the festival is held in tandem with the Bard Music Festival and features performances of opera, dance, theater, music, film, and cabaret. The festival attracts professional artists from around the world. Concerts and productions are held at a variety of venues on the college's campus, including the Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "36494808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36494808", "title": "Battle of Aleppo (2012–2016)", "text": "Battle of Aleppo (2012–2016)\n\nThe Battle of Aleppo () was a major military confrontation in Aleppo, the largest city in Syria, between the Syrian opposition (including the Free Syrian Army (FSA) and other largely-Sunni groups, such as the Levant Front and the al-Qaeda-affiliated al-Nusra Front) against the government of Bashar al-Assad, supported by Hezbollah, Shia militias and Russia, and against the Kurdish-led People's Protection Units (YPG). The battle began on 19 July 2012 and was part of the ongoing Syrian Civil War. A stalemate that had been in place for four years finally ended in July 2016, when Syrian government troops closed the rebels' last supply line into Aleppo with the support of Russian airstrikes. In response, rebel forces launched unsuccessful counteroffensives in September and October that failed to break the siege; in November, government forces embarked on a decisive campaign that resulted in the recapture of all of Aleppo by December 2016. The Syrian government victory was widely seen as a potential turning point in Syria's civil war.\n\nThe large-scale devastation of the battle and its importance led combatants to name it the \"mother of battles\" or \"Syria's Stalingrad\". The battle was marked by widespread violence against civilians, alleged repeated targeting of hospitals and schools (mostly by pro-government Air Forces and to a lesser extent by the rebels), and indiscriminate aerial strikes and shelling against civilian areas. It was also marked by the inability of the international community to resolve the conflict peacefully. The UN special envoy to Syria proposed to end the battle by giving East Aleppo autonomy, but the idea was rejected by the Syrian government. Hundreds of thousands of residents were displaced by the fighting and efforts to provide aid to civilians or facilitate evacuation were routinely disrupted by continued combat and mistrust between the opposing sides.\n\nVarious claims of war crimes emerged during the battle, including the use of chemical weapons by both Syrian government forces and rebel forces, the use of barrel bombs by the Syrian Air Force, the dropping of cluster munitions on populated areas by Russian and Syrian forces, the carrying out of \"double tap\" airstrikes to target rescue workers responding to previous strikes, summary executions of civilians and captured soldiers by both sides, indiscriminate shelling and use of highly inaccurate improvised artillery by rebel forces. During the 2016 Syrian government offensive, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights warned that \"crimes of historic proportions\" were being committed in Aleppo.\n\nFighting also caused severe destruction to the Old City of Aleppo, a UNESCO World Heritage site. An estimated 33,500 buildings have been either damaged or destroyed. After four years of fighting, the battle represents one of the longest sieges in modern warfare and one of the bloodiest battles of the Syrian Civil War, leaving an estimated 31,000 people dead, almost a tenth of the estimated overall war casualties at that time.\n\nIn 2011, Aleppo was Syria's largest city, with a population of 2.5 million people. A UNESCO World Heritage Site, it has been described by \"Time\" as Syria's commercial capital. Author Diana Darke has written that \"The city has long been multi-cultural, a complex mix of Kurds, Iranians, Turkmen, Armenians and Circassians overlaid on an Arab base in which multi-denominational churches and mosques still share the space.\"\n\nNationwide protests against President Bashar al-Assad began on 15 March 2011, as part of the Arab Spring. In Aleppo itself, large protests started more than a year later in May 2012. During this period, government-organized rallies in support of itself also occurred. Aleppo had remained undisturbed and largely supportive of the government by the 16-month-long conflict until 22 July 2012, when rebel fighters from the neighboring villages converged and penetrated into it, to which the government responded with heavy-handed, indiscriminate bombardments of the city. On 16 February 2012, the UN General Assembly issued a resolution with a vote of 137 in favour, 12 against, and 17 abstentions, and called on Syria \"to immediately put an end to all human rights violations and attacks against civilians.\"\n\nAt the beginning of the Battle of Aleppo, rebels reportedly had between 6,000 and 7,000 fighters in 18 battalions. The largest rebel group was the al-Tawhid Brigade and the most prominent was the Free Syrian Army, largely composed of army defectors. Most of the rebels came from the Aleppo countryside and from towns including Al-Bab, Marea, Azaz, Tel Rifaat and Manbij. A resident of Aleppo reportedly accused the rebels of using civilian homes for shelter. On 19 November 2012, the rebel fighters—particularly the al-Tawhid Brigade and the al-Nusra Front—initially rejected the newly formed Syrian National Coalition. However, the next day the rebels withdrew their rejection.\n\nBy December, rebel fighters were commonly looting for supplies; they switched their loyalties to groups that had more to share. This new approach led to the killing of at least one rebel commander following a dispute; fighters retreating with their loot caused the loss of a frontline position and the failure of an attack on a Kurdish neighborhood. The looting cost the rebel fighters much popular support.\n\nIslamic extremists and foreign fighters, many of whom were experienced and came from the ongoing insurgency in neighboring Iraq, joined the battle. Jihadists reportedly came from across the Muslim world. Jacques Bérès, a French surgeon who treated wounded fighters, reported a significant number of foreign fighters, most of whom had Islamist goals and were not directly interested in Bashar al-Assad. They included Libyans, Chechens, and Frenchmen. Bérès contrasted the situation in Aleppo with that in Idlib and Homs, where foreign forces were not common. Some FSA brigades cooperated with Mujahideen fighters. Four hundred Turkmen joined the battle under Sultan Abdulhamid Han. By 2016, the rebel factions still included internationally recognized terrorist groups such as Al-Nusra Front; they numbered 1,000 fighters in October 2016.\n\nHezbollah, which by 2013 joined the Syrian Civil War in support for President al-Assad, was also designated as a terrorist group by various organizations. The government retained some support in Aleppo; in 2012 a rebel commander said, \"around 70% of Aleppo city is with the regime\". During the course of the battle, Assad lost support from Aleppo's wealthy class. In 2012, CBS News reported that 48 elite businessmen who were the primary financiers for the government switched sides. For the first time, the government's Syrian Arab Army engaged in urban warfare. They divided their forces into groups of 40 soldiers each. These were armed mostly with automatic rifles and anti-tank rockets and artillery, tanks and helicopters were only used for support. In August 2012, the army deployed its elite units. and eventually, after the rebels executed Zeino al-Berri, tribal leader of the al-Berri tribe, the tribe joined the fight against the rebels. Initially, the Christian community tried to avoid taking sides in the conflict. However, many Christians supported the Army and some formed militias aligned with the government following the capture of their quarters by the Syrian Army. Many Christian Armenians also supported the Syrian Army. Some of Aleppo's Armenians claimed Turkey supported the FSA to attack Armenians and Arab Christians. In 2012, one Armenian militia had around 150 fighters.\n\nAt the beginning of the battle, Aleppo's Kurds formed armed groups, most notably the Saladin Ayubi Brigade, which worked with the opposition. Units of the Kurdish Front, part of the FSA and allied with the Democratic Union Party (PYD), were formed later in 2013. The PYD had poor relations with both sides. Its People's Protection Units (YPG) stayed out of Arab areas and insisted the FSA stay out of the Kurdish area. They did not initially fight the Syrian Army unless attacked. The Kurdish areas in Aleppo mainly came under PYD control. At various points in the conflict, the Kurds joined the opposition against pro-government forces. However, the YPG-controlled neighborhood of Sheikh Maqsood came under a siege by both Syrian government forces and the rebels. In September 2015, the rebels accused the YPG of having a deal with the government, while the YPG accused the rebels of shelling the neighborhood. Between November and December 2015, the conflict between the rebels and US-backed Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in the rest of Aleppo province escalated. Truce attempts largely failed to stop the fighting. The situation escalated in February 2016, when the SDF followed up on advances by the Syrian Armed Forces, backed by Russian airstrikes, and they themselves took territory north of Aleppo city from the rebels.\n\nStarting in late September 2015, Russian warplanes had carried out their very first attacks in Syria. The Russian bombing campaign included strikes against rebel forces in Aleppo.\n\nGunfire between rebels and security forces broke out in and around Salaheddine, a district in the city's southwest, on the night of 19 July 2012.\n\nIn late July and early August 2012, the FSA continued its offensive in Aleppo, with both sides suffering a high level of casualties. Rebel commanders said their main aim was to capture the city center. On 30 July, the rebels seized a strategic checkpoint in Anadan, a town north of Aleppo, gaining a direct route between the city and the Turkish border—an important rebel supply base. They also captured Al-Bab, an army base northeast of the city. Later, rebels attacked the air base at Minakh, northwest of Aleppo, with arms and tanks captured at the Anadan checkpoint. Opposition forces continued to gain territory in the city, controlling most of eastern and southwestern Aleppo, including Salaheddine and parts of Hamdaniyeh. They continued to target security centers and police stations as clashes erupted near the Air Force intelligence headquarters in Aleppo's northwestern district Zahraa. Rebels over-ran several police stations and posts in the central and southern districts of Bab al-Nerab, Al-Miersa and Salhain, seizing a significant quantity of arms and ammunition.\n\nIn December 2012, the al-Nusra Front unilaterally declared a no-fly zone and threatened to shoot down commercial aircraft, alleging that the government was using them to transport loyalist troops and military supplies. After multiple attacks on Aleppo International Airport, all flights were suspended on 1 January 2013. The following month, the rebels seized Umayyad Mosque; and during the battle, the mosque's museum caught fire and its ceiling collapsed.\n\nOn 9 June, the Syrian Army announced the start of \"Operation Northern Storm\", an attempt to recapture territory in and around the city. Between 7 and 14 June, army troops, government militiamen and Hezbollah fighters launched the operation. Over a one-week period, government forces advanced in the city and the countryside, pushing back the rebels. However, according to an opposition activist, on 14 June the situation started reversing after rebels halted an armored reinforcement column from Aleppo that was heading for two Shiite villages northwest of the city.\n\nOn 8 November, the Syrian Army started an offensive against the rebel-held Base 80, launching \"the heaviest barrage in more than a year\". \"Al Jazeera\" wrote that a government victory would cut the rebels' route between the city and al-Bab. Two days later, Reuters reported that the rebels had regrouped to fight the Syrian army. Fifteen rebels were killed and the army recaptured the base. The following month, the army partially besieged the city in Operation Canopus Star. During the offensive, Army helicopters attacked with barrel bombs, killing more than a thousand people, according to the Free Syrian Army's Abu Firas Al-Halabi.\n\nGovernment forces, having lifted the siege of Aleppo in October 2013, continued their offensive in 2014. This culminated in the capture of the Sheikh Najjar industrial district north of Aleppo and the lifting of the siege of Aleppo Central Prison on 22 May 2014, which contained a garrison of government soldiers that had resisted rebel forces since 2012. A ceasefire proposal was presented by a UN envoy in November; under the proposal humanitarian aid would be delivered to Aleppo following the cessation of hostilities. President Assad said the ceasefire plan was \"worth studying\", and according to the UN envoy the Syrian government was \"seriously studying\" the proposal. The FSA rejected the plan; its military commander Zaher al-Saket said they had \"learned not to trust the [Bashar al-] Assad regime because they are cunning and only want to buy time\".\n\nIn early January, the rebels recaptured the Majbal (sawmills) area of al-Brej and captured the southern entrance of the stone quarries known as al-Misat, forcing government troops to retreat to the north. Rebels also seized the Manasher al-Brej area. They tried to advance and take control of al-Brej Hill, with which they could seize the military supply road running between Aleppo Central Prison and the Handarat and al-Mallah areas. At the end of January, the rebels took control over some positions in al-Brej Hill.\n\nIn mid-February, the Syrian Arab Army and its allies launched a major offensive in the northern Aleppo countryside, with the aim of cutting the last rebel supply routes into the city, and relieving the rebel siege of the Shi'a-majority towns Zahra'a and Nubl to the northwest of Aleppo. They quickly captured several villages, but bad weather conditions and an inability to call up reinforcements stalled the government offensive. A few days later, the rebels launched a counter-offensive, retaking two of four positions they had lost to Syrian government forces.\n\nOn 9 March, opposition forces launched an assault on Handarat, north of Aleppo, after reportedly noticing confusion in the ranks of Syrian government troops after the February fighting. Opposition sources said the rebels had captured 40–50% of the village, or possibly even 75%, while the Army remained in control of the northern portion of Handarat. In contrast, a Syrian Army source stated they still controlled 80% of Handarat. On 18 March, after almost 10 days of fighting, the Syrian Army had fully expelled the rebels from Handarat, and re-established control of the village.\n\nOn 13 April, Islamist opposition forces and al-Nusra Front renewed their assault on the Air Force Intelligence building, utilizing a tunnel bomb followed by an assault. Much of the Air Force Intelligence building was reportedly damaged as a result of the tunnel bomb. Between 27–29 April, the FSA and Ahrar ash-Sham launched an operation in the old city of Aleppo and Al-Hatab Square in the Al-Jdayde (Jdeideh) District, which included tunnel bombs and the shelling of buildings where soldiers were stationed. The rebels claimed to have killed 76 troops in these operations. Sahat Al Hatab square and the buildings around it were left devastated as a result of this operation.\n\nIn preparation for a new offensive, the rebels heavily shelled government-held parts of Aleppo, leaving 43 civilians dead and 190 wounded on 15 June. On 17 June, rebel forces captured the western neighborhood of Rashideen from Syrian government forces. Throughout 19 and 20 June, a new round of rebel shelling killed 19 more civilians.\n\nIn early July, two rebel coalitions launched an offensive against the government-held western half of the city. During five days of fighting, the rebels seized the Scientific Research Center on Aleppo's western outskirts, which was being used as a military barracks. Two rebel attacks on the Jamiyat al-Zahra area were repelled. Government forces launched an unsuccessful counter-attack against the Scientific Research Center.\n\nIn mid-October, ISIL captured four rebel-held villages northeast of Aleppo, while the Army seized the Syria-Turkey Free Trade Zone, the al-Ahdath juvenile prison and cement plant. Meanwhile, the SAA and Hezbollah launched an offensive south of Aleppo, reporting they had captured of territory in one month. By late December, reporting that they were in control of 3/4 of the southern Aleppo countryside.\n\nBy the end of 2015, only 80 doctors were left in eastern, rebel-held part of Aleppo, or only one for 7,000 residents, while only one bakery was left to serve 120,000 people.\n\nBy 2016, it was estimated that the population of rebel-held Eastern Aleppo had been reduced to 300,000, while 1.5 million were living in government-held Western Aleppo.\n\nIn early February 2016, Syrian government forces and their allies broke a three-year rebel siege of two Shi'ite towns of Nubl and Zahraa, cutting off a main insurgent route to nearby Turkey. On 4 February, the towns of Mayer and Kafr Naya were recaptured by government forces. On 5 February, the government captured the village of Ratyan, to the northwest of Aleppo.\n\nOn 25 June, the Syrian Army and allied forces began their long-awaited North-west Aleppo offensive. The ultimate goal of the offensive was to cut off the Castello highway, which would cut off the last supply route for rebels inside the city, thus fully encircling remaining opposition forces.\n\nBy late July, Syrian government forces had managed to sever the last rebel supply line coming from the north, and completely surrounded Aleppo. However, within days, the rebels launched a large-scale counterattack south of Aleppo, in an attempt to both open a new supply line into rebel-held parts of the city and cut-off the government-held side. The whole campaign, including both the Army's offensive and subsequent rebel counter-offensive, was seen by both sides as possibly deciding the fate of the entire war.\n\nAfter a week of heavy fighting, rebels both inside and outside Aleppo advanced into the Ramouseh neighborhood, linked up and captured it, while also seizing the Al-Ramousah Military Academy. With these advances, the rebels managed to cut the government's supply line into the government-held part of west Aleppo and announced the Army's siege of rebel-held east Aleppo had been broken. However, the new rebel supply line was still under Army artillery fire and being hit by air-strikes, making both sides essentially under siege. Since the rebel offensive started, at least 130 civilians had been killed, most by rebel shelling of government-held districts. 500 fighters on both sides also died, mostly rebels. However, on 4 September, the Syrian Armed forces recaptured the Technical College, Armament college and artillery college, thus imposing the siege on Aleppo once again. Later that week they recaptured the Ramouseh district and reversed almost all rebel gains made since 30 July. The Syrian Government forces then started an offensive to capture eastern Aleppo on 22 September, taking 15–20% of the rebel-held part of Aleppo.\n\nRebels started an attack on western Aleppo in late October, which failed, with government forces retaking areas in the south-west that they had lost to the rebel's late July offensive. The Syrian Army then launched an offensive, aimed at finishing rebel-held Aleppo once and for all, during which they captured the Hanano district, Sakhour district, Jabal Badro district, Bustan al-Basha district, Hellok district, Sheikh Kheder district, Sheikh Fares district Haydariyah district, Ayn al-Tal industrial district and reportedly the research housing south of Jabal Badro. They also captured the Ard' Al Hamra district, reportedly cutting rebel-held territory in Aleppo by 40–45%.\n\nBy 13 December 2016, only 5% of the original territory of the city remained in rebel hands. A ceasefire was announced and the fighting stopped in order to allow the evacuation of civilians and rebels. The buses were prepared for the evacuation. However, the deal fell apart the next day, when the Syrian Government resumed their intense bombing of eastern Aleppo, with both sides blaming the other for the resumed fighting.\n\nThe deal was revived on 15 December with first convoy of evacuees leaving. The evacuation was however suspended on the next day. Another deal was reached on 18 December and evacuation resumed later in the day. The evacuation again stalled on 20 December, but resumed on the following day. On 22 December, the evacuation was completed while the Syrian Army declared it had taken complete control of the city. Red Cross later confirmed that the evacuation of all civilians and rebels was complete.\n\nIn the closing days of the battle for the city, the Times of Israel reported that \"Testimonies emerging from the city since Monday detail brutal atrocities being committed by pro-government Syrian forces.\n\nOn 22 February 2018, it was reported that the YPG had agreed to hand over eastern districts of Aleppo city to the Syrian government. According to Syrian state television, this decision was made to reinforce positions around the region of Afrin, and to halt Turkey's offensive. This came days after pro-Syrian regime fighters agreed to bolster the Kurdish forces in the northwest.\n\nSOHR and a witness later said that Syrian government forces had entered the areas controlled by the Kurdish fighters. YPG spokesman Nouri Mahmoud however denied this claim. A YPG commander later stated that Kurdish fighters had shifted to Afrin to help repel a Turkish assault. As a result, he said the pro-Syrian government forces had regained control of the districts previously controlled by them.\n\nRebel forces expanded into the countryside south of Aleppo to control sections of the M4 and M5 highways, effectively blocking ground reinforcements for the Syrian Army. Before the end of 2012, the Syrian Army in Aleppo was receiving sporadic supplies and ammunition replenishment by air or via backroads. The fall of Base 46, a large complex that reinforced and supplied government troops, was seen by experts as \"a tactical turning point that may lead to a strategic shift\" in the battle for Aleppo. In a November 2012, intelligence report, American publisher Strategic Forecasting, Inc. described the strategic position of government forces in Aleppo as \"dire\", and said the Free Syrian Army had them \"essentially surrounded\".\n\nOn 26 November 2012, rebels captured Tishrin Dam, further isolating government forces in Aleppo and leaving only one route into Aleppo. By late January 2013 Deputy Prime Minister Qadri Jamil said all supply routes to Aleppo had been cut off by opposition forces, comparing the situation to the Siege of Leningrad. By late February 2013, Aleppo International Airport was almost surrounded by rebel forces. Later, the Syrian Army regained control of the strategic town Tel Sheigeb, allowing them to approach the airport. In November 2013, the Syrian Army retook the town of al-Safira. This opened a road for the government to support the besieged Kuweires Military Airbase and Aleppo Power Plant.\n\nIn February 2014, it was reported that the army planned to encircle Aleppo and impose blockades and truces. It would also try to recapture Sheikh Najjar Industrial City to rebuild the economy and provide jobs. By October 2014, the army had seized Sheikh Najjar, reinforced Aleppo Central Prison and captured Handaraat, almost besieging rebel-held Aleppo. Tensions peaked in early April 2014, when a Syrian Republican Guard officer allegedly killed a Hezbollah commander during an argument over the opposition advance in al-Rashadin, and other pro-government militia groups sent as reinforcements, such as the National Defence Force, proved to be unreliable in combat. Effectively cutting off access was more difficult in Aleppo because rebels controlled more terrain there than in other cities. Rebels also have a strong presence in the countryside and around the border crossings with Turkey. In April 2014 government commanders inside the city were saying that contrary to implementing such a strategy, \"the best [they] can do in Aleppo is just secure ... positions\".\n\nThe attempted encirclement involved the SAA's attacks on Bustan Al-Pasha, Khalidiyyeh, the farms of Mazra'a Halabi, Al-Amariyya and Bustan Al-Qaseer. The rebels' strategic victory at the Siege of Wadi Deif resulted in threats to several main government supply lines. This cast doubt on government forces' ambitions to control the road from Hama to Aleppo and the Damascus-Aleppo international road, and has been seen as a personal defeat for Syrian Arab Army Col. Suheil Al Hassan.\n\nStaffan de Mistura, the United Nations and Arab League Envoy to Syria, proposed a pause in fighting, but opinions about implementation were divided. The European Union warned that \"cases of forced surrender imposed by the Assad regime through starvation sieges were labelled fallaciously as local cease-fires in the past.\" The Southern Front of the Free Syrian Army, which was gaining ground in Deraa province south of Damascus, warned that a freeze in fighting in Aleppo could hamper their advance, as pro-Assad forces could be redirected from Aleppo.\n\nThe Syrian government's defeat at the Second Battle of Idlib in late March 2015, which helped expand the influence of the al-Nusra Front, forced the Islamic State (IS) to expand its attacks in central Syria after it failed to block the Raqqa highway that branches out to the Syrian army's main supply route to Aleppo along the Khanasir-Athriya road. IS's aim would potentially be to establish the necessary conditions to attack Idlib and al-Nusra. The March–April IS offensive in central Syria led some volunteers defending the Homs-Aleppo highway to consider deserting to defend their hometowns.\n\nAccording to Jane's Information Group, a possible offensive on Homs by both al-Nusra Front and IS working independently might force the government to move critical forces away from Aleppo to defend key supply routes. There were additional opposition gains during the 2015 Jisr al-Shughur offensive. Syrian government minister Faisal Mekdad stated in June 2015, \"All our strategic planning now is to keep the way open to Aleppo to allow our forces to defend it\". Media outlets have noted that powerful online campaigns are being conducted in a war of information regarding Aleppo.\n\nTurkey had sponsored rebel forces in Aleppo to a degree that eastern Aleppo was called \"a Turkish card guarded by jihadis.\" However, Turkish policy changed in August 2016, moving thousands of rebel fighters away from the area west of Aleppo to counter the secular federalist Syrian Democratic Forces to the north (\"see Turkish military intervention in Syria\"). This reduced the forces available to try to lift the siege of Aleppo, ensuring its fall.\n\nWith over four years of fighting, the battle of Aleppo represents one of the longest sieges in modern warfare, which left an estimated 31,183 people dead, almost a tenth of the overall Syrian war casualties. The Violations Documentation Center in Syria assessed the death toll. According to its records, between 19 July 2012 and 15 December 2016 there were 22,633 adult male deaths (73%), 2,849 adult female deaths (9.2%), 3,773 child male deaths (12.2%) and 1,775 child female deaths (5.7%). 23,604 or 76% of all fatalities were civilians, while only 7,406 or 24% were military deaths. Causes of death were explosions (910 deaths), shelling (6,384 deaths), field execution (1,549 deaths), shooting (9,438 deaths), warplane bombardment (11,233 deaths), chemical and toxic gas attacks (46 deaths) and others.\n\nThe pro-opposition monitoring group the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR) gave a similar number: it registered that 1,612 days of fighting for Aleppo left 21,452 civilians dead. Among them were 5,261 children under the age of 18 and 2,777 women over the age of 18.\n\nThe Syrian Network for Human Rights (SNHR), a pro-opposition non-governmental organization, reported that the Russian bombardments killed at least 1,640 civilians in the Aleppo area: 1,178 civilians died between 30 September 2015 and 1 August 2016, while additional 462 civilians were killed from 19 September 2016 until 30 November 2016.\n\nThe International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has described the fighting as one of the most devastating conflicts in modern times. It appealed: \"The human cost of the fighting in Aleppo is simply too high. We urge all parties to stop the destruction and indiscriminate attacks, and stop the killing\".\n\nThe ICRC also said that hundreds of civilians perished through the \"indiscriminate shelling of residential areas across Aleppo\". Several infectious diseases broke out in Aleppo and other areas in Syria during the civil war, including poliomyelitis, measles and cutaneous leishmaniasis. Food prices also grew astronomically during the war. A kilogram (two pounds) of sugar cost $21 at one point.\n\nAleppo suffered catastrophic damage during the four-year siege and battle. According to an Amnesty International report, government forces have been responsible for the majority of violations in the conflict in Syria. Ravina Shamdasani, a spokesperson for the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, issued a statement in November 2016 which said that \"strikes against hospitals, schools, marketplaces, water facilities and bakeries are now commonplace, and may amount to war crimes\". During that phase of the offensive, about 250,000 civilians were left in the city. In November 2016, UNICEF estimated that nearly 100,000 children were living under siege in Aleppo. The 2016 offensive cut off the city from food supplies, and last time eastern Aleppo was reached with significant humanitarian supplies before the Syrian re-capture was the beginning of July in 2016. The Syrian government, aided by Russian army, used war planes to systematically bombard hospitals in the rebel-held areas of the city. By the end of November 2016, no functional hospitals were left, and over 20,000 people were displaced by the fighting. Human Rights Watch issued a statement reporting that the Syrian and Russian military campaign killed more than 440 civilians, including more than 90 children, between September and October 2016. It also deplored that airstrikes often appeared to be \"recklessly indiscriminate\".\n\nBetween 29 January and 14 March 2013, opposition activists reported about 230 bodies were found on the banks and in the Queiq River in Aleppo. They accused government forces of being the ones who executed the men since the bodies came down the river from the direction of government-held areas of the city. Human Rights Watch was able to identify at least 147 victims, all male and aged between 11 and 64. Human Rights Watch reported that family members of many of the victims testified that they were last seen in a government-controlled area or after they set out to cross into the area through two checkpoints, one manned by opposition forces and the other by government forces.\n\nIn May 2014, the UN Security Council voted for the International Criminal Court (ICC) to investigate war crimes in the Syrian Civil War, but the resolution was vetoed by Russia and China.\n\nIn 2014, the United Nations adopted Resolution 2139 which ordered the end of using barrel bombs in the battle. The Syrian Observatory of Human Rights stated that the Syrian army dropped 7,000 barrel bombs in the first five months of 2015, claiming the lives of 3,000 people. Amnesty International reported that barrel bombs killed 3,000 people in 2014. \"Channel4\" reported that videos have emerged online showing the Syrian army using barrel bombs.\n\nThe Syrian government was accused of using the barrel bombs many times. Some of them were:\n\nThe government denied using barrel bombs. In an interview to BBC, President Bashar al-Assad denied using \"indiscriminate weapons\" like barrel bombs in the rebel held territories. Assad said, \"I know about the army. They use bullets, missiles and bombs. I haven't heard of the army using barrels, or maybe cooking pots.\"\n\nAmnesty International issued a detailed report about Aleppo in 2015. It warned about the Syrian government use of imprecise explosive weapons on densely populated civilian areas, illustrating it with the example that eight barrel bomb attacks between January 2014 to March 2015 killed at least 188 civilians—while only one rebel was recorded among the fatalities. It concluded that the government forces in Aleppo deliberately targeted civilians and civilian objects, implemented \"forced disappearances\", used torture and other ill-treatment among the prisoners—and that this constitutes a crime against humanity.\n\nChemical attacks by the Syrian government on opposition-held areas in Aleppo were reported on 10 August and 6 September 2016. After these attacks, the victims reported they were suffering from a shortage of breath, coughing, reddened skin and eyes, and excessive tearing, and sought medical treatment in hospitals. Five people, including three children, died as a result. A UN report found that the Syrian government used the prohibited chlorine bombs in Aleppo, causing \"hundreds of civilian casualties\". Human Rights Watch also condemned the Russian army for using incendiary weapons in Aleppo, in violation of international law. Cluster bombs were also used both by the Russian aviation and the Syrian government. Russia was directly accused of war crimes several times for its part in the battle at the UN Security Council by the ambassadors of the United Kingdom, the United States and France, due to its use of bunker buster and incendiary bombs on urban residential areas.\n\nOn 19 September 2016, a UN/Syrian Arab Red Crescent (SARC) aid convoy was attacked at night, as well as a SARC warehouse and health clinic in Urum al-Kubra, a rebel-held town 12 km west of Aleppo. 20 civilians and one SARC staff member were killed, while food and medical aid, intended to reach Aleppo, was destroyed. Some witnesses on the ground at the time of the attack said they had heard helicopters during the attack. The United States accused Russian or Syrian government warplanes of perpetrating the attack, while Russia rejected the accusation. The UN said it was not in a position to determine how the attacked unfolded. The UN Operational Satellite Applications Programme (UNOSAT) said it believed the convoy was attack by airstrikes. United Nations investigators later concluded that the Syrian government was responsible for the attack in a \"meticulously planned and ruthlessly carried out\" air strike. The investigators stated in a report that the Syrian Air Force used barrel bombs and rockets to attack the convoy and that, after the initial attack, Syrian government jets strafed the survivors. According to the investigators, since these actions were carried out deliberately they constituted a war crime.\n\nFollowing the re-capture of parts of Aleppo by the Syrian government, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights reported that pro-government Iraqi Shi'ite paramilitary group killed at least 82 civilians, including 11 women and 13 children, in the Bustan al-Qasr, al-Ferdous, al-Kallaseh, and al-Saleheen neighbourhoods on 12 and 13 December 2016.\n\nIn January 2017, the Syrian Network for Human Rights (SNHR) and the Violations Documentation Center (VDC) submitted evidence of alleged war crimes committed by militias backed by Russia and Iran to the United Nations Commission of Inquiry on Syria. According to the head of the SNHR, \"sometimes the Russians exceed the regime in some kinds of violations\" and he noted the similarities between the kinds of war crimes and violations committed by Russian forces and those of the Assad regime.\n\nIn February 2017, \"Breaking Aleppo\", a report by the Atlantic Council's Digital Forensic Research Lab, utilized open source and digital forensic research to reveal both the Syrian government's atrocities and those of its supporters in the final months of the siege of Aleppo. In March 2017, the UN' Independent International Commission of Inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic documented violations including chemical attacks and civilian executions perpetrated between 21 July and 22 December 2016.\n\nA UN envoy warned that rebels may have been committing war crimes due to their indiscriminate rocket warfare targeting civilians in Aleppo, while trying to lift the siege in October and November 2016. The Aleppo rebels used improvised artillery, including \"hell cannons\", makeshift mortar firing gas cylinders packed with explosives and shrapnel. UN High Commissioner For Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein stated that their use was \"totally unacceptable\" and constituted indiscriminate attacks as they were very difficult to aim correctly, frequently killing and maiming civilians in government-held areas. According to Zeid, their inaccuracy means they had no military purpose so he concluded their use was primarily to \"terrorize the inhabitants of western Aleppo\". The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported in December 2014 that between July and December 2014 the rebels killed 204 civilians using hell cannons. Professor of Law Mark A. Summers of Barry University School of Law, a legal expert previous assigned to the Office of the Prosecutor for the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, wrote that both the uses of barrel bombs and hell cannons is inaccurate and so randomly destructiveshe that their use is per se illegal and thus constitutes either the direct or indiscriminate targeting of civilians and civilian objects.\n\nThere have been reports that rebels have on multiple occasions indiscriminately shelled the predominantly Kurdish Sheikh Maqsood neighborhood. In mid-June 2016 Russia accused the rebels of causing the death of over 40 civilians in the month. A spokesman for the US-supported SDF also accused the rebels of causing 1,000 civilian deaths and injuries, through shelling of Sheikh Maqsood. There were allegations that the Army of Islam group may have used chemical weapons in Sheikh Maqsood on 7 and 8 April 2016, based on reports of eight treated patients. In May 2016, Amnesty International's regional director suggested that the attacks on Sheikh Maqsood constitute war crimes.\n\nRebel groups such as Jabhat al-Nusra, the al-Shamia Front and the Ahrar al-Sham established Sharia law in areas they controlled, imposing torture or other ill-treatment as punishment. Human rights activists, lawyers and journalists have been subjected to kidnappings. In 2015, Amnesty International warned that \"non-state armed groups have engaged in abductions and hostage-taking, as well as the arbitrary detention, torture, and other mistreatment of prisoners in Aleppo\". According to a 2016 Amnesty International report, some of the rebel groups in the city engaged in summary executions, in some cases in public, on the basis of \"quasi-judicial institutions\". The victims were captured soldiers, government officials, rival group members, as well as civilians. Russian General Staff Lieutenant General Viktor Poznikhir claimed that the Syrian government discovered several prisons in East Aleppo on 15 December 2016 used by the opposition to detain, torture and in some cases murder their opponents, including civilians that refused to fight. At the conclusion of the battle, Syrian state media claimed the Army had found the bodies of 21 executed civilians in rebel prisons, citing the head of Aleppo's forensic unit. The Russian defence ministry also claimed the execution of dozens of people by the rebels, some showing signs of torture. The pro-opposition activist group the SOHR confirmed bodies had been found in the streets but could not verify how they were killed.\n\nDenial of water and sanitation is considered a war crime. Water supplies in the city for tens of thousands of people were deliberately cut by the Jabhat al-Nusra group for several days in May 2014. Jaish al-Islam also reportedly prohibited civilians from receiving food and supplies in one neighbourhood they controlled in December 2016.\n\nDuring the December 2016 evacuation, Jabhat Fateh al-Sham rebels burnt buses meant to evacuate sick and elderly civilians from two rebel-besieged Shiite villages in Idlib province, concurrently with the Aleppo evacuations.\n\n\"Time\" magazine wrote\n\n...the ongoing devastation inflicted on the country's stunning archaeological sites—bullet holes lodged in walls of its ancient Roman cities, the debris of Byzantine churches, early mosques and crusader fortresses—rob Syria of its best chance for a post-conflict economic boom based on tourism, which, until the conflict started 18 months ago, contributed 12% to the national income.\n\nThe Al-Madina Souq, a major souq (market) in Aleppo, was affected by a fire in September 2012. The \"Irish Times\" reported that around 700 to 1000 shops were destroyed by the fire, which had been caused by firing and shelling. The following month, there were reports of the Great Mosque of Aleppo being damaged by rocket-propelled grenades. Fighting with mortars and machine guns caused damage to the main gate and the prayer hall. The attack continued in the mosque till it was repelled by the army. The Citadel of Aleppo was damaged during Syrian army shelling.\n\nOn 2 October, Irena Bokova, the Director-General of UNESCO, expressed her \"grave concern about possible damage to precious sites\" and requested the combatants to \"ensure the protection of the outstanding cultural legacy that Syria hosts on its soil\". She cited the Hague Convention for protecting the heritage sites.\nA 2014 report by UNITAR found, using satellite images, that 22 out of the 210 examined key structures had been completely destroyed. 48 others had sustained severe damage, 33 moderate damage and 32 possible damage. The destroyed sites included the Carlton Citadel Hotel, destroyed to its foundations in a bombing in 2014, the madrasas of al-Sharafiyya and Khusruwiyah. Damage to the Great Mosque of Aleppo, whose minaret had been destroyed, was confirmed. According to official estimates, 1500 out of the 1600 shops in the souqs had been damaged or destroyed.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" wrote that the scale of devastation of Aleppo \"evoked comparisons with cities like Grozny and Dresden\". It noted, however, that the destruction was mostly concentrated in the rebel-held part of the city: about 70 to 80 percent of the destruction was in the east. UN satellite images determined more than 33,500 damaged residential buildings in the city, most of them multi-apartment blocks. The costs of reconstruction were estimated at between $35–40 billion. Al-Hakam Shaar and Robert Templer proposed that the deliberate destruction of Aleppo was a form of \"urbicide\".\n\nThe coverage of the siege of Aleppo in the Western media emphasised the suffering of civilians and often contained graphic pictures of injured and dying children. As the were almost no international journalists there, the reporting was outsourced to local activists linked to the rebels who held the city. This was significantly different from the news coverage of the sieges of Raqqa and Mosul carried out by the Coalition forces, where the civilian losses were downplayed.\n\nThe Syrian President, Bashar al-Assad, said on the occasion of the 67th Anniversary of the Syrian Arab Army in August 2012, \"the army is engaged in a crucial and heroic battle ... on which the destiny of the nation and its people rests ...\" After gaining nearly complete control of eastern Aleppo, Assad referred to this success as an \"important point in history of Syria\". He also called upon remaining rebel factions to surrender in exchange for amnesty.\n\nA series of victory celebrations were held in Aleppo following the government forces' victory, attended by government supporters, including Aleppo's Christian community which has increasingly sided with the government. Large-scale outdoor Christmas celebrations were held publicly for the first time in years, with a Christmas tree lighting ceremony in the Al-Aziziyah neighborhood. Participants waved Syrian and Russian flags and held portraits of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Russian President Vladimir Putin, and Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah. A Mass was held in Saint Elias Cathedral by Aleppo's Christian community for the first time in four years. According to Syrian TV, the Christmas celebration, however, was disrupted with a bomb that exploded at the event. The celebration, however, resumed several minutes after the bomb was detonated.\n\nA May 2017 \"New York Times Magazine\" report from \"Aleppo after the Fall\" described the public experience in formerly rebel controlled East Aleppo as \"a chaotic wasteland full of feuding militias—some of them radical Islamists—who hoarded food and weapons while the people starved\" and quoted local sources as \"no one is 100 percent with the regime, but mostly these people are unified by their resistance to the opposition\" and people having experienced \"a rebellion that is corrupt, brutal and compromised by foreign sponsors\".\n\n\nJan Egeland, Special Advisor to the UN Special Envoy for Syria, stated in November 2016: \"I have not seen a place where there has been so much politicization, manipulation of aid, as we have seen in Syria in recent months. It has to stop!\". He also called the bombardment and destruction of the city a \"dark chapter\" in modern history:\n\nIn his last press conference as the United Nations Secretary-General on 16 December 2016, Ban Ki-moon declared: \"Aleppo is now a synonym for hell\". The UN High Commissioner for Refugees delivered a statement on 17 December 2016, calling for an immediate end to the war in Syria: \"With the situation in Aleppo, Syria's war has reached an historic low... Aleppo has become a metaphor for the disastrous situation that Syria is in today, with half the population having been forced from their homes.\" \"The Washington Post\" compared the destruction of Aleppo to the siege of Sarajevo in the 1990s.\n\nOn 20 December 2016, the United Nations Security Council approved \"adequate, neutral UN monitoring and direct observation on evacuations from the eastern districts\" in Aleppo.\n\nRallies and demonstrations intended to show solidarity with Aleppo's besieged civilians, as well as protests against Syrian government and its Iranian and Russian allies, were held in several cities across the world, organized by numerous groups. In Paris, the Eiffel Tower went dark on 14 December, as a symbol of solidarity, and thousands protested in Paris' Stravinsky Square against Russia's role in the destruction of the city. Qatar cancelled its national day of celebration on 18 December 2016, in solidarity with Aleppo. German government spokesperson Steffen Seibert said that \"the cries for help of the people caught up in the fighting for the beleaguered city of Aleppo are a harrowing reminder to the world\". He also urged: \"There must be an end to the killing and dying in Aleppo.\" Protests were also held in London, Sarajevo, Istanbul, Jerusalem, Gaza City, and Amman, with some protesters burning pictures of Vladimir Putin because of Russia's role in the siege.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15726150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15726150", "title": "Blessing of the Fleet", "text": "Blessing of the Fleet\n\nThe Blessing of the Fleet is a tradition that began centuries ago in Mediterranean fishing communities. The practice began predominantly Catholic, but is now practiced by all Christians as a blessing from the local priest and pastors that is meant to ensure a safe and bountiful season.\n\nIn most ports, the event was brought by immigrants who held strongly to their Christian religious beliefs. The events that are part of the ritual vary by community and range from a simple ceremony to a multi-day festival including a church service, Parades, Pageantry, Dancing, Feasting, and Contests.\n\nMost states of Australia have had ports and fishing community traditions of blessing the fleet \n\nThe tradition of the blessing of the fleet is spread along the eastern seaboard and the Great Lakes region.\n\nAnnual Blessing of the Fleet festivals are held throughout communities all along the Gulf Coast; each year boats parade down local waters to receive the blessing of the priest before the opening of the shrimp season. The shrimping industry has a long history in the area and has\nbecome intrinsically tied to local individual and community identities. 88th Annual Blessing of the Fleet\n\nPortuguese immigrants introduced the event to their new home in Brunswick, Georgia, around the time of World War II, more than sixty years ago. The blessing is held on Mother's Day to honor Our Lady of Fatima, the patron saint of Portugal, and mothers in the parish. The event begins with a morning mass and the ceremonial \"May crowning\" of the statue of Our Lady of Fatima, followed by a parishioners parade around Hanover Square, adjacent to the church. The procession is led by a Knights of Columbus honor guard and 8 men carrying the statue. The statue’s base is decorated with ferns and fresh red (for living mothers) and white (for deceased mothers) flowers. An anchor made of red and white flowers is also placed at the statue’s base.\nThe celebration then moves to the waterfront, where shrimp trawlers, freshly painted and decorated, circle the waterfront. The \"working\" boats are usually matched by an equal number of recreational watercraft.\n\nThe priest from St. Francis and the Knights of Columbus honor guard board one of the boats and the priest sprinkles Holy water and blesses each boat as it passes by. During the procession, the boats are judged on their decorations, with prizes awarded to the best.\nAfter the last boat has been blessed, the boats move up the East River to St. Simons Sound, where the flower anchor is laid upon the water in memory of the local fishermen who perished at sea.\n\nDarien, Georgia, has held an annual blessing since 1968. The blessing is held on the Darien River on a Sunday afternoon each spring, but the date varies. It is scheduled to coincide with a falling tide because a rising tide could drive the boats into the bridge—a reminder that they are always at the mercy of the weather. The celebration in Darien begins early in the week with activities that include an evening prayer service, a fishermen's fish fry, and a three-day festival with arts & crafts, food vendors, lots of families and kid-oriented events, live entertainment and fireworks on Saturday night. Local clerics of various denominations stand ready on the Darien bridge to bless the boats which then turnaround and move down the Darien River and back into the Atlantic to begin the Spring shrimping season.\n\nThe celebration in Jacksonville, Florida is a simple ceremony that was first held in 1985. While it is held on Palm Sunday, and an Orthodox priest does the blessings, it is a fun, festive boat parade. Some of the participants go overboard with their decorations. Typically, more than 150 vessels participate in the Blessing, ranging from ships to kayaks. This event has also been commemorated in St. Augustine, Florida since 1946.\n\nMcClellanville, SC has held The Lowcountry Shrimp Festival and Blessing of the Fleet annually since 1976. The event is held at the fishing community’s Municipal Landing on Jeremy Creek in McClellanville the first Saturday of May each year. The Blessing of the Fleet ceremony is an age-old tradition in which boats parade past the dock where the local clergy pray for a safe and bountiful season. As the clergy give their blessing a beautiful Magnolia Wreath covered with Red Roses is tossed into the water in memory of and to honor McClellanville fishermen. This is typically the time of year the boats are preparing for the opening of the season and are freshly painted, cleaned up and looking their best. The boats decorate for the festival and are usually loaded with people who love to ride in the parade, which is quite picturesque. The remainder of the day is filled with family entertainment, children’s games and local seafood dishes, such as boiled and fried shrimp dinners, shrimp kabobs, frog more stew, clam chowder, fish stew, barbecue and more.\n\nThe annual Blessing of the Fleet & Seafood Festival in Mount Pleasant, SC pays tribute to local shrimping and fishing industry, offering a boat parade, live music, craft show and lots of free activities with the picturesque Ravenel Bridge and Charleston Harbor for a backdrop! The festival is held on the last Sunday in April every year. Continuing the tradition begun by the Magwood family, local shrimpers who started the festival in 1988, every year the net proceeds from the festival have been donated to local nonprofit organizations.\n\nThe Blessing of the Fleet in Portage des Sioux, Missouri has a 50+ year history and is held each year on the Third Saturday of July in front of the Shrine of Our Lady of the Rivers.\n\nThe Blessing of the Fleet in the nation's capital is one of the premier events of the region's boating season. Held in the Spring along Washington, D.C.'s Southwest Waterfront, it is hosted by the Port of Washington Yacht Club and supported by several yacht clubs and marinas in the area. 2011 marked the 36th year that the Blessing has taken place. With activity on land as well as on the water, the event is an exciting display of pageantry and seamanship that draws up to 100 boats each year.\n\nThe first Blessing of the Fleet celebration is to be held on the eve of the two year anniversary of a large fire that threatened many boats as well as lives of some of the crew. The event is being advertised locally with signs as well as on Facebook. The event will feature a trout boil with a portion of the proceeds benefiting the Algoma Fire Department, and Paster Chris Jackson will be performing the ceremony. The Blessing of the Fleet is planned to be an annual kick off event, adding to the rich history of Lake Michigan trout and salmon fishing out of the historic port.\n\n"}
{"id": "5795802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5795802", "title": "Blue mass", "text": "Blue mass\n\nBlue mass (also known as blue pill or pilula hydrargyri) was the name of a mercury-based medicine formerly common from the 17th to the 19th centuries. The oldest formula is ascribed to one Barbarossa, in a letter to Francis I of France.\n\nBlue mass was used as a specific treatment for syphilis from at least the late 17th century to the early 18th. Blue mass was recommended as a remedy for such widely varied complaints as tuberculosis, constipation, toothache, parasitic infestations, and the pains of childbirth. \n\nA combination of blue mass, and a mixture called the common black draught, was a standard cure for constipation in early 19th century England and elsewhere. It was particularly valued on ships of the Royal Navy, where sailors and officers were constrained to eat rock-hard salted beef and pork, old stale biscuits (hardtack), and very little fruit, fiber, or other fresh food once they were at sea for an extended period.\n\nIt was a magistral preparation, compounded by pharmacists themselves based on their own recipes or on one of several widespread recipes. It was sold in the form of blue or gray pills, or syrup. Its name probably derives from the use of blue dye or blue chalk (used as a buffer) in some formulations. \n\nThe ingredients of blue mass varied, as each pharmacist prepared it himself, but they all included mercury in elemental or compound form (often as mercury chloride, also known as calomel). One recipe of the period included (for blue mass syrup):\n\nBlue pills were produced by substituting milk sugar and rose oil for the glycerol and rose honey. Pills contained one grain (64.8 milligrams) of mercury.\n\nMercury is known today to be toxic, and ingestion of mercury leads to mercury poisoning, a form of heavy-metal poisoning. While mercury is still used in compound form in some types of medicines and for other purposes, blue mass contained excessive amounts of the metal: a typical daily dose of two or three blue mass pills represented ingestion of more than one hundred times the daily limits set by the Environmental Protection Agency in the United States today.\n\nIt is well known that Abraham Lincoln used blue mass regularly, but there is debate over what ailment the medicine was intended to address. Historians most commonly state that Lincoln used blue mass in the treatment of constipation. Some historians suspect that Lincoln used blue mass to treat his \"melancholy\" (probably clinical depression). It may have been both, as it was commonly believed during the time period that problems of digestion, the failure of the liver to properly secrete bile, could lead to mental disorders. The following statement made by one of Lincoln's friends lends support to this theory,\n\nLincoln's melancholy never failed to impress any man who ever saw or knew him. The perpetual look of sadness was his most prominent feature. The cause of this peculiar condition was a matter of frequent discussion among his friends. His liver failed to work properly—did not secrete bile—and his bowels were equally as inactive. \"I used to advise him to take blue-mass pills,\" related Stuart, \"and he did take them before he went to Washington, and for five months while he was President, but when I came on to Congress he told me had ceased using them because they made him cross.\n\nLincoln's use of blue mass may have altered his behavior, and may explain the erratic behavior and violent rages to which he was subject over a period of years prior to the Civil War in the United States. Some historians believe that this explains the contrast between his earlier behavior (while he was perhaps suffering from mercury poisoning from his use of blue mass) and his later behavior during the war (after he had stopped taking blue mass), given that most of the effects of mercury poisoning are reversible.\n\nThere is, however, evidence that Lincoln continued to take blue mass. An interview given by his wife Mary Todd Lincoln to a correspondent from the \"Pittsburgh Chronicle\" suggests that Lincoln continued his use of the medication, despite his earlier statements to the contrary. In the interview Mrs. Lincoln described an instance in which her husband's \"usual medicine\", the mercury based \"blue pills\" made him terribly ill. Mrs. Lincoln \"recalled the fact that her husband had been very ill, for several days, from the effects of a dose of blue pills taken shortly before his second inauguration.\" She said he was not well, and appearing to require his usual medicine, blue pills, she sent to the drug store in which Harrold was employed last and got a dose and gave them to him at night before going to bed, and that next morning his pallor terrified her. \"His face,\" said she, pointing to the bed beside which she sat, \"was white as that pillow-case, as it lay just there,\" she exclaimed, laying her hand on the pillow—\"white, and such a deadly white; as he tried to rise he sank back again quite overcome!\" She described his anxiety to be up, there was so much to do, and her persistence and his oppressive languor in keeping him in bed for several days; said he and she both thought it so strange that the pills should affect him in that way; they never had done so before, and both concluded they would get no more medicine there, as the attendant evidently did not understand making up prescriptions.\n\nUnfortunately, since no hair samples from Lincoln during this period are available, it is impossible to determine whether or not he was truly suffering from mercury poisoning while he was taking the blue mass. \n\nOther famous historical figures, such as Ulysses S. Grant, may also have taken blue mass regularly.\n\n"}
{"id": "203785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203785", "title": "Burning Man", "text": "Burning Man\n\nBurning Man is an annual event in the western United States at Black Rock City – a temporary city erected in the Black Rock Desert of northwest Nevada, approximately north-northeast of Reno. The late summer event is described as an experiment in community and art, influenced by ten main principles: radical inclusion, radical self-reliance, radical self-expression, communal effort, civic responsibility, gifting, decommodification, participation, immediacy and leave no trace. The event takes its name from its culmination, the symbolic ritual burning of a large wooden effigy (\"The Man\") that traditionally occurs on the Saturday evening of the event.First held in 1986 on Baker Beach in San Francisco as a small function organized by Larry Harvey and Jerry James who built the first \"Man\", it has since been held annually, spanning from the last Sunday in August to the first Monday in September (Labor Day). The 2019 event will run from August 25 to September 2.At Burning Man, the community explores various forms of artistic self-expression, which are created to be enjoyed by all participants. \"Burning Man is about 'why not' overwhelming 'why',\" one \"Burner\" said. Participation is a key precept for the community – selfless giving of one's unique talents for the enjoyment of all is encouraged and actively reinforced. Some of these generous outpourings of creativity include experimental and interactive sculptures, buildings, performances and art cars, among other media. These contributions are inspired by the yearly theme, which is chosen by the organizers.\n\nBurning Man is organized by the Burning Man Project, a non-profit organization that, in 2014, succeeded a for-profit limited liability company (Black Rock City, LLC) that was formed in 1997 to represent the event's organizers, and is now considered a subsidiary of the non-profit organization. In 2010, 51,515 people attended Burning Man. Attendance in 2011 was capped at 50,000 participants and the event sold out on July 24; the attendance rose to 70,000 in 2015. The Burning Man Project endorses several smaller regional events, inspired by the Burning Man principles both in the United States and internationally. \n\nBurning Man began as a bonfire ritual on the summer solstice in 1986 when Larry Harvey, Jerry James and a few friends met on Baker Beach in San Francisco and burned an tall wooden man as well as a smaller wooden dog. Harvey has described his inspiration for burning these effigies as a spontaneous act of \"radical self-expression\". Sculptor Mary Grauberger, a friend of Harvey's girlfriend Janet Lohr, held solstice bonfire gatherings on Baker Beach for several years prior to 1986, some of which Harvey attended. When Grauberger stopped organizing it, Harvey \"picked up the torch,\" and ran with it. He and Jerry James built the first wooden effigy on the afternoon of June 21, 1986, cobbled together using scrap wood, to be torched later that evening. In 1987, the effigy grew to tall, and by 1988, it had grown to .\n\nBy 1988, Larry Harvey formally named the summer solstice ritual \"Burning Man,\" by titling flyers for the happening as such; to ward off references such as \"wicker man,\" referring to the practice of burning live sacrifices in wicker cages. Harvey has stated that he had not seen the 1973 cult film\" The Wicker Man\" until many years after and that it did not inspire the action.\n\nIn 1990, a separate event was planned by Kevin Evans and John Law on the remote and largely unknown dry lake known as Black Rock Desert, about 110 miles north of Reno, Nevada. Evans conceived it as a dadaist temporary autonomous zone with sculpture to be burned and situationist performance art. He asked John Law, who also had experience on the dry lake and was a defining founder of Cacophony Society, to take on central organizing functions. In the Cacophony Society's newsletter, it was announced as Zone No. 4, A Bad Day at Black Rock (inspired by the 1955 film of the same name).\n\nMeanwhile, the beach burn was interrupted by the park police for not having a permit. After striking a deal to raise the Man but not to burn it, event organizers disassembled the effigy and returned it to the vacant lot where it had been built. Shortly thereafter, the legs and torso of the Man were chain-sawed and the pieces removed when the lot was unexpectedly leased as a parking lot. The effigy was reconstructed, led by Dan Miller, Harvey's then-housemate of many years, just in time to take it to Zone Trip No. 4.\n\nMichael Mikel, another active Cacophonist, realized that a group unfamiliar with the environment of the dry lake would be helped by knowledgeable persons to ensure they did not get lost in the deep dry lake and risk dehydration and death. He took the name Danger Ranger and created the Black Rock Rangers. Thus the seed of Black Rock City was germinated, as a fellowship, organized by Law and Mikel, based on Evans' idea, along with Harvey and James' symbolic man. Drawing on experience in the sign business and with light sculpture, John Law prepared custom neon tubes for the Man in 1991 so it could be seen as a beacon at night.\n\nIn its first years, the community grew by word of mouth alone, all were considered participants by virtue of surviving in the desolate surreal trackless plain of the Black Rock Desert. There were no paid or scheduled performers or artists, no separation between art-space and living-space, no rules other than \"Don't interfere with anyone else's immediate experience\" and \"no guns in central camp.\"\n\n1991 marked the first year that the event had a legal permit, through the BLM (the Bureau of Land Management). 1991 was also the year that art model and fire dancer (and later Burning Man's first art director) \"Crimson Rose\" attended the event. 1992 saw the birth of a smaller, intensive (about 20 participants the first year; about 100 in years two and three) near-by event named \"Desert Siteworks,\" conceived and directed by William Binzen and co-produced (in 1993 and '94) with Judy West. The annual, several weeks-long event, was held over summer Solstice at various fertile hot springs surrounding the desert. Participants built art and participated in self-directed performances. Some key organizers of Burning Man were also part of Desert Siteworks (John Law, Michael Mikel) and William Binzen was a friend of Larry Harvey. Hence, the two events saw lots of cross-pollination of ideas and participants. The Desert Siteworks project ran for three years (1992–1994). 1996 was the first year a formal partnership was created to own the name \"Burning Man\" and was also the last year that the event was held in the middle of the Black Rock Desert with no fence around it.\n\nBefore the event opened to the public in 1996, a worker named Michael Furey was killed in a motorcycle crash while riding from Gerlach, Nevada, to the Burning Man camp in the Black Rock Desert. Harvey insisted that the death had not occurred at Burning Man, since the gates were not yet open. Another couple was run over in their tent by an art car driving to \"rave camp,\" which was at that time distant from the main camp. After the 1996 event, co-founder and partner John Law broke with Burning Man and publicly said the event should not continue.\n\n1997 marked another major pivotal year for the event. By 1996, the event had grown to 8,000 attendees and unrestricted driving on the open playa was becoming a major safety hazard. To implement a ban on driving and re-create the event as a pedestrian/bicycle/art-car-only event, it was decided to move to private gated property. Fly Ranch, with the smaller adjoining Hualapai dry lake-bed, just west of the Black Rock desert, was chosen. This moved Burning Man from Pershing County/federal BLM land into the jurisdiction of Washoe County, which brought a protracted list of permit requirements.\n\nTo comply with the new requirements and to manage the increased liability load, the organizers formed Black Rock City, LLC. Will Roger Peterson and Flynn Mauthe created the Department of Public Works (DPW) to build the \"city\" grid layout (a requirement so that emergency vehicles could be directed to an \"address\") designed by Rod Garrett, an architect. Rod continued as the city designer until his death, in 2011, at the age of 76. He is also credited with the design of all of the man bases from 2001 through 2012, the center camp café and first camp. With the success of the driving ban, having no vehicular incidents, 1998 saw a return to the Black Rock desert, along with a temporary perimeter fence. The event has remained there since.\n\nAs the population of Black Rock City grew, further rules were established in relation to its survival. Some critics of the event cite the addition of these rules as impinging on the original freedoms, altering the experience unacceptably, while others find the increased level of activity more than balances out the changes.\n\nAnother notable restriction to attendees is the 9.2-mile (14.8 km) long temporary plastic fence that surrounds the event and defines the pentagon of land used by the event on the southern edge of the Black Rock dry lake. This 4-foot (1.2-meter) high barrier is known as the \"trash fence\" because its initial use was to catch wind-blown debris that might escape from campsites during the event. Since 2002, the area beyond this fence has not been accessible to Burning Man participants during the week of the event.\n\nOne visitor who was accidentally burned at the 2005 event unsuccessfully sued Black Rock City, LLC in San Francisco County Superior Court. On June 30, 2009, the California Court of Appeal for the First District upheld the trial court's grant of summary judgment to Black Rock City, LLC on the basis that visitors who deliberately walk towards the Burning Man after it is lit assume the risk of getting burned by such an obviously hazardous object.\n\nOn September 3, 2017 a 41-year-old man, Aaron Joel Mitchell, fought his way past a safety cordon of volunteers and firefighters and threw himself into the flames of the primary Burning Man effigy. Mitchell died the next day due to cardiac arrest, bodily shock and third-degree burns to 98% of his body. While a reputable member of the DPW claims this was the result of a dare to run thru the flames, his death was ruled a suicide. </ref>\n\nIn April 2011, Larry Harvey announced that the LLC was beginning a three-year process to transfer ownership and control of the event over to a new non-profit organization called the \"Burning Man Project.\" The move towards becoming a non-profit organization was the result of \"bitter infighting\" between members of the board. At one point it looked like all of the board members were going to hire lawyers. Corporate appraisers were brought in to determine how much the company was worth, which Larry Harvey found \"abhorrent\" and against all of the values that Burning Man stood for.\n\nAn earlier agreement stated that each member of the LLC would only receive \"sole compensation for many years of service, a golden parachute of $20,000.\" But the members now consented to an arrangement whereby each member of the LLC would receive an undisclosed sum prior to the transfer of their ownership rights to the Burning Man Project. Marian Goodell, board member and head of communications, addressed concerns about the lack of transparency with this statement: \"When you're in the middle of a storm, if you're going to explain all of how you got there, and how you're going to get out, it often sets more panic among the survivors than if you just sail the boat out of the darkness.\"\n\nIt was announced in March 2014 via the official Burning Man Blog that the non-profit transition was complete. Under the new non-profit structure Black Rock City LLC, the longtime for-profit responsible for the event, would be a subsidiary of the non-profit Burning Man Project. Although unmentioned in the initial announcement, the Terms and Conditions for ticket buyers were changed to reflect an alteration in the structure of the business. Under the new terms it was made known that a new LLC was created, Decommodification LLC, which in the new non-profit business structure, owns all of the intellectual property associated with the Burning Man brand, including ownership over logos and trademarks, and will be responsible for enforcement thereof. The non-profit Burning Man Project licenses usage of all intellectual property associated with Burning Man from Decommodification LLC. After questions were raised by the community about this new LLC within the comment section on the original non-profit announcement Larry Harvey confirmed that he and the other founders were the sole owners of this new LLC.\n\nThe statistics below illustrate the growth in attendance of the Burning Man event, from a few handfuls of people to more than 70,000 in 2015, as well as other facts and figures. Burning Man 2006 was covered extensively for television for the first time by subscription television channel Current TV which handed out cameras to participants and broadcast daily updates via satellite from the dry lake. \"TV Free Burning Man\" also provided TV viewers an hour-long live feed of The Burn and was shown without commercial sponsorship. TV Free returned in 2007 and 2008; the 2007 coverage was nominated for a news Emmy Award.\n\nThe height of the Burning Man effigy has remained close to 40 feet (12 meters) tall between 1989 and 2013. During those years changes in the height and structure of the base account for the differing heights of the overall structures. In 2014 the configuration and height of the Man itself changed, and Burners were presented with a taller, more robust figure. For 2016, 2017 & 2018 the Man itself returned to its 40-foot configuration.\n\nBecause of the variety of goals fostered by participatory attendees, known as \"Burners\", Burning Man does not have a single focus. Features of the event are subject to the participants and include \"community,\" \"artwork,\" \"absurdity,\" \"decommodification\" and \"revelry.\" Participation is encouraged.\n\nThe Burning Man event and its affiliated communities are guided by 10 principles that are meant to evoke the cultural ethos that has emerged from the event. They were originally written by Larry Harvey in 2004 as guidelines for regional organizing, then later became a universal criterion of the general culture of the multifaceted movement. They are:\nThe descriptions in quotes are the actual text:\n\n\"Anyone may be a part of Burning Man. We welcome and respect the stranger. No prerequisites exist for participation in our community.\"\nThis was written with a broad stroke for general organizing, meaning anyone is welcome to the Burning Man culture. Prerequisites for the Burning Man event are; participants are expected to provide for their own basic needs, follow the guidelines stated in the annually updated event \"survival guide,\" and purchase a ticket to get in.\n\n\"Burning Man is devoted to acts of gift giving. The value of a gift is unconditional. Gifting does not contemplate a return or an exchange for something of equal value.\"\nInstead of cash, participants at the Burning Man event in the Black Rock Desert are encouraged to rely on a gift economy, a sort of potlatch. In the earliest days of the event, an underground barter economy also existed, in which burners exchanged \"favors\" with each other. While this was originally supported by the Burning Man organization, this is now largely discouraged. Instead, burners are encouraged to give gifts to one another unconditionally.\n\n\"In order to preserve the spirit of gifting, our community seeks to create social environments that are unmediated by commercial sponsorships, transactions, or advertising. We stand ready to protect our culture from such exploitation. We resist the substitution of consumption for participatory experience.\"\nNo cash transactions are permitted between attendees of the Burning Man event in the Black Rock Desert. Cash can be used for a select few charity, fuel, and sanitation vendors as follows:\n\n\n\"Burning Man encourages the individual to discover, exercise and rely on his or her inner resources.\"\nThe event's harsh environment and remote location requires participants to be responsible for their own subsistence. Since the LLC forbids most commerce, participants must be prepared and bring all their own supplies with the exception of the items stated in Decommodification.\n\n\"Radical self-expression arises from the unique gifts of the individual. No one other than the individual or a collaborating group can determine its content. It is offered as a gift to others. In this spirit, the giver should respect the rights and liberties of the recipient.\"\nParticipants at the Burning Man event in the Black Rock Desert are encouraged to express themselves in a number of ways through various art forms and projects. The event is clothing-optional and public nudity is common, though not practiced by the majority.\n\n\"Our community values creative cooperation and collaboration. We strive to produce, promote and protect social networks, public spaces, works of art, and methods of communication that support such interaction.\"\nParticipants at the Burning Man event in the Black Rock Desert are encouraged to work with and help fellow participants.\n\n\"We value civil society. Community members who organize events should assume responsibility for public welfare and endeavor to communicate civic responsibilities to participants. They must also assume responsibility for conducting events in accordance with local, state and federal laws.\"\n\n\"Our community respects the environment. We are committed to leaving no physical trace of our activities wherever we gather. We clean up after ourselves and endeavor, whenever possible, to leave such places in a better state than when we found them.\"\n\n\"Our community is committed to a radically participatory ethic. We believe that transformative change, whether in the individual or in society, can occur only through the medium of deeply personal participation. We achieve being through doing. Everyone is invited to work. Everyone is invited to play. We make the world real through actions that open the heart.\" People are encouraged to participate, rather than observe.\n\n\"Immediate experience is, in many ways, the most important touchstone of value in our culture. We seek to overcome barriers that stand between us and a recognition of our inner selves, the reality of those around us, participation in society, and contact with a natural world exceeding human powers. No idea can substitute for this experience.\"\n\nEvery year since 1995 has had a theme that has guided the ticket artwork, events and artwork on Playa. Prior to 2019 the theme was decided by Larry Harvey and announced in essay form to steer the imagery and participation Larry Harvey passed away in 2018, leaving the Burning Man organization responsible to name future themes.\n\n\nThe burning of a temple, as well as the Man, has become a tradition activity at the event. It takes place the evening after the burning of the Man. Sculptor David Best's temple projects were ritually burned from 2000 to 2004. The tradition of participants inscribing the surfaces of the piece with personal messages has continued through all of the iterations of the temple.\n\nBurning Man primarily features large scale interactive installation art inspired by the intersection of maker culture, technology and a connection to nature. Many works invite participation through climbing, touch, a technological interface or motion. Because of its principles of participation and radical inclusivity, much of outsider and visionary art, though a great variety of art forms appear during the event. Creative expression through the arts and interactive art are encouraged at Burning Man in many forms. Music, performance and guerrilla street theatre are art forms commonly presented within the camps and developed areas of the city. Artwork is placed in the open playa beyond the streets of the city and each year hundreds of isolated artworks, ranging from small to very large-scale art installations, often sculptures with kinetic, electronic and fire elements are brought to Black Rock City.\n\nArt on the dry lake bed (the \"playa\") is assisted by the Artery, which helps artists place their art in the desert and ensures lighting (to prevent collisions), burn platform (to protect the integrity of the dry lake bed) and that fire safety requirements are met. Art grants are, however, available to participants via a system of curation and oversight, with application deadlines early in the year. Grants are intended to help artists produce work beyond the scope of their own means, and are generally intended to cover only a portion of the costs associated with creation of the pieces, usually requiring considerable reliance on an artist's community resources. Aggregate funding for all grants varies depending on the number and quality of the submissions (usually well over 100) but amounts to several percent (on the order of $500,000 in recent years) of the gross receipts from ticket sales. In 2006, 29 pieces were funded.\n\nVarious standards regarding the nature of the artworks eligible for grants are set by the Art Department, but compliance with the theme and interactivity are important considerations. This funding has fostered artistic communities, most notably in the Bay Area of California, the region that has historically provided a majority of the event's participants. There are active and successful outreach efforts to enlarge the regional scope of the event and the grant program.\n\nIn 2018, the Renwick Gallery of the American Art Museum at the Smithsonian in Washington D.C. brought the large-scale, participatory work from the desert gathering to the nation's capital for the first time. The exhibition took over the entire Renwick Gallery building and surrounding neighborhood, bringing alive the maker culture and creative spirit of this cultural movement. Immersive room-sized installations, costumes, jewelry, and ephemera transport visitors to the gathering's famed \"Playa,\" while photographs and archival materials from the Nevada Museum of Art trace Burning Man's growth and its bohemian roots.\n\nLarge-scale installations—the artistic hallmark of Burning Man—form the core of the exhibition. Individual artists and collectives featured in \"No Spectators: The Art of Burning Man\" include David Best, Candy Chang, Marco Cochrane, Duane Flatmo, Michael Garlington and Natalia Bertotti, Five Ton Crane Arts Collective, FoldHaus Art Collective, Scott Froschauer, HYBYCOZO (Yelena Filipchuk and Serge Beaulieu), Android Jones, Aaron Taylor Kuffner, Christopher Schardt, Richard Wilks, and Leo Villareal.\n\nMultiple installation sites have been selected throughout the neighborhood surrounding the museum for \"No Spectators: Beyond the Renwick,\" which will include works by Jack Champion, Mr. and Mrs. Ferguson, HYBYCOZO, Laura Kimpton]], and Mischell Riley.\n\nMutant Vehicles, often motorized, are purpose-built or creatively altered cars and trucks. Participants who wish to bring motorized mutant vehicles must submit their designs in advance to the event's own DMV or \"Department of Mutant Vehicles\" for approval and for physical inspection at the time of the event. Not all designs and proposals are accepted. The event organizers, and in turn the DMV, have set the bar high for what it deems an acceptable MV each year, in effect capping the number of Mutant Vehicles. This is in response to constraints imposed by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, which grants permits to hold the event on federal property, and to participants who want to maintain a pedestrian-friendly environment. Vehicles that are minimally altered, and/or whose primary function is to transport participants, are discouraged and rejected. One of the criteria the DMV employs to determine whether an application for a proposed Mutant Vehicle is approved is \"can you recognize the base vehicle\". For example, if a 1967 VW van covered with glitter, dolls' heads, and old cooking utensils can still be recognized as a VW van, it is considered to be \"decorated not mutated\" and is less likely to be approved. This criterion led to the exclusion of some \"Art Cars\", which historically have been a staple of the event. There were over six hundred approved Mutant Vehicles at the event in 2010.\n\nBicycles and tricycles are popular for getting around on the dry lake. Mountain bikes are generally preferred over road bikes for riding on the dried silt, which is normally hard but becomes loose with traffic. Participants often decorate their bikes to make them unique. Since lighting on the bikes is critically important for safety at night, many participants incorporate the lighting into their decorations, using electroluminescent wire (a thin, flexible tube that glows with a neon-like effect when energized with electricity) to create intricate patterns over the frame of the bike. Every night during Burning Man, thousands of bikes and art cars drive around, creating a visual display similar to Las Vegas at night, except that the lights are mobile.\n\nCamps focusing on electronic music, often played by live DJs, began to appear in 1992, as influenced by the rave culture of the San Francisco area. Terbo Ted was identified as having been the first ever DJ in Burning Man history, opening with a Jean Michel Jarre song played off a vinyl record. DJs typically occupied an area on the outskirts of the Playa nicknamed the \"Techno Ghetto\". In later years, designated spokes of the main camp were designated for \"sound camps\", with limits on volume and speaker positioning (angled away from the center of Black Rock City). To work around the rules, mutant vehicles with live DJs and large sound systems began to appear as well. A number of major electronic music camps have been well-known recurrents at Burning Man, including Opulent Temple and Robot Heart. Major producers and DJs representing various eras and genres have performed at Burning Man, including Armin van Buuren, Carl Cox, Markus Schulz, François Kevorkian and Freq Nasty among others.\n\nIn recent years, concerns began to surface among attendees that a growing number of \"mainstream\" electronic dance music acts (such as Skrillex and Diplo's Jack Ü in 2014) had begun to appear. In 2015, organizers established a new area known as the \"Deep Playa Music Zone\" (or DMZ), to serve as a new host for sound trucks featuring live DJs.\n\nBlack Rock City, often abbreviated to BRC, is the name of the temporary city created by Burning Man participants. Much of the layout and general city infrastructure is constructed by Department of Public Works (DPW) volunteers who often reside in Black Rock City for several weeks before and after the event. The remainder of the city including theme camps, villages, art installations and individual camping are all created by participants.\n\nThe developed part of the city is currently arranged as a series of concentric streets in an arc composing, since 1999, two-thirds of a 1.5-mile (2.4-km) diameter circle with the Man Sculpture and his supporting complex at the very center ( in 2017). Radial streets, sometimes called Avenues, extend from the Man to the outermost circle. The outlines of these streets are visible on aerial photographs.The innermost street is named the \"Esplanade\", and the remaining streets are given names to coincide with the overall theme of the burn, and ordered in ways such as alphabetical order or stem to stern, to make them easier to recall. For example, in 1999, for the \"Wheel of Time\" theme, and again in 2004 for \"The Vault of Heaven\" theme, the streets were named after the planets of the solar system. The radial streets are usually given a clock designation, for example, 6:00 or 6:15, in which the Man is at the center of the clock face and 12:00 is in the middle of the third of the arc lacking streets (usually at a bearing of 60° true from the Man). These avenues have been identified in other ways, notably in 2002, in accordance with \"The Floating World\" theme, as the degrees of a compass, for example 175 degrees, and in 2003 as part of the Beyond Belief theme as adjectives (\"Rational, Absurd\") that caused every intersection with a concentric street (named after concepts of belief such as \"Authority, Creed\") to form a phrase such as \"Absurd Authority\" or \"Rational Creed\". However, these proved unpopular with participants due to difficulty in navigating the city without the familiar clock layout.\n\nThe Black Rock City Airport is constructed adjacent to the city, typically on its southern side. See Transportation section below.\n\nCenter Camp is located along the mid line of Black Rock City, facing the Man at the 6:00 position on the Esplanade. This area serves as a central meeting place for the entire city and contains the Center Camp Cafe, Camp Arctica and a number of other city institutions.\n\nVillages and theme camps are located along the innermost streets of Black Rock City, often offering entertainment or services to participants.\n\nTheme camps are usually a collective of people representing themselves under a single identity. Villages are usually a collection of smaller theme camps which have banded together in order to share resources and vie for better placement.\n\nTheme camps and villages often form to create an atmosphere in Black Rock City that their group envisioned. As Burning Man grows every year it attracts an even more diverse crowd. Subcultures form around theme camps at Black Rock City similar to what can be found in other cities.\n\nThe Burning Man event is heavily dependent on a large number of volunteers.\n\nBlack Rock City is patrolled by various local and state law enforcement agencies as well as the Bureau of Land Management Rangers. The local police issue $1500 fines for drug use and serving alcohol to minors. Burning Man also has its own in-house group of volunteers, the Black Rock Rangers, who act as informal mediators when disputes arise between participants.\n\nFirefighting, emergency medical services (EMS), mental health, and communications support is provided by the volunteer Black Rock City Emergency Services Department (ESD). Three \"MASH\"-like stations are set up in the city: station 3, 6 and 9. Station 6 is staffed by physicians and nurses working with a contracted state licensed ALS Medical provider, while Stations 3 and 9 are staffed by Black Rock City ESD personnel. While Station 3 and 9 provide emergency services and basic life support, the volunteers are generally doctors, nurses, EMTs/paramedics, and firefighters. Both station 3 and 9 have a small fire engines available in addition to a Hazardous material/ Rescue truck and Quick response vehicle for medical emergencies.\n\nIn from February 2013 first made public on August 29, 2015, it was revealed that in August 2010, the FBI had sent a memo to its field offices in Nevada stating that it would patrol Burning Man to \"aid in the prevention of terrorist activities and intelligence collection.\" Although a threat assessment performed by the FBI in consort with Burning Man's contracted security determined that drug usage and crowd control were the only major threats to Burning Man, the Bureau still sent an unspecified number of undercover officers to the event, with \"no adverse threats or reactions.\"\n\nFrom the very beginning on Baker Beach, to 1991 when Burning Man was set into its desert home, there was no real organizational structure to the city. According to Rod Garret, designer of Black Rock City, \"The original form of the camp was a circle. This was not particularly planned, but formed instinctively from the traditional campfire circle and the urge to 'circle the wagons' against the nearly boundless space.\" This would not work for much longer, as attendance was reaching into the hundreds, and such a large gathering would require some planning.\n\nThe Bureau of Land Management took notice of the event, and required that plans be drawn up to maintain safety. They also required the Burn to be registered as an official event. In response, four cardinal roads were added emanating from center camp. The Man was located West of Center camp, due to the camp being oriented with the path of the sun across the sky, as opposed to North-to-South. The center circle from the birth of the event was maintained.\n\nIn 1993, the first sound camp was opened. It was known as the Techno Ghetto, and it was located 2 miles north of Center Camp. It was not a usual theme camp, but was instead a mini hub on its own; There was a small \"center camp\" with a message board and Port-a-potties. The center was surrounded by a circle of camping area across. Six massive sound systems faced out from the circle. The Techno Ghetto was placed separately to keep the 'rave' out of the main event, yet as time has progressed, music has become more and more closely tied into the core culture of Burning man, even spawning a unique genre known as Playa Tech\n\nWith the population growing to 8,000 in 1996, more structure was essential to both appease the Bureau of Land Management, and to maintain safety. A ring around Center Camp, aptly named Ring Road, was added to provide for a second circle of theme camps. In addition, the eastern section of the circle around Center camp in a cone shape was declared a \"No Man's Land,\" devoid of all art installations and campsites. The goal was to provide a picturesque view from Center Camp of The Man in the distance. In addition to the camps circling the Center, there were also camps lining the outside of the No Man's Land cone.\n\nThe techno ghetto would remain for one last year in 1996, and it wouldn't return. Regardless, the spark of music had ignited, and many other sound camps would follow.\n\nIn 1997 Burning Man was relocated. The event moved off of the Playa to the Hualapai Flat, due to political problems with Washoe County. Black Rock City truly became a city in 1997, with formal, labeled streets, zoning, and registration for vehicles and theme camps. Rod Garret was brought on board as the lead designer of Black Rock City from then on. In his design, Center Camp remained the starting point, with two angular arms reaching out on either side to form a shallow \"V\" shape around the Man. These main arms consisted of six annular roads, and two outlying plazas. 1997 is the first year of a Ranger-patrolled perimeter, and also the first year of one entry gate.\n\nBurning Man returned to the playa in 1998, and the basis of the modern layout was implemented. The idea was to \"recreate some of the intimacy of our original camping circle, but on a much larger civic scale.\" Rod Garret's design smoothed out the angular \"V\" from 1997 and implemented the arc, although in 1998, it stretched less than half-way around the circle. The radial streets were numbered North 1–20 and South 1–20, instead of the modern clock face system of names such as 11:30 or 5:15. There were four large plazas, each occupied by a major theme camp.\n\nIn 1999, for the Wheel of Time theme, the great arc of the city was expanded to the full 240° (2/3 of a circle) that it is today. The streets were re-numbered to correspond to a clock face, with the Man in the center, Center Camp at 6:00, and streets every 30 minutes (15°) 2:00 through 10:00.\n\n2000 saw the introduction of the Temple as a fixture on the playa, and it has grown to be easily as important as the Man. It was placed at 12:00 out in the deep playa in the open third of the circle. 2000 also marked the year that the concept of a loud side and a quiet side was replaced by the rule that large scale sound camps would be placed at the 10:00 and 2:00 edges, facing out into the deep playa.\n\nExtra annular streets have been added as need has increased.\n\nIn 2011, extra radial streets were added from G street out to make outer-city navigation easier. These streets were added at intervals of fifteen minutes. By September 2018, Burning Man's founders created a commerce-free economy for 70,000 people.\n\nHighway 34 provides access to the main entrance to Black Rock City. The highway connects to Highway 447 north of Gerlach, which then runs south to Highway 427 in Wadsworth near Interstate 80.\n\nVehicles then proceed from the Highway 34 entrance north to the main gate via Gate Road, a desert dirt road with a speed limit of 10 mph. All vehicles driving into the city must have the appropriate vehicle pass, and all occupants are required to have valid ticket, in order to get in. Vehicles are also searched for any items that are prohibited in the city. For those who have their tickets held at Will Call, the booths are located between the Highway 34 entrance and the main gate. All tickets and vehicle passes must be bought in advance; they are not directly sold outside the gate or at the Will Call booths. Furthermore, unless they have a valid early arrival pass for the pre-event set up, any vehicle who arrives before the gate opens is turned away and told to go back to Reno, and not to wait along the side of the road on either Highways 34 or 447 (which would be a safety hazard), nor stay in Gerlach (and overcrowd the small town).\nWhen the Burning Man ends, and the mass exodus out of Black Rock City begins, a road traffic control procedure called \"Pulsing\" is used to direct vehicles out of the city. At regular intervals (usually an hour during the peak periods), all vehicles are \"pulsed\" forward all at once for about a mile along Gate Road. This allows vehicles to stop and turn off their engines, while those at southernmost mile of the multi-lane Gate Road slowly merge and then turn onto the two-lane Highway 34.\n\nThe airport with regular commercial service closest to the event is the Reno-Tahoe International Airport in Reno, Nevada, over two hours' drive away. An airport spokesperson said in 2009 that 15,000 burners arrive to the event via the airport annually, making it the second-busiest time for them. In 2008 and 2009, an information desk for burners was organized in Reno airport.\n\nSan Francisco International Airport, nearly six hours away by car, is the nearest airport with a high volume of international service.\n\nA section of the Playa is used for a non-permanent airport, which is set up before each event and completely erased afterward. It serves both general aviation and charter flights. Pilots began camping there about 1995, and once compelled to add structure, it was established in a form acceptable to the BLM in 1999 through the efforts of Tiger Tiger (Lissa Shoun) and LLC board member Mr. Klean (Will Roger). In 2009 it was recognized by the FAA as a private airport and designated 88NV. It is found on the Klamath Falls Sectional, using a CTAF of 122.9 MHz. Black Rock UNICOM and the airport are operational on that frequency from 6:00 am to 7:30 pm PDT each day during the event. The runway is simply a compacted strip of playa, and is not lighted. Because of the unique air traffic and safety issues associated with the airport, pilots are strongly encouraged to familiarize themselves with published information and procedures provided by, for example, AOPA. Because of the changes of the surface each year, information about the airport is subject to change.\n\nThere are prepaid shuttles, originating in Reno and San Francisco, that move participants to and from the event. During the event there is also a paid shuttle between the event and the nearby towns of Gerlach and Empire. Exiting and reentering the event requires an additional fee, and is highly discouraged.\n\nParticipants also share rides and hitchhike.\n\nBurning Man takes place in the middle of a large playa, and while not inhabited by humans itself, the area around the playa is home to many animals and plants. Supporters of Burning Man point out that participants are encouraged to leave no trace (LNT) of their visit to Black Rock City (BRC) and not to contaminate the area with litter, commonly known as MOOP (Matter Out of Place). Despite the BLM and LLC's insistence on the practice of LNT, the amount of residual trash at the site has increased over the years, \n\n[t]he number of items per plot in the City consistently increased over the 2006 to 2009 ... Although the observed trend was not statistically significant, regression analysis indicated that the predicted trend explained over 97% of the variance in the data.\nWhile fire is a primary component of many art exhibits and events, materials must be burned on a burn platform. From 1990 through 1999, burning was allowed to take place directly on the surface of the playa, but this left burn scars (fired pinkish clay-like playa surface). When it was finally determined that they did not dissipate with the annual winter rains and flooding, in 2000, the organization declared that fires had to be elevated from the playa surface for its protection. When it was discovered by two of the founders of the Friends of Black Rock / High Rock (Garth Elliott & Sue Weeks) and BLM Winnemucca district director Terry Reid that Burn scars from prior sites (numbering 250) still remained, they were finally eradicated in 2000 by the DPW clean up crew headed by Dan Miller.\n\nOn the last day of the event, public shared burn areas are prepared for participants to use. It is an ongoing educational process each year to inform the public not to burn toxic materials for the protection of the environment and participants.\n\nEven gray water is not to be dumped on the playa, and used shower water must be captured and either evaporated off, or collected and carried home with each participant or disposed of by roving septic-pumping trucks, which also service RVs. Methods used for evaporating water normally include a plastic sheet with a wood frame.\n\nThe Bureau of Land Management, which maintains the desert, has very strict requirements for the event. These stipulations include trash cleanup, removal of burn scars, dust abatement, and capture of fluid drippings from participant vehicles. For four weeks after the event has ended, the Black Rock City Department of Public Works (BRC – DPW) Playa Restoration Crew remains in the desert, cleaning up after the temporary city in an effort to make sure that no evidence of the event remains.\n\nBurning Man's carbon footprint is primarily from transportation to the remote area. The CoolingMan organization has estimated that the 2006 Burning Man was responsible for the generation of 27,000 tons of carbon dioxide, with 87% being from transportation to and from the remote location. The Sierra Club has criticized Burning Man for the \"hundreds of thousands\" of plastic water bottles that end up in landfills, as well as ostentatious displays of flames and explosions.\n\nBurning Man's 2007 theme, \"Green Man\", received criticism for the artwork \"Crude Awakening\", a 99-foot oil derrick that consumed 900 gallons of jet fuel and 2,000 gallons of liquid propane to blast a mushroom cloud 300 feet high into the sky.\n\nIn an attempt to offset some of the event's carbon footprint, 30- and 50- solar arrays were constructed in 2007 as permanent artifacts, providing an estimated annual carbon offset of 559 tons. The Burn Clean Project is a volunteer organization that has helped replace the use of fossil fuel with biodiesel.\n\nBurning Man has attracted a number of billionaires and celebrities, many of them from Silicon Valley and Hollywood. It has become a networking event for them, with Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk once stating that Burning Man \"\"is\" Silicon Valley\".\n\nThese billionaires have paid for more luxurious camps to be set up in recent years. Derisively nicknamed \"plug-n-play\" or \"turnkey\" camps, they in general consist of lavish RV's and luxury restroom trailers that are driven into the city and connected together to form \"de facto\" gated areas. These billionaires then fly in to the airport on private planes, are driven to their camps, served by hired help (nicknamed \"sherpas\"), and sleep in air-conditioned beds. One venture capitalist billionaire threw a $16,500-per-head party at his camp.\n\nDespite allowing the rich to participate in Burning Man per the \"radical inclusion\" principle, many traditional Burners have spoken out against their exclusive practices. Larry Harvey wrote that they also conflict with the \"radical self-reliance\" and other principles, but has also stated that permitting the wealthy to attend is still beneficial for Burning Man. Vandalism that occurred at the White Ocean sound camp in 2016 was said to have been a \"revolution\" against these attendees, describing them as being a \"parasite class\" or \"rich parasites\".\n\nMeanwhile, the regular admission price has increased over the years. In addition, Nevada lawmakers have modified the state's entertainment and sales tax code to include such nonprofit organizations like Burning Man that sell more than 15,000 tickets. As a result, an individual ticket (including taxes) cost $424 in 2016. Even tickets sold under Burning Man's low income program are subject to these taxes. Including transportation, food, camp fees, clothing and costumes, and gifts, CNBC estimated in 2016 that the total cost of attending could range from $1,300 up to $20,000. In 2017, \"Money\" magazine estimated an average total cost of $2,348 to attend.\n\nAccording to the racial makeup of Burning Man attendees in 2014, about 87 percent of them identified themselves as white, 6 percent as Hispanic/Latino, 6 percent as Asian, and 1 percent as black. When interviewed by \"The Guardian\" about these figures, Harvey replied, \"I don't think black folks like to camp as much as white folks ... We're not going to set racial quotas ... This has never been, imagined by us, as a utopian society\".\n\nThe terms of the Burning Man ticket require that participants wishing to use photo and video-recording equipment share a joint copyright of their images of Black Rock City with Burning Man, and forbid them from using their images for commercial purposes. This has been criticized by many, including the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF).\n\nA Burning Man spokeswoman replied that the policies are not new, were written by a former head of the EFF, were used when suing to block pornographic videos and ultimately arose from participant concerns: \"We're proud that Black Rock City (a private event held on public land) is widely acknowledged as a bastion of creative freedom. [B]ut that protection [of participants' freedoms] does necessitate the acceptance of some general terms of engagement when it comes to cameras ... EFF seems to think that anyone attending any event somehow has an absolute right to take photographs, and then to do whatever they want with those images without any effective restriction or manner of enforcement. While we believe that such rights do make sense for any of us taking pictures in purely public spaces, this is not true in the private space of Burning Man – if it were it would mean that Burning Man couldn't protect participant privacy or prevent commercialization of imagery.\"\n\nThe Burning Man organization has since worked with the EFF and with Creative Commons and other parties, and has revised and clarified the photography policies.\n\nThe popularity of Burning Man has encouraged other groups and organizations to hold events similar to Burning Man.\n\nBurners have created smaller regional events modeled on Burning Man, such as Burning Flipside in Texas; Apogaea in Colorado; Playa del Fuego in Delaware; Firefly in New England; Kiwiburn in New Zealand; Burning Seed in Australia; Transformus in North Carolina; AfrikaBurn in South Africa; NoWhere near Zaragoza in Spain; Midburn in Israel; and many others.\n\nSome of the events are officially affiliated with the Burning Man organization via the Burning Man Regional Network. This official affiliation usually requires the event to conform to the 10 principles and certain standards outlined by the Burning Man organization and to be accompanied by a \"Burning Man Regional Contact,\" a volunteer with an official relationship to the Burning Man Project via a legal Letter of Agreement. In exchange for conforming to these standards, the event is granted permission to officially communicate itself as a Burning Man Regional Event. Also, the regional event organizers are enabled to exchange best practices with each other on a global level via online platforms and in-person conferences, which are partly sponsored by the Burning Man Project.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24164828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24164828", "title": "DF Concerts", "text": "DF Concerts\n\nDF Concerts (formerly known as Dance Factory Concerts) is a concert promoter which is based in and operates across Scotland. \n\nDF Concerts promote and manage T in the Park festival and owns and manages King Tut's Wah Wah Hut in Glasgow. They were previously behind the now defunct The Edge Festival and Connect.\n\nThey are one of the three major promoters in Scotland, the others being Regular Music and CPL (Cathouse Promotions Limited).\n\nDF Concerts organised the Papal Mass in Bellahouston Park for the Pope's visit in 2010.\n\nThe current CEO of DF Concerts is Geoff Ellis, who took over from founding CEO Stuart Clumpas in 2001. Since 2008, DF Concerts have been majority-owned by LN-Gaiety Investments, a joint venture between Live Nation and Denis Desmond, an Irish music promoter.\n\n"}
{"id": "41026892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41026892", "title": "Dancing with the Dead (play)", "text": "Dancing with the Dead (play)\n\nDancing with the dead (comic thriller in two acts) is a 2005 play by Georgian playwright Miho Mosulishvili.\n\nOn background permanently proceeding war in the Caucasus, near border mountains is situated hotel 'Dreamland of Mountains'. This hotel bought two married couple: Boa (wife) and Davy (husband); Lily (wife) and Tattoo (husband).\n\nThe trouble begins when it will appear that their partner in sales of heroin of Siko-torpedo (this character we don't see in the play) brought a gift a suitcase in which owe a life two million dollar, but five hundred thousand dollars doesn't suffice that at the local prices makes cost thousand heroin grams.\n\nBoa (wife) compels to the husband, Davy that it too took a stick of golf in hands and let it too will go to kill other couple.\n\nIn that too time, Tattoo (husband) compels to the wife, Lily that it too took a stick of golf in hands and let it too went to kill other couples.\n\nWhen lagged behind the live Lily (the widow of Tattoo) and Devy (widower Boa) from hotel take out corpses, shoes of the killed spouses start knocking on a ladder and Poured and Tattoo start dancing with corpses on a back (The play name from here turns out).\n\nOwner who will provide proofs comes that accident was is arranged is artificial and he back returned already the money, but only for this purpose doesn't kill Lily and Davy that newlyweds have to liquidate Siko-torpedo.\n\nBoth are more dead, Boa and Tattoo are already in heavens where they the teacher of golf have William Shakespeare, and in Solfeggio they are engaged under the direction of the inventor of music notes Guido of Arezzo.\n\nOwner who supervised and ruled all these events, is sure that he created more successful play, than his friend William Shakespeare.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8144", "title": "December 7", "text": "December 7\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28247506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28247506", "title": "Feasts of Jesus Christ", "text": "Feasts of Jesus Christ\n\nFeasts of Jesus Christ are specific days of the year distinguished in the liturgical calendar as being significant days for the celebration of events in the life of Jesus Christ and his veneration, for the commemoration of his relics, signs and miracles. While Easter is treated everywhere as the central religious feast in the Christian liturgical year, the other feasts differ in the liturgical practice.\n\nSince the Second Vatican Council, the Catholic liturgical calendar distinguishes four ranks of celebrations: solemnities, feasts, memorials, and optional memorials. Most of the celebrations of events in the life of Christ are ranked as solemnities. However, there are a few celebrations related to titles or mysteries of Christ which are ranked as feasts, and these are known collectively as \"Feasts of the Lord.\" In the current General Calendar from the Third Edition of the Roman Missal, these are:\n\nIn the pre-Vatican II usage, the term \"feast\" denoted any celebration, not just a specific rank. Hence, also celebrations which are today termed solemnities of the Lord (e.g. Christmas, Easter, Pentecost, Christ the King) were once deemed Feasts of the Lord.\n\nThree main categories of feasts, distinguished in the Orthodox liturgical practice, namely\n\nWhile Easter is treated as Feast of Feasts, the following eight feasts of Christ are assigned the highest rank of the Great Feasts in the Eastern Orthodox liturgical calendars:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49226277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49226277", "title": "Formula Masters Russia", "text": "Formula Masters Russia\n\nFormula Masters Russia (formerly known as Formula Russia) - is a single-seater racing series based in Russia. The series was created in 2011 as an analogue of Formula Abarth.\n\nThe primary goal of the project is to find most talented young pilots and to prepare them for their big future in Formula One. Each pilot (or team) is provided with engineers and mechanics. All teams use Tatuus FA010 chassis.\n\n\nAll drivers were Russian-registered.\n\n 8 events per year with 3 races in each.\n\nFormat of events \nThe place on the starting grid in first race depends on results of first qualification, the place on the starting grid in second race depends on results of second qualification, the place on the starting grid in third race depends on results of second race, with 6-8 positions inverted.\n\n Chassis \nTatuus FA010 Carbon composite monocoque FIA F3-2010 safety homologated.\n\nFPT 414TF, volume 1400 sm3, turbo,\n200 h.p.,\ntorque: ~ 250 Nm\nwith 3500 turnovers per minute.\n\nSadev sequential six-speed gearbox — LSD differential.\n\nАР four-piston calipers, ventilated discs\nbrake pads FERODO.\n\nPREMIER FIA FT3, 45 lt.\n\nATS, Front 9x13\", Rear 10,5x13\"centre-bolt aluminium.\n\nFront 180/550R13, Rear 240/570R13.\n\n2650mm x 1490mm x 1455mm\n\n525kg, including driver.\n"}
{"id": "10235415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10235415", "title": "Fèisean nan Gàidheal", "text": "Fèisean nan Gàidheal\n\nFèisean nan Gàidheal is the National Association of Scottish Gaelic Arts Youth Tuition Festivals. Established in 1988, it is the support organisation for the Fèisean (Scottish Gaelic for Festivals) which are local Gaelic Arts tuition festivals. The current Chief Executive Officer is Arthur Cormack.\n\nIn 2016, their project Fuaran was nominated for Community Project of the Year at MG ALBA Scots Trad Music Awards. Fuaran brought together young singers, aged 16-24, and tradition-bearers from the community to record traditional Gaelic songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "41910808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41910808", "title": "GEA World", "text": "GEA World\n\nGEA World S.p.A. is a consultancy company with offices in Rome, Dubai and London, operating in sports business industry. Alessandro Moggi is its President in partnership with Franco Zavaglia, Riccardo Calleri and Ivan Vecchietti. In January 2013, after several years of athlete management, Gea World S.p.A. dramatically changed direction. It does not manage players, instead offering consultations within sport systems, event organization, image management, marketing and corporate social responsibility. Within a short period of time, Gea World has earned a high importance role being a top consultant of international corporations and star football clubs. Gea World has also developed projects in co-operation with scientific associations. On January the 22nd, 2014 at the Chamber of Deputies in Rome, Gea World launched Gea Tutor, a mentoring support service for athletes with the goal of helping them to transition in both their personal and professional lives as their public careers comes to a close.\n"}
{"id": "35496465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35496465", "title": "Grande Semaine d'Aviation de la Champagne", "text": "Grande Semaine d'Aviation de la Champagne\n\nThe Grande Semaine d'Aviation de la Champagne was an aviation meet held near Reims in France during August 1909. It was the first international public flying event and was seen both at the time and by later historians as marking the coming of age of heavier-than-air aviation. Almost all of the prominent aviators of the time took part, and the 500,000 visitors included Armand Fallières, the President of the French Republic and the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, David Lloyd George.\n\nThe \"Grand Semaine d'Aviation\", held between 22 August and 29 August 1909, was sponsored by many of the leading makers of champagne including Moët et Chandon and Mumm\nand organised by a committee headed by the Marquis de Polignac. It was held on the plain of Bétheny, about north of Reims, which later became the Reims – Champagne Air Base. A large grandstand was constructed for the event, together with a row of sheds to accommodate the aircraft. Next to the grandstand was the \"Popular enclosure\", complete with an enormous scoreboard. Amenities for the spectators included a restaurant that could seat 600 people, an area of specially laid lawn with bandstands and flowerbeds, and a post office, from which 50,000 postcards were sent each day and nearly a million words dispatched by press correspondents. The spectator area was only a few hundred metres from the Laon-Reims railway line, and a temporary station was provided.\n\nA rectangular competition course of , marked by four pylons was set up for the various competitions, with the strip intended for taking off and landing in front of the grandstands, opposite which was the timekeepers hut, provided with a signalling system to indicate to the spectators which event was being competed for. Flying conditions were primitive: the area over which much of the flying was to take place was farmland: some of the crops under cultivation had not been harvested and where this had been done there were haystacks: more than one flyer was to fall foul of these obstacles.\n\n\nThis was the most prestigious event of the meeting, and was a competition between national teams, sponsored by Gordon Bennett, the publisher of the New York Herald and was being held for the first time. It consisted of a time trial over two laps of the circuit rather than a direct race, and each nation was allowed three entrants. The qualification trials for the French team on the Sunday morning were hampered by the weather conditions, with the most successful competitor, Eugène Lefebvre flying a French-built Wright biplane, narrowly failing to complete two laps of the course: the only other pilot to make a convincing flight was Louis Blériot, and the third place was later given to Hubert Latham flying an Antoinette monoplane, on account of his performance in trials for the Prix de la Vitesse held later that day, during which \"the wonderful and unprecedented spectacle was witnessed of seven machines in the air at one time\". Other nations were represented by the American aviator Glenn Curtiss and George Cockburn flying a French Farman III biplane representing Great Britain: promised Italian and Austrian entries did not materialise. On the Saturday of the race Curtiss made the first flights, first making an attempt for the Circuit Prize and lowering the record to 7 m 55.4 s. Encouraged by this, he then made his attempt for the Trophy, completing the two laps in 15 m 50.4 s. Cockburn made the next attempt, but was unable to complete one lap. Lefebvre then made the first attempt by the French team, only managing a time of 20 m 47.6 s. Latham's time was 16 m 32 s. Blériot, flying last, managed a first lap time in the same time as Curtiss' second (faster) lap, but during the second round he was impeded by a squall, and his total time was 15 min 56.1 sec. Under the rules of the Trophy, Curtiss' victory meant that the next race would be held in America. Later in the day Blériot did secure one prize, that for the fastest circuit, with a time of 7 m 47.4 s.\n\nThis was a distance prize offering six prizes of 50,000, 25,000, 10,000, 5,000, 5,000, and 5,000 francs. The competition for this award resulted in the world record for distance being broken three times in three days, the prize eventually being won by Henri Farman with a flight of , flying a Farman III biplane. Farman eventually landed because the competition stopped at half-past seven, and any distance flown after this time did not count. On landing, in the words of the correspondent from the London \"Times\" he was \"seized upon by the enthusiastic crowd and carried in triumph to the buffet, where a scene of almost delirious excitement was witnessed\" Although French by upbringing, Farman's father was British and he was therefore also technically British, this mixed nationality being celebrated by a military band playing both the French and the British national anthems to celebrate his victory.\n\nFarman had replaced the Vivinus engine of his aircraft, which was proving unreliable, with a Gnome Omega rotary engine just before the flight. Since the published rules of competition forbade any changes to the aircraft, his victory was contested by Latham and Léon Levavasseur, the designer of the Antoinette aircraft and engine, but the change had been officially approved before the flight, and their complaint was not successful. The Reims meeting was the public debut of the Gnome engine, and although probably unappreciated by the majority of the spectators, this was one of the most significant events to take place at the Rheims meeting. The Gnome, designed and manufactured by the Seguin brothers, was both light in weight and relatively reliable, and was a major advance in aviation technology: Louis Blériot later saying \"it enabled the industry to advance by leaps and bounds\" Three other aircraft were flown using this engine at Reims, the others being the Farman biplanes belonging to Cockburn and Roger Sommer and the Voisin belonging to Louis Paulhan\n\nOffering four prizes of 10,000, 5,000, 3,000 and 2,000 francs, for the fastest time over three laps of the circuit. The final attempts for this were held on the last day, and after Curtiss' narrow victory over Blériot spectators were expecting an exciting duel. However, Blériot had a spectacular accident: his aircraft crashed and caught fire, and was destroyed: the prize went to Curtiss.\n\nA single prize of 10,000 francs, given to the aviator who carried the greatest number of passengers over one lap of the course: in the event of two contestant carrying the same number of passengers the prize going to the fastest. Won by Farman, the only pilot to carry two passengers.\n\n(Height Prize) of 10,000 francs. Won by Hubert Latham flying an Antoinette VII with an altitude of \n\n(Circuit Prize), of 7,000 and 3,000 francs. for the fastest single lap. Won by Louis Blériot, flying his Type XII monoplane, with a speed of 76.95 kph (47.8 mph).\n\nA speed trial over five laps for dirigibles. No attempts were made until the last day, when the French Army dirgible \"Colonel Renard\"\nwon with a time of 1 hr. 19 m. The only other competitor was a Zodiac dirigible.\n\n38 aircraft were entered for the event, but in the end only 23 actually flew, representing nine different types. 87 fights of more than were made The type which was best represented was the Voisin biplane, of which there were seven examples flown. This reflects Gabriel Voisin's position as the first manufacturer to achieve widespread sales of an aircraft, but by this time his design was obsolescent, the only notable achievement being Louis Paulhan's third place in the distance competition. Significantly, Paulhan's aircraft was fitted with a Gnome engine. The meeting effectively demonstrated the practicality of heavier than air aviation: it was evident that the major problem was the unreliability of the engines being used. Many previous notable aviation feats, such as Louis Blériot's recent crossing of the English Channel, had been made near the times of sunrise or sunset, when the air is often very still. In contrast, competition flying at Reims did not start until ten in the morning and ended at half past seven, and although high winds did cause the black flags signalling 'no flying' to be hoisted on occasion, all days saw some flying.\nThe destruction by fire of Louis Blériot's aircraft on the last day was the most spectacular accident to occur during the meeting, and Blériot had been involved in another accident earlier in the week while practising for the passenger carrying event, when he had to make an emergency landing due to engine trouble, Unfortunately there was a troop of dragoons in the way: in swerving to avoid them, he collided with the railings separating the spectator area from the flying track. The damage was repaired overnight. At the time only one aviator had been killed in an aircraft crash, and \"Flight\" magazine could write of the \"customary good luck of the aviator\" when referring to aviators walking away from accidents which wrecked the aircraft: aircraft of the time were slow, generally flown at low altitudes and their wooden construction often meant that the force of impact was absorbed by the disintegration of the airframe, but within a month of the event two of the participating flyers, Lefebvre and Ferdinand Ferber, were to be killed in aircraft accidents.\n"}
{"id": "11299653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11299653", "title": "Imrana rape case", "text": "Imrana rape case\n\nThe Imrana rape case is the case of the sexual assault of a 28-year-old Indian Muslim woman by her father-in-law on 6 June 2005 in Charthawal village in the Muzaffarnagar district Uttar Pradesh, India (located 70 km from Delhi). The village elders and subsequently, several levels of Islamic legal opinion regarded Imrana's marriage with her husband null, as the Sharia regards sexual relations with both the father and son as incestuous. This sparked nationwide controversy as critics argued the case was treated as adultery and not rape.\n\nOn 6 June 2005, Imrana, 28 years old at the time, and the mother of five children, was raped by her 69-year-old father-in-law Ali Mohammad.\n\nSoon after she was raped, a local Muslim \"panchayat\" (council of elders) asked her to treat her husband Nur Ilahi as her son and declared their marriage null and void. Imrana defied the panchayat's ruling and continued living with her husband.\n\nThe leading Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband also issued a \"fatwa\" or opinion, which quotes from Quran 4:23: \"wa la tankihoo ma nakaha aaba-o-kum\", \"And\nmarry not women whom your fathers married\", and not distinguishing between rape and adultery, said that as a result of her father-in-law's act, she should now be treated \nas the mother of her husband and she could no longer live with him even though Imrana had not married her father-in-law. She was still married to her husband when she was raped by her father in law therefore the fatwa provided by the panchayat's disregard the Islamic rulings against rape and the punishment for the rapists. Due to such fatwa Imrana is in a way being prosecuted instead of her rapist father in law as she is being ordered to leave her husband and start a life with her rapist. The fatwa is a clarification of the ruling by the village leaders who disregarded the Islamic teachings for such cases for the sake of shunning Imrana who is thought to have brought shame to the community by having sexual intercourse with her father in law.\n\nThis \"fatwa\" was based on the Abu Hanifa school of Islamic Jurisprudence (Hanafi fiqh), which rules that on having sex with a man she marries, a woman has the status of mother to all his children. The other three schools, Maliki, Shafi'i, and Hanbali, reject this position The All India Muslim Personal Law Board also endorsed the fatwa, but opinions were divided between the Hanafi and Shafi'i, the two sunni fiqh's mostly represented in India.\n\nLater, the Deoband seminary denied that it has issued such a \"fatwa\". Nur Ilahi continued to stay with Imrana and said that \"[they] neither sought advice nor counsel from Deoband. [They] have not raised the issue before clerics.\"\n\nAt one point, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav also endorsed the view of the Darul Uloom that she can no longer live with her husband. After Imrana's case was highlighted by the national media, the National Commission for Women directed authorities in Muzaffarnagar to take action. The body's chairperson Girija Vyas asked the Uttar Pradesh government to punish the guilty and sought a report on the incident.\n\nPolice registered a case under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against Mohammed Ali and arrested him. Police also filed a case against him on 30 June 2005 with a medical report and recorded Imrana's statement before a magistrate. The court had turned down Mohammed Ali's bail plea on 5 December 2005\n\nIn a video recorded by the Muslim Political Council of India, Imrana (veiled) says that once she screamed, Mohammed Ali had run away. On being asked again, she reiterates that the forceful attempt was not successful.\n\nHowever, the court took a different view based on evidence presented in the trial. \nOn October 2006, Mohammed Ali was condemned to a prison term of ten years for raping Imrana. \nAt one point the defense lawyer sought a leniency based on age of the defendant, but this was denied. \nThe judge also directed Mohammed Ali to pay compensation of Rs 8,000 to Imrana for raping her. On the separate charge of criminal intimidation, Mohammed ali was sentenced to three years in prison and fined in Rs 3,000\n\nChronology of events in the Imrana rape case:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12026395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12026395", "title": "Innoventions (Epcot)", "text": "Innoventions (Epcot)\n\nInnoventions is a museum at the Epcot theme park in Walt Disney World, Florida. It focuses on technological advancements and their practical applications in everyday life. Innoventions is a portmanteau of the words \"innovation\" and \"invention\".\n\nInnoventions first opened in 1994, replacing Communicore in Epcot. When the attraction opened, it prominently displayed Sega Genesis, Sega Game Gear, Sega 32X, Sega CD, and Sega Pico games in an arcade style. The exhibit also featured \"virtual reality\" displays. Epcot's version is divided into two buildings known as Innoventions East and Innoventions West. In 1999, Innoventions had a major renovation for the park's Millennium Celebration, and added the subtitle \"The Road to Tomorrow\". In 2007-2008 Innoventions underwent another major renovation, dropped the subtitle \"Road to Tomorrow,\" and changed its general aesthetic again while also launching the companion website \"innoventions.disney.com\". Today, Innoventions East is the only operating portion still using the Innoventions name while the building that formerly housed Innoventions West is mainly being used as the Epcot Character Spot.\n\n\n\nOn May 19, 2015, Innoventions West closed for a major overhaul. It is being used as an extension of Epcot Character Spot for the time being.\n\nEpcot's Innoventions' mascot for 2000-2007 was a small Audio-Animatronic character named Tom Morrow 2.0, the former host of Disney Channel's \"Imagineer That!\" shorts. He was removed in the 2007-2008 renovation. Tom Morrow 2.0 recently made an appearance at the Odyssey Building which also features Figment from the original Journey into Imagination ride, and one of the characters from Kitchen Kabaret.\n\nThe area music played at Epcot is about 20 minutes long and begins with a musical piece by David Arkenstone entitled \"Papillon (On The Wings Of The Butterfly)\" from his album \"In the Wake of the Wind\". The rest of the music was composed by Russell Brower for Walt Disney Imagineering and is not commercially available. Brower, along with Arkenstone, would then compose the music for the World of Warcraft games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15790", "title": "January 15", "text": "January 15\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41257574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41257574", "title": "Jianzhuke Shu", "text": "Jianzhuke Shu\n\nThe Jianzhuke Shu () was a petition to King Zheng of Qin, written by Li Si in 243 BC. Written in response to an order to expel all officers serving in the State of Qin who were not born in Qin, it successfully persuaded King Zheng to rescind the expulsion order, and also began Li Si's career as a leading politician in Qin.\n\nDuring the Warring States period, it was common practice for learned men whose careers might have been frustrated in their homelands to travel to other countries in search of service and patronage. Li Si himself was such an individual, having been born in the State of Chu but unable to progress in an official career there.\n\nThe initial policy of openness to outsiders changed in 244 BC, due to the controversy surrounding the Zhengguo Canal; the State of Han had dispatched Zheng Guo, a skilled engineer, to Qin on the pretext of helping them build an irrigation canal. Subsequently, however, it was discovered that this was really a scheme by Han to weaken Qin by diverting its resources towards canal construction. At the instigation of a clique of officials within the Qin court, suspicion soon became widened to include all guest officers from outside Qin, and King Zheng issued an order to expel all foreigners.\n\nLi Si, himself a foreigner, was also caught up in the purge; his petition was composed while he was being expelled from Qin. \n\nKing Zheng finally accepted Li Si's suggestion and withdrew the order. Twenty years later, King Zheng unified ancient China and became the first Emperor of the whole China.\n\n"}
{"id": "55136495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55136495", "title": "July 4th North–South Korea Joint Statement", "text": "July 4th North–South Korea Joint Statement\n\nThe 7 · 4 South and North Korea Joint Statement, also known as the July 4th North-South Joint Communiqué, was signed on July 4, 1972, by the Republic of Korea and the DPRK government for the first time since the division of the Korean peninsula. In 1972, following the instructions of Park Jung-hee, the director of KOREA-CIA Lee Hu-rak was sent to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and met with Kim Il-sung to establish three principles of unification: 1) independence, 2) peace and 3) nation-wide unity.\nIt was enacted to promote international detente, declaration of the withdrawal of the USFK and reduction of Military arms competition. However, after the discussion on unification, the regime of both sides of the two Koreas was unable to proceed with the real action plan because of the instability of their political power in the country. \n\n"}
{"id": "14687290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14687290", "title": "Kivu conflict", "text": "Kivu conflict\n\nThe Kivu conflict began in 2004 in the eastern Congo as an armed conflict between the military of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) and the Hutu Power group Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR) in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It has broadly consisted of three phases, the third of which is an ongoing conflict. Prior to March 2009, the main combatant group against the FARDC was the National Congress for the Defence of the People (CNDP). Following the cessation of hostilities between these two forces, rebel Tutsi forces, formerly under the command of Laurent Nkunda, became the dominant opposition to the government forces. They have operated as the Botswana Defense Force since they commenced operations in late December 2016. \n\nThe United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (MONUSCO) has played a large role in the conflict. With a 21,000-strong force, the Kivu conflict constitutes the largest peacekeeping mission currently in operation. In total, 93 peacekeepers have died in the region, with 15 dying in a large-scale attack by an Islamist militia, the Allied Democratic Forces, in North Kivu in December 2017. The peacekeeping force seeks to prevent escalation of force in the conflict, and minimise human rights abuses like sexual assault and the use of child soldiers.\n\nCNDP is sympathetic to the Banyamulenge in Eastern Congo, an ethnic Tutsi group, and to the Tutsi-dominated government of neighboring Rwanda. It was opposed by the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), by the DRC army, and by United Nations forces.\n\nLaurent Nkunda was an officer in the rebel Rally for Congolese Democracy (RCD), Goma faction in the Second Congo War (1998–2002). In 2003, when that war officially ended, Nkunda joined the new integrated national army of the transitional government as a colonel and was promoted to general in 2004. He soon rejected the authority of the government and retreated with some of RCD-Goma troops to the Masisi forests in Nord Kivu.\n\nGlobal Witness says that Western companies sourcing minerals were buying them from traders who finance both rebel and government troops. Minerals such as cassiterite, gold or coltan, which is used for electronic equipment and cell phones, are an important export for the Congo. A UN resolution stated that anyone supporting illegal Congolese armed groups through illicit trade of natural resources should be subjected to sanctions including travel restrictions and an assets freeze. The extent of the problem is not known.\n\nLater in 2004, Shmank's forces began clashing with the DRC army in Sud-Kivu and by May 2004, occupied Bukavu, where he was accused of committing war crimes. Nkunda claimed he was attempting to prevent genocide against the Banyamulenge, who are ethnic Tutsi resident in the eastern DRC. This claim was rejected by the UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO), and they also denied the claim that Nkunda was following orders from Rwanda. Following UN negotiations which secured the withdrawal of Nkunda's troops from Bukavu to the Masisi forests, part of his army split. Led by Colonel Jules Mutebusi, it left for Rwanda. About 150,000 Kinyarwanda-speaking people (of Nkunda's own language group) were reported to have fled from Sud-Kivu to Nord-Kivu in fear of reprisal attacks by DRC army.\n\nIn 2005, Nkunda called for the overthrow of the government due to its corruption, and increasing numbers of RCD-Goma soldiers deserted the DRC army to join his forces.\n\nIn January 2006, Nkunda's troops clashed with DRC army forces, who had also been accused of war crimes by the MONUC. Further clashes took place during August 2006 around the town of Sake. MONUC, however, refused to arrest Nkunda after an international arrest warrant was issued against him, stating that: \"Mr Laurent Nkunda does not present a threat to the local population, thus we cannot justify any action against him.\" As late as June 2006, Nkunda became subject to United Nations Security Council restrictions.\n\nDuring both the first and second rounds of the contested and violent 2006 general election, Nkunda had said that he would respect the results. On 25 November, however, a day before the Supreme Court ruled that Joseph Kabila had won the presidential election's second round, Nkunda's forces undertook a sizeable offensive in Sake against the DRC army 11th Brigade, also clashing with MONUC peacekeepers. The attack may not have been related to the election but due to the \"killing of a Tutsi civilian who was close to one of the commanders in this group.\" \n\nThe UN called on the DRC government to negotiate with Nkunda, and DRC Interior Minister, General Denis Kalume, was sent to eastern DRC to begin negotiations.\n\nOn 2006-12-07, RCD-Goma troops attacked DRC army positions in Nord Kivu. With military assistance from MONUC, the DRC army was reported to have regained their positions, with about 150 RCD-Goma forces having been killed. Approximately 12,000 Congolese civilians have fled the DRC to Kisoro District, Uganda. Also on that day, a rocket fired from the DRC to the Kisoro District killed seven people.\n\nIn early 2007, the central DRC government attempted to reduce the threat posed by Nkunda by trying to integrate his troops further into the FARDC, the national armed forces, in what was called a 'mixage' process. However, this backfired and it now appears that from about January to August Nkunda controlled five brigades of troops rather than two. On 24 July 2007, the UN peacekeeping head Jean-Marie Guehenno stated, \"Mr Nkunda's forces are the single most serious threat to stability in the DR Congo.\" In early September, Nkunda's forces had a smaller DRC force under siege in Masisi, and MONUC helicopters were ferrying government soldiers to relieve the town. Scores of men were reported killed, and another major conflict was in progress.\n\nOn 5 September 2007, after the government FARDC forces claimed they had used a Mil Mi-24 helicopter gunship to kill 80 of Nkunda's rebels, Nkunda called on the government to return to a peace process. \"It's the government side who have broken the peace process. We are asking the government to get back on the peace process, because it is the real way to resolve the Congolese problem\", he said In September, Nkunda's men \"raided ten secondary schools and four primary schools where they took the children by force in order to make them join their ranks.\" According to United Nations officials, girls were taken as sex slaves, boys were used as fighters, in violation of international law. Following the date of the UN report, thousands more Congolese fled their homes for displaced persons camps.\n\nThe government set a 15 October 2007 deadline for Nkunda's troops to begin disarming. This deadline passed without action and, on 17 October, President Joseph Kabila ordered the military to prepare to disarm Nkunda's forces forcibly. Government forces advanced on the Nkunda stronghold of Kichanga. Thousands of civilians fleeing the fighting between Nkunda and government-allied Mai-Mai around Bunagana arrived in Rutshuru several days later. There were separate reports of government troops engaging units under Nkunda around Bukima, near Bunagana, as well as some refugees fleeing across the border into Uganda. The number of people displaced by the fighting since the beginning of the year was estimated at over 370,000.\n\nIn early November 2007, Nkunda's troops captured the town of Nyanzale, about north of Goma. Three neighbouring villages were also reported captured, and the army outpost abandoned. A government offensive in early December resulted in the capture by the 82nd Brigade of the town of Mushake, overlooking a key road (however, Reuters reports a FARDC integrated brigade, the 14th, took the town). This followed a statement by the United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo that it would be willing to offer artillery support to the government offensive. In a regional conference held in Addis Ababa, the United States, Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda pledged to support the Congolese government and not support \"negative forces\", widely seen as code for Nkunda's forces.\n\nNkunda stated on 14 December 2007 that he was open to peace talks. The government called such talks on 20 December to be held from 27 December 2007 to 5 January 2008. These talks were then postponed to be held from 6 to 14 January 2008.\n\nNkunda's group did attend the talks, but walked out on 10 January 2008, after an alleged attempted arrest of one of their members. They later returned to the talks. The talks' schedule was extended to last until 21 January 2008, and then to 22 January 2008 as an agreement appeared to be within reach. It was further extended to 23 January 2008 over final disagreements regarding war crimes cases. The peace deal was signed on 23 January 2008 and included provisions for an immediate ceasefire, the phased withdrawal of all rebel forces in North Kivu province, the resettlement of thousands of villagers, and immunity for Nkunda's forces.\n\nThe agreement encouraged FARDC and the United Nations to remove FDLR forces from Kivu. Dissatisfaction with progress and lack of resettlement of refugees caused the CNDP forces to declare war on the FDLR and hostilities to resume, including civilian atrocities. Neither the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda nor the Rwandan government took part in the talks, a fact which may hurt the stability of the agreement.\n\nOn 26 October 2008 Nkunda's rebels seized a major military camp, along with Virunga National Park for use as a base to launch attacks from. This occurred after the peace treaty failed, with the resultant fighting displacing thousands. The park was taken due to its strategic location on a main road leading to the city of Goma.\nOn 27 October riots began around the United Nations compound in Goma, and civilians pelted the building with rocks and threw Molotov cocktails, claiming that the UN forces had done nothing to prevent the rebel advance. The Congolese national army also retreated under pressure from the rebel army in a \"major retreat\".\n\nAttack helicopters and armoured vehicles of UN peacekeepers (MONUC) were used in an effort to halt the advance of the rebels, who claim to be within 7 miles (11 kilometres) of Goma. Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for DRC Alan Doss explained the necessity of engaging the rebels, stating that \"...[the UN] can't allow population centers to be threatened... [the UN] had to engage.\" On 28 October, rebels and combined government-MONUC troops battled between the Kibumba refugee camp and Rutshuru. Five rockets were fired at a convoy of UN vehicles protecting a road to the territorial capital of Rutshuru, hitting two armoured personnel carriers. The APCs, which contained Indian Army troops, were relatively undamaged, though a Lieutenant Colonel and two other personnel were injured. Rebel forces later captured the town. Meanwhile, civilians continued to riot, at some points pelting retreating Congolese troops with rocks, though UN spokeswoman Sylvie van den Wildenberg stated that the UN has \"reinforced [their] presence\" in the region.\n\nOn 29 October the rebels declared a unilateral ceasefire as they approached Goma, though they still intended to take the city. That same day a French request for an EU reinforcement of 1,500 troops was refused by several countries and appeared unlikely to materialise; however, the UN forces in place stated they would act to prevent takeovers of population centres. Throughout the day the streets of the city were filled with refugees and fleeing troops, including their tanks and other military vehicles. There were also reports of looting and commandeering of cars by Congolese troops. That night the UN Security Council unanimously adopted a non-binding resolution which condemned the recent rebel advance and demanded it be halted. Despite the ceasefire, World Vision workers had to flee to the Rwandan border to work, and shots were still fired. The United States Department of State sent Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jendayi Frazer as an envoy to the region.\n\nOn 30 October looting and violence by Congolese soldiers, some of them drunk, continued in Goma, though contingents of other troops and paramilitary police attempted to contain the looting by patrolling the streets in pick-up trucks. Nkunda called for direct talks with the Congolese government, also stating that he would take Goma \"if there is no ceasefire, no security and no advance in the peace process.\" On 31 October Nkunda declared that he would create a \"humanitarian aid corridor\", a no-fire zone where displaced persons would be allowed back to their homes, given the consent of the United Nations task force in the Congo. Working with the UN forces around Goma, Nkunda hoped to relocate victims of the recent fighting between his CNDP forces and UN peacekeepers. MONUC spokesman Kevin Kennedy stated that MONUC's forces were stretched thin trying to keep peace within and around the city; recent looting by Congolese soldiers had made it harder to do so as incidents arose both within city limits and outside. According to Anneke Van Woudenberg, a Human Rights Watch researcher, more than 20 people were killed overnight in Goma alone. Meanwhile, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice contacted Rwandan President Paul Kagame to discuss a long-term solution. Also on 31 October British Foreign Minister David Miliband and French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner flew to the region, with the intention of stopping in Kinshasa, Goma, and possibly Kigali.\n\nOn 6 November rebels broke the ceasefire and wrested control of another town in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo in clashes with government forces on the eve of a regional summit on the crisis. National Congress for the Defence of the People (CNDP) rebels seized control of the centre of Nyanzale, an important army base in Nord-Kivu province after government forces fled. Residents reported that rebels had shot dead civilians suspected of supporting pro-government militia.\n\nIn November 2008, during the clashes around Goma, a UN source reported that Angolan troops were seen taking part in combat operations alongside government forces. Kinshasa repeatedly denied that foreign troops were on its soil — an assertion echoed by the UN mission, which has 17,000 blue-helmeted peacekeepers on the ground. There is \"military cooperation\" between Congo and Angola, and that \"there are perhaps Angolan (military) instructors in country\", according to the UN. Angola, a former Portuguese colony, sided with Kinshasa in the 1998–2003 Second Congo War that erupted when Democratic Republic of Congo was in a massive rebellion.\n\nOn 22 January 2009, the Rwandan military, during a joint operation with the Congolese Army, captured Nkunda as he fled from DR Congo into neighbouring Rwanda. Rwandan officials have yet to say if he will be handed over to DR Congo, which has issued an international warrant for his arrest. A military spokesperson said Nkunda had been seized after sending three battalions to repel an advance by a joint Congolese-Rwandan force. The force was part of a joint Congolese-Rwandan operation which was launched to hunt Rwandan Hutu militiamen operating in DR Congo. Nkunda is currently being held at an undisclosed location in Rwanda. A Rwandan military spokesman has claimed, however, that Nkunda is being held at Gisenyi, a city in Rubavu district in the Western Province of Rwanda. DR Congo's government suggested his capture would end the activities of one of the country's most feared rebel groups, recently split by a leadership dispute.\n\nWith the ending of the joint Rwandan-DROC offensive against Hutu militiamen responsible for the 1994 Genocide in Rwanda, the Kivu conflict effectively ended. On 23 March 2009, the NCDP signed a peace treaty with the government, in which it agreed to become a political party in exchange for the release of its members.\n\nOver the weekend of 9/10 May 2009, FDLR Rwandan Hutu rebels were blamed for attacks on the villages of Ekingi and Busurungi in Congo's eastern South Kivu province. More than 90 people were killed at Ekingi, including 60 civilians and 30 government troops, and \"dozens more\" were said to be killed at Busurungi. The FDLR were blamed by the United Nations' Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs; the UN's peacekeeping force, MONUC, and the Congolese Army investigated the attacks. The FDLR had attacked several other villages in the preceding weeks and clashes occurred between FDLR forces and the Congolese Army, during which government forces are reported to have lost men. The most recent attacks had forced a significant number of people from their homes in Busurungi to Hombo, north. The Congolese Army and MONUC were planning operations in South Kivu to eliminate the FDLR.\n\nOn 18 August, three Indian UN soldiers were killed by Mai-Mai rebels in a surprise attack at a MONUSCO base in Kirumba, Nord-Kivu. On 23 October, Mai-Mai rebels attacked a MONUSCO base in Rwindi ( north of Kirumba). UN troops killed 8 rebels in the battle.\n\nIn March 2009, the CNDP had signed a peace treaty with the government, in which it agreed to become a political party in exchange for the release of its imprisoned members. In April 2012, former National Congress for the Defence of the People (CNDP) soldiers mutinied against the government. The mutineers formed a rebel group called the March 23 Movement (M23). Former CNDP commander Bosco Ntaganda, known as \"the Terminator\" is accused of founding the movement. On 4 April, it was reported that Ntaganda and 300 loyal troops defected from the DRC and clashed with government forces in the Rutshuru region north of Goma. Africa Confidential said on 25 May 2012 that \"the revolt now seems to be as much about resisting an attempt by Kinshasa to disrupt CNDP networks in the restive Kivu provinces, a process of which Ntaganda may find himself a casualty.\"\n\nOn 20 November 2012, the M23 took control of Goma after the national army retreated westward. MONUSCO, the United Nations peacekeeping force, watched the takeover without intervening, stating that its mandate allowed it only to protect civilians. M23 withdrew from Goma in early December following negotiations with the government and regional powers.\n\nOn 24 February 2013, leaders of 11 African nations signed an agreement designed to bring peace to the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The M23 rebels were not represented in the deal's negotiations or at the signing. Following disagreements in the M23 about how to react to the peace agreements, M23 political coordinator Jean-Marie Runiga Lugerero, was sacked by its military chief Sultani Makenga. Makenga declared himself interim leader and clashes between those loyal to him and those loyal to Jean-Marie Runiga Lugerero, who is allied with Bosco Ntaganda, have killed ten men and two others were hospitalised.\n\nIn March 2013, the United Nations Security Council authorized the deployment of an intervention brigade within MONUSCO to carry out targeted offensive operations, with or without the Congolese national army, against armed groups that threaten peace in eastern DRC. It is the first peacekeeping unit tasked with carrying out offensive operations.\n\nOn 28 March 2013, faced with recurrent waves of conflict in eastern DRC threatening the overall stability and development of the country and wider Great Lakes region, the Security Council decided, by its resolution 2098, to create a specialized “intervention brigade” for an initial period of one year and within the authorized MONUSCO troop ceiling of 19,815. It would consist of three infantry battalions, one artillery and one special force and reconnaissance company and operate under direct command of the MONUSCO Force Commander, with the responsibility of neutralizing armed groups and the objective of contributing to reducing the threat posed by armed groups to state authority and civilian security in eastern DRC and to make space for stabilization activities.\n\nThe Council also decided that MONUSCO shall strengthen the presence of its military, police and civilian components in eastern DRC and reduce, to the fullest extent possible for the implementation of its mandate, its presence in areas not affected by conflict in particular Kinshasa and in western DRC.\n\nThe last batch of the Malawi troops committed to the MONUSCO Force Intervention Brigade arrived in Goma, North Kivu province, on 7 October 2013. They will be part of the 3000- strong force to which Tanzania and South Africa are the other two troop contributing countries.\n\nSince the arrival of its first troops in June 2013, the Intervention Brigade has already gone into action resulting in the withdrawal of M23, from its initial positions in Kanyaruchinya, on 31 August 2013.\n\nThe Intervention Brigade is now at its full strength with the arrival of the Malawi infantry battalion. Tanzania, South Africa and Malawi have been picked for the UN Stabilization Mission in DR Congo (MONUSCO) because of the wide experience they gained in other UN Peacekeeping missions. For instance, 95 percent of the Malawi troops have been already in peacekeeping missions in Kosovo, Liberia, Rwanda, Sudan, and they are well prepared to face any operational challenges.\n\nIn January 2015, it was reported that UN and Congo troops were preparing an offensive on FDLR in the Kivu region, while striking FNL-Nzabampema positions on Eastern Congo on January 5, 2015. Several days earlier an infiltration by an unknown rebel group from Eastern Congo to Burundi left 95 rebels and 2 Burundi soldiers dead.\n\nOn 13 January 2015, the Congolese military held a press conference announcing the destruction of four of the 20 militant factions operating in South Kivu. The Raïa Mutomboki armed group will undergo disarmament. A total of 39 rebels were killed and 24 captured since the start of the Sokola 2 operation in October 2014, 55 weapons and large quantities of ammunition were also seized. FARDC casualties amounted to 8 killed and 4 wounded.\n\nOn 25 January 2015, 85 Raïa Mutomboki rebels surrendered to the authorities in the town of Mubambiro, North Kivu; the former militants will be gradually integrated into FARDC. Earlier in January, Raïa Mutomboki, founder Nyanderema, approached the town of Luizi with a group of 9 fighters, announcing their abandonment of armed struggle. 24 rifles, 2 grenades and other military equipment was transferred to FARDC during the two incidents.\n\nOn January 31, the DRC troops launched a campaign against the FDLR Hutu rebels. On 13 March 2015, a military spokesman announced that a total of 182 FDLR rebels were killed since the start of the January offensive. Large amounts of weaponry and ammunition were seized, as the army recaptured the towns of Kirumba Kagondo, Kahumiro, Kabwendo, Mugogo, Washing 1 and 2, Kisimba 1, 2 and 3, among other locales.\n\nIn January 2016, fighting broke out between the FDLR, ADF and Mai-Mai militias, which resulted in thousands fleeing to surrounding areas in North Kivu's Goma\n\nApproximately 1.7 million were forced to flee their homes in the DR Congo in 2017 as a result of intensified fighting. Ulrika Blom, a relief worker from Norway, has noted the magnitude of the refugee crisis by comparing the numbers to Yemen, Syria, and Iraq.\n\nOn December 7, 2017, an attack orchestrated by the Allied Democratic Forces on a UN base in the North Kivu region resulted in the death of at least 15 UN peacekeepers from the MONUSCO mission. This attack drew international criticism, with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres describing the incident, the worst altercation involving peacekeepers in recent history, as a \"war crime\". The assault, in terms of fatalities, was the most severe suffered by peacekeepers since an ambush in Somalia in 1993. The peacekeeping regiment that came under attack was composed of troops from Tanzania. In addition to the peacekeepers, five soldiers from the FARDC were killed in the attack. Analysts felt that the size and scale of the attack was unprecedented, but that it represented another step in the conflict which has been prevalent in the region for many years. The motivation for the attack was unknown, but it was expected to further destabilise the region. The Congolese forces claimed that the Islamist ADF lost 72 militants in the attack, raising the total number of fatalities in excess of 90.\n\nViolence is widespread: \"In Masisi 99.1% (897/905) and Kitchanga 50.4% (509/1020) of households reported at least one member subjected to violence. Displacement was reported by 39.0% of households (419/1075) in Kitchanga and 99.8% (903/905) in Masisi,\" one study found.\n\nMany armed groups participating in the conflict have used children as active combatants. According to the report published [on 23 October 2013], almost 1,000 cases of child recruitment by armed groups were verified by MONUSCO between 1 January 2012 and 31 August 2013, predominantly in the district of North Kivu. The use of child soldiers in the Kivu conflict constitutes another example of the use of child soldiers in the DRC. The UN has asserted that some of the girls being used as belligerents are also subjected to sexual assault, and are treated as sex slaves.\n\nThe Kivu conflict has created chaos and disorder in the regions of North and South Kivu. MONUSCO believe that widespread sexual assault has been perpetrated against women in this regions by all sides of the conflict, something which the UNHCR has condemned. Incidents have involved the rape and sexual assault of both women and girls, included the incorporation of girls into militia forces as sex slaves. The most publicised example of sexual violence occurred in November 2012 in Minova. Having retreated to the town, FARDC troops conducted systematic rape against the women and girls over a period of three days. This resulted in widespread international condemnation, prompting the Army to begin an investigation in order to prosecute the perpetrators of the sexual assaults. In 2014, the \"Minova Trial\" was conducted. It was the largest rape tribunal in the nation's history. While the American Bar Association, which had an office in Goma, had identified more than 1,000 potential victims, the official list composed by the UN only had 126, of whom 56 testified at the trial. For reasons of safety, those testifying were forced to hide their faces by donning hoods. In the end, only a few junior officers were convicted. Sexual violence in the region has continued, but by 2015, funding had declined for sanctuaries for the women and protection.\n\nThe role of conflict minerals in the conflict is highly debated. Certain NGOs, like the Enough Project, say that the illegal exploitation of minerals is the main cause of the ongoing violence in the Kivus. A United Nations report supported this view. However, many academic and independent researchers (both Congolese and international) challenge this interpretation, arguing that while conflict minerals are undoubtedly one of the many causes of violence in the region, they are most likely not the most significant and impactful one.\n\nThe most prominent and prevalent conflict mineral procured in the Kivu districts is gold. Due to its high financial value, rival militias will attack one another for control of the mineral. An investigation into conflict minerals in relation to the Kivu conflict found that \"gold is now, as of 2013, the most important conflict mineral in eastern Congo, with at least 12 tons worth roughly $500 million smuggled out of the east every year.\" These high financial revenues were identified as the primary incentives for the mining and capture of gold. To illustrate this, this study looked at one specific rebel group, determining that \"The M23 rebel group has taken over a profitable part of the conflict gold trade in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo...It is using revenues from the illicit trade to benefit its leaders and supporters and fund its military campaign by building military alliances and networks with other armed groups that control territory around gold mines and by smuggling gold through Uganda and Burundi. M23 commander Sultani Makenga, who is also allegedly one of the rebels' main recruiters of child soldiers according to the U.N. Group of Experts on Congo, is at the center of the conflict gold efforts.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "365511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365511", "title": "Link rot", "text": "Link rot\n\nLink rot (or linkrot) is the process by which hyperlinks on individual websites or the Internet in general point to web pages, servers or other resources that have become permanently unavailable. Research shows that the half-life of a random webpage is two years.\n\nLink rot is also called \"link death\", \"link breaking\" or \"reference rot\". A link that does not work any more is called a \"broken link\", \"dead link\", or \"dangling link\". Formally, this is a form of dangling reference: The target of the reference no longer exists.\n\nOne of the most common reasons for a broken link is that the web page to that it points to no longer exists. This frequently results in a 404 error, which indicates that the web server responded but the specific page could not be found. Another type of dead link occurs when the server that hosts the target page stops working or relocates to a new domain name. The browser may return a DNS error or display a site unrelated to the content originally sought. The latter can occur when a domain name lapses and is reregistered by another party. Other reasons for broken links include:\n\nThe 404 \"Not Found\" response is familiar to even the occasional web user. A number of studies have examined the prevalence of link rot on the web, in academic literature, and in digital libraries. In a 2003 experiment, Fetterly et al. discovered that about one link out of every 200 disappeared each week from the Internet. McCown et al. (2005) discovered that half of the URLs cited in D-Lib Magazine articles were no longer accessible 10 years after publication, and other studies have shown link rot in academic literature to be even worse (Spinellis, 2003, Lawrence et al., 2001). Nelson and Allen (2002) examined link rot in digital libraries and found that about 3% of the objects were no longer accessible after one year. In 2014, bookmarking site Pinboard's owner Maciej Cegłowski reported a “pretty steady rate” of 5% link rot per year.\n\nA 2014 Harvard Law School study by Jonathan Zittrain, Kendra Albert and Lawrence Lessig, determined that approximately 50% of the URLs in U.S. Supreme Court opinions no longer link to the original information. They also found that in a selection of legal journals published between 1999 and 2011, more than 70% of the links no longer functioned as intended. A 2013 study in \"BMC Bioinformatics\" analyzed nearly 15,000 links in abstracts from Thomson Reuters' Web of Science citation index and found that the median lifespan of web pages was 9.3 years, and just 62% were archived. In August 2015 Weblock analyzed more than 180,000 links from references in the full-text corpora of three major open access publishers and found that overall 24.5% of links cited were no longer available.\n\nDiscovering broken links might be done manually or automatically. Automated methods, including plug-ins for WordPress, Drupal and other content management system can be used to detect the presence of broken URLs. An alternative is using a specific broken link checker like Xenu's Link Sleuth. However, if a URL returns an HTTP 200 (OK) response, it may be accessible, but the contents of the page could have changed and may no longer be relevant. So manual checking links seems to be a must. Some web servers also return a soft 404, reporting to computers that the link works even though it doesn't. Bar-Yossef et al. (2004) developed a heuristic for automatically discovering soft 404s.\n\nThere are numerous solutions for tackling broken links: Some work to prevent them in the first place, while others try to resolve them when they have occurred. There are also numerous tools that have been developed to help combat link rot.\n\n\n\n\nTo combat link rot, web archivists are actively engaged in collecting the Web or particular portions of the Web and ensuring the collection is preserved in an archive, such as an archive site, for future researchers, historians, and the public. The goal of the Internet Archive is to maintain an archive of the entire Web, taking periodic snapshots of pages that can then be accessed for free via the Wayback Machine. In January 2013 the company announced that it had reached the milestone of 240 billion archived URLs. National libraries, national archives and other organizations are also involved in archiving culturally important Web content.\n\nIndividuals may use a number of tools that allow them to archive web resources that may go missing in the future:\nHowever, such preserving systems may encounter on and off service interruption so that the preserved URLs are intermittently unavailable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22411415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22411415", "title": "List of events at Wrigley Field", "text": "List of events at Wrigley Field\n\nWrigley Field is a stadium that opened in 1914. It has primarily served as the home field of the Chicago Cubs professional baseball club for over nine decades, but it also hosted football games and other events in its 100 years of existence.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nList of events at Soldier Field\n"}
{"id": "22883460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22883460", "title": "List of sled dog races", "text": "List of sled dog races\n\nThe list of sled dog races contains dozens of contests created by supporters of mushing, the sport of racing sled dogs. It is unknown when the first sled dog race was held. Humans have domesticated dogs for thousands of years, and sled dogs have been used for transportation in Arctic areas for almost as long. The first sled dog race to feature a codified set of rules was the All-Alaska Sweepstakes, which first took place in 1908. This was followed in 1917 by the American Dog Derby, which was the first sled dog race outside Alaska or the Yukon. In 1932, sled dog racing was a demonstration sport at the 1932 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, New York, but was not included in future games.\n\nThe most famous sled dog race is the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, an annual 1000-mile competition in Alaska. It commemorates the 1925 serum run to Nome but was not begun until 1973. The Iditarod helped restart worldwide interest in mushing, which had been thought of as anachronistic after the spread of snowmobiles. Since mushing's resurgence, the sport has proliferated and sled dog races are hosted in towns around the world, from Norway and Finland to Alaska and Michigan. Due to the cold temperatures needed for sled dog racing, most races are held in winter in cold climates, but occasional carting events, typically known as dryland races, have been held in warmer weather. These are not included in this list because they do not use sleds.\n\nThere are three typical types of sled dog races: sprint, mid-distance, and long-distance. These types can be broken down into sub-types. Sprint races cover relatively short distances of 4 to 25 miles/day, mid-distance races cover a total of 100 to 300 miles, and long-distance races cover 300 miles to more than 1,000 miles. Sprint races frequently are two- or three-day events with heats run on successive days with the same dogs on the same course. Mid-distance races are either heat races of 14 to 80 miles per day, or continuous races of 100 to 200 miles. (These categories are informal and may overlap to a certain extent.) Long-distance races may be continuous or stage races, in which participants run a different course each day, usually from a central staging location. Stage races are similar to cycling's Tour de France.\n\nGenerally, teams start one after another in equal time intervals, competing against the clock rather than directly against one another. This is due to logistic considerations of getting teams of dogs to the starting line for a clean timed start. Mass starts where all of the dog teams start simultaneously are popular in parts of Canada. Another mode of dogsled racing is the \"freight race\", in which a specified weight per dog is carried in the sled.\n\n\n\n\nSeveral festivals or events host several races in a short span of time. In most cases, an event will host several different classes of events separated by distance and the number of dogs allowed. The festivals listed below may be affiliated with a mushing club.\n\n\nOrganized sprint mushing clubs typically host a series of small races as part of a season of competition. These races often change from one season to another, and are not notable enough on an individual level to warrant separate articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "103030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103030", "title": "Medes", "text": "Medes\n\nThe Medes (, Old Persian \"\", , \"Madai\") were an ancient Iranian people who spoke the Median language and who inhabited an area known as Media between western and northern Iran. Under the Neo-Assyrian Empire, late 9th to early 7th centuries BC, the region of Media was bounded by the Zagros Mountains to its west, to its south by the Garrin Mountain in Lorestan Province, to its northwest by the Qaflankuh Mountains in Zanjan Province, and to its east by the Dasht-e Kavir desert. It's neighbors were the kingdoms of Gizilbunda and Mannea in the northwest, and Ellipi and Elam in the south.\n\nIn the 7th century BC, Media's tribes came together to form the Median Kingdom which remained a Neo-Assyrian vassal. Between 616 to 609 BC, King Cyaxares (624–585 BC), allied with King Nabopolassar of the Neo-Babylonian Empire against the Neo-Assyrian Empire, after which the Median Empire stretched across the Iranian Plateau as far as Anatolia. Its precise geographical extent remains unknown.\n\nA few archaeological sites (discovered in the \"Median triangle\" in western Iran) and textual sources (from contemporary Assyrians and also ancient Greeks in later centuries) provide a brief documentation of the history and culture of the Median state. Apart from a few personal names, the language of the Medes is unknown. The Medes had an ancient Iranian religion (a form of pre-Zoroastrian Mazdaism or Mithra worshipping) with a priesthood named as \"Magi\". Later during the reigns of the last Median kings, the reforms of Zoroaster spread into western Iran.\n\nAccording to the \"Histories\" of Herodotus, there were six Median tribes:\nThe six Median tribes resided in Media proper, the triangular area between Rhagae, Aspadana and Ecbatana. In present-day Iran, that is the area between Tehran, Isfahan and Hamadan, respectively. Of the Median tribes, the Magi resided in Rhaga, modern Tehran. They were of a sacred caste which ministered to the spiritual needs of the Medes. The Paretaceni tribe resided in and around Aspadana, modern Isfahan, the Arizanti lived in and around Kashan (Isfahan Province), and the Busae tribe lived in and around the future Median capital of Ecbatana, near modern Hamadan. The Struchates and the Budii lived in villages in the Median triangle.\n\nThe original source for their name and homeland is a directly transmitted Old Iranian geographical name which is attested as the Old Persian \"Māda-\" (). The meaning of this word is not precisely known. However, the linguist W. Skalmowski proposes a relation with the proto-Indo European word \"med(h)-\", meaning \"central, suited in the middle\", by referring to the Old Indic \"madhya-\" and Old Iranian \"maidiia-\" which both carry the same meaning. The Latin \"medium\", Greek \"méso\" and German \"mittel\" are similarly derived from it.\n\nGreek scholars during antiquity would base ethnological conclusions on Greek legends and the similarity of names. According to the \"Histories\" of Herodotus (440 BC):\n\nIn the Greek myth of Jason and the Argonauts, Medea is the daughter of King Aeëtes of Colchis and a paternal granddaughter of the sun-god Helios. Following her failed marriage to Jason while in Corinth, for one of several reasons depending on the version, she marries King Aegeus of Athens and bears a son Medus. After failing to make Aegeus kill his older son Theseus, she and her son fled to \"Aria\", where the Medes take their name from her, according to several Greek and later Roman accounts, including in Pausanias' \"Description of Greece\" (1st-century AD). According to other versions, such as in Strabo's \"Geographica\" (1st-century AD) and Justin's \"Epitoma Historiarum Philippicarum\" (2nd or 3rd century AD), she returned home to conquer neighboring lands with her husband Jason, one of which was named after her; while another version related by Diodorus Siculus in \"Bibliotheca Historica\" (1st-century BC) states that after being exiled she married an Asian king and bore Medus, who was greatly admired for his courage, after whom they took their name.\n\nThe discoveries of Median sites in Iran happened only after the 1960s. For 1960 the search for Median archeological sources has mostly focused in an area known as the “Median triangle,” defined roughly as the region bounded by Hamadān and Malāyer (in Hamadan Province) and Kangāvar (in Kermanshah Province). Three major sites from central western Iran in the Iron Age III period (i.e. 850–500 BC) are:\nThese sources have both similarities (in cultural characteristics) and differences (due to functional differences and diversity among the Median tribes). The architecture of these archaeological findings, that can probably be dated to the Median period, show a link between the tradition of columned audience halls often seen in Achaemenid (for example in Persepolis) and Safavid Iran (for example in \"Chehel Sotoun\" from the 17th century AD) and the Median architecture.\n\nThe materials found at Tepe Nush-i Jan, Godin Tepe, and other sites located in Media together with the Assyrian reliefs show the existence of urban settlements in Media in the first half of the 1st millennium BC which had functioned as centres for the production of handicrafts and also of an agricultural and cattle-breeding economy of a secondary type. For other historical documentation, the archaeological evidence, though rare, together with cuneiform records by Assyrian make it possible, regardless of Herodotus' accounts, to establish some of the early history of Medians.\n\nAn early description of Media from the end of the 9th century BC to the beginning of the 7th century BC comes from the Assyrians. The southern border of Media, in that period, is named as the Elamite region of Simaški in present-day Lorestan Province. To the west and northwest, Media was bounded by the Zagros Mountains and from the east by the Dasht-e Kavir desert. This region of Media was ruled by the Assyrians and for them the region fell \"along the Great Khorasan Road from just east of Harhar to Alwand, and probably beyond.\" The location of Harhar is suggested to be \"the central or eastern\" Mahidasht District in Kermanshah Province. \n\nIt's borders were limited on the north by the non-Iranian states of Gizilbunda and Mannea, and to its south by Ellipi and Elam. Gizilbunda was located in the Qaflankuh Mountains, and Ellipi was located in the south of modern Lorestan Province. On the east and southeast of Media, as described by the Assyrians, another land with the name of \"Patušarra\" appears. This land was located near a mountain range which the Assyrians call \"Bikni\" and describe as \"Lapis Lazuli Mountain\". There are differing opinions on the location of this mountain. Mount Damavand of Tehran and Alvand of Hamadan are two proposed sites. This location is the most remote eastern area that the Assyrians knew of or reached during their expansion until the beginning of the 7th century BC.\n\nIn Achaemenid sources, specifically from the Behistun Inscription (2.76, 77–78), the capital of Media is Ecbatana, called \"Hamgmatāna-\" in Old Persian (Elamite:\"Agmadana-\"; Babylonian: \"Agamtanu-\") corresponding to modern-day Hamadan.\n\nThe other cities existing in Media were Laodicea (modern Nahavand) and the mound that was the largest city of the Medes, Rhages (present-day Rey). The fourth city of Media was Apamea, near Ecbatana, whose precise location is now unknown. In later periods, Medes and especially Mede soldiers are identified and portrayed prominently in ancient archaeological sites such as Persepolis, where they are shown to have a major role and presence in the military of the Achaemenid Empire.\n\nAt the end of the 2nd millennium BC, the Iranian tribes emerged in the region of northwest Iran. These tribes expanded their control over larger areas. Subsequently, the boundaries of Media changed over a period of several hundred years. Iranian tribes were present in western and northwestern Iran from at least the 12th or 11th centuries BC. But the significance of Iranian elements in these regions were established from the beginning of the second half of the 8th century BC. By this time the Iranian tribes were the majority in what later become the territory of the Median Kingdom and also the west of Media proper. A study of textual sources from the region shows that in the Neo-Assyrian period, the regions of Media, and further to the west and the northwest, had a population with Iranian speaking people as the majority. \n\nThis period of migration coincided with a power vacuum in the Near East with the Middle Assyrian Empire (1365–1020 BC), which had dominated northwestern Iran and eastern Anatolia and the Caucasus, going into a comparative decline. This allowed new peoples to pass through and settle. In addition Elam, the dominant power in Iran, was suffering a period of severe weakness, as was Babylonia to the west.\n\nIn western and northwestern Iran and in areas further west prior to Median rule, there is evidence of the earlier political activity of the powerful societies of Elam, Mannaea, Assyria and Urartu . There are various and up-dated opinions on the positions and activities of Iranian tribes in these societies and prior to the \"major Iranian state formations\" in the late 7th century BC. One opinion (of Herzfeld, \"et al.\") is that the ruling class were \"Iranian migrants\" but the society was \"autonomous\" while another opinion (of Grantovsky, \"et al.\") holds that both the ruling class and basic elements of the population were Iranian.\n\nFrom the 10th to the late 7th centuries BC, the western parts of Media fell under the domination of the vast Neo-Assyrian Empire based in northern Mesopotamia, which stretched from Cyprus in the west, to parts of western Iran in the east, and Egypt and the north of the Arabian Peninsula. Assyrian kings such as Tiglath-Pileser III, Sargon II, Sennacherib, Esarhaddon, Ashurbanipal and Ashur-etil-ilani imposed \"Vassal Treaties\" upon the Median rulers, and also protected them from predatory raids by marauding Scythians and Cimmerians.\n\nDuring the reign of Sinsharishkun (622–612 BC), the Assyrian empire, which had been in a state of constant civil war since 626 BC, began to unravel. Subject peoples, such as the Medes, Babylonians, Chaldeans, Egyptians, Scythians, Cimmerians, Lydians and Arameans quietly ceased to pay tribute to Assyria.\n\nNeo-Assyrian dominance over the Medians came to an end during the reign of Median King Cyaxares, who, in alliance with King Nabopolassar of the Neo-Babylonian Empire, attacked and destroyed the strife-riven empire between 616 and 609 BC. The newfound alliance helped the Medes to capture Nineveh in 612 BC, which resulted in the eventual collapse of the Neo-Assyrian Empire by 609 BC. The Medes were subsequently able to establish their Median Kingdom (with Ecbatana as their royal capital) beyond their original homeland and had eventually a territory stretching roughly from northeastern Iran to the Kızılırmak River in Anatolia. After the fall of Assyria between 616 BC and 609 BC, a unified Median state was formed, which together with Babylonia, Lydia, and ancient Egypt became one of the four major powers of the ancient Near East.\n\nCyaxares was succeeded by his son King Astyages. In 553 BC, his maternal grandson Cyrus the Great, the King of Anshan/Persia, a Median vassal, revolted against Astyages. In 550 BC, Cyrus finally won a decisive victory resulting in Astyages' capture by his own dissatisfied nobles, who promptly turned him over to the triumphant Cyrus. After Cyrus's victory against Astyages, the Medes were subjected to their close kin, the Persians. In the new empire they retained a prominent position; in honour and war, they stood next to the Persians; their court ceremony was adopted by the new sovereigns, who in the summer months resided in Ecbatana; and many noble Medes were employed as officials, satraps and generals.\n\nThe list of Median rulers and their period of reign compiled according to two sources. Firstly, Herodotus who calls them \"kings\" and associates them with the same family. Secondly, the Babylonian Chronicle which in \"Gadd's Chronicle on the Fall of Nineveh\" gives its own list. A combined list stretching over 150 years is thus:\n\n\nHowever, not all of these dates and personalities given by Herodotus match the other near eastern sources.\n\nIn Herodotus (book 1, chapters 95–130), Deioces is introduced as the founder of a centralised Median state. He had been known to the Median people as \"a just and incorruptible man\" and when asked by the Median people to solve their possible disputes he agreed and put forward the condition that they make him \"king\" and build a great city at Ecbatana as the capital of the Median state. Judging from the contemporary sources of the region and disregarding the account of Herodotus puts the formation of a unified Median state during the reign of Cyaxares or later.\n\nGreek references to \"Median\" people make no clear distinction between the \"Persians\" and the \"Medians\"; in fact for a Greek to become \"too closely associated with Iranian culture\" was \"to become Medianized, not Persianized\". The Median Kingdom was a short-lived Iranian state and the textual and archaeological sources of that period are rare and little could be known from the Median culture which nevertheless made a \"profound, and lasting, contribution to the greater world of Iranian culture\".\n\nMedian people spoke the Median language, which was an Old Iranian language. Strabo's \"Geographica\" (finished in the early first century) mentions the affinity of Median with other Iranian languages: \"The name of\" Ariana \"is further extended to a part of Persia and of Media, as also to the Bactrians and Sogdians on the north; for these speak approximately the same language, but with slight variations\".\n\nNo original deciphered text has been proven to have been written in the Median language. It is suggested that similar to the later Iranian practice of keeping archives of written documents in Achaemenid Iran, there was also a maintenance of archives by the Median government in their capital Ecbatana. There are examples of \"Median literature\" found in later records. One is according to Herodotus that the Median king Deioces, appearing as a judge, made judgement on causes submitted in writing. There is also a report by Dinon on the existence of \"Median court poets\". Median literature is part of the \"Old Iranian literature\" (including also Saka, Old Persian, Avestan) as this Iranian affiliation of them is explicit also in ancient texts, such as Herodotus's account that many peoples including Medes were \"universally called Iranian\".\n\nWords of Median origin appear in various other Iranian dialects, including Old Persian. A feature of Old Persian inscriptions is the large number of words and names from other languages and the Median language takes in this regard a special place for historical reasons. The Median words in Old Persian texts, whose Median origin can be established by \"phonetic criteria\", appear \"more frequently among royal titles and among terms of the chancellery, military, and judicial affairs\". Words of Median origin include:\n\nThere are very limited sources concerning the religion of Median people. Primary sources pointing to religious affiliations of Medes found so far include the archaeological discoveries in Tepe Nush-e Jan, personal names of Median individuals, and the Histories of Herodotus. The archaeological source gives the earliest of the temple structures in Iran and the \"stepped fire altar\" discovered there is linked to the common Iranian legacy of the \"cult of fire\". Herodotus mentions Median Magi as a Median tribe providing priests for both the Medes and the Persians. They had a \"priestly caste\" which passed their functions from father to son. They played a significant role in the court of the Median king Astyages who had in his court certain Medians as \"advisers, dream interpreters, and soothsayers\". Classical historians \"unanimously\" regarded the Magi as priests of the Zoroastrian faith. From the personal names of Medes as recorded by Assyrians (in 8th and 9th centuries BC) there are examples of the use of the Indo-Iranian word \"arta-\" (lit. \"truth\") which is familiar from both Avestan and Old Persian and also examples of theophoric names containing \"Maždakku\" and also the name \"Ahura Mazdā\". Scholars disagree whether these are indications of Zoroastrian religion amongst the Medes. Diakonoff believes that \"Astyages and perhaps even Cyaxares had already embraced a religion derived from the teachings of Zoroaster\" which was not identical with doctrine of Zarathustra and Mary Boyce believes that \"the existence of the Magi in Media with their own traditions and forms of worship was an obstacle to Zoroastrian proselytizing there\". Boyce wrote that the Zoroastrian traditions in the Median city of Ray probably goes back to the 8th century BC. It is suggested that from the 8th century BC, a form of \"Mazdaism with common Iranian traditions\" existed in Media and the strict reforms of Zarathustra began to spread in western Iran during the reign of the last Median kings in the 6th century BC.\n\nIt has also been suggested that Mithra is a Median name and Medes may have practised Mithraism and had Mithra as their supreme deity.\n\nRussian historian and linguist Vladimir Minorsky suggested that the Medes, who widely inhabited the land where currently the Kurds form a majority, might have been forefathers of the modern Kurds. He also states that the Medes who invaded the region in the eighth century BC, linguistically resembled the Kurds. This view was accepted by many Kurdish nationalists in the twentieth century. However, Martin van Bruinessen, a Dutch scholar, argues against the attempt to take the Medes as ancestors of the Kurds.\n\"Though some Kurdish intellectuals claim that their people are descended from the Medes, there is no evidence to permit such a connection across the considerable gap in time between the political dominance of the Medes and the first attestation of the Kurds\" - van Bruinessen\n\nContemporary linguistic evidence has challenged the previously suggested view that the Kurds are descendants of the Medes. Gernot Windfuhr, professor of Iranian Studies, identified the Kurdish languages as Parthian, albeit with a Median substratum. David Neil MacKenzie, an authority on the Kurdish language, said Kurdish was closer to Persian and questioned the “traditional” view holding that Kurdish, because of its differences from Persian, should be regarded a Northwestern Iranian language. Garnik Asatrian stated that \"The Central Iranian dialects, and primarily those of the Kashan area in the first place, as well as the Azari dialects (otherwise called Southern Tati) are probably the only Iranian dialects, which can pretend to be the direct offshoots of Median... In general, the relationship between Kurdish and Median are not closer than the affinities between the latter and other North Western dialects — Baluchi, Talishi, South Caspian, Zaza, Gurani, etc.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51763363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51763363", "title": "Meltdown (bar chain)", "text": "Meltdown (bar chain)\n\nMeltdown is a French bar chain dedicated to video games and eSports.\n\nBased on the idea of a permanent Barcraft, the first bar Meltdown was established in 2012 in Paris in a small bistro on rue Albert-Thomas. It streamed eSports competitions and had computers and consoles available for use by its clientele. The bar moved to a new location on , in the 11th arrondissement of Paris on December 21, 2013.\n\nMeltdown is developing in France and abroad with a franchise platform. There are 20 bars in 7 countries.\n\nMeltdown has a menu of cocktails inspired by the video game universe.\n\nA schedule, varying depending on the city, highlights one specific game each day of the week, with the organisation of a free access tournament. Outside of tournament hours, computers and consoles are available for customers to play games.\n\nMeltdown bars broadcast major eSports competitions on their screens. Meltdown has had a presence at gaming conventions such as Paris Games Week and Dreamhack.\n\nA team of professional players was created by Meltdown in 2014. The first player to wear its colors was Olivier “Louffy” Hay, followed by Ilyes “Stephano” Satouri. The player Florent “Neo” Lecoanet, a world champion of Super Mario Kart, has since joined the team.\n\nThe creation of the Meltdown franchise was announced in March 2013. The bars currently open are:\n\n"}
{"id": "8526456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8526456", "title": "Miss World 1984", "text": "Miss World 1984\n\nMiss World 1984, the 34th edition of the Miss World pageant, was held on 15 November 1984 at the Royal Albert Hall in London, UK. The winner was Astrid Carolina Herrera from Venezuela. She was crowned by Miss World 1983, Sarah-Jane Hutt of the United Kingdom. The 1st and 2nd runners-up were Constance Ellen (Connie) Fitzpatrick from Canada, and Lou-Anne Caroline Ronchi from Australia. The event was viewed by 17.1 million people in the UK.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11489484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11489484", "title": "Mississippi Goddam", "text": "Mississippi Goddam\n\n\"Mississippi Goddam\" is a song written and performed by American singer and pianist Nina Simone, who later announced the anthem to be her \"first civil rights song\". It was released on her album \"Nina Simone in Concert\" in 1964. The album was based on recordings of three concerts she gave at Carnegie Hall in 1964. The album was her first release for the Dutch label Philips Records and is indicative of the more political turn her recorded music took during this period. \n\nSimone composed \"Mississippi Goddam\" in less than an hour. Together with \"Four Women\" and \"To Be Young, Gifted and Black\", it is one of her most famous protest songs and self-written compositions.\n\nThe song captures Simone's response to the murder of Medgar Evers in Mississippi; and the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing in Birmingham, Alabama, killing four black children. On the recording she cynically announces the song as \"a show tune, but the show hasn't been written for it yet.\" The song begins jauntily, with a show tune feel, but demonstrates its political focus early on with its refrain \"Alabama's got me so upset, Tennessee's made me lose my rest, and everybody knows about Mississippi \"goddam.\"\" In the song she says: \"Keep on sayin' 'go slow'...to do things gradually would bring more tragedy. Why don't you see it? Why don't you feel it? I don't know, I don't know. You don't have to live next to me, just give me my equality!\"\n\nSimone first performed the song at the Village Gate nightclub in Greenwich Village, and shortly thereafter in March 1964 at Carnegie Hall, in front of a mostly white audience. The Carnegie Hall recording was subsequently released as a single and became an anthem during the Civil Rights Movement. \"Mississippi Goddam\" was banned in several Southern states, ostensibly because of the word \"goddam\" in the title. Boxes of promotional singles sent to radio stations around the country were returned with each record cracked in half.\n\nSimone performed the song in front of 10,000 people at the end of the Selma to Montgomery marches when she and other black activists, including Sammy Davis Jr., James Baldwin and Harry Belafonte crossed police lines.\n\n"}
{"id": "54571797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54571797", "title": "Murder of Mollie Olgin", "text": "Murder of Mollie Olgin\n\nMollie Olgin, 19, was murdered on June 22, 2012 in Violet Andrews Park in Portland, Texas. David Malcolm Strickland, 25, sexually assaulted her and her girlfriend Mary Kristene \"Kris\" Chapa, 18, before shooting them both execution-style. Olgin was pronounced dead at the scene and Chapa was taken to hospital in critical condition due to a bullet wound in her head. Following intensive care and concerns that the bullet may have left her completely paralyzed, Chapa regained mobility in the left side of her body.\n\nOn September 28, 2016 a jury found Strickland guilty of capital murder and aggravated sexual assault. Since the prosecution did not seek the death penalty for Strickland, he was sentenced to life imprisonment.\n"}
{"id": "1005304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1005304", "title": "Niger uranium forgeries", "text": "Niger uranium forgeries\n\nThe Niger uranium forgeries were forged documents initially released in 2001 by SISMI (Italian military intelligence), which seem to depict an attempt made by Saddam Hussein in Iraq to purchase yellowcake uranium powder from Niger during the Iraq disarmament crisis. On the basis of these documents and other indicators, the governments of the United States and the United Kingdom asserted that Iraq violated United Nations Iraq sanctions by attempting to procure nuclear material for the purpose of creating weapons of mass destruction.\n\nThe first report of these documents was in a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Senior Executive Intelligence brief dated 18 October 2001, entitled: \"Iraq: Nuclear Related Procurement Efforts.\" This information was not considered to be certain and not much was done to promote this claim right away.\n\nThese documents were sent to the CIA office in Rome by SISMI.\n\nOn 10 May 2002, the CIA's Office of Near Eastern and South Asian Analysis (NESA) in the Directorate of Intelligence (DI) prepared a Principals Committee briefing book updating the status of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction (WMD) programs. The document noted that a \"foreign government service says Iraq was trying to acquire 500 tons of uranium from Niger.\"\n\nOn 22 July 2002, the United States Department of Energy (DOE) published an intelligence product (Daily Intelligence Highlight, Nuclear Reconstitution Efforts Underway?) which highlighted the intelligence on the Iraq-Niger uranium deal as one of three indications that Iraq might be reconstituting its nuclear program.\n\nThere was a second and third dissemination of these forged documents to the United States by SISMI in early September 2002. One source was a suspicious \"ex-agent,\" of SISMI who occasionally worked on and off for them, who was selling the documents.\n\nFar more officially, Nicolò Pollari, chief of SISMI, brought the Niger yellowcake story directly to the White House, meeting secretly in Washington on 9 September 2002, with then–Deputy National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley. In that month, the claims of Saddam trying to buy yellowcake uranium from Niger became much stronger.\nIn September 2002, the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) published an intelligence assessment (Defense Intelligence Assessment, Iraq's Reemerging Nuclear Program) which outlined Iraq's recent efforts to rebuild its nuclear program including uranium acquisition. On this issue, the assessment said \"Iraq has been vigorously trying to procure uranium ore and yellowcake.\"\n\nOn 11 September 2002, National Security Council (NSC) staff contacted the CIA to clear language for possible use by the President, Bush. The language cleared by the CIA said, \"Iraq has made several attempts to buy high strength aluminum tubes used in centrifuges to enrich uranium for nuclear weapons. And we also know this: within the past few years, Iraq has resumed efforts to obtain large quantities of a type of uranium oxide known as yellowcake, which is an essential ingredient of this process.\"\n\nIn October 2002 the Intelligence Community (IC) produced a classified, 90-page National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iraq's WMD programmes which cited reports that Iraq began \"vigorously trying to procure\" more uranium from Niger, as well as Somalia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nThe specific mention of yellowcake and Niger was not in this speech. There are many reports of a struggle about this, saying the Niger uranium claims were initially in this Cincinnati speech but taken out by the insistence of the CIA Director George Tenet.\n\nIn late 2002, the Bush administration began soliciting support for war in Iraq using the political slogan \"coalition of the willing\" to refer to what later became the Multinational Force - Iraq. To back up its claim that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction, that administration referred to intelligence from Italy, Britain, and France detailing interactions between Saddam Hussein and the governments of Niger, Somalia, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Specifically, CIA director George Tenet and United States Secretary of State Colin Powell both cited attempts by Hussein to obtain uranium from Niger in their September testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. At that time, using information derived from the same source, the UK government also publicly reported an attempted purchase from an (unnamed) \"African country\". In December, the United States Department of State issued a fact sheet listing the alleged Niger yellowcake affair in a report entitled \"Illustrative Examples of Omissions From the Iraqi Declaration to the United Nations Security Council.\"\n\nThe classified documents detailing an Iraqi approach to purchase yellowcake uranium from Niger were considered dubious by some analysts in U.S. intelligence, according to news accounts. By early 2002, separate investigations by both the CIA and the US State Department had found the documents to be inaccurate. Days before the Iraq invasion, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) voiced serious doubt on the authenticity of the documents to the UN Security Council, judging them counterfeit.\n\nIn his January 2003 State of the Union speech, U.S. President George W. Bush said, \"The British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa.\" This single sentence is now known as \"the \"Sixteen Words\".\" \nThe administration later conceded that evidence in support of the claim was inconclusive and stated, \"These sixteen words should never have been included.\" The administration attributed the error to the CIA. In mid-2003, the U.S. government declassified the 2002 National Intelligence Estimate, which contained a dissenting opinion published by the U.S. Department of State stating that the intelligence connecting Niger to Saddam Hussein was \"highly suspect,\" primarily because State Department's intelligence agency analysts did not believe that Niger would be likely to engage in such a transaction due to a French consortium which maintained close control over the Nigerien uranium industry.\n\nAccording to \"The Washington Post\", when occupying troops found no evidence of a current nuclear program, the statement and how it came to be in the speech became a focus for critics in Washington and foreign capitals to press the case that the White House manipulated facts to take the United States to war. The Post reported, \"Dozens of interviews with current and former intelligence officials and policymakers in the United States, Britain, France and Italy show that the Bush administration disregarded key information available at the time showing that the Iraq-Niger claim was highly questionable.\" With the release of the 2002 NIE report, the Bush administration was criticized for including the statement in the State of the Union despite CIA and State Department reports questioning its veracity.\n\nThe front page of the 28 June 2004 \"Financial Times\" carried a report from their national security correspondent, Mark Huband, describing that between 1999 and 2001, three unnamed European intelligence services were aware that Niger was possibly engaged in illicit negotiations over the export of its uranium ore with North Korea, Libya, Iraq, Iran, and China. \"The same information was passed to the US\" but American officials decided not to include it in their assessment, Huband added in a follow up report.\n\nFrench intelligence informed the United States a year before President Bush's State of the Union address that the allegation could not be supported with hard evidence.\n\n\"The Sunday Times\" dated 1 August 2004 contains an interview with an Italian source describing his role in the forgeries. The source said he was sorry to have played a role in passing along false intelligence.\n\nAlthough the claims made in the British intelligence report regarding Iraq's interest in yellowcake ore from Niger were never withdrawn, the CIA and Department of State could not verify them and are said to have thought the claims were \"highly dubious\".\n\nPreviously, in February 2002, three different American officials had made efforts to verify the reports. The deputy commander of U.S. Armed Forces Europe, Marine General Carlton W. Fulford, Jr., went to Niger and met with the country's president, Tandja Mamadou. He concluded that, given the controls on Niger's uranium supply, there was little chance any of it could have been diverted to Iraq. His report was sent to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Richard Myers. The U.S. Ambassador to Niger, Barbro Owens-Kirkpatrick, was also present at the meeting and sent similar conclusions to the State Department. CNN reported on 14 March 2003 (before invasion) that the International Atomic Energy Agency found the documents to be forged.\n\nIn late February 2002, the CIA sent Ambassador Joseph Wilson to investigate the claims himself. Wilson had been posted to Niger 14 years earlier, and throughout a diplomatic career in Africa he had built up a large network of contacts in Niger. Wilson interviewed former prime minister of Niger, Ibrahim Assane Mayaki, who reported that he knew of no attempted sales to Iraq. Mayaki did however recall that in June 1999 an Iraqi delegation had expressed interest in \"expanding commercial relations\", which he had interpreted to mean yellowcake sales.\nUltimately, Wilson concluded that there was no way that production at the uranium mines could be ramped up or that the excess uranium could have been exported without it being immediately obvious to many people both in the private sector and in the government of Niger. He returned home and told the CIA that the reports were \"unequivocally wrong\". The CIA retained this information in its Counter Proliferation Department and it was not passed up to the CIA Director, according to the unanimous findings of the bipartisan Senate Intelligence Committee's July 2004 report.\n\nFormer Ambassador Wilson had claimed that he found no evidence of Saddam Hussein ever attempting or buying yellowcake uranium from Niger on his trip to Niger.\n\nThe Senate Select Committee on Intelligence suggested that the evidence Wilson found could be interpreted differently:\n\nWilson has responded to criticism by observing that uranium was not actually discussed at the 1999 meeting. On \"Meet the Press\", for example, Wilson stated:\n\nIn early October 2002, George Tenet called Deputy National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley to ask him to remove reference to the Niger uranium from a speech Bush was to give in Cincinnati on 7 October. This was followed up by a memo asking Hadley to remove another, similar line. Another memo was sent to the White House expressing the CIA's view that the Niger claims were false; this memo was given to both Hadley and National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice.\n\nRetired ambassador Joseph C. Wilson wrote a critical op-ed in \"The New York Times\" in which he explained the nature of the documents and the government's prior knowledge of their unreliability for use in a case for war. Shortly after Wilson's op-ed, in a column by Robert Novak, in pondering why a State Department employee was dispatched rather than a trained CIA agent, the identity of Wilson's wife, CIA analyst Valerie Plame, was revealed. The Senate Intelligence Committee report and other sources confirm that Plame \"offered his name up\" to her superiors.\n\nThe actual words President Bush spoke: \"The British Government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa\" suggests that his source was British intelligence and not the forged documents.\n\nHowever, George Tenet has admitted that making the claim was a mistake, stating, \"The president had every reason to believe that the text presented to him was sound. These 16 words should never have been included in the text written for the president.\"\n\nFurther, in March 2003, the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) released results of his analysis of the documents. Reportedly, it took IAEA officials only a matter of hours to determine that these documents were fake. IAEA experts discovered indications of a crude forgery, such as the use of incorrect names of Nigerien officials. As a result, the IAEA reported to the U.N. Security Council that the documents were \"in fact not authentic\". The UN spokesman wrote:\n\nThe first British investigation into this matter was conducted by the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee (FAC). The committee comprises fourteen Members of Parliament from government and opposition parties, and has permanent cross-party support. They examined and tested several key claims in the September Dossier, \"Iraq's Weapons of Mass Destruction: The Assessment of the British Government\", including the topic of uranium acquisition.\n\nIn June and July, British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw testified that the claim in the dossier rested on separate evidence to the fraudulent documents, and that this specific intelligence, obtained from a foreign government, was still under review and had not been shared with the CIA. In written evidence to the same committee, Straw further disclosed that the separate intelligence information upon which the British Government had based its conclusion, was also briefed to the IAEA by a foreign intelligence service that owned the reporting, shortly before IAEA Director General Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei's statement to the UN Security Council on 7 March 2003. This was further confirmed in a Parliamentary answer to Lynne Jones MP. Lynne Jones subsequently contacted the IAEA to question whether a third party had discussed or shared separate intelligence with them and, if so, what assessment they made of it. IAEA spokesman Mark Gwozdecky responded to Jones in May 2004:\n\nI can confirm to you that we have received information from a number of member states regarding the allegation that Iraq sought to acquire uranium from Niger. However, we have learned nothing which would cause us to change the conclusion we reported to the United Nations Security Council on March 7, 2003 with regards to the documents assessed to be forgeries and have not received any information that would appear to be based on anything other than those documents.\n\nAfter talking with numerous witnesses and considering much evidence, the committee judged the evidence that Iraq was trying to procure uranium was not sufficiently strong enough to justify absolute terms.\n\nWe conclude that it is very odd indeed that the Government asserts that it was not relying on the evidence which has since been shown to have been forged, but that eight months later it is still reviewing the other evidence. The assertion \"… that Iraq sought the supply of significant amounts of uranium from Africa …\" should have been qualified to reflect the uncertainty.\n\nThe Butler Committee, appointed by then Prime Minister Tony Blair, concluded that the report Saddam's government was seeking uranium in Africa appeared \"well-founded\":\n\nThe review however was itself mired in controversy leading both opposition parties to end their participation and leaving Tony Blair's Labour Party as the only party involved with the review.\n\nIn January 2006, \"The New York Times\" revealed the existence of a memo which stated that the suggestion of uranium being sold was \"unlikely\" because of a host of economic, diplomatic and logistical obstacles. The memo, dated 4 March 2002, was distributed at senior levels by the office of former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and by the Defense Intelligence Agency.\n\nIn a July 2003 op-ed, Ambassador Wilson recounted his experiences and stated \"I have little choice but to conclude that some of the intelligence related to Iraq's nuclear weapons program was twisted to exaggerate the Iraqi threat\". Although the president had cited \"The British Government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa\", British intelligence have failed to show any other source of information.\n\nWilson told \"The Washington Post\" anonymously in June 2003 that he had concluded that the intelligence about the Niger uranium was based on the forged documents because \"the dates were wrong and the names were wrong.\" However, the relevant papers were not in CIA hands until eight months after Wilson made his trip. Wilson had to backtrack and said he may have \"misspoken\" on this.\n\nNo one has been convicted of forging the documents. Various theories have been reported on how they were produced, distributed, and where pressure was applied to keep their fraudulent nature a secret.\n\nBy late 2003, the trail of the documents had been partially uncovered. They were obtained by a \"security consultant\" (and former agent of the precursor agency to SISMI, the SID), Rocco Martino, from Italian military intelligence (SISMI).\nAn article in \"The Times\" (London) quoted Martino as having received the documents from a woman on the staff of the Niger embassy (located in a tiny apartment in Rome), after a meeting was arranged by a serving SISMI agent. Martino later recanted and said he had been misquoted, and that SISMI had not facilitated the meeting where he obtained the documents. It was later revealed that Martino had been invited to serve as the conduit for the documents by Col. Antonio Nucera of SISMI, the head of the counterintelligence and WMD proliferations sections of SISMI's Rome operations center.\n\nMartino, in turn, offered them to Italian journalist Elisabetta Burba. On instructions from her editor at \"Panorama\", Burba offered them to the U.S. Embassy in Rome in October 2002. Burba was dissuaded by the editors of the Berlusconi-owned Panorama from investigating the source of the forgeries.\n\nAn August 2004 \"Financial Times\" article indicated French officials may have had a role in the forged documents coming to light. The article states:\n\nThe \"Times\" article also stated that \"French officials have not said whether they know Mr Martino, and are unlikely to either confirm or deny that he is a source\".\n\nIt is as yet unknown how Italian intelligence came by the documents and why they were not given directly to the U.S. \nAccording to a 2003 article in \"The New Yorker\" by Seymour Hersh, the forgery may have been a deliberate entrapment by current and former CIA officers to settle a score against Cheney and other neoconservatives. Hersh recounts how a former officer told him that \"somebody deliberately let something false get in there.\" Hersh continues:\n\nIn an interview published 7 April 2005, Cannistraro was asked by Ian Masters what he would say if it were asserted that the source of the forgery was former National Security Council and State Department consultant Michael Ledeen. (Ledeen had also allegedly been a liaison between the United States Intelligence Community and SISMI two decades earlier.) Cannistraro answered by saying: \"you'd be very close\". Ledeen has denied this in an article which mentions, though, that he has worked for the aforementioned Panorama magazine.\n\nIn an interview on 26 July 2005, Cannistraro's business partner and columnist for the \"American Conservative\" magazine, former CIA counter terrorism officer Philip Giraldi, confirmed to Scott Horton that the forgeries were produced by \"a couple of former CIA officers who are familiar with that part of the world who are associated with a certain well-known neoconservative who has close connections with Italy.\" When Horton said that must be Ledeen, he confirmed it, and added that the ex-CIA officers, \"also had some equity interests, shall we say, with the operation. A lot of these people are in consulting positions, and they get various, shall we say, emoluments in overseas accounts, and that kind of thing\".\n\nIn a second interview with Horton, Giraldi elaborated to say that Ledeen and his former CIA friends worked with Ahmad Chalabi and the Iraqi National Congress. \"These people did it probably for a couple of reasons, but one of the reasons was that these people were involved, through the neoconservatives, with the Iraqi National Congress and Chalabi and had a financial interest in cranking up the pressure against Saddam Hussein and potentially going to war with him.\"\n\nThe suggestion of a plot by CIA officers is countered by an explosive series of articles in the Italian newspaper \"La Repubblica\". Investigative reporters Carlo Bonini and Giuseppe d'Avanzo report that Nicolò Pollari, chief of Italy's military intelligence service, SISMI, brought the Niger yellowcake story directly to the White House after his insistent overtures had been rejected by the Central Intelligence Agency in 2001 and 2002. SISMI had reported to the CIA on 15 October 2001, that Iraq had sought yellowcake in Niger, a report it also plied on British intelligence, creating an echo that the Niger forgeries themselves purported to amplify before they were exposed as a hoax.\n\nPollari met secretly in Washington on 9 September 2002, with then–Deputy National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley. Their secret meeting came at a critical moment in the White House campaign to convince Congress and the American public that war in Iraq was necessary to prevent Saddam Hussein from developing nuclear weapons. What may be most significant to American observers, however, is \"La Repubblica\"'s allegation that the Italians sent the bogus intelligence about Niger and Iraq not only through traditional allied channels such as the CIA, but seemingly directly into the White House. That direct White House channel amplifies questions about the 16-word reference to the uranium from Africa in President Bush's 2003 State of the Union address—which remained in the speech despite warnings from the CIA and the State Department that the allegation was not substantiated.\nIn March 2003, Senator Jay Rockefeller, vice-chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, agreed not to open a Congressional investigation of the matter, but rather asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to conduct the investigation.\n\nIn 2003, unidentified \"senior officials\" in the administration leaked word to columnist Robert Novak that Wilson's wife, Valerie Plame, was a CIA operative. The CIA requested an investigation into whether this public disclosure was illegal, thus the Niger uranium controversy spawned an ongoing legal investigation and political scandal.\n\nIn September 2004, the CBS News program \"60 Minutes\" decided to delay a major story on the forgeries because such a broadcast might influence the 2004 U.S. presidential election. A CBS spokesman stated, \"We now believe it would be inappropriate to air the report so close to the presidential election.\" This decision closely followed the Killian documents controversy.\n\nNicolò Pollari, director of the SISMI intelligence agency, told an Italian parliamentary intelligence committee that the dossier came from Rocco Martino, a former Italian spy.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" reported on 3 December 2005, that the FBI reopened the inquiry into \"how the Bush administration came to rely on forged documents linking Iraq to nuclear weapons materials as part of its justification for the invasion.\" According to the Times, \"a senior FBI official said the bureau's initial investigation found no evidence of foreign government involvement in the forgeries, but the FBI did not interview Martino, a central figure in a parallel drama unfolding in Rome.\"\n\nIn 2008, the United States facilitated shipping yellowcake (refined uranium ore) out of Iraq. This yellowcake had been stockpiled prior to the first Gulf War, and was declared to the International Atomic Energy Agency and under IAEA safeguards. More than 550 tons of yellowcake was removed from Iraq and eventually shipped to Canada.\n\n\n\nBackground\n\nDocuments and those who relied on them\n\nJoseph Wilson and Valarie Plame\n\nUnited States Administration statements, speeches, plans\n\nLegislative investigations\n"}
{"id": "36830449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36830449", "title": "Ongkor Festival", "text": "Ongkor Festival\n\nThe Ongkor Festival (Tibetan: འོང་སྐོར་, Wylie: 'ong skor, or \"Serkor\" (སེར་སྐོར་) in some dialects) is one of most important Tibetan festival of the Tibetan lunar year. Ongkor is usually in the end of summer. Meaning of the festival is \"good wish for harvest\", literally \"make circle around the field\". During this festival, one person from each family in village participate on kora in the fields. People in procession dress traditional clothes and play different roles - warriors, riders, drummers and prayers or monks. In some region performs Tibetan opera, drummer dance and horse racing. During this festival, people can see many different disciplines of traditional Tibetan singing, dancing, art of debate, dreesing and praying.\nRecently this festival might be known as \"Horse race festival\", due to travel agencies who want to attrack tourists. \n"}
{"id": "35359699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35359699", "title": "Parkwood Entertainment", "text": "Parkwood Entertainment\n\nParkwood Entertainment is an American management and entertainment company founded by American singer Beyoncé in 2010. The company began as a production unit for videos and films in 2008. It is located in New York City and its involvements include products for music production, motion pictures and television specials related to Beyoncé. The company's first release was the film \"Cadillac Records\" (2008).\n\nParkwood Entertainment was founded in 2010 by American singer, actress, producer, and director Beyoncé. As an imprint based from Columbia Records, the company began as a production unit for videos and films in 2008. Parkwood Entertainment is named after a street in Houston, Texas where Beyoncé once lived. With headquarters in New York City, the company serves as an umbrella for the entertainer's various brands in music, movies, videos, and fashion. The staff of Parkwood Entertainment have experiences in arts and entertainment, from filmmaking and video production to web and fashion design. In addition to departments in marketing, digital, creative, publicity, fashion design and merchandising, the company houses a state-of-the-art editing suite, where Beyoncé works on content for her worldwide tours, music videos, and television specials. Parkwood Entertainment's first production was the musical biopic \"Cadillac Records\" (2008), in which Beyoncé starred and co-produced. In 2009, she starred in and executive produced the thriller \"Obsessed\". During a private screening held at New York's School of Visual Arts Theatre following the release of her fifth self-titled studio album, Beyoncé briefly discussed her decision to found Parkwood Entertainment in front of her fans and the press, saying:\n\n\"I started my own company when I decided to manage myself. It was important that I didn't go to some big management company, I felt like I wanted to follow the footsteps of Madonna and be a powerhouse and have my own empire, and show other women when you get to this point in your career you don't have to go sign with someone else and share your money and your success—you do it yourself.\"\nIn December 2013, Parkwood Entertainment released Beyoncé's fifth self-titled visual album. The surprising release caused \"hilarious, honest and hysterical\" reaction among Beyoncé's fans, and \"shock\" among other musicians. According to data provided by Twitter, the release generated over 1.2 million tweets in 12 hours. Peter Robinson of \"The Guardian\" hailed the shock release as \"Beyoncégeddon\", describing it as a \"major triumph [...] a masterclass in both exerting and relinquishing control.\" \"Beyoncé\" was released digitally to the iTunes Store without prior announcement or promotion. It debuted at number one on the US \"Billboard\" 200, earning Beyoncé her fifth consecutive number-one album in the country. The record sold 617,000 copies in the US, and 828,773 copies worldwide in its first three days of availability, becoming the fastest-selling album in the history of the iTunes Store at the time. It was reissued in November 2014 as part of a platinum edition, along with an extended play of new songs. It received acclaim from critics, who praised its production, exploration of sexuality, and Beyoncé's vocals. As of November 2016, Beyoncé has sold 5 million copies worldwide and has spawned the singles \"XO\", \"Drunk in Love\", \"Partition\" and \"Pretty Hurts. \n\nIn October 2014, Beyoncé with Parkwood Entertainment formed a large collaboration with Topshop, creating the subsidiary Parkwood Topshop Athletic Ltd, to produce an athletic, streetwear brand. The company and collaboration is a 50/50 split, with both parent companies owning half of this new division. Beyoncé commented on the collaboration stating \"I could not think of a better partner as I continue to grow the Parkwood business\". In November 2018, Parkwood Entertainment confirmed that the company had acquired total ownership of the Ivy Park brand from co-founder Sir Phillip Green following allegations of sexual harassment and racial abuse.\n\nIn 2015, Parkwood expanded into managing the careers of upcoming artists and signed Chloe x Halle, Sophie Beem and Ingrid.\n\nIn 2016, Steve Pamon, from JP Morgan Chase took office as the COO and President of the company. Within that same year, Parkwood entertainment released Beyoncé's critically acclaimed sixth studio album \"Lemonade\". The album was accompanied by the release of a 60-minute film of the same name, which premiered on HBO on April 23, 2016. Lemonade received widespread acclaim from critics and is also Beyoncé's most critically acclaimed album to date. Writing for \"The New York Times\", Jon Pareles praised Beyoncé's vocals and her courage to talk about subjects that affect so many people, and noted that \"the album is not beholden to radio formats or presold by a single\". Megan Carpentier of \"The Guardian\" named the album as <nowiki>\"</nowiki>a pop culture phenomenon<nowiki>\"</nowiki> and wrote:<nowiki>\"</nowiki>It is not an exaggeration to say that there is no other living musical artist who could ignite such a broad and unavoidable conversation just by releasing a new album – even a visual one.\" Writing in the same publication, Syreeta McFadden notes that the <nowiki>\"</nowiki>Formation<nowiki>\" video depicts archetypal southern black women \"in ways that we haven'</nowiki>t seen frequently represented in popular art or culture\". \"Time\" magazine wrote: <nowiki>\"</nowiki>With \"Lemonade\"—an album, an Emmy-nominated film and, as America looked on, an experience—Beyoncé publicly embraced explicitly feminist blackness at a politically risky moment.<nowiki>\"</nowiki> In 2017, the visual album won a Peabody Award in Entertainment, along with the following description by the board of jurors: \"Lemonade draws from the prolific literary, musical, cinematic, and aesthetic sensibilities of black cultural producers to create a rich tapestry of poetic innovation. The audacity of its reach and fierceness of its vision challenges our cultural imagination, while crafting a stunning and sublime masterpiece about the lives of women of color and the bonds of friendship seldom seen or heard in American popular culture.\"\n\nParkwood Entertainment has been listed twice by Fast Company as one of the Top 10 Most Innovative Companies in Music (2015 and 2017).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17310235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17310235", "title": "Pippa Bacca", "text": "Pippa Bacca\n\nGiuseppina Pasqualino di Marineo (9 December 1974 – 31 March 2008), known as Pippa Bacca, was an Italian feminist artist who, together with a fellow artist, was hitchhiking internationally to promote world peace under the motto, \"marriage between different peoples and nations\", symbolically wearing a wedding dress during her trek. On 31 March 2008, she disappeared in Gebze in Turkey. Her raped body was discovered in the same city on 11 April 2008. The police arrested a man who later led them to her body.\n\nBacca was part of a world peace effort known as \"Brides on Tour,\" for which she and fellow artist Silvia Moro had departed from Milan, Italy on 8 March 2008. The artists, wearing white wedding dresses, then travelled through the Balkans and arrived in Turkey on 20 March 2008. They had planned to hitchhike through the Middle East, their final destination being Jerusalem. Concerning their attire, they reported on their website that \"That's the only dress we'll carry along — with all stains accumulated during the journey.\"\n\nOn her sister's hitchhiking plans, and in light of the discovery of her body, her sibling Maria stated to Italian news agency ANSA that \"Her travels were for an artistic performance and to give a message of peace and of trust, but not everyone deserves trust... We weren't particularly worried because she had been hitchhiking for a lot of time, and thus was capable of avoiding risky situations... She was a determined person when it had to do with working for art.\"\n\nBacca and her companion split up just prior to arriving in Istanbul, planning to meet up again in Beirut. However, Bacca disappeared after 31 March. Her credit card was reportedly used at noon of that day. Bacca's naked, strangled and decomposing body was found near some bushes near Gebze, about 40 miles southeast of Istanbul.\n\nThe man who led the police to her body, Murat Karataş, was detained and arrested after reportedly confessing to raping and strangling Bacca on 31 March after taking her in his Jeep from a gas station. DNA testing suggests, however, that Bacca was raped by multiple people, and not just Karataş. The suspect said he was under the influence of drugs and alcohol and could not remember what happened. He had been traced after he inserted his own SIM card into the victim's mobile phone—which alerted police, since he had a previous conviction for theft. Bacca's own information was wiped from the mobile device, implicating, according to the lawyer for Bacca's family, at least one other accomplice since Karataş could not speak English and left school after the third grade.\n\nThe Turkish president Abdullah Gül called the Italian president Giorgio Napolitano to express his grief. A commentary in \"Today's Zaman\", while expressing sadness for the woman's death, criticised the supposed obsequiousness of Turkish politicians to \"foreigners\" in the Bacca case, writing: \"Let's face it, if Pippa were a Turk, some people would feel free to say that a hitchhiking woman deserves to be raped.\" The columnist argued that local problems such as violence against women should be addressed regardless of Turkey's concern for being shamed before foreigners. \"Hürriyet\", a top selling Turkish newspaper, printed an article on the murder entitled \"We are ashamed\".\n\nA documentary, \"La Mariée\" (\"The Bride\"), about the story of Bacca, was directed by the French filmmaker Joël Curtz in 2012. This documentary features video archives from her camera that the film team recovered during the shooting of the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "23071365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23071365", "title": "Return fraud", "text": "Return fraud\n\nReturn fraud is the act of defrauding a retail store via the return process. There are various ways in which this crime is committed. For example, the offender may return stolen merchandise to secure cash, or steal receipts or receipt tape to enable a falsified return, or to use somebody else's receipt to try to return an item picked up from a store shelf. Return abuse is a form of \"friendly fraud\" where someone purchases products without intending to keep them. Perhaps the most well-known form of this abuse is \"wardrobing\" or \"free renting\" – in which the person makes a purchase, uses the product(s), and then returns the merchandise.\n\nThe retail industry experiences a significant fraud and abuse problem, losing money in the range of $50 billion per year. A 2015 report published by the NRF states total merchandise returns accounted for over $260.5 billion in lost sales for US retailers in 2015.\n\nThe problem of retail fraud has caused retailers to raise prices for shoppers in order to offset and recover the losses incurred from fraudulent returns. Alternatively, many stores have created stricter return policies such as \"no receipt, no return\" or imposed return time restrictions such as a 30-day limit on all returns that impact all shoppers.\n\nA certain percentage of returned merchandise must be marked down or discarded in order to sell the product. After being returned, out-of-season clothing may have to be placed on the sale rack, for example. Or retailers may be forced to discard items such as returned lingerie due to sanitary or health reasons.\n\nSome examples of the return fraud and abuse problems include:\n\n\nReturn policies have historically served as the primary way for retailers to combat return fraud and abuse; the challenge is keeping policies from being overly restrictive and/or inconsistently interpreted, both of which may discourage loyal customers and affect purchases. Separately, automated solutions have also been developed to help combat return fraud and abuse, including software programs that detect such behavior and help retailers determine whether a return is valid. These software programs allow retailers to maintain reasonable price points for consumers, maintain lenient return policies for their good customers, and offer better and more consistent customer service. Reducing fraudulent and abusive returns helps a retailer's financial situation by lowering costs, preserving net sales, reducing shrink, while still delivering better service to their shoppers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11607367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11607367", "title": "Roboexotica", "text": "Roboexotica\n\nRoboexotica (sometimes spelled: \"Roböxotica\") is an annual festival and conference where scientists, researchers, computer experts and artists from all over the world build \"cocktail robots\" and discuss technological innovation, futurology and science fiction.\nRoboexotica is also an ironic attempt to criticize techno-triumphalism and to dissect technological hypes.\n\nThe festival is co-produced by Shifz and monochrom, two Vienna-based art collectives, and supported by the 'Bureau for Philosophy' (of the Department of Philosophy, University of Vienna). The festival is usually held in the end of November or early December.\n\nThe annual international festival consists of an exhibition, a conference, social events, and the ACRA (Annual Cocktail Robot Award).\n\nThe exhibition presents robots that can mix cocktails, serve cocktails, consume cocktails, have bar conversations, light or smoke cigarettes or manage to impress the jury with (Quote Roboexotica website) \"other achievements in the sector of cocktail culture\".\nIn 1999, Magnus Wurzer and Chris Veigl (of Shifz) started to present a self-made cocktail robot at the small independent Viennese culture and art space VEKKS. The group monochrom (Johannes Grenzfurthner, Günther Friesinger, Franz Ablinger) first participated with performances and presenting machines, but in 2002 monochrom teamed up with Shifz as organizers and the small event became a big international festival presented at Vienna's Museumsquartier and several other locations in the Vienna metro area. Roboexotica presents around 20 machines every year and draws around 3000 guests per event. \n\nRoboexotica was presented at Cyberpipe (Ljubljana) in 2006, at Maker Faire (San Francisco) and RoboGames (San Francisco) in 2007.\n\nIn 2008 a catalogue titled Roboexotica was published, celebrating the 10th anniversary of the festival. The book features reflections on the festival and presents statements by former participants including Cory Doctorow, Dorkbot's Doueglas Repetto, Bre Pettis, V. Vale, Karen Marcelo of Survival Research Laboratories or RoboGames' David Calkins and Simone Davalos.\n\nA smaller show called \"Roboexotica USA\" was held in San Francisco in 2008 and 2009. It was organized by monochrom and \"Shifz\" and was well received by the press. In 2010 it was decided to rename the San Francisco-based cocktail robot event \"Barbot,\" and Barbot events were held in San Franicsco in 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013.\n\nChase Masterson was special guest star at the 20th anniversary edition of cocktail robot festival Roboexotica in Vienna and performed a live jazz set for \"robots and humans\".\n\n\"Roboexotica\" has been featured on Slashdot, Wired News, Reuters, \"New York Times\" and blogs like Boing Boing and New Scientist.\n\n"}
{"id": "4661611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4661611", "title": "Scientology holidays", "text": "Scientology holidays\n\nHolidays, commemorations and observances in the Church of Scientology include the following:\n\nThe anniversary of the opening of the Celebrity Centre International in Los Angeles in 1970, which, in the Church's words, is \"dedicated to the rehabilitation of the culture through art\".\nA very important holiday in Scientology.\nThis holiday celebrates the commencement of the \"Saint Hill Special Briefing Course\" in 1961. \"\nAccording to the Church's official website, this day is \"to celebrate the opening in 1991 of the L. Ron Hubbard Life Exhibition in Hollywood, California. Featuring impressive audiovisual displays on the life and accomplishments of L. Ron Hubbard, the exhibition is visited by thousands of Scientologists and non-Scientologists annually.\" \nHubbard's book \"\" hit store shelves on this day in 1950. Another very important holiday in Scientology.\nA day of contemplation of Hubbard's 1965 study on Scientology Ethics. \nThe church describes this holiday thus: \"Each year the annual Maiden Voyage event, commemorating the anniversary of New OT VIII, has come to be one of the most important gatherings of dedicated Scientologists and an opportunity for senior Church officials to meet and work directly with these parishioners to advance their religion. Scientologists who attend this annual spiritual cruise become “OT Ambassadors” and initiate programs to help Scientologists all over the world advance the aims of Scientology and to reach the top of the Bridge at New OT VIII.\"\nA celebration of Hubbard's Study Tech.\nSea Org Day is a special event for all Sea Organization members, with rank and rating promotion ceremonies.\n\nIt has been alleged by former members that recreational Sea Org Day events are mandatory: one ex-Scientologist claims \"the one day a year you are supposed to get the day off, you are made to go on a bus to the beach, be there for roll call, participate in group games, etc.\" \nClear Day marks the inauguration of Hubbard's Clearing Course, which debuted in 1965.\nA day of special recognition and acknowledgment for Scientology/Dianetics auditors. This occasion has also been popular with anti-Scientology protestors, as an opportunity to reach students. \nFrom the Church's site: \"Held at a different host city each year, members of the IAS gather to commemorate the founding of the IAS and to rededicate themselves to its aims. The annual IAS freedom awards are presented. This event coincides with the annual convention of IAS delegates.\"\nA commemoration of the day \"Publications Worldwide\" opened at Saint Hill Manor in 1967.\nCelebrates the opening of the Flag Land Base in Clearwater, Florida in 1975. \nThis is the only secular and non-Hubbard-based observance on the official Scientology calendar, which states \"This event welcomes in the new year with a review of accomplishments over the previous year and a look forward to the upcoming year and plans for further reach into new areas of society with L. Ron Hubbard’s technology. Stellar accomplishments of Scientology parishioners helping new people to move up The Bridge to Total Freedom are acknowledged.\"\n\nAdditionally, many more anniversaries of notable events in Scientology history are remembered. Examples include January 25 (Criminon day), marking the 1970 founding of the Criminon program, January 28 which celebrates the founding of the Church in New Zealand, February 19 (Narconon Day), marking the 1966 founding of Narconon, March 31, the anniversary of the founding of the Church of Scientology Vienna in 1971, and September 25, which marks the 1980 opening of the first Scientology and Dianetics College in Tel Aviv, Israel, where the concept is presented as a College, not a church.\n\n"}
{"id": "46761380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46761380", "title": "Super Bowl LIV", "text": "Super Bowl LIV\n\nSuper Bowl LIV, the 54th Super Bowl and the 50th modern-era National Football League (NFL) championship game, will decide the league champion for the league's centennial 2019 season. The game is scheduled to be played on February 2, 2020 in Miami Gardens, Florida (with the exact date pending potential changes to the NFL calendar). This will be the 11th Super Bowl hosted by the South Florida region and the sixth Super Bowl hosted in Miami Gardens, with the last one being Super Bowl XLIV ten years earlier. The game will be televised nationally by Fox.\n\nOn May 19, 2015, the league announced the four finalists that will compete to host either Super Bowl LIII in 2019 or Super Bowl LIV. NFL owners voted on these cities in May 2016, with the first round of voting determining who will host Super Bowl LIII, and the second round deciding the site for Super Bowl LIV. The league had also originally announced in 2015 that Los Angeles would be eligible as a potential Super Bowl LIV site if there is a stadium in place, and a team moved there by the start of the 2018 season. The league opened the relocation window in January 2016, selecting the former St. Louis Rams to return to Los Angeles; their new stadium in Inglewood, California was, at the time of the vote, not scheduled to open until August 2019 (it began construction in December 2016, giving nearly three years to construct the stadium). This meant that the new stadium was scheduled to be open in time for the game (and the league selected the relocating team just in time to be considered for Super Bowl LIV), but, under the current construction timetable, would require a waiver of league policy to host Super Bowl LIV, as the league does not allow stadiums in their first year of existence to host the Super Bowl to ensure that stadium construction delays and unforeseen problems do not jeopardize the game. In May 2016, the league granted this waiver and confirmed that Los Angeles was still in consideration for Super Bowl LIV. Los Angeles has hosted the Super Bowl seven times, most recently in 1993 with Super Bowl XXVII; that game, along with the four prior Super Bowls in the area, were held at the Rose Bowl while first two Super Bowls in Los Angeles area were held at Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. On May 24, 2016, Atlanta was chosen to host Super Bowl LIII, thereby making it ineligible to host Super Bowl LIV. Meanwhile, Los Angeles removed itself from the running for Super Bowl LIV; it was awarded rights to Super Bowl LV shortly thereafter. However, a year later, on May 23, 2017, NFL owners opted to instead award Super Bowl LV to Tampa and give Super Bowl LVI to Los Angeles after it was announced that Los Angeles Stadium at Hollywood Park would open in 2020 due to construction delays.\n\nThe two remaining finalists for Super Bowl LIV were as follows:\n\n\nMiami was selected as the host site at the NFL owners meeting on May 24, 2016.\n\nThis is the first time the state of Florida will host back to back Super Bowls since Super Bowl XLIII in 2009 in Tampa and Super Bowl XLIV in 2010 in Miami Gardens.\n"}
{"id": "37284881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37284881", "title": "TEDxYouth@Doha", "text": "TEDxYouth@Doha\n\nTEDxYouth@Doha is an independently organized TED conference which is localized to the youth in Qatar. The event is held annually in the month of November to commemorate United Nations Universal Children's Day. Youngsters across the nation aging from 15 - 18 are recruited as speakers in the event. The theme of this event is #failbetter. The inaugural TEDxYouthDay event took place on November 19, 2011 in Doha, Qatar to celebrate UN Universal Children's Day.\n\nThe second annual edition was held on November 17, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "36534044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36534044", "title": "Tanana Valley State Fair", "text": "Tanana Valley State Fair\n\nThe Tanana Valley State Fair is an annual state fair held in College, Alaska, United States. The event commences on the first Friday in August, and is a major annual event in Interior Alaska. The fair is held on a hundred-acre plot of land just outside the city limits of Fairbanks, in the approximate center of College Road. The fairgrounds, along with portions of the Creamer's Field Migratory Waterfowl Refuge and surrounding businesses on the north side of College Road, comprise the eastern reaches of the College census-designated place adjacent to Fairbanks.\n\nIt features amusement rides, food concessions, competitive exhibits, contests and live performances. As of the 81st Annual Fair in 2012, an adult day pass cost $10 and season pass cost $35. \n\nThe Tanana Valley Fair was founded in 1924, making it the oldest state fair in Alaska. Experimental agronomist George William Gasser and local real estate businessman and homesteading farmer Harry Markley Badger were instrumental in forming the not-for-profit Tanana Valley Fair Association. From 1924 to 1951, the fair was held in various locations in downtown Fairbanks. All fairs since 1952 have been held at the current location, on land which the association originally leased from the University of Alaska. \n\nIn 1936, the Matanuska Valley Fair formed in Palmer. It saw a name change in 1959 to the \"Alaska State Fair\" when Alaska was upgraded from a territory to a state in the United States of America. That same year, both fairs requested to be the \"Official Alaska State Fair.\" Subsequently, the governor of Alaska determined the fairs would alternate the title with the Tanana Valley State Fair in Fairbanks using the title in even-numbered years and the Alaska State Fair in Palmer using the title in odd-numbered years. \"Tanana Valley State Fair\" was adopted as the permanent name of the fair in Fairbanks in 1985. The Alaska State Fair in Palmer is held annually for about two weeks around the beginning of August.\n\nThe Southeast Alaska Fair is held in Haines for four days over the last weekend in July. There are also fairs in Ninilchik and Kodiak in late August and early September, with smaller fairs held in Delta Junction, Kenny Lake and Salcha.\n\nThe associated Tanana Valley Farmer’s Market was founded in 1978 as a means for fair exhibitors to sell their produce and goods. It is currently open from May to September three days a week. The market was formerly located on the fairgrounds property, very near to the intersection of College Road and Aurora Drive and the main entrance to the fairgrounds. The market, including the building housing it, was moved to a site approximately a half-mile (800 m) to the west in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "20803840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20803840", "title": "Tannkosh", "text": "Tannkosh\n\nTannkosh was a large airshow and fly-in held annually in July at Tannheim, upper Swabia in Germany.\n\nThe event was the closest European equivalent to EAA AirVenture Oshkosh and, although smaller than the Oshkosh airshow, Tannkosh attracted hundreds of private aircraft from all over Europe.\n\nTannkosh derived its name from that of the more widely known airshow upon which it was modeled, Oshkosh, and Tannheim Flugplatz, the aerodrome near Tannheim, Germany, where the event was held.\n\nThe 2013 Tannkosh airshow took place from August 23 to 25, 2013.\n\nIn October 2014, it was announced that there would be no Tannkosh 2015, nor any more to follow.\n\n"}
{"id": "47012246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47012246", "title": "The Life and Times of Conrad Black", "text": "The Life and Times of Conrad Black\n\nThe Life and Times of Conrad Black is a wordless novel by Canadian artist George Walker, published in 2013.\n\nWalker's followed up his first wordless novel, \"The Mysterious Death of Tom Thomson\" (2012) about the death of the well-known Canadian painter, with a biography of the media mogul Conrad Black. Walker stated his motivation was that Black was \"one of the most outspoken and charismatic characters in the elusive one per cent of people who make up the establishment in Canada. He is a public person of international stature, at one time a media baron and still a man of great influence and wealth.\" Black approved of the book, and signed a few copies. Black is the author of numerous books and newspaper articles and has a reputation for the verbosity of his prose.\n\n100 wordless black-and-white woodcut prints make up the book telling Black's life story. Walker based the images on photographs, many from newspapers or magazines and familiar to the public. He communicated with Black via email while Black was in prison in Florida; Black reviewed the woodcut images, rejecting some he felt were too controversial and making suggestions for others. Walker hand-printed the first edition of the book in a limited boxed edition of 13 copies, symbolic of the thirteen boxes Black removed from his office when it was investigated in 2005. Each copy was signed by Black and priced at $1,500. A popular edition later appeared from Porcupine's Quill in 2013.\n\nWalker's choice of Black as a subject stands in contrast to wordless novel traditions, which normally focused on emotional working-class characters and socialist politics; Black is a wealthy capitalist who reins in his emotions in public. Walker does not use the book to attack or belittle Black, but simply relates the mogul's story from his days at Upper Canada College—where he was caned—through his rise in the media, his arrest and imprisonment for fraud and obstruction of justice and release from prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "398437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398437", "title": "U.S. Presidential IQ hoax", "text": "U.S. Presidential IQ hoax\n\nThe U.S. Presidential IQ hoax was a mid-2001 e-mail and internet hoax that purported to provide a list of estimated IQs of the U.S. Presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt to George W. Bush.\n\nThe hoax email showed Bill Clinton having the highest IQ (182) and George W. Bush the lowest (91). However, the numbers claimed in the email were said to be fabricated, and the sociologists and institutions (e.g., the \"Lovenstein Institute\") quoted in the article do not exist. The techniques purportedly used to measure IQ of the presidents are not recognized means of measuring IQs. The hoax also contains other factual errors. When the hoax was debunked, it appeared that Bush's IQ and college entrance test scores were never released.\n\nPerhaps because the perception of George W. Bush having low intelligence was claimed by some political pundits as well as by politicians, including a spokesperson for Tony Blair, the hoax report was assumed by some to be true. The British newspaper \"The Guardian\", for example, quoted the report in its diary section of July 19, 2001 and used it to belittle Bush, although the paper published a retraction two days after the Associated Press drew attention to the error. Other media outlets to fall for the hoax included \"Bild\" (Germany), \"Pravda\" (Russia), and the \"Southland Times\" (New Zealand) as well as a few U.S. newspapers. The hoax came back to life in March 2007 in Spanish-language media when the Press Agency EFE distributed a piece referring to it. Dozens of media (primarily in their online versions) reproduced EFE's text. Among newspapers publishing the hoax were \"El País\" (Spain's leading newspaper), ABC, \"La Vanguardia\", and \"El Mercurio\" (Chile's leading newspaper).\n\nIn 2001, political psychologist Aubrey Immelman made an IQ estimation of G. W. Bush based on the SAT Reasoning Test results of Bush (1206) and Al Gore, who achieved IQ scores of 133 and 134 in his school years: \"It's tempting to employ Al Gore's IQ:SAT ratio of 134:135 as a formula for estimating Bush's probable intelligence quotient — an exercise in fuzzy statistics that predicts a score of 119.\"\n\nA 2006 study analyzing presidential IQs by Dean Keith Simonton of U.C. Davis appeared in the journal \"Political Psychology\". Simonton's study analyzed the results of varied and often subjective historical material using the tools of historiometry. It estimated IQs for all US presidents, and validated the headline of the hoax, which stated Bush's was the lowest of any president in the last 50 years, though it estimates his IQ considerably higher (by more than two standard deviations) than the 91 suggested in the hoax report. It rated G.W. Bush second to last since 1900, with an estimated IQ of 119 (the estimates ranged from 111 to 139). Bush's estimated IQ was less than those estimated for Grant (120), Monroe (124), and Harding (124). The same study estimated president Bill Clinton's IQ at 149, behind only those of Kennedy (151), Jefferson (154) and John Quincy Adams (169).\n\nSimonton's 2006 study follows earlier studies done on this subject, including a 1926 study by Catharine Cox Miles. This study concluded that there is a statistically significant correlation of 0.56 between a U.S. President's IQ and his perceived amount of success. It is worth noting that other sources and/or studies might have different results for the IQs of United States Presidents. For instance, John F. Kennedy's IQ has also been estimated to have been significantly lower than in this 2006 study (Chester Arthur biographer Thomas C. Reeves refers to an actual IQ test by Kennedy with a score of 119), while Richard Nixon's IQ has also been estimated to have been significantly higher than in this study.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44804572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44804572", "title": "Warsaw Jewish Film Festival", "text": "Warsaw Jewish Film Festival\n\nThe Warsaw Jewish Film Festival (WJFF.pl) is an annual Jewish film festival held in Warsaw, Poland, since 2003. \n\nWARSAW JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL (WJFF.PL) IS THE FIRST EVER AND THE LARGEST JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL IN POLAND AND EASTERN EUROPE. Established in 2003 has 15 years of experience acquiring some of the finest international, thematically Jewish, films. Movies which are dedicated to exploring Jewish culture, history and contemporary life of Jewish communities from around the globe. \n\nThe Festival is a member of the Association of European Jewish Film Festivals. \n\nThe 16th edition will take place on November 12-18, 2018 at the POLIN Museum of the history of Polish Jews. \n"}
