{"id": "33149229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33149229", "title": "2011 Iranian embezzlement scandal", "text": "2011 Iranian embezzlement scandal\n\nThe 3,000 billion toman embezzlement in Iran (also 2,800 billion embezzlement; approximately US$943.5 million) was a fraud involving the use of forged documents to obtain credit from at least seven Iranian state and private banks to purchase state-owned companies. The fraud reportedly extended over a four-year period, but became more serious \"in the months before the scandal broke in September\" 2011. According to Iranian newspapers, Iranian businessman Mahafarid Amir Khosravi (also known as Amir-Mansour Aria and executed in 2014) \"masterminded\" the scam, and as of late October 2011 at least 67 people have been interrogated and 31 of them have been arrested.\n\nMostafa Pour Mohammadi, the head of a judicial investigations unit, has called the case \"the most unprecedented financial corruption case in the history\" of Iran. The scandal has also been called \"politically sensitive\", involving Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, a close aide to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, opposed by conservatives.\n\nAccording to Iranian government newspapers and TV channels, the fraud was planned within seven state-owned and private banks, including Saderat Bank of Iran, and is the largest and most important fraud in Iran history. The fraud reportedly was first identified at Bank Melli, Iran's largest commercial bank.\n\nAccording to the \"New York Times\" and \"Washington Post\" newspapers, the embezzlement was a \"scheme to use forged documents or letters of credit to acquire assets, \"including major state-owned companies\" or \"privatized government assets\", (such as the Khuzestan Steel Company, a major steel producer) at \"one of Iran's top financial institutions\", Bank Saderat.\n\nAccording to government media, the economics ministry tipped the intelligence authorities about suspicious loan applications in the banking system and the main culprits are as of May 2014 in police custody.\n\nIranian state prosecutor Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje'i said 19 people have been arrested for being involved in a bank embezzlement scandal. \"The Washington Post\" reports 22 suspects \"including businessmen and bank officials\" have been arrested, and the chiefs of two banks have been dismissed. On 27 September 2011, Mahomud-Reza Khavari abruptly resigned as the managing director of Bank Melli and flew to Canada after the bank was implicated in the fraud. However, a spokesman for the bank stated that Khavari had gone to Canada for \"ordinary business reasons\".\n\nThe investigation determined that Mahafarid Amir Khosravi had masterminded the scheme, with his Aria Investment Development Company being the primary recipient of the loans. Khosravi was convicted of embezzlement, money laundering, and bribery. He and three of his closest associates received the death penalty in July 2012. A total of 39 people were convicted of fraud in the case. On 24 May 2014, Khosravi was executed by hanging. Khavari remains a fugitive.\n\nOn 3 October 2011, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei told viewers of Iranian state TV \"People should know all these (responsible) will be pursued. ... God willing, the traitorous hands will be cut.\" The leader also stated the media should not use the case to \"strike at officials.\"\n\nThe speaker of the Iranian parliament, Ali Larijani, said that all three branches of the government were determined to deal with the recent banking scam case.\nAhmad Tavakkoli, a member of parliament, said on 18 September 2011 that the embezzlement of 28 trillion rials (3,000 billion toman) is an intolerable scandal, adding that if administration officials are not able to handle the affairs, they should step down. In addition, he said that a number of members of parliament have introduced a motion, which envisages the establishment of a special committee to pursue the embezzlement case.\n\nOn 16 September 2011, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad rejected the accusations against some of his administration's officials. Conservative critics of Ahmadinejad have accused his close aide Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei (whom the conservatives strongly oppose) of having connections with Amir-Mansour Aria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31785684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31785684", "title": "2011–12 Palestinian protests", "text": "2011–12 Palestinian protests\n\n2011–12 Palestinian protests were a series of protests in the Palestinian National Authority and the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip, staged by various Palestinian groups as part of the wider Arab Spring. The protests were aimed to protest against the Palestinian government, as well as supporting the popular uprisings in Tunisia, Egypt and Syria. The first phase of protests took place during 2011 and the second phase in 2012.\n\nSome suggested the 2012 protests were also inspired by the Arab Spring. Demonstrators were protesting against the economic policies of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA), and the increasing cost of living. On 1 September 2012, the PNA raised the price of fuel, as well as the value added tax rate. Mass demonstrations have taken place throughout the Palestinian Authority territory, including in Ramallah, Nablus, Balata Camp, Bir Zeit, Jalazun Camp, Hebron, Bethlehem, Beit Jala, Dheisheh Camp, Jenin, Jericho, Tulkarm and Dura. 2012 Protests have been characterized by road closures, tire burning, self-immolations, peaceful demonstrations, stone throwing clashes and workers' strikes.\n\nThe goal of the early protests were to unify the two ruling parties, Fatah and Hamas. Other reasons included unemployment, inflation, and lack of economic growth.\n\nThe Palestinian Authority prevented several demonstrations in support of protesters in Tunisia and Egypt. On 3 February, Palestinian police dispersed an anti-Mubarak demonstration in downtown Ramallah, detaining four people, confiscating a cameraman's footage, and reportedly beating protesters. A smaller pro-Mubarak demonstration was permitted to take place in the same area and was guarded by police.\n\nOn 15 October, an anti-Assad protest expressing solidarity with Palestinian refugees in Syria affected by the unrest there took place in the Gaza Strip, and was attended by 150 people. Hamas police forces dispersed the demonstration, claiming that it was held without a permit.\n\nOn 1 February 2012 the Palestinian Authority announced that it would hold municipal elections in July. Some sources speculated that this announcement was a reaction to the anti-government protests in Egypt. The elections were however postponed to 22 October 2012, then suspended indefinitely due to an internal division within the Palestinian Authority over candidates for many of the municipalities and councils, and fears that Hamas supporters would back Palestinian Authority opponents.\n\nA rise in fuel prices, lowered quality of living and the current financial crisis and unpaid monthly salary payments for about 150,000 Palestinian workers have sparked the protests. The PNA is currently going through a financial crisis. In addition, the PNA has warned of potential cuts in electricity for large areas in the West Banks, prompting a rise in social tensions. Much of the demonstrators' anger has been directed towards the government of Prime Minister Salam Fayyad. The 1994 Protocol on Economic Relations has also been targeted, an interim agreement that is part of the Oslo accords whereby Israel controls Palestinian trade and collects taxes on behalf of the PNA. Further sources which point out the centrality to the Paris Protocol have also made the claim that these have been the first protests on the Palestinian West Bank not to be purely \"political\".\n\nBecause of Israeli restrictions on the Palestinian economy, the PNA relies on foreign aid. Due to delays in the funding by the United States and various Arab countries, the accumulating budget deficit has become a financial crisis for the PNA. Professor and former PNA spokesman Ghassan Khatib further states that the expansion of Israeli settlements and the subsequent confiscation of cultivable land and other natural resources has increased the PNA's dependence on foreign funds as well as the \"exhaustion\" of other venues such as taking bank loans and borrowing from the private sector.\n\n4 September - Mass protests involving thousands of Palestinians were held in cities throughout the West Bank in protest of price rises, higher costs of living, Salam Fayyad's handling of the financial crisis and the Paris Protocol. Several demonstrating groups also stressed they were protesting against the Israeli occupation in addition to dire conditions. In Hebron dozens of public transport vehicles drove from the northern to southern ends of the city protesting the cost of fuel, while hundreds of people participated in protests held in the city center. An effigy of Prime Minister Fayyad was set alight.\n\nSmaller demonstrations occurred in Ramallah, Bethlehem and Jenin. In the city of al-Dura in the southern West Bank, 42-year-old Khaled Abu Rabee poured gasoline over himself and entered the municipal hall in an apparent self-immolation attempt. He was stopped by a security guard.\n\n5 September - In Ramallah a man from Gaza unsuccessfully attempted to set himself and his 6-year-old daughter who has cancer alight in protest of his inability to pay for her cancer treatment and the costly price of living. He was stopped by police who arrested him. Meanwhile, school children protested the prices of basic goods in Beit Jala.\n\nIn response to growing protests in the West Bank, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas announced that the \"Palestinian Spring,\" drawing relation to the regional Arab Spring, had begun. He further quoted a Palestinian proverb that \"hunger is disloyal,\" acknowledging that people think of feeding their families as the top priority.\n\n6 September - Demonstrations continued in West Bank cities. In Bethlehem, Beit Jala and Beit Sahour mostly young protesters forced many streets to close for traffic. Hundreds gathered to demonstrate in Nativity Street. In Jenin protesters demanded the resignation of Salam Fayyad, while in Tulkarm demonstrators marched with donkeys in a gesture to the rising price of conventional transport. Taxi drivers began a mass strike to protest rising fuel prices. Fayyad announced on Voice of Palestine radio that he was \"ready to resign\" but the replacement of government officials would not alleviate the PNA's financial crisis.\n\n7 September - Palestinian National Initiative declared its support for protests against rising costs of living in the West Bank, and called for a \"radical change\" in economic policy.\n\n8 September - Dozens of protesters closed down several streets in Tulkarm and Ramallah on Saturday, as protests against rising living costs continue across the West Bank. A main road in Tulkarm was blocked with rocks and burning tires and protesters in Ramallah closed off several streets in the city center. President Mahmoud Abbas reiterated that Israel and some Arab countries share the blame for the PA’s financial crisis. He said the Palestinian Authority will not seek to stop the popular protests as long as they remain peaceful and do not harm public interests. However, he stressed that the government would not allow any attacks on public property.\n\n9 September - Demonstrators in Ramallah called on President Mahmoud Abbas to resign on Sunday, as protests over the rising cost of living continue in the West Bank. Truck drivers blocked traffic in Ramallah's Manara Square as people marched in the city center against the economic policies of the Palestinian Authority. A leader in the popular protests, Mahir Amir, told \"Ma'an News Agency\" that protesters wanted to send a message to President Abbas to urge him to annul the Paris Protocol with Israel. The protests also demand that the PLO plays an appropriate role in controlling the Palestinian Authority.\n\n10 September - Taxi drivers, teachers shopkeepers and other Palestinian workers joined a general strike. The head of the West Bank's Union of Public Transport, Nasser Younis, stated that over 24,000 drivers were participating, while the taxi union director in Jenin reported that 700 cars and 120 buses had joined. Activity in cities, towns and refugee camps have been largely frozen as a result of the public transportation strike.\n\nIn Hebron police clashed with protesters who targeted the city's municipal offices and fire trucks. Afterwards, several thousand demonstrators threw stones at a police station in the city. Police responded with tear gas to disperse the protests. According to Ma'an News Agency, dozens of protesters and police were injured. The governor of the Hebron Governorate Kamal Hmeid accused a \"lawless minority\" for the clashes.\n\nClashes also occurred in Bethlehem at the Bab al-Zaqaq crossroads after taxi drivers blocked the entry of traffic. Further confrontations broke out near Karkafeh Street when several people hurled stones at trucks blocking the street as part of the protests. In the city's Dheisheh refugee camp, demonstrators marched toward's President Abbas's local presidential headquarters chanting slogans condemning him, Prime Minister Fayyad, and the Paris Protocol. In order to prevent clashes, protest organizers formed a human chain to separate themselves from the security forces. Protests demanding the resignation of Fayyad erupted in nearby Beit Jala. Organizers urged participants to refrain from damaging public property.\n\nIn Ramallah demonstrators burned tires and garbage bins as they blocked off several of the city's main roads. Taxi drivers joined the protesters who chanted \"leave, leave\" (\"irhal, irhal\"), a common slogan heard in throughout the Arab Spring. Protests were also held in the nearby localities of Bir Zeit and Jalazun Camp.\n\nRoads were blocked in the northern city of Jenin, hindering commerce in the city. In a separate incident, a number of Palestinian policemen were injured when protesters hurled stones and glass bottles at a police station in Nablus. Traffic was also blocked in some of the city's streets. Palestinian officials reported that demonstrators numbered 100-200 people. At the adjacent Balata Camp where protesters blocked the camp's main road. Further protests were reported in Tulkarm and Jericho.\n\nPNA spokeswoman Nour Odeh stated the authorities would protect the rights of protesters and ensure their safety, although she added that the government would hold violators of the law responsible.\n\n11 September - College and high school students have planned to join the general strike.\n\n26 September - About 500 Palestinians protested in the Bureij refugee camp in the Gaza Strip, where demonstrations against the Hamas government are rare. They began following the death of a boy resident as a result of a fire during a power outage, a frequent occurrence in the Gaza Strip due to the short supply of fuel. Protesters called for the downfall of the Hamas administration, which they accused of being incompetent, and also laid blame at the rival government in the West Bank headed by Fayyad and Abbas. Hamas spokesman Taher al-Nono blamed Egypt for the fuel crisis and the international community for allowing the continuation of the blockade of the Gaza Strip.\n\n2 October - Around 200 people demonstrated in the West Bank city of Ramallah to demand the resignation of Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas. Waving flags and shouting \"Abu Mazen (Abbas) leave,\" they marched from the central Al-Manara Square towards the presidential headquarters. They were blocked by police and there were some scuffles before the marchers dispersed. The march had been called to denounce the arrest in the West Bank, controlled by Abbas's Fatah party, of partisans of the Islamist movement Hamas, and arrests in the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip of Fatah sympathisers.\n\nOn 14 February 2013, amid pan-Arab calls for reform, Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad submitted his resignation along with that of his cabinet to President Mahmoud Abbas. After consultations with other factions, institutions, and civil society groups, Abbas asked him to form a new government. The reshuffle had long been demanded by Fayyad as well as members of Abbas's Fatah faction.\n"}
{"id": "11271377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11271377", "title": "Abhideyaka Abhishekam", "text": "Abhideyaka Abhishekam\n\nAbhideyaka Abhishekam is a festival conducted in the Tirumala Venkateswara Temple, Andhra Pradesh in India. The purpose of the festival is to conduct special \"Abhishekam\" to protect the Utsava deities - Lord Malayappa swami and his consorts \"Sridevi\" and \"Bhudevi\" from damage that might occur while conducting processions and \"Tirumanjanam\" (holy baths).\n\nThe festival is performed in the Hindu calendar month of Jyesta. In the Gregorian Calendar, this falls in June/July. Because of the association with the \"Jyesta\" month, the festival is also called as \"Jyestabhishekam\". \n\nThe festival lasts three days and on each of these days, after the second bell, the lord and his consorts are taken to the \"Kalyanotsava mantapa\" (Hall used for celestial wedding) and \"Snapana Tirumanjanam\" is conducted amidst vedic chants. Snapana Tirumanjanam involves performing a bath to the deities involving holy and consecrated water mixed with spices including turmeric. The lord and his consorts are attired in different \"kavacham\" (armours) on each of these days.\n\n\nThe Svarna kavacham is adorned to the Lord and his consorts throughout the year as well.\n\nThere is no record on the history of the festival and the start dates.\n\nThe festival is considered as \"Arjitha Seva\" (paid service) and hence devotees can pay to view the performance of the \"Abhishekam\". The purchase of a ticket allows access five people to the \"Kalyanotsava mantapa\" and the primary ticket holder is gifted \"Vastram\" (One Upper Cloth and a blouse), One laddu and one vada.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "43344078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43344078", "title": "Balance sheet recession", "text": "Balance sheet recession\n\nA balance sheet recession is a type of economic recession that occurs when high levels of private sector debt cause individuals or companies to collectively focus on saving by paying down debt rather than spending or investing, causing economic growth to slow or decline. The term is attributed to economist Richard Koo and is related to the debt deflation concept described by economist Irving Fisher. Recent examples include Japan's recession that began in 1990 and the U.S. recession of 2007-2009.\n\nA balance sheet recession is a particular type of recession driven by the high levels of private sector debt (i.e., the credit cycle) rather than fluctuations in the business cycle. It is characterized by a change in private sector behavior towards saving (i.e., paying down debt) rather than spending, which slows the economy through a reduction in consumption by households or investment by business. The term balance sheet derives from an accounting equation that holds that assets must always equal the sum of liabilities plus equity. If asset prices fall below the value of the debt incurred to purchase them, then the equity must be negative, meaning the consumer or business is insolvent. Until it regains solvency, the entity will focus on debt repayment. It has been argued that a balance sheet recession essentially is the same phenomenon that the German economist Wilhelm Röpke and Austrian School economists in the 1930s denoted as a secondary deflation.\n\nHigh levels of indebtedness or the bursting of a real estate or financial asset price bubble can cause a balance sheet recession. This is when large numbers of consumers or corporations pay down debt (i.e., save) rather than spend or invest, which slows the economy. Economist Richard C. Koo wrote in 2009 that under ideal conditions, a country's economy should have the household sector as net savers and the corporate sector as net borrowers, with the government budget nearly balanced and net exports near zero. When imbalances develop across these sectors, recession can develop within the country or create pressure for recession in another country. Policy responses are often designed to drive the economy back towards this ideal state of balance.\n\nRather than savings by households being invested by businesses, as is the case under typical economic conditions, the savings remains in the banking system and will not be invested by businesses regardless of interest rate. A large private sector financial surplus (savings greater than investment), a proverbial \"hole\" in the economy, can develop.\n\nPaul Krugman wrote in July 2014: \"The logic of a balance sheet recession is straightforward. Imagine that for whatever reason people have grown careless about both borrowing and lending, so that many families and/or firms have taken on high levels of debt. And suppose that at some point people more or less suddenly realize that these high debt levels are risky. At that point debtors will face strong pressures from their creditors to “deleverage,” slashing their spending in an effort to pay down debt. But when many people slash spending at the same time, the result will be a depressed economy. This can turn into a self-reinforcing spiral, as falling incomes make debt seem even less supportable, leading to deeper cuts; but in any case, the overhang of debt can keep the economy depressed for a long time.\"\n\nMartin Wolf wrote in July 2012: \"Now consider what happens when the asset prices start to fall. Debtors will be unambiguously poorer. Creditors will also feel poorer, since their assets will have deteriorated in quality. Financial intermediaries will become both insolvent and illiquid. There is likely to be a systemic financial crisis. The supply of credit to the private sector will halt. Borrowing will shrink. Investment, particularly in new housing, will collapse. The desired savings of the heavily indebted will rise, as they seek to pay down excessive debt. Creditors, too, will become far more cautious, as they recognise how vulnerable they have become to a wave of bankruptcy among their debtors. The overall effect will be big cutbacks in spending and a deep recession, if not worse. A big financial crisis will accelerate the cuts and turn the recession into a potential depression. That is, of course, what happened in 2008. The effects of the emergence of balance-sheet constraints on spending and borrowing will, in brief, be revealed in the huge financial surpluses in the private sectors of crisis-hit economies.\"\n\nFor example, economist Richard Koo wrote that Japan's \"Great Recession\" that began in 1990 was a \"balance sheet recession.\" It was triggered by a collapse in land and stock prices, which caused Japanese firms to have negative equity, meaning their assets were worth less than their liabilities. Despite zero interest rates and expansion of the money supply to encourage borrowing, Japanese corporations in aggregate opted to pay down their debts from their own business earnings rather than borrow to invest as firms typically do. Corporate investment, a key demand component of GDP, fell enormously (22% of GDP) between 1990 and its peak decline in 2003. Japanese firms overall became net savers after 1998, as opposed to borrowers. Koo argues that it was massive fiscal stimulus (borrowing and spending by the government) that offset this decline and enabled Japan to maintain its level of GDP. In his view, this avoided a U.S. type Great Depression, in which U.S. GDP fell by 46%. He argued that monetary policy (e.g., central banks lowering key interest rates) was ineffective because there was limited demand for funds while firms paid down their liabilities, even at near-zero interest rates. In a balance sheet recession, GDP declines by the amount of debt repayment and un-borrowed individual savings, leaving government stimulus spending as the primary remedy.\n\nKoo wrote in 2010 that firms may switch from a profit maximization objective to debt minimization until they are solvent (i.e., equity is positive). This may take a long time; when the bubble burst in 1990, corporate demand for funds immediately collapsed, and by 1995, the demand was negative, meaning that Japanese companies were making net pay downs of their debt. The demand remained negative for 10 years, until 2005. This happened despite near zero interest rates.\n\nEconomist Paul Krugman wrote in 2014 that \"the best working hypothesis seems to be that the financial crisis was only one manifestation of a broader problem of excessive debt--that it was a so-called \"balance sheet recession.\"\n\nU.S. household debt rose from approximately 65% GDP in Q1 2000 to 95% by Q1 2008. This was driven by a housing bubble, which encouraged Americans to take on larger mortgages and use home equity lines of credit to fuel consumption. Mortgage debt rose from $4.9 trillion in Q1 2000 to a peak of $10.7 trillion by Q2 2008. However, it has fallen since as households deleverage, to $9.3 trillion by Q1 2014.\n\nWhile U.S. savings rose significantly during the 2007–2009 recession, both residential and non-residential investment fell significantly, approximately $560 billion between Q1 2008 and Q4 2009. This moved the private sector financial balance (gross private savings minus gross private domestic investment) from an approximately $200 billion deficit in Q4 2007 to a surplus of $1.4 trillion by Q3 2009. This surplus remained elevated at $720 billion in Q1 2014. This illustrates the core issue in a balance sheet recession, that an enormous amount of savings was tied up in the banking system, rather than being invested.\n\nThe decline in housing prices also caused U.S. household equity to plummet, from a peak of $13.4 trillion in Q1 2006 to $6.1 trillion by Q1 2009, a 54% decline. Household equity began to rise after Q4 2011 and was back to $10.8 trillion by Q1 2014, approximately 80% of its pre-crisis peak level. Such a decline in equity shifts household behavior towards deleveraging, as indicated by the reduction in mortgage balances since Q2 2008 described above.\n\nA July 2012 survey of balance sheet recession research reported that consumer demand and employment are affected by household leverage levels. Both durable and non-durable goods consumption declined as households moved from low to high leverage with the decline in property values experienced during the subprime mortgage crisis. In other words, according to the accounting equation, as the value of their primary asset (homes) fell, mortgage debt initially remained fixed, so equity also fell, causing the ratio of debt to equity (a measure of leverage) to rise. This sudden increase in leverage, causing consumers to shift from spending to paying down debt, can account for a significant decline in employment levels, as employers cut back due to concerns of lower consumer demand. Policies that help reduce mortgage debt or household leverage could therefore have stimulative effects.\n\nEconomist Martin Wolf wrote in 2012 that the financial crisis in the U.S. was a balance sheet recession:\n\"The overall story, then, is of an economy driven not by fiscal policy decisions, but by private sector decisions taken for reasons that have nothing to do with the long-run fiscal prospects of the economy. Meanwhile, the government, as a whole, was driven into huge deficit by these private sector decisions. That is exactly what one expects to happen in a huge balance-sheet recession, such as this one.\"\n\nEconomists Atif Mian and Amir Sufi wrote in 2014 that:\n\nResponses to recessions typically include fiscal stimulus through higher government deficits and monetary stimulus, such as lower interest rates and monetary creation. However, the solvency (net worth) of economic actors is a third important element when dealing with a balance sheet recession, as either asset price declines must be reversed or debt levels reduced, or combination of both.\n\nIn Krugman's view, balance sheet recessions require private sector debt reduction strategies (e.g., mortgage refinancing) combined with higher government spending to offset declines from the private sector as it pays down its debt, writing in July 2014: \"Unlike a financial panic, a balance sheet recession can’t be cured simply by restoring confidence: no matter how confident they may be feeling, debtors can’t spend more if their creditors insist they cut back. So offsetting the economic downdraft from a debt overhang requires concrete action, which can in general take two forms: fiscal stimulus and debt relief. That is, the government can step in to spend because the private sector can’t, and it can also reduce private debts to allow the debtors to spend again. Unfortunately, we did too little of the first and almost none of the second.\"\n\nKrugman discussed the balance sheet recession concept during 2010, agreeing with Koo's situation assessment and view that sustained deficit spending when faced with a balance sheet recession would be appropriate. However, Krugman argued that monetary policy could also affect savings behavior, as inflation or credible promises of future inflation (generating negative real interest rates) would encourage less savings. In other words, people would tend to spend more rather than save if they believe inflation is on the horizon. In more technical terms, Krugman argues that the private sector savings curve is elastic even during a balance sheet recession (responsive to changes in real interest rates) disagreeing with Koo's view that it is inelastic (non-responsive to changes in real interest rates).\n\n"}
{"id": "3068674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3068674", "title": "Berber Spring", "text": "Berber Spring\n\nThe Berber Spring (in Berber: Tafsut Imaziɣen or simply Tafsut for \"Spring\") was a period of political protest and civil activism in 1980 claiming recognition of the Berber identity and language in Algeria with events mainly taking place in Kabylie and Algiers.\n\nSince its independence in 1962, Algeria has a single-party system, governed by the FLN. After 132 years of French colonization, one of the goals of the Arab nationalist party FLN is to institute Arabization measures that will implement Arab as the national language in administration, schools and public services in general. Like most ex-colonies, the independence of Algeria stressed the need for \"recovery\" of the language, as a symbol of the \"recovery\" of a nation. Under French colonization, Arab language was disregarded. In 1938, the French government even implemented a law that declared Arab a foreign language in Algeria. The nationalist party of the independence, the FLN, has therefore a sort of \"arabic\" conception of Algeria, an Arab and Muslim Algeria, that does not recognize the pluralism of cultures, identities and languages in Algeria. For example, the 1976 National Charter did not take into account any Berber claims for recognition.\n\nThis denial of the Berber identity, language and culture is to be put in a context where approximately 10 to 12 million Algerians are Berbers. Kabylia is the region that concentrates the most Berbers, It is located in the North of Algeria. It has approximately 7 million inhabitants.\n\nDuring the 1960s and the 1970s, several Berber cultural organizations emerged in Paris, for they could not be set in Algeria. At that time, there were lots of exchanges between Algeria and France and despite being based in Paris, those organizations also targeted Kabylia's inhabitants. The Berber, and more specifically the Kabyle, identity was already a political cause. For example, Mouloud Mammeri had created the \"Académie Berbère d’Echanges et de Recherches Culturelles\" (ABERC) with other intellectuals, that emphasized the similarities between the minorities in Algeria.\n\nThe Berber Spring is traditionally dated as beginning on March 10, 1980, with the banning of a conference due to be held by the Kabyle intellectual Mouloud Mammeri at Hasnaoua University in Tizi-Ouzou. This event sparked demonstrations and strikes at schools, universities and businesses that would rock the Kabyle region for more than two months: this period is known as the “Berber spring” or Tafsut Imaziɣen. This event is the first great popular movement to question the authorities, the FLN and the single-party system since Algeria's independence. A critical point was the coordinated arrest of hundreds of Berber activists, students and doctors on April 20, sparking a general strike.\n\nMarch, 10: Mouloud Mammeri's conference about ancient Kabyle poetry is cancelled in Hasnaoua University in Tizi-Ouzou.\n\nMarch 11: demonstrations in Kabylia and in Algiers.\n\nApril, 7: violent suppression of a demonstration in Algiers shocked public opinion + beginning of the strike in the Tizi-Ouzou university.\n\nApril, 10: general strike in Kabylia.\n\nApril, 17: forced eviction of the strikers from the Tizi-Ouzou hospital and the SONELEC factory.\n\nApril, 19 and 20: Mizrana operation: authorities enter the Tizi-Ouzou university.\n\nApril, 20: general spontaneous strike in Tizi-Ouzou.\n\nAccording to Jane Goodman, the Berber Spring could not have happened if not for the conjunction of 4 dynamics: the Arabisation program that “criminalized” berber identity; a small network of berber scholars in Paris in the 1970s; the student governance in Algerian universities that allowed demonstration organization; and the “human rights discourse” in the media, fuelled by the violent repression.\n\nWhile the Berber Spring was in the end violently suppressed by the Algerian authorities, it created a lasting legacy for Kabylie and the Berbers across North Africa. Many of today's prominent Kabyle politicians and activists made their name during the Berber Spring events, and organizations such as the Rally for Culture and Democracy (RCD) and the Berber Cultural Movement (Mouvement Culturel Berbère – MCB) were later created by activists of the Spring. The Spring was also an important event for Algeria's nascent human rights community, including outside Berber circles.\n\nSince the dismantling of the one-party FLN system in 1989—followed by abortive democratization and civil war—a few of the demands of the Berber Spring have been met by the state, and the Berber language is now a national language of Algeria. However, this is still distinct from Arabic, which remains the official language, and many other points of contention remain.\n\nSince January 2011 massive Berber activism re-emerged in North Africa in the wake of the Tunisian revolution and the overthrow of the Tunisian president Ben Ali, in what Berbers sometimes call the Berber-Arab Spring. This time, Berber activists were much more active and vocal on the streets of Morocco and Libya compared to Algeria. In Libya, Berber rebels helped topple Gaddafi, as the offensive that captured Tripoli and greatly helped end the civil war there originated from the Berber Nafusa Mountains.\n\n"}
{"id": "41419677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41419677", "title": "Bor massacre", "text": "Bor massacre\n\nThe Bor massacre was a massacre of an estimated 2,000 civilians in Bor on November 15, 1991 during the Second Sudanese Civil War. The massacre was carried out mostly by Nuer fighters from SPLA-Nasir, led by Riek Machar, and the militant group known as the Nuer White Army. Amnesty International said at least 2,000 Dinka were killed, though the real number may have been higher. In the years which followed, an estimated 25,000 more died from famine as their cattle were either stolen or shot and the fighting had displaced them from the land they had once cultivated. At the time, Riek Machar described the incident as \"propaganda\" and \"myth\". In 2012, he publicly apologized for his part in the massacre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1934713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1934713", "title": "Clara Harris", "text": "Clara Harris\n\nClara Hamilton Harris (September 4, 1834 – December 23, 1883) was an American socialite. Harris and her fiancé, Major Henry Rathbone, were the guests of President Lincoln and First Lady Mary Lincoln when John Wilkes Booth fatally shot the President at Ford's Theatre in April 1865.\n\nHarris was born in Albany, New York, one of four children of U.S. Senator Ira Harris of New York, and his first wife Louisa Harris (née Tubbs). Harris' mother Louisa died in 1845. On August 1, 1848, Ira Harris married Pauline Rathbone (née Penney), the widow of Jared L. Rathbone, a successful merchant who later became the mayor of Albany. Jared and Pauline Rathbone had four children (two of whom, Anna and Charles, died in infancy) including sons, Jared, Jr. and Henry Rathbone.\n\nAlthough Harris and Henry Rathbone were raised in the same household and were related by their parents' marriage, they fell in love and later became engaged. Their engagement was interrupted when the American Civil War broke out in 1861. Henry Rathbone joined the Union Army that year and eventually rose to the rank of Major.\n\nOn April 14, 1865, Major Rathbone and his fiancee Clara accepted an invitation to see a play at Ford's Theatre from President Abraham Lincoln and his wife, First Lady Mary Todd Lincoln. The couple, who had been friends with the President and his wife for some time, were invited after Ulysses S. Grant and his wife Julia, Thomas Eckert and several other people had declined Mrs. Lincoln's invitation to the play.\n\nWhile watching the play \"Our American Cousin\" in the Presidential Box at Ford's Theatre that evening, John Wilkes Booth fatally shot President Lincoln in the back of the head. When Rathbone attempted to apprehend Booth after the shooting, Booth slashed Rathbone with a Bowie knife from left elbow to shoulder. Rathbone lost a considerable amount of blood which stained Harris' white dress, face and hands when she attempted to aid him.\n\nDespite being seriously wounded, Rathbone escorted First Lady Mary Lincoln to the Petersen House where doctors had decided to take the mortally wounded President. Shortly after arriving at the Petersen House, Rathbone passed out due to loss of blood. Harris arrived at the house soon after and held Rathbone's head in her lap while he drifted in and out of consciousness. A surgeon who had been attending the President finally examined Rathbone and realized his wound was more serious than initially thought. Booth had severed an artery located just above Rathbone's elbow and had cut him nearly to the bone. Rathbone was taken home while Harris decided to stay with Mrs. Lincoln. Harris later stated:\n\nPoor Mrs. Lincoln, all through that dreadful night would look at me with horror & scream, 'oh! my husband's blood, my dear husband's blood'...It was Henry's blood, not the president's, but explanations were pointless.\n\nWhile Rathbone eventually recovered from the attack, President Lincoln died of his wound the following morning. After the assassination, Rathbone blamed himself for not preventing Lincoln's death. He spent the remainder of his life battling delusions and seeking treatments for other physical problems including constant headaches.\n\nHarris and Rathbone were married on July 11, 1867. The couple had three children: Henry Riggs (born February 12, 1870), who later became a U.S. Congressman from Illinois, Gerald Lawrence (born August 26, 1871) and Clara Pauline (born September 15, 1872). Rathbone, who had risen to the rank of colonel, resigned from the Army in December 1870. The family settled in Washington D.C. where Rathbone's mental health deteriorated. Rathbone's behavior became increasingly erratic and he began drinking heavily, gambling and having affairs. Due to his behavior, Rathbone found it difficult to hold a job for an extended period of time.\n\nEvery year on the anniversary of Lincoln's assassination, journalists would contact the couple with questions about Lincoln's death furthering Rathbone's feelings of guilt. Harris later wrote to a friend:\n\nI understand his distress...in every hotel we're in, as soon as people get wind of our presence, we feel ourselves become objects of morbid scrutiny... Whenever we were in the dining room, we began to feel like zoo animals. Henry...imagines that the whispering is more pointed and malicious than it can possibly be.\n\nAs time went on, Rathbone's mental instability worsened and he often became jealous of other men who paid attention to Harris and resented the attention Harris paid their children. He also reportedly threatened his wife on several occasions, convinced that Harris was going to divorce him and take the children. Despite his behavior, Rathbone was appointed U.S. Consul to the Province of Hanover by President Chester Alan Arthur in 1882. The family relocated to Germany where Rathbone's mental health continued to decline.\n\nOn December 23, 1883, Henry Rathbone attacked his family in a fit of madness. He fatally shot his wife in the head and then attempted to kill the children, but a groundskeeper prevented him from doing so. Rathbone then stabbed himself five times in the chest in an attempted suicide. Blaming his crime on an intruder, Rathbone was charged with murder and declared insane by doctors. He was convicted and committed to an asylum for the criminally insane in Hildesheim, Germany, where he died on August 14, 1911. The couple's children were sent to live with their uncle, William Harris, in the United States.\n\nHarris was buried in the city cemetery at Hanover/Engesohde. Her husband was buried next to her upon his death in 1911. In 1952, the \nRathbones' remains were disinterred and disposed of after cemetery management determined that their graves had not been visited or were no longer of interest to the family.\n\n"}
{"id": "58891273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58891273", "title": "Color Factory", "text": "Color Factory\n\nColor Factory is a pop-up interactive art exhibition with brightly colored room-sized installations, each themed around the concept of color. It ran for eight and a half months in 2017 in San Francisco, and, as of October 2018, is currently running in New York City.\n\nColor Factory has commonly been cited as part of a trend of “Instagram museums”, temporary art exhibitions catered towards younger millennial audiences which are designed to be photographed (especially in selfies) and shared on Instagram and other social media. Co-founder Jordan Ferney has publicly pushed back against descriptions of Color Factory as an Instagram museum, stating that her goal “had always been to make something that was beautiful to experience, not photograph”.\n\nArtists whose works have been featured in Color Factory include Jason Polan, Lakwena Maciver, Molly Young, Tosha Stimage, and Tom Stayte. Exhibits include ballpits, balloon-filled rooms, and illuminated dance floors, with cameras preinstalled throughout the exhibition for photography.\n\nColor Factory was founded in August 2017 by event-planner/blogger Jordan Ferney, artist Leah Rosenberg, and designer Erin Jang. It originally debuted as a one-month, 15-installation, 12,000 ft exhibition in San Francisco, sponsored by Alaskan Airlines and Method Soap. Due to its popularity (at one point causing its Eventbrite ticketing page to crash from high demand), this San Francisco run was later extended to last for a total of eight and a half months.\n\nIn June and July 2018, Color Factory partnered with the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum in New York City to exhibit the “Manhattan Color Walk”, an outdoor art installation which painted the ground with several stripes of colors, each sampled from a different street of Manhattan.\n\nIn August 2018, Color Factory reopened as a temporary 16-installation, 20,000 ft standalone exhibition in New York City's SoHo neighborhood, sponsored by Maybelline.\n\n"}
{"id": "57882268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57882268", "title": "Cumero Fire", "text": "Cumero Fire\n\nThe Cumero Fire was a wildfire burning southeast of Sasabe, Arizona, on the US-Mexico border in the Coronado National Forest in Arizona in the United States. The fire was reported on July 5 and burned . As of July 8, the fire was 80 percent contained. The cause of the fire is under investigation.\n\nSmoke from the Cumero Fire was first spotted on July 5 southeast of Sasabe, Arizona, along the US-Mexico border. The fire was burning in grass south of Cumero Mountain, with the majority of the fire on US land. Fire crews immediately focused on fire suppression. The fire threatened Garcia Ranch and cell phone communication towers. That evening, temporary flight restrictions were put in place. Coronado National Forest was put under evacuation warnings. \n\nOn July 6, the fire had reached and was 40 percent contained. Of that acreage, was on US land. The majority of fire activity remained on the mountain, with fire suppression and containment being the focus. The next day, July 7, the fire had expanded into Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nAs of July 8, the Cumero Fire had burned and was 80 percent contained. \n\nThe Cumero Fire burned on the international border of the United States and Mexico, impacting ranch lands, recreational areas, transportation, and cell tower equipment in the area. A temporary flight restriction was put in place for the fire impacted area on July 5. \n"}
{"id": "31469655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31469655", "title": "Cybercrime countermeasures", "text": "Cybercrime countermeasures\n\nCyber crime, or computer crime, refers to any crime that involves a computer and a network. The computer may have been used in the commission of a crime, or it may be the target. Netcrime refers, more precisely, to criminal exploitation of the Internet. Issues surrounding this type of crime have become high-profile, particularly those surrounding hacking, copyright infringement, identity theft, child pornography, and child grooming. There are also problems of privacy when confidential information is lost or intercepted, lawfully or otherwise.\n\nOn the global level, both governments and non-state actors continue to grow in importance, with the ability to engage in such activities as espionage, and other cross-border attacks sometimes referred to as cyber warfare. The international legal system is attempting to hold actors accountable for their actions, with the International Criminal Court among the few addressing this threat.\n\nA cyber countermeasure is defined as an action, process, technology, device, or system that serves to prevent or mitigate the effects of a cyber attack against a victim, computer, server, network or associated device. Recently there has been an increase in the number of international cyber attacks. In 2013 there was a 91% increase in targeted attack campaigns and a 62% increase in security breaches.\n\nA number of countermeasures exist that can be effectively implemented in order to combat cyber-crime and increase security.\n\nMalicious code is a broad category that encompasses a number of threats to cyber-security. In essence it is any “hardware, software, or firmware that is intentionally included or inserted in a system for a harmful purpose.” Commonly referred to as malware it includes computer viruses, worms, Trojan horses, keyloggers, BOTs, Rootkits, and any software security exploits.\n\nMalicious code also includes spyware, which are deceptive programs, installed without authorization, “that monitor a consumer’s activities without their consent.” Spyware can be used to send users unwanted popup ads, to usurp the control of a user’s Internet browser, or to monitor a user’s online habits. However, spyware is usually installed along with something that the user actually wishes to install. The user consents to the installation, but does not consent to the monitoring tactics of the spyware. The consent for spyware is normally found in the end-user license agreement.\nakua AB\n\nA network attack is considered to be any action taken to disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy information residing on a computer and computer networks. An attack can take four forms: fabrication, interception, interruption, and modification. A fabrication is the “creation of some deception in order to deceive some unsuspecting user”; an interception is the “process of intruding into some transmission and redirecting it for some unauthorized use”; an interruption is the “break in a communication channel, which inhibits the transmission of data”; and a modification is “the alteration of the data contained in the transmissions.” Attacks can be classified as either being active or passive. Active attacks involve modification of the transmission or attempts to gain unauthorized access to a system, while passive attacks involve monitoring transmissions. Either form can be used to obtain information about a user, which can later be used to steal that user’s identity. Common forms of network attacks include Denial of Service (Dos) and Distributed Denial of Service(DDoS), Man-in-the-middle attack, packet sniffing, TCP SYN Flood, ICMP Flood, IP spoofing, and even simple web defacement.\n\nNetwork abuses are activities which violate a network's acceptable use policy and are generally considered fraudulent activity that is committed with the aid of a computer. SPAM is one of the most common forms of network abuse, where an individual will email list of users usually with unsolicited advertisements or phishing attacks attempting to use social engineering to acquire sensitive information such any information useful in identity theft, usernames, passwords, and so on by posing as a trustworthy individual. Pharming is also another form of network abuse where a website’s traffic is redirected to a bogus website, usually by exploiting vulnerabilities in Domain Name System(DNS) servers.\n\nSocial engineering is the act of manipulating people into performing actions or divulging confidential information, rather than by breaking in or using technical cracking techniques. This method of deception is commonly used by individuals attempting to break into computer systems, by posing as an authoritative or trusted party and capturing access information from the naive target. Email Phishing is a common example of social engineering's application, but it is not limited to this single type of attack.\n\nThere are a variety of different technical countermeasures that can be deployed to thwart cybercriminals and harden systems against attack. Firewalls, network or host based, are considered the first line of defense in securing a computer network by setting Access Control Lists (ACLs) determining which what services and traffic can pass through the check point.\n\nAntivirus can be used to prevent propagation of malicious code. Most computer viruses have similar characteristics which allow for signature based detection. Heuristics such as file analysis and file emulation are also used to identify and remove malicious programs. Virus definitions should be regularly updated in addition to applying operating system hotfixes, service packs, and patches to keep computers on a network secure.\n\nCryptography techniques can be employed to encrypt information using an algorithm commonly called a cipher to mask information in storage or transit. Tunneling for example will take a payload protocol such as Internet Protocol (IP) and encapsulate it in an encrypted delivery protocol over a Virtual Private Network (VPN), Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), Transport Layer Security (TLS), Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol (L2TP), Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP), or Internet Protocol Security (IPSec)to ensure data security during transmission. Encryption can also be employed on the file level using encryption protocols like Data Encryption Standard (DES), Triple DES, or Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to ensure security of information in storage.\n\nAdditionally, network vulnerability testing performed by technicians or automated programs can be used to test on a full-scale or targeted specifically to devices, systems, and passwords used on a network to assess their degree of secureness. Furthermore, network monitoring tools can be used to detect intrusions or suspicious traffic on both large and small networks.\n\nPhysical deterrents such as locks, card access keys, or biometric devices can be used to prevent criminals from gaining physical access to a machine on a network. Strong password protection both for access to a computer system and the computer's BIOS are also effective countermeasures to against cyber-criminals with physical access to a machine.\n\nAnother deterrent is to use a bootable bastion host that executes a web browser in a known clean and secure operating environment. The host is devoid of any known malware, where data is never stored on the device, and the media cannot be overwritten. The kernel and programs are guaranteed to be clean at each boot. Some solutions have been used to create secure hardware browsers to protect users while accessing online banking.\n\nThe Counter-Terror Social Network Analysis and Intent Recognition (CT-SNAIR) project uses the Terrorist Action Description Language (TADL) to model and simulate terrorist networks and attacks. It also models links identified in communication patterns compiled from multimedia data, and terrorists’ activity patterns are compiled from databases of past terrorist threats. Unlike other proposed methods, CT-SNAIR constantly interacts with the user, who uses the system both to investigate and to refine hypotheses.\n\nMultimedia data, such as voice, text, and network session data, is compiled and processed. Through this compilation and processing, names, entities, relationships, and individual events are extracted from the multimedia data. This information is then used to perform a social network analysis on the criminal network, through which the user can detect and track threats in the network. The social network analysis directly influences and is influenced by the intent recognition process, in which the user can recognize and detect threats. In the CT-SNAIR process, data and transactions from prior attacks, or forensic scenarios, is compiled to form a sequential list of transactions for a given terrorism scenario.\n\nThe CT-SNAIR process also includes generating data from hypothetical scenarios. Since they are imagined and computer-generated, hypothetical scenarios do not have any transaction data representing terrorism scenarios. Different types of transactions combine to represent the types of relationships between individuals.\n\nThe final product, or target social network, is a weighted multiplex graph in which the types of edges (links) are defined by the types of transactions within the social network. The weights within these graphs are determined by the content-extraction algorithm, in which each type of link is thought of as a separate graph and “is fed into social network algorithms in part or as a whole.” Links between two individuals can be determined by the existence of (or lack of) the two people being mentioned within the same sentence in the compiled multimedia data or in relation to the same group or event.\n\nThe final component in the CT-SNAIR process is Intent Recognition (IR). The goal of this component is to indicate to an analyst the threats that a transaction stream might contain. Intent Recognition breaks down into three subcategories: detection of “known or hypothetical target scenarios,” prioritization of these target scenarios, and interpretation “of the resulting detection.”\n\nThe optimal level of cyber-security depends largely on the incentives facing providers and the incentives facing perpetrators. Providers make their decision based on the economic payoff and cost of increased security whereas perpetrators decisions are based on the economic gain and cost of cyber-crime. Potential prisoner’s dilemma, public goods, and negative externalities become sources of cyber-security market failure when private returns to security are less than the social returns. Therefore, the higher the ratio of public to private benefit the stronger the case for enacting new public policies to realign incentives for actors to fight cyber-crime with increased investment in cyber-security.\n\nIn the United States a number of legal statutes define and detail the conditions for prosecution of a cyber-crime and are used not only as a legal counter-measure, but also functions as a behavioral check against the commission of a cyber-crime. Many of the provisions outlined in these acts overlap with each.\n\nThe Computer Fraud and Abuse Act passed in 1986 is one of the broadest statutes in the US used to combat cyber-crime. It has been amended a number of times, most recently by the US Patriot Act of 2002 and the Identity theft enforcement and Restitution Act of 2008. Within it is the definition of a “protected computer” used throughout the US legal system to further define computer espionage, computer trespassing, and taking of government, financial, or commerce information, trespassing in a government computer, committing fraud with a protected computer, damaging a protected computer, trafficking in passwords, threatening to damage a protected computer, conspiracy to commit a cyber-crime, and the penalties for violation. The 2002 update on the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act expands the act to include the protection of “information from any protected computer if the conduct involved an interstate or foreign communication.”\n\nThe Digital Millennium Copyright Act passed in 1998 is a United States copyright law that criminalizes the production and dissemination of technology, devices, or services intended circumvent Digital Rights Management (DRM), and circumvention of access control.\n\nThe Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 extends the government restrictions on wiretaps from telephones. This law is generally thought in the perspective of what law enforcement may do to intercept communications, but it also pertains to how an organization may draft their acceptable use policies and monitor communications.\n\nThe Stored Communications Act passed in 1986 is focused on protecting the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic communications that are currently in some form of electronic storage. This law was drafted with the purpose of protecting the privacy of e-mails and other electronic communications.\n\nThe Identity Theft and Aggravated Identity Theft statute is a subsection of the Identification and Authentication Fraud statute. It defines the conditions under which an individual has violated identity theft laws.\n\nIdentity theft was declared unlawful by the federal Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence Act of 1998 (ITADA). Criminals knowingly transferring or using, without lawful authority, “a means of identification of another person with the intent to commit, or to aid abet, any unlawful activity that constitutes a violation of federal law, or that constitutes a felony under any applicable State or local law.” Penalties of the ITADA include up to 15 years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000 and directly reflect the amount of damage caused by the criminal’s actions and their amount of planning and intent.\n\nThe Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) requires that financial institutions and credit agencies increase the security of systems that contain their customers’ personal information. It mandates that all financial institutions “design, implement, and maintain safeguards to protect customer information.”\n\nThe Internet Spyware Prevention Act (I-SPY) prohibits the implementation and use of spyware and adware. I-SPY also includes a sentence for “intentionally accessing a computer with the intent to install unwanted software.”\n\n18 U.S.C. § 1029 outlines 10 different offenses under which an offender could violate concerning device fraud. These offenses include:\nThe CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 establishes the United States' first national standards for the sending of commercial e-mail and requires the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to enforce its provisions.\n\nThe Wire fraud statute outlined in 18 U.S.C. § 1343 applies to crimes committed over different types of electronic medium such as telephone and network communications.\n\nThe communications interference statute listed in 18 U.S.C. § 1362 defines a number of acts under which and individual can be charged with a telecommunications related crime including:\n\nBehavioral countermeasures can also be an effective tool in combating cyber-crime. Public awareness campaigns can educate the public on the various threats of cyber-crime and the many methods used to combat it. It is also here that businesses can also make us of IT policies to help educate and train workers on the importance and practices used to ensure electronic security such as strong password use, the importance of regular patching of security exploits, signs of phishing attacks and malicious code, etc.\n\nCalifornia, Virginia, and Ohio have implemented services for victims of identity theft, though not well publicized. California has a registry for victims with a confirmed identity theft. Once registered, people can request law enforcement officers call a number staffed 24 hours, year round, to \"verify they are telling the truth about their innocence.” In Virginia and Ohio, victims of identity theft are issued a special passport to prove their innocence. However, these passports run the same risk as every other form of identification in that they can eventually be duplicated.\n\nFinancial agencies such as banks and credit bureaus are starting to require verification of data that identity thieves cannot easily obtain. This data includes users’ past addresses and income tax information. In the near future, it will also include the data located through use of biometrics. Biometrics is the use “of automated methods for uniquely recognizing humans based upon … intrinsic physical or behavioral traits.” These methods include iris scans, voice identification, and fingerprint authentication. The First Financial Credit Union has already implemented biometrics in the form of fingerprint authentication in their automated teller machines to combat identity theft. With a similar purpose, Great Britain has announced plans to incorporate computer chips with biometric data into their passports. However, the greatest problem with the implementation of biometrics is the possibility of privacy invasion.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42645292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42645292", "title": "David F. Wherley Jr.", "text": "David F. Wherley Jr.\n\nDavid Franklin Wherley Jr. (February 9, 1947 – June 22, 2009) was a United States Air Force Major General who served as Commander of the District of Columbia National Guard.\n\nWherley and his future wife Ann, attended York Catholic High School together in their hometown of York, Pennsylvania. They graduated in 1965, and married on July 19, 1969.\n\nWherley began his military career in 1969 when he received his commission as a second lieutenant through the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program at Fordham University. He earned his Bachelor of Arts degree from Fordham, and in 1977 gained a Master of Business Administration from the University of Maryland, College Park.\n\nAfter he was released from active duty Wherley served in a number of staff assignments with the National Guard in Maryland, and for a short time deployed as the deputy operations group commander for fighters at Prince Sultan Air Base in Saudi Arabia. As a pilot and instructor, he clocked up more than 5,000 hours of flying time over a multitude of missions.\n\nWherley gained his first command in 1985 with the 121st Fighter Squadron, and went on to command Detachment 1 (later to be re-designated 201st Airlift Squadron).\n\nAt the time of the 9/11 attacks in 2001, Wherley was commander of 113th Wing, the Guard unit responsible for protecting Washington D.C.. That morning, Wherley ordered his pilots, who did not launch until after the Pentagon attack, to operate weapons free, meaning that they were permitted to shoot at will.\n\nWherley was appointed Commanding General of the District of Columbia National Guard in 2003. He retired from that position and from the Air Force in 2008.\n\nOn June 22, 2009, Wherley and his wife Ann were killed in a collision between two Red Line trains, shortly after concluding a volunteer orientation program at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center.\n\nThe Wherleys were interred together at Arlington National Cemetery on June 30, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "885954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885954", "title": "Debutante ball", "text": "Debutante ball\n\nA debutante ball (American English: cotillion ball) is a formal ball that includes presenting debutantes during the season, meaning usually during the spring or summer.\n\nDebutant balls may require prior instruction of social etiquette, and appropriate morals.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the tradition with debutantes ceremoniously presented at the British royal court was discontinued by Queen Elizabeth II in 1958.\n\nIn contemporary United States, most cotillion balls are for middle schoolers as a chance to teach manners and etiquette, and also are a time to socialize with friends at after-parties. The after-parties at cotillion usually feature food, drinks, and music.\n\n"}
{"id": "29600484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29600484", "title": "Evacuation of Karafuto and Kuriles", "text": "Evacuation of Karafuto and Kuriles\n\nThe evacuation of Karafuto (Sakhalin) and the Kuriles refers to the events that took place during the Pacific theater of World War II as the Japanese population left these areas, to August 1945 in the northwest of the main islands of Japan.\n\nThe evacuation started under the threat of Soviet invasion. As Japanese civilians evacuated Korea and Manchuria, they cleared out of the Karafuto and Kurile Islands according to the terms of the Potsdam Declaration that the terms of the Cairo Declaration would be carried out, and Japanese sovereignty would be limited to the \"Home Islands\" of Honshū, Hokkaidō, Kyushu, Shikoku and such minor islands as the Allies determined.\n\nThe operation began with the crossing of the Horonai (Poronai) Japanese frontier river post and bombardment of the Handenzawa Japanese land frontier post in Shikuka district, as well as the advance to the north of Koton (now Pobedino), a powerful fortified district (FD). Severe fighting with heavy losses on both sides continued for over a week, with Soviet troops breaking the Japanese defenses on August 18. The Soviets also landed their naval forces deep behind enemy frontlines to aid their ground forces.\n\nAccording to some of the 6,000 refugees already evacuated from the area, Soviet forces carried out fierce naval bombardment and artillery strikes against civilians awaiting evacuation as well as Japanese installations in Maoka, Shikuka on August 10. Nearly 1,000 civilians were killed by machine-gun fire in this attack. Telephone operators in the city decided not to evacuate, instead maintaining contact with the Wakkanai and Mainland Japan until the moment that Soviet forces destroyed the telephone and postal installations in the city. \n\nOn August 20, after Japan's surrender, fearing that they would be raped by the invading Soviet troops, nine of the twelve female operators poisoned themselves. Three were saved by male colleagues' intervention. The survivors at the post office were treated well by the Soviets.\n\nOn August 16, the coastguard \"Zarnitsa\", four minesweepers, two transports, six gunboats and nineteen torpedo boats landed in Port Toro (now Shakhtersk) with the 365th Separate Marine Battalion and one battalion of the 113th Infantry Brigade. The troops instantly engaged the Japanese in fierce battle and by morning of the next day had captured four populated areas and the port city of Esutoru (now Uglegorsk), Anbetsu (now Vozvrashcheniye) and Yerinai).\n\nDuring the Soviet assault on Maoka, on August 20, a combined marine battalion and the 113th Infantry Brigade landed in Port Maoka (now Kholmsk). They were preceded by a group of scouts, landed secretly by a submarine, in the Maoka area to successfully complete their task. However, Japanese resistance was desperate, and the landing party had to fight particularly fiercely. Japanese fire set one of the coastguard vessels on fire, to which the Soviet response was intense naval bombardment of the city, causing more civilian deaths.\n\nThe rest of the Japanese Maoka defenders retreated by Tei (now Polyakovo) and Futomato (now Chaplanovo) in Ikenohata county, between the mountains in the direction of Toyohara in order to make a last stand in the capital of the province or in Kawakami Sumiyama county for sustained guerrilla resistance.\n\nOn August 25, another 1,600 men landed in Otomari (now Korsakov). The Japanese garrison of 3,400 men laid down their arms with almost no resistance and surrendered. Some vessels of the last convoy, including civilian evacuees, had been sunk by Soviet submarines in the Aniva Gulf.\n\nThe rout of Japanese forces in Manchuria and Sakhalin created favorable conditions for invasion of the Kurile Islands. The key Japanese position was on Shumushu and Paramushiro Islands. On August 18, two coast guard ships, the mine layer \"Okhotsk\", four minesweepers, 17 transports and 16 special landing vessels with nearly 9,000 sailors, soldiers, and officers on board, approached Shumushu and Paramushiro to start the landing operation. The Japanese offered fierce resistance. Bloody battles took place in Shumushu and Paramushiro with varying success till August 23 when the Japanese garrison surrendered.\n\nBy the end of August, all the northern Kuriles were under the control of Soviet forces, including Uruppu Island. The Northern Pacific Flotilla occupied the rest of the islands to the south of Uruppu. Up to 60,000 Japanese officers and men were taken prisoner in the Kuriles. The landing operation in the Kuriles was the last of World War II.\n\nIn the Kuriles a similar pattern was repeated when Japanese civilians desperately retired from Shumushu and Paramushiro before the Soviet invasion (the Russians only sank one war vessel transporting some Japanese troops), but did not occur at the time in some islands such as Uruppu and South Kuriles. In these cases, Russian troops arrived in aggressive form to expel local citizens and confiscate local property.\n\nSimilar treatment faced the German, Ukrainian and Polish citizens who resided in these provinces, the White Russians in the area (living from ancient Russian administration under the Shimoda agreement), were arrested, accused of high treason and collaboration with an enemy power. Some were sent to gulags in Eastern Siberia, others were executed. Similar things happened to White Russians living in Manchukuo, Kwantung or North Chosen (Korea).\n\nSome versions (including the work of American researchers) allege that Japanese forces during wartime sent certain Western POWs (Americans, British, Dutch, and the like) to detention camps in Karafuto and the Kuriles from other areas in Southeast Asia as well as to detention centers in Hokkaidō (Otaru POW center) and North Honshū, Manchukuo or Chōsen (the Japanese name for what later became North Korea).\n\nThe final fate of the supposed Allied POWs when Soviet forces arrived in these areas previously under Japanese administration, if unknown, is very similar to Americans captured or interned in Vladivostok (during the Doolittle Raid or B-29 strikes against Manchukuo industry) or Kamchatka (when Americans carried out some air strikes against North Kuriles Islands). Some reports also exist mentioning the possibly of identifying Americans interned in East Siberian gulags in the same period, and possibly into the Cold War period. Such a topic still awaits in-depth research by historians and experts of the area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2770842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2770842", "title": "Event (philosophy)", "text": "Event (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy, events are objects in time or instantiations of properties in objects.\n\nJaegwon Kim theorized that events are structured.<br>\nThey are composed of three things:\nEvents are defined using the operation [x, P, t].<br>\nA unique event is defined by two principles:<br>\nThe existence condition states “[x, P, t] exists if and only if object x exemplifies the n-adic P at time t”. This means a unique event exists if the above is met. The identity condition states “[x, P, t] is [y, Q, t`] if and only if x=y, P=Q and t=t`].\n\nKim uses these to define events under five conditions:\n\nOther problems exist within Kim’s theory, as he never specified what properties were (e.g. universals, tropes, natural classes, etc.). In addition, it is not specified if properties are few or abundant. The following is Kim’s response to the above.\n\nThere is also a major debate about the essentiality of a constitutive object. There are two major questions involved in this: If one event occurs, could it have occurred in the same manner if it were another person, and could it occur in the same manner if it would have occurred at a different time? Kim holds that neither are true and that different conditions (i.e. a different person or time) would lead to a separate event. However, some consider it natural to assume the opposite.\n\nDonald Davidson and John Lemmon proposed a theory of events that had two major conditions, respectively: a causal criterion and a spatiotemporal criterion.\n\nThe causal criterion defines an event as two events being the same if and only if they have the same cause and effect.\n\nThe spatiotemporal criterion defines an event as two events being the same if and only if they occur in the same space at the same time. Davidson however provided this scenario; if a metal ball becomes warmer during a certain minute, and during the same minute rotates through 35 degrees, must we say that these are the same event? However, one can argue that the warming of the ball and the rotation are possibly temporally separated and are therefore separate events.\n\nDavid Lewis theorized that events are merely spatiotemporal regions and properties (i.e. membership of a class). He defines an event as “e is an event only if it is a class of spatiotemporal regions, both thisworldly (assuming it occurs in the actual world) and otherworldly.” The only problem with this definition is it only tells us what an event could be, but does not define a unique event. This theory entails modal realism, which assumes possible worlds exist; worlds are defined as sets containing all objects that exist as a part of that set. However, this theory is controversial. Some philosophers have attempted to remove possible worlds, and reduce them to other entities. They hold that the world we exist in is the only world that actually exists, and that possible worlds are only possibilities.\n\nLewis’ theory is composed of four key points. Firstly, the non-duplication principle; it states that x and y are separate events if and only if there is one member of x that is not a member of y (or vice versa). Secondly, there exist regions that are subsets of possible worlds and thirdly, events are not structured by an essential time.\n\nIn \"Being and Event\", Alain Badiou writes that the event (\"événement\") is a multiple which basically does not make sense according to the rules of the \"situation,\" in other words existence. Hence, the event \"is not,\" and therefore, in order for there to be an event, there must be an \"intervention\" which changes the rules of the situation in order to allow that particular event to be (\"to be\" meaning to be a multiple which belongs to the multiple of the situation — these terms are drawn from or defined in reference to set theory). In his view, there is no \"one,\" and everything that a \"multiple.\" \"One\" happens when the situation \"counts,\" or accounts for, acknowledges, or defines something: it \"counts it as one.\" For the event to be counted as one by the situation, or counted in the one of the situation, an intervention needs to decide its belonging to the situation. This is because his definition of the event violates the prohibition against self-belonging (in other words, it is a set-theoretical definition which violates set theory's rules of consistency), thus does not count as extant on its own.\n\nGilles Deleuze lectured on the concept of \"event\" on March 10, 1987. A sense of the lecture is described by James Williams. Williams also wrote, \"From the point of view of the difference between two possible worlds, the event is all important\". He also stated, \"Every event is revolutionary due to an integration of signs, acts and structures through the whole event. Events are distinguished by the intensity of this revolution, rather than the types of freedom or chance.\" In 1988 Deleuze published a magazine article \"Signes et événements\"\n\nIn his book \"Nietszche and Philosophy\", he addresses the question \"Which one is beautiful?\" In the preface to the English translation he wrote:\n\nThe Danish philosopher Ole Fogh Kirkeby deserves mentioning, as he has written a comprehensive trilogy about the event, or in Danish \"begivenheden\". In the first work of the trilogy \"Eventum tantum – begivenhedens ethos\" (Eventum tantum - the ethos of the event) he distinguishes between three levels of the event, inspired from Nicola Cusanus: Eventum tantum as non aliud, the alma-event and the proto-event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2749963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2749963", "title": "Everton Conger", "text": "Everton Conger\n\nEverton Judson Conger (April 25, 1834 – July 12, 1918) was an American Civil War officer who was instrumental in the capture of John Wilkes Booth, the assassin of President Abraham Lincoln, in a Virginia barn twelve days after Lincoln was shot.\n\nEverton Conger was born in Huron County, Ohio, in 1834. He was the son of Rev. Enoch Conger, a Presbyterian minister. In 1856, he moved to Fremont, Ohio, where he established a dental practice.\n\nConger enlisted in the Union army during the Civil War, initially as a private in the three-months 8th Ohio Infantry. He returned to Fremont with the expiration of his term of enlistment and married Emma \"Kate\" Boren on October 16, 1861, with whom he had five children. He later became a captain in the 3rd West Virginia Cavalry and eventually rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel of the 1st District of Columbia Cavalry. He suffered three severe wounds during combat and was assigned to detached duty in Washington, D.C., joining General Lafayette Baker's intelligence service as a detective.\nFollowing the assassination of President Lincoln on April 14, 1865, Conger was ordered to accompany a detachment of 25 Union soldiers from the 16th New York Cavalry Regiment, led by Lieutenant Edward P. Doherty. The soldiers pursued Booth through Southern Maryland and across the Potomac and Rappahannock rivers to Richard Garrett's farm, just south of Port Royal, Caroline County, Virginia. Booth and his accomplice, David E. Herold, had been led to the farm by William Storke \"Willie\" Jett, formerly a private in the 9th Virginia Cavalry, whom they had met before crossing the Rappahannock.\n\nConger tracked down Jett and interrogated him, learning of Booth's location at the Garrett farm, and led the soldiers there. Arriving early in the morning of April 26, 1865, the soldiers found Booth and Herold hiding in a tobacco barn. Although Herold surrendered, Booth refused.\n\nConger set fire to the barn and Sergeant Boston Corbett mortally wounded Booth by shooting him in the neck. Booth was dragged from the barn and died on the porch of the Garrett farmhouse.\nConger removed Booth's personal effects, including a diary. Conger was given $15,000 as a reward for the successful operation. The city of Fremont gave him a pair of inscribed silver-handled pistols in recognition for his role in tracking down Booth.\n\nConger moved to Illinois, built a home, and practiced law in Carmi. Later he was appointed a United States District Court judge in the Montana Territory. He eventually moved to Hawaii to live with his daughter, dying there in 1918. He was buried in Montana.\n\n"}
{"id": "32005855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32005855", "title": "Financial crisis of 2007–2008", "text": "Financial crisis of 2007–2008\n\nThe financial crisis of 2007–2008, also known as the global financial crisis and the 2008 financial crisis, is considered by many economists to have been the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression of the 1930s.\n\nIt began in 2007 with a crisis in the subprime mortgage market in the United States, and developed into a full-blown international banking crisis with the collapse of the investment bank Lehman Brothers on September 15, 2008. Excessive risk-taking by banks such as Lehman Brothers helped to magnify the financial impact globally. Massive bail-outs of financial institutions and other palliative monetary and fiscal policies were employed to prevent a possible collapse of the world financial system. The crisis was nonetheless followed by a global economic downturn, the Great Recession. The European debt crisis, a crisis in the banking system of the European countries using the euro, followed later.\n\nIn 2010, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted in the US following the crisis to \"promote the financial stability of the United States\". The Basel III capital and liquidity standards were adopted by countries around the world.\nThe precipitating factor for the Financial Crisis of 2007–2008 was a high default rate in the United States subprime home mortgage sector – the bursting of the \"subprime bubble\". While the causes of the bubble are disputed, some or all of the following factors must have contributed.\nThe accumulation and subsequent high default rate of these subprime mortgages led to the financial crisis and the consequent damage to the world economy.\n\nHigh mortgage approval rates led to a large pool of homebuyers, which drove up housing prices. This appreciation in value led large numbers of homeowners (subprime or not) to borrow against their homes as an apparent windfall. This \"bubble\" would be burst by a rising single-family residential mortgages delinquency rate beginning in August 2006 and peaking in the first quarter, 2010.\n\nThe high delinquency rates led to a rapid devaluation of financial instruments (mortgage-backed securities including bundled loan portfolios, derivatives and credit default swaps). As the value of these assets plummeted, the market (buyers) for these securities evaporated and banks who were heavily invested in these assets began to experience a liquidity crisis. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae were taken over by the federal government on September 7, 2008. Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy on September 15, 2008. Merrill Lynch, AIG, HBOS, Royal Bank of Scotland, Bradford & Bingley, Fortis, Hypo Real Estate, and Alliance & Leicester were all expected to follow—with a US federal bailout announced the following day beginning with $85 billion to AIG. In spite of trillions paid out by the US federal government, it became much more difficult to borrow money. The resulting decrease in buyers caused housing prices to plummet.\n\nWhile the collapse of large financial institutions was prevented by the bailout of banks by national governments, stock markets still dropped worldwide. In many areas, the housing market also suffered, resulting in evictions, foreclosures, and prolonged unemployment. The crisis played a significant role in the failure of key businesses, declines in consumer wealth estimated in trillions of US dollars, and a downturn in economic activity leading to the Great Recession of 2008–2012 and contributing to the European sovereign-debt crisis. The active phase of the crisis, which manifested as a liquidity crisis, can be dated from August 9, 2007, when BNP Paribas terminated withdrawals from three hedge funds citing \"a complete evaporation of liquidity\".\n\nThe bursting of the US housing bubble, which peaked at the end of 2006, caused the values of securities tied to US real estate pricing to plummet, damaging financial institutions globally. The financial crisis was triggered by a complex interplay of policies that encouraged home ownership, providing easier access to loans for subprime borrowers; overvaluation of bundled subprime mortgages based on the theory that housing prices would continue to escalate; questionable trading practices on behalf of both buyers and sellers; compensation structures that prioritize short-term deal flow over long-term value creation; and a lack of adequate capital holdings from banks and insurance companies to back the financial commitments they were making. Questions regarding bank solvency, declines in credit availability, and damaged investor confidence affected global stock markets, where securities suffered large losses during 2008 and early 2009. Economies worldwide slowed during this period, as credit tightened and international trade declined. Governments and central banks responded with unprecedented fiscal stimulus, monetary policy expansion and institutional bailouts. In the US, Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.\n\nMany causes for the financial crisis have been suggested, with varying weight assigned by experts.\n\nThe immediate cause or trigger of the crisis was the bursting of the US housing bubble, which peaked in 2006/2007. Already-rising default rates on \"subprime\" and adjustable-rate mortgages (ARM) began to increase quickly thereafter.\n\nEasy availability of credit in the US, fueled by large inflows of foreign funds after the Russian debt crisis and Asian financial crisis of the 1997–1998 period, led to a housing construction boom and facilitated debt-financed consumer spending. As banks began to give out more loans to potential home owners, housing prices began to rise. Lax lending standards and rising real estate prices also contributed to the real estate bubble. Loans of various types (e.g., mortgage, credit card, and auto) were easy to obtain and consumers assumed an unprecedented debt load.\n\nAs part of the housing and credit booms, the number of financial agreements called mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and collateralized debt obligations (CDO), which derived their value from mortgage payments and housing prices, greatly increased. Such financial innovation enabled institutions and investors around the world to invest in the US housing market. As housing prices declined, major global financial institutions that had borrowed and invested heavily in subprime MBS reported significant losses.\n\nFalling prices also resulted in homes worth less than the mortgage loan, providing the lender with a financial incentive to enter foreclosure. The ongoing foreclosure epidemic that began in late 2006 in the US and only reduced to historical levels in early 2014 drained significant wealth from consumers, losing up to $4.2 trillion in wealth from home equity. Defaults and losses on other loan types also increased significantly as the crisis expanded from the housing market to other parts of the economy. Total losses are estimated in the trillions of US dollars globally.\nWhile the housing and credit bubbles were building, a series of factors caused the financial system to both expand and become increasingly fragile, a process called financialization. US government policy from the 1970s onward has emphasized deregulation to encourage business, which resulted in less oversight of activities and less disclosure of information about new activities undertaken by banks and other evolving financial institutions. Thus, policymakers did not immediately recognize the increasingly important role played by financial institutions such as investment banks and hedge funds, also known as the shadow banking system. Some experts believe these institutions had become as important as commercial (depository) banks in providing credit to the US economy, but they were not subject to the same regulations.\n\nThese institutions, as well as certain regulated banks, had also assumed significant debt burdens while providing the loans described above and did not have a financial cushion sufficient to absorb large loan defaults or MBS losses. These losses affected the ability of financial institutions to lend, slowing economic activity. Concerns regarding the stability of key financial institutions drove central banks to provide funds to encourage lending and restore faith in the commercial paper markets, which are integral to funding business operations. Governments also bailed out key financial institutions and implemented economic stimulus programs, assuming significant additional financial commitments.\n\nThe US Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission reported its findings in January 2011. It concluded that:\n\nThe 2000s were the decade of subprime borrowers; no longer was this a segment left to fringe lenders. The relaxing of credit lending standards by investment banks and commercial banks drove this about-face. Subprime did not become magically less risky; Wall Street just accepted this higher risk. During a period of tough competition between mortgage lenders for revenue and market share, and when the supply of creditworthy borrowers was limited, mortgage lenders relaxed underwriting standards and originated riskier mortgages to less creditworthy borrowers. In the view of some analysts, the relatively conservative government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) policed mortgage originators and maintained relatively high underwriting standards prior to 2003. However, as market power shifted from securitizers to originators and as intense competition from private securitizers undermined GSE power, mortgage standards declined and risky loans proliferated. The worst loans were originated in 2004–2007, the years of the most intense competition between securitizers and the lowest market share for the GSEs.\n\nAs well as easy credit conditions, there is evidence that competitive pressures contributed to an increase in the amount of subprime lending during the years preceding the crisis. Major US investment banks and GSEs such as Fannie Mae played an important role in the expansion of lending, with GSEs eventually relaxing their standards to try to catch up with the private banks.\n\nA contrarian view is that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac led the way to relaxed underwriting standards, starting in 1995, by advocating the use of easy-to-qualify automated underwriting and appraisal systems, by designing the no-down-payment products issued by lenders, by the promotion of thousands of small mortgage brokers, and by their close relationship to subprime loan aggregators such as Countrywide.\n\nDepending on how \"subprime\" mortgages are defined, they remained below 10% of all mortgage originations until 2004, when they rose to nearly 20% and remained there through the 2005–2006 peak of the United States housing bubble.\n\nThe majority report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, written by the six Democratic appointees, the minority report, written by three of the four Republican appointees, studies by Federal Reserve economists, and the work of several independent scholars generally contend that government affordable housing policy was not the primary cause of the financial crisis. Although they concede that governmental policies had some role in causing the crisis, they contend that GSE loans performed better than loans securitized by private investment banks, and performed better than some loans originated by institutions that held loans in their own portfolios.\n\nIn his dissent to the majority report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, American Enterprise Institute fellow Peter J. Wallison stated his belief that the roots of the financial crisis can be traced directly and primarily to affordable housing policies initiated by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in the 1990s and to massive risky loan purchases by government-sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Later, based upon information in the SEC's December 2011 securities fraud case against six former executives of Fannie and Freddie, Peter Wallison and Edward Pinto estimated that, in 2008, Fannie and Freddie held 13 million substandard loans totaling over $2 trillion.\n\nIn the early and mid-2000s, the Bush administration called numerous times for investigation into the safety and soundness of the GSEs and their swelling portfolio of subprime mortgages. On September 10, 2003, the House Financial Services Committee held a hearing at the urging of the administration to assess safety and soundness issues and to review a recent report by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO) that had uncovered accounting discrepancies within the two entities. The hearings never resulted in new legislation or formal investigation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as many of the committee members refused to accept the report and instead rebuked OFHEO for their attempt at regulation. Some believe this was an early warning to the systemic risk that the growing market in subprime mortgages posed to the US financial system that went unheeded.\n\nA 2000 United States Department of the Treasury study of lending trends for 305 cities from 1993 to 1998 showed that $467 billion of mortgage lending was made by Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)-covered lenders into low and mid level income (LMI) borrowers and neighborhoods, representing 10% of all US mortgage lending during the period. The majority of these were prime loans. Sub-prime loans made by CRA-covered institutions constituted a 3% market share of LMI loans in 1998, but in the run-up to the crisis, fully 25% of all sub-prime lending occurred at CRA-covered institutions and another 25% of sub-prime loans had some connection with CRA. However, most sub-prime loans were not made to the LMI borrowers targeted by the CRA, especially in the years 2005–2006 leading up to the crisis, nor did it find any evidence that lending under the CRA rules increased delinquency rates or that the CRA indirectly influenced independent mortgage lenders to ramp up sub-prime lending. \n\nTo other analysts the delay between CRA rule changes (in 1995) and the explosion of subprime lending is not surprising, and does not exonerate the CRA. They contend that there were two, connected causes to the crisis: the relaxation of underwriting standards in 1995 and the ultra-low interest rates initiated by the Federal Reserve after the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001. Both causes had to be in place before the crisis could take place. Critics also point out that publicly announced CRA loan commitments were massive, totaling $4.5 trillion in the years between 1994 and 2007. They also argue that the Federal Reserve's classification of CRA loans as \"prime\" is based on the faulty and self-serving assumption that high-interest-rate loans (3 percentage points over average) equal \"subprime\" loans.\n\nOthers have pointed out that there were not enough of these loans made to cause a crisis of this magnitude. In an article in \"Portfolio Magazine\", Michael Lewis spoke with one trader who noted that \"There weren't enough Americans with [bad] credit taking out [bad loans] to satisfy investors' appetite for the end product.\" Essentially, investment banks and hedge funds used financial innovation to enable large wagers to be made, far beyond the actual value of the underlying mortgage loans, using derivatives called credit default swaps, collateralized debt obligations and synthetic CDOs.\n\nAs of March 2011, the FDIC had paid out $9 billion to cover losses on bad loans at 165 failed financial institutions. The Congressional Budget Office estimated, in June 2011, that the bailout to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac exceeds $300 billion (calculated by adding the fair value deficits of the entities to the direct bailout funds at the time).\n\nEconomist Paul Krugman argued in January 2010 that the simultaneous growth of the residential and commercial real estate pricing bubbles and the global nature of the crisis undermines the case made by those who argue that Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, CRA, or predatory lending were primary causes of the crisis. In other words, bubbles in both markets developed even though only the residential market was affected by these potential causes.\n\nCountering Krugman, Peter J. Wallison wrote: \"It is not true that every bubble—even a large bubble—has the potential to cause a financial crisis when it deflates.\" Wallison notes that other developed countries had \"large bubbles during the 1997–2007 period\" but \"the losses associated with mortgage delinquencies and defaults when these bubbles deflated were far lower than the losses suffered in the United States when the 1997–2007 [bubble] deflated.\" According to Wallison, the reason the US \"residential housing\" bubble (as opposed to other types of bubbles) led to financial crisis was that it was supported by a huge number of substandard loans—generally with low or no downpayments.\n\nKrugman's contention (that the growth of a commercial real estate bubble indicates that US housing policy was not the cause of the crisis) is challenged by additional analysis. After researching the default of commercial loans during the financial crisis, Xudong An and Anthony B. Sanders reported (in December 2010): \"We find limited evidence that substantial deterioration in CMBS [commercial mortgage-backed securities] loan underwriting occurred prior to the crisis.\" Other analysts support the contention that the crisis in commercial real estate and related lending took place \"after\" the crisis in residential real estate. Business journalist Kimberly Amadeo reported: \"The first signs of decline in residential real estate occurred in 2006. Three years later, commercial real estate started feeling the effects. Denice A. Gierach, a real estate attorney and CPA, wrote:\n\n... most of the commercial real estate loans were good loans destroyed by a really bad economy. In other words, the borrowers did not cause the loans to go bad, it was the economy.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2006, the price of the typical American house increased by 124%. During the two decades ending in 2001, the national median home price ranged from 2.9 to 3.1 times median household income. This ratio rose to 4.0 in 2004, and 4.6 in 2006. This housing bubble resulted in many homeowners refinancing their homes at lower interest rates, or financing consumer spending by taking out second mortgages secured by the price appreciation.\n\nIn a Peabody Award winning program, NPR correspondents argued that a \"Giant Pool of Money\" (represented by $70 trillion in worldwide fixed income investments) sought higher yields than those offered by US Treasury bonds early in the decade. This pool of money had roughly doubled in size from 2000 to 2007, yet the supply of relatively safe, income generating investments had not grown as fast. Investment banks on Wall Street answered this demand with products such as the mortgage-backed security and the collateralized debt obligation that were assigned safe ratings by the credit rating agencies.\n\nIn effect, Wall Street connected this pool of money to the mortgage market in the US, with enormous fees accruing to those throughout the mortgage supply chain, from the mortgage broker selling the loans to small banks that funded the brokers and the large investment banks behind them. By approximately 2003, the supply of mortgages originated at traditional lending standards had been exhausted, and continued strong demand began to drive down lending standards.\n\nThe collateralized debt obligation in particular enabled financial institutions to obtain investor funds to finance subprime and other lending, extending or increasing the housing bubble and generating large fees. This essentially places cash payments from multiple mortgages or other debt obligations into a single pool from which specific securities draw in a specific sequence of priority. Those securities first in line received investment-grade ratings from rating agencies. Securities with lower priority had lower credit ratings but theoretically a higher rate of return on the amount invested.\n\nBy September 2008, average US housing prices had declined by over 20% from their mid-2006 peak. As prices declined, borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages could not refinance to avoid the higher payments associated with rising interest rates and began to default. During 2007, lenders began foreclosure proceedings on nearly 1.3 million properties, a 79% increase over 2006. This increased to 2.3 million in 2008, an 81% increase vs. 2007. By August 2008, 9.2% of all US mortgages outstanding were either delinquent or in foreclosure. By September 2009, this had risen to 14.4%.\n\nLower interest rates encouraged borrowing. From 2000 to 2003, the Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds rate target from 6.5% to 1.0%. This was done to soften the effects of the collapse of the dot-com bubble and the September 2001 terrorist attacks, as well as to combat a perceived risk of deflation. As early as 2002 it was apparent that credit was fueling housing instead of business investment as some economists went so far as to advocate that the Fed \"needs to create a housing bubble to replace the Nasdaq bubble\". Moreover, empirical studies using data from advanced countries show that excessive credit growth contributed greatly to the severity of the crisis.\nAdditional downward pressure on interest rates was created by the high and rising US current account deficit, which peaked along with the housing bubble in 2006. Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke explained how trade deficits required the US to borrow money from abroad, in the process bidding up bond prices and lowering interest rates.\n\nBernanke explained that between 1996 and 2004, the US current account deficit increased by $650 billion, from 1.5% to 5.8% of GDP. Financing these deficits required the country to borrow large sums from abroad, much of it from countries running trade surpluses. These were mainly the emerging economies in Asia and oil-exporting nations. The balance of payments identity requires that a country (such as the US) running a current account deficit also have a capital account (investment) surplus of the same amount. Hence large and growing amounts of foreign funds (capital) flowed into the US to finance its imports.\n\nAll of this created demand for various types of financial assets, raising the prices of those assets while lowering interest rates. Foreign investors had these funds to lend either because they had very high personal savings rates (as high as 40% in China) or because of high oil prices. Ben Bernanke has referred to this as a \"saving glut\".\n\nA flood of funds (capital or liquidity) reached the US financial markets. Foreign governments supplied funds by purchasing Treasury bonds and thus avoided much of the direct effect of the crisis. US households, on the other hand, used funds borrowed from foreigners to finance consumption or to bid up the prices of housing and financial assets. Financial institutions invested foreign funds in mortgage-backed securities.\n\nThe Fed then raised the Fed funds rate significantly between July 2004 and July 2006. This contributed to an increase in 1-year and 5-year adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) rates, making ARM interest rate resets more expensive for homeowners. This may have also contributed to the deflating of the housing bubble, as asset prices generally move inversely to interest rates, and it became riskier to speculate in housing. US housing and financial assets dramatically declined in value after the housing bubble burst.\n\nSubprime lending standards declined in the USA: in early 2000, a subprime borrower had a FICO score of 660 or less. By 2005, many lenders dropped the required FICO score to 620, making it much easier to qualify for prime loans and making subprime lending a riskier business. Proof of income and assets were de-emphasized. Loans moved from full documentation to low documentation to no documentation. One subprime mortgage product that gained wide acceptance was the no income, no job, no asset verification required (NINJA) mortgage. Informally, these loans were aptly referred to as \"liar loans\" because they encouraged borrowers to be less than honest in the loan application process. Testimony given to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission by Richard M. Bowen III on events during his tenure as the Business Chief Underwriter for Correspondent Lending in the Consumer Lending Group for Citigroup (where he was responsible for over 220 professional underwriters) suggests that by the final years of the US housing bubble (2006–2007), the collapse of mortgage underwriting standards was endemic. His testimony stated that by 2006, 60% of mortgages purchased by Citi from some 1,600 mortgage companies were \"defective\" (were not underwritten to policy, or did not contain all policy-required documents)—this, despite the fact that each of these 1,600 originators was contractually responsible (certified via representations and warrantees) that its mortgage originations met Citi's standards. Moreover, during 2007, \"defective mortgages (from mortgage originators contractually bound to perform underwriting to Citi's standards) increased ... to over 80% of production\".\n\nIn separate testimony to Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, officers of Clayton Holdings—the largest residential loan due diligence and securitization surveillance company in the United States and Europe—testified that Clayton's review of over 900,000 mortgages issued from January 2006 to June 2007 revealed that scarcely 54% of the loans met their originators' underwriting standards. The analysis (conducted on behalf of 23 investment and commercial banks, including 7 \"too big to fail\" banks) additionally showed that 28% of the sampled loans did not meet the minimal standards of any issuer. Clayton's analysis further showed that 39% of these loans (i.e. those not meeting \"any\" issuer's minimal underwriting standards) were subsequently securitized and sold to investors.\n\nThere is strong evidence that the GSEs—due to their large size and market power—were far more effective at policing underwriting by originators and forcing underwriters to repurchase defective loans. By contrast, private securitizers have been far less aggressive and less effective in recovering losses from originators on behalf of investors.\n\nPredatory lending refers to the practice of unscrupulous lenders, enticing borrowers to enter into \"unsafe\" or \"unsound\" secured loans for inappropriate purposes.\n\nA classic bait-and-switch method was used by Countrywide Financial, advertising low interest rates for home refinancing. Such loans were covered by very detailed contracts, and swapped for more expensive loan products on the day of closing. Whereas the advertisement might state that 1% or 1.5% interest would be charged, the consumer would be put into an adjustable rate mortgage (ARM) in which the interest charged would be greater than the mortgage payments, creating negative amortization which the credit consumer might not notice until long after the loan transaction had been consummated.\n\nCountrywide, sued by California Attorney General Jerry Brown for \"unfair business practices\" and \"false advertising\", was making high cost mortgages \"to homeowners with weak credit, adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) that allowed homeowners to make interest-only payments\". When housing prices decreased, homeowners in ARMs then had little incentive to pay their monthly payments, since their home equity had disappeared. This caused Countrywide's financial condition to deteriorate, ultimately resulting in a decision by the Office of Thrift Supervision to seize the lender. One Countrywide employee—who would later plead guilty to two counts of wire fraud and spent 18 months in prison—stated that, \"If you had a pulse, we gave you a loan.\"\n\nFormer employees from Ameriquest, which was United States' leading wholesale lender, described a system in which they were pushed to falsify mortgage documents and then sell the mortgages to Wall Street banks eager to make fast profits. There is growing evidence that such mortgage frauds may be a cause of the crisis.\n\nA 2012 OECD study suggest that bank regulation based on the Basel accords encourage unconventional business practices and contributed to or even reinforced the financial crisis. In other cases, laws were changed or enforcement weakened in parts of the financial system. Key examples include:\n\nPrior to the crisis, financial institutions became highly leveraged, increasing their appetite for risky investments and reducing their resilience in case of losses. Much of this leverage was achieved using complex financial instruments such as off-balance sheet securitization and derivatives, which made it difficult for creditors and regulators to monitor and try to reduce financial institution risk levels. These instruments also made it virtually impossible to reorganize financial institutions in bankruptcy, and contributed to the need for government bailouts.\n\nUS households and financial institutions became increasingly indebted or overleveraged during the years preceding the crisis. This increased their vulnerability to the collapse of the housing bubble and worsened the ensuing economic downturn. Key statistics include:\n\nFree cash used by consumers from home equity extraction doubled from $627 billion in 2001 to $1,428 billion in 2005 as the housing bubble built, a total of nearly $5 trillion over the period, contributing to economic growth worldwide. US home mortgage debt relative to GDP increased from an average of 46% during the 1990s to 73% during 2008, reaching $10.5 trillion.\n\nUS household debt as a percentage of annual disposable personal income was 127% at the end of 2007, versus 77% in 1990. In 1981, US private debt was 123% of GDP; by the third quarter of 2008, it was 290%.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2007, the top five US investment banks each significantly increased their financial leverage (see diagram), which increased their vulnerability to a financial shock. Changes in capital requirements, intended to keep US banks competitive with their European counterparts, allowed lower \"risk weightings\" for AAA securities. The shift from first-loss tranches to AAA tranches was seen by regulators as a risk reduction that compensated the higher leverage. These five institutions reported over $4.1 trillion in debt for fiscal year 2007, about 30% of US nominal GDP for 2007. Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and was liquidated, Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch were sold at fire-sale prices, and Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley became commercial banks, subjecting themselves to more stringent regulation. With the exception of Lehman, these companies required or received government support. Lehman reported that it had been in talks with Bank of America and Barclays for the company's possible sale. However, both Barclays and Bank of America ultimately declined to purchase the entire company.\n\nFannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two US government-sponsored enterprises, owned or guaranteed nearly $5 trillion in mortgage obligations at the time they were placed into conservatorship by the US government in September 2008.\n\nThese seven entities were highly leveraged and had $9 trillion in debt or guarantee obligations; yet they were not subject to the same regulation as depository banks.\n\nBehavior that may be optimal for an individual (e.g., saving more during adverse economic conditions) can be detrimental if too many individuals pursue the same behavior, as ultimately one person's consumption is another person's income. Too many consumers attempting to save (or pay down debt) simultaneously is called the paradox of thrift and can cause or deepen a recession. Economist Hyman Minsky also described a \"paradox of deleveraging\" as financial institutions that have too much leverage (debt relative to equity) cannot all de-leverage simultaneously without significant declines in the value of their assets.\n\nIn April 2009, US Federal Reserve vice-chair Janet Yellen discussed these paradoxes:\n\nOnce this massive credit crunch hit, it didn't take long before we were in a recession. The recession, in turn, deepened the credit crunch as demand and employment fell, and credit losses of financial institutions surged. Indeed, we have been in the grips of precisely this adverse feedback loop for more than a year. A process of balance sheet deleveraging has spread to nearly every corner of the economy. Consumers are pulling back on purchases, especially on durable goods, to build their savings. Businesses are cancelling planned investments and laying off workers to preserve cash. And, financial institutions are shrinking assets to bolster capital and improve their chances of weathering the current storm. Once again, Minsky understood this dynamic. He spoke of the paradox of deleveraging, in which precautions that may be smart for individuals and firms—and indeed essential to return the economy to a normal state—nevertheless magnify the distress of the economy as a whole.\n\nThe term financial innovation refers to the ongoing development of financial products designed to achieve particular client objectives, such as offsetting a particular risk exposure (such as the default of a borrower) or to assist with obtaining financing. Examples pertinent to this crisis included: the adjustable-rate mortgage; the bundling of subprime mortgages into mortgage-backed securities (MBS) or collateralized debt obligations (CDO) for sale to investors, a type of securitization; and a form of credit insurance called credit default swaps (CDS). The usage of these products expanded dramatically in the years leading up to the crisis. These products vary in complexity and the ease with which they can be valued on the books of financial institutions.\n\nCDO issuance grew from an estimated $20 billion in Q1 2004 to its peak of over $180 billion by Q1 2007, then declined back under $20 billion by Q1 2008. Further, the credit quality of CDO's declined from 2000 to 2007, as the level of subprime and other non-prime mortgage debt increased from 5% to 36% of CDO assets. As described in the section on subprime lending, the CDS and portfolio of CDS called synthetic CDO enabled a theoretically infinite amount to be wagered on the finite value of housing loans outstanding, provided that buyers and sellers of the derivatives could be found. For example, buying a CDS to insure a CDO ended up giving the seller the same risk as if they owned the CDO, when those CDO's became worthless.\nThis boom in innovative financial products went hand in hand with more complexity. It multiplied the number of actors connected to a single mortgage (including mortgage brokers, specialized originators, the securitizers and their due diligence firms, managing agents and trading desks, and finally investors, insurances and providers of repo funding). With increasing distance from the underlying asset these actors relied more and more on indirect information (including FICO scores on creditworthiness, appraisals and due diligence checks by third party organizations, and most importantly the computer models of rating agencies and risk management desks). Instead of spreading risk this provided the ground for fraudulent acts, misjudgments and finally market collapse.\n\nMartin Wolf further wrote in June 2009 that certain financial innovations enabled firms to circumvent regulations, such as off-balance sheet financing that affects the leverage or capital cushion reported by major banks, stating: \"... an enormous part of what banks did in the early part of this decade—the off-balance-sheet vehicles, the derivatives and the 'shadow banking system' itself—was to find a way round regulation.\"\n\nMortgage risks were underestimated by almost all institutions in the chain from originator to investor by underweighting the possibility of falling housing prices based on historical trends of the past 50 years. Limitations of default and prepayment models, the heart of pricing models, led to overvaluation of mortgage and asset-backed products and their derivatives by originators, securitizers, broker-dealers, rating-agencies, insurance underwriters and the vast majority of investors (with the exception of certain hedge funds). While financial derivatives and structured products helped partition and shift risk between financial participants, it was the underestimation of falling housing prices and the resultant losses that led to aggregate risk.\n\nThe pricing of risk refers to the incremental compensation required by investors for taking on additional risk, which may be measured by interest rates or fees. Several scholars have argued that a lack of transparency about banks' risk exposures prevented markets from correctly pricing risk before the crisis, enabled the mortgage market to grow larger than it otherwise would have, and made the financial crisis far more disruptive than it would have been if risk levels had been disclosed in a straightforward, readily understandable format.\n\nFor a variety of reasons, market participants did not accurately measure the risk inherent with financial innovation such as MBS and CDOs or understand its effect on the overall stability of the financial system. For example, the pricing model for CDOs clearly did not reflect the level of risk they introduced into the system. Banks estimated that $450 billion of CDO were sold between \"late 2005 to the middle of 2007\"; among the $102 billion of those that had been liquidated, JPMorgan estimated that the average recovery rate for \"high quality\" CDOs was approximately 32 cents on the dollar, while the recovery rate for mezzanine CDO was approximately five cents for every dollar.\n\nAnother example relates to AIG, which insured obligations of various financial institutions through the usage of credit default swaps. The basic CDS transaction involved AIG receiving a premium in exchange for a promise to pay money to party A in the event party B defaulted. However, AIG did not have the financial strength to support its many CDS commitments as the crisis progressed and was taken over by the government in September 2008. US taxpayers provided over $180 billion in government support to AIG during 2008 and early 2009, through which the money flowed to various counterparties to CDS transactions, including many large global financial institutions.\n\nThe Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission (FCIC) made the major government study of the crisis. It concluded in January 2011:\n\nThe Commission concludes AIG failed and was rescued by the government primarily because its enormous sales of credit default swaps were made without putting up the initial collateral, setting aside capital reserves, or hedging its exposure—a profound failure in corporate governance, particularly its risk management practices. AIG's failure was possible because of the sweeping deregulation of over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives, including credit default swaps, which effectively eliminated federal and state regulation of these products, including capital and margin requirements that would have lessened the likelihood of AIG's failure.\n\nThe limitations of a widely used financial model also were not properly understood. This formula assumed that the price of CDS was correlated with and could predict the correct price of mortgage-backed securities. Because it was highly tractable, it rapidly came to be used by a huge percentage of CDO and CDS investors, issuers, and rating agencies. According to one wired.com article:\n\nAs financial assets became more complex and harder to value, investors were reassured by the fact that the international bond rating agencies and bank regulators accepted as valid some complex mathematical models that showed the risks were much smaller than they actually were. George Soros commented that \"The super-boom got out of hand when the new products became so complicated that the authorities could no longer calculate the risks and started relying on the risk management methods of the banks themselves. Similarly, the rating agencies relied on the information provided by the originators of synthetic products. It was a shocking abdication of responsibility.\"\n\nMoreover, a conflict of interest between professional investment managers and their institutional clients, combined with a global glut in investment capital, led to bad investments by asset managers in over-priced credit assets. Professional investment managers generally are compensated based on the volume of client assets under management. There is, therefore, an incentive for asset managers to expand their assets under management in order to maximize their compensation. As the glut in global investment capital caused the yields on credit assets to decline, asset managers were faced with the choice of either investing in assets where returns did not reflect true credit risk or returning funds to clients. Many asset managers continued to invest client funds in over-priced (under-yielding) investments, to the detriment of their clients, so they could maintain their assets under management. They supported this choice with a \"plausible deniability\" of the risks associated with subprime-based credit assets because the loss experience with early \"vintages\" of subprime loans was so low.\n\nDespite the dominance of the above formula, there are documented attempts of the financial industry, occurring before the crisis, to address the formula limitations, specifically the lack of dependence dynamics and the poor representation of extreme events. The volume \"Credit Correlation: Life After Copulas\", published in 2007 by World Scientific, summarizes a 2006 conference held by Merrill Lynch in London where several practitioners attempted to propose models rectifying some of the copula limitations. See also the article by Donnelly and Embrechts\nand the book by Brigo, Pallavicini and Torresetti, that reports relevant warnings and research on CDOs appeared in 2006.\n\nThere is strong evidence that the riskiest, worst performing mortgages were funded through the \"shadow banking system\" and that competition from the shadow banking system may have pressured more traditional institutions to lower their own underwriting standards and originate riskier loans.\n\nIn a June 2008 speech, President and CEO of the New York Federal Reserve Bank Timothy Geithner—who in 2009 became Secretary of the United States Treasury—placed significant blame for the freezing of credit markets on a \"run\" on the entities in the \"parallel\" banking system, also called the shadow banking system. These entities became critical to the credit markets underpinning the financial system, but were not subject to the same regulatory controls. Further, these entities were vulnerable because of maturity mismatch, meaning that they borrowed short-term in liquid markets to purchase long-term, illiquid and risky assets. This meant that disruptions in credit markets would make them subject to rapid deleveraging, selling their long-term assets at depressed prices. He described the significance of these entities:\n\nPaul Krugman, laureate of the Nobel Prize in Economics, described the run on the shadow banking system as the \"core of what happened\" to cause the crisis. He referred to this lack of controls as \"malign neglect\" and argued that regulation should have been imposed on all banking-like activity.\n\nThe securitization markets supported by the shadow banking system started to close down in the spring of 2007 and nearly shut-down in the fall of 2008. More than a third of the private credit markets thus became unavailable as a source of funds. According to the Brookings Institution, the traditional banking system does not have the capital to close this gap as of June 2009: \"It would take a number of years of strong profits to generate sufficient capital to support that additional lending volume.\" The authors also indicate that some forms of securitization are \"likely to vanish forever, having been an artifact of excessively loose credit conditions.\"\n\nRapid increases in a number of commodity prices followed the collapse in the housing bubble. The price of oil nearly tripled from $50 to $147 from early 2007 to 2008, before plunging as the financial crisis began to take hold in late 2008. Experts debate the causes, with some attributing it to speculative flow of money from housing and other investments into commodities, some to monetary policy, and some to the increasing feeling of raw materials scarcity in a fast-growing world, leading to long positions taken on those markets, such as Chinese increasing presence in Africa. An increase in oil prices tends to divert a larger share of consumer spending into gasoline, which creates downward pressure on economic growth in oil importing countries, as wealth flows to oil-producing states. A pattern of spiking instability in the price of oil over the decade leading up to the price high of 2008 has been recently identified. The destabilizing effects of this price variance has been proposed as a contributory factor in the financial crisis.\n\nCopper prices increased at the same time as oil prices. Copper traded at about $2,500 per ton from 1990 until 1999, when it fell to about $1,600. The price slump lasted until 2004, when a price surge pushed copper to $7,040 per ton in 2008.\n\nNickel prices boomed in the late 1990s, then declined from around $51,000 /£36,700 per metric ton in May 2007 to about $11,550/£8,300 per metric ton in January 2009. Prices were only just starting to recover as of January 2010, but most of Australia's nickel mines had gone bankrupt by then. As the price for high grade nickel sulphate ore recovered in 2010, so did the Australian nickel mining industry.\n\nCoincidentally with these price fluctuations, long-only commodity index funds became popular—by one estimate investment increased from $90 billion in 2006 to $200 billion at the end of 2007, while commodity prices increased 71% – which raised concern as to whether these index funds caused the commodity bubble. The empirical research has been mixed.\n\nAnother analysis is that the financial crisis was merely a symptom of another, deeper crisis, which is a systemic crisis of capitalism itself.\n\nRavi Batra's theory is that growing inequality of financial capitalism produces speculative bubbles that burst and result in depression and major political changes. He has also suggested that a \"demand gap\" related to differing wage and productivity growth explains deficit and debt dynamics important to stock market developments.\n\nJohn Bellamy Foster, a political economy analyst and editor of the \"Monthly Review\", believes that the decrease in GDP growth rates since the early 1970s is due to increasing market saturation.\n\nThe conventional Marxist explanation of capitalist crises was pointed to by economists Andrew Kliman, Michael Roberts, and Guglielmo Carchedi, in contradistinction to the Monthly Review school represented by Foster. These Marxist economists do not point to low wages or underconsumption as the cause of the crisis, but instead point to capitalism's long-term tendency of the rate of profit to fall as the underlying cause of crises generally. From this point of view, the problem was the inability of capital to grow or accumulate at sufficient rates through productive investment alone. Low rates of profit in productive sectors led to speculative investment in riskier assets, where there was potential for greater return on investment. The speculative frenzy of the late 90s and 2000s was, in this view, a consequence of a rising organic composition of capital, expressed through the fall in the rate of profit. According to Michael Roberts, the fall in the rate of profit \"eventually triggered the credit crunch of 2007 when credit could no longer support profits\".\n\nIn 2005, John C. Bogle wrote that a series of challenges face capitalism that have contributed to past financial crises and have not been sufficiently addressed:\n\nEchoing the central thesis of James Burnham's 1941 seminal book, \"The Managerial Revolution\", Bogle cites particular issues, including:\n\nAn analysis conducted by Mark Roeder, a former executive at the Swiss-based UBS Bank, suggested that large-scale momentum, or The Big Mo \"played a pivotal role\" in the 2008–09 global financial crisis. Roeder suggested that \"recent technological advances, such as computer-driven trading programs, together with the increasingly interconnected nature of markets, has magnified the momentum effect. This has made the financial sector inherently unstable.\"\n\nRobert Reich attributes the current economic downturn to the stagnation of wages in the United States, particularly those of the hourly workers who comprise 80% of the workforce. He says this stagnation forced the population to borrow to meet the cost of living.\n\nEconomists Ailsa McKay and Margunn Bjørnholt argue that the financial crisis and the response to it revealed a crisis of ideas in mainstream economics and within the economics profession, and call for a reshaping of both the economy, economic theory and the economics profession.\n\nThe financial crisis was not widely predicted by mainstream economists. \n\nA cover story in \"BusinessWeek\" magazine claims that economists mostly failed to predict the worst international economic crisis since the Great Depression of the 1930s. The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania's online business journal examines why economists failed to predict a major global financial crisis. Popular articles published in the mass media have led the general public to believe that the majority of economists have failed in their obligation to predict the financial crisis. For example, an article in the New York Times informs that economist Nouriel Roubini warned of such crisis as early as September 2006, and the article goes on to state that the profession of economics is bad at predicting recessions. According to \"The Guardian\", Roubini was ridiculed for predicting a collapse of the housing market and worldwide recession, while \"The New York Times\" labelled him \"Dr. Doom\".\n\nWithin mainstream financial economics, most believe that financial crises are simply unpredictable, following Eugene Fama's efficient-market hypothesis and the related random-walk hypothesis, which state respectively that markets contain all information about possible future movements, and that the movements of financial prices are random and unpredictable. Recent research casts doubt on the accuracy of \"early warning\" systems of potential crises, which must also predict their timing.\n\nThe Austrian economic school regarded the crisis as a vindication and classic example of a predictable credit-fueled bubble caused by laxity in monetary supply.\n\nA number of heterodox economists predicted the crisis, with varying arguments. Dirk Bezemer in his research credits (with supporting argument and estimates of timing) 12 economists with predicting the crisis: Dean Baker (US), Wynne Godley (UK), Fred Harrison (UK), Michael Hudson (US), Eric Janszen (US), Steve Keen (Australia), Jakob Brøchner Madsen & Jens Kjaer Sørensen (Denmark), Med Jones (US) Kurt Richebächer (US), Nouriel Roubini (US), Peter Schiff (US), and Robert Shiller (US). Examples of other experts who gave indications of a financial crisis have also been given. Shiller, an expert in housing markets, wrote an article a year before the collapse of Lehman Brothers in which he predicted that a slowing US housing market would cause the housing bubble to burst, leading to financial collapse. Schiff regularly appeared on television in the years before the crisis and warned of the impending real estate collapse.\n\nKarim Abadir, based on his work with Gabriel Talmain, predicted the timing of the recession whose trigger had already started manifesting itself in the real economy from early 2007. \n\nThe former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Raghuram Rajan, had predicted the crisis in 2005 when he became chief economist at the International Monetary Fund. In 2005, at a celebration honoring Alan Greenspan, who was about to retire as chairman of the US Federal Reserve, Rajan delivered a controversial paper that was critical of the financial sector. In that paper, Rajan \"argued that disaster might loom.\" Rajan argued that financial sector managers were encouraged to \"take risks that generate severe adverse consequences with small probability but, in return, offer generous compensation the rest of the time. These risks are known as tail risks. But perhaps the most important concern is whether banks will be able to provide liquidity to financial markets so that if the tail risk does materialize, financial positions can be unwound and losses allocated so that the consequences to the real economy are minimized.\"\n\nStock trader and financial risk engineer Nassim Nicholas Taleb, author of the 2007 book \"The Black Swan\", spent years warning against the breakdown of the banking system in particular and the economy in general owing to their use of and reliance on bad risk models and reliance on forecasting, and framed the problem as part of \"robustness and fragility\". He also took action against the establishment view by making a big financial bet on banking stocks and making a fortune from the crisis (\"They didn't listen, so I took their money\"). According to David Brooks from the New York Times, \"Taleb not only has an explanation for what's happening, he saw it coming.\"\n\nA report by the International Labour Organization concluded that cooperative financial institutions were less likely to fail than their competitors during the crisis. The cooperative banking sector had 20% market share of the European banking sector, but accounted for only 7 per cent of all the write-downs and losses between the third quarter of 2007 and first quarter of 2011. Similarly, credit unions in the US had five times lower failure rate than other banks during the crisis and increased their lending to small- and medium sized businesses while overall lending to those businesses decreased.\n\nThe US stock market peaked in October 2007, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average index exceeded 14,000 points. It then entered a pronounced decline, which accelerated markedly in October 2008. By March 2009, the Dow Jones average had reached a trough of around 6,600. Four years later,\nit hit an all-time high. It is probable, but debated, that the Federal Reserve's aggressive policy of quantitative easing spurred the partial recovery in the stock market.\n\nMarket strategist Phil Dow believes distinctions exist \"between the current market malaise\" and the Great Depression. He says the Dow Jones average's fall of more than 50% over a period of 17 months is similar to a 54.7% fall in the Great Depression, followed by a total drop of 89% over the following 16 months. \"It's very troubling if you have a mirror image,\" said Dow. Floyd Norris, the chief financial correspondent of \"The New York Times\", wrote in a blog entry in March 2009 that the decline has not been a mirror image of the Great Depression, explaining that although the decline amounts were nearly the same at the time, the rates of decline had started much faster in 2007, and that the past year had only ranked eighth among the worst recorded years of percentage drops in the Dow. The past two years ranked third, however.\n\nThe first notable event signaling a possible financial crisis occurred in the United Kingdom on August 9, 2007, when BNP Paribas, citing \"a complete evaporation of liquidity\", blocked withdrawals from three hedge funds. The significance of this event was not immediately recognized but soon led to a panic as investors and savers attempted to liquidate assets deposited in highly leveraged financial institutions.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund estimated that large US and European banks lost more than $1 trillion on toxic assets and from bad loans from January 2007 to September 2009. These losses are expected to top $2.8 trillion from 2007 to 2010. US bank losses were forecast to hit $1 trillion and European bank losses will reach $1.6 trillion. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimated in 2009 that US banks were about 60% through their losses, but British and eurozone banks only 40%.\n\nOne of the first victims was Northern Rock, a medium-sized British bank. The highly leveraged nature of its business led the bank to request security from the Bank of England. This in turn led to investor panic and a bank run in mid-September 2007. Calls by Liberal Democrat Treasury Spokesman Vince Cable to nationalise the institution were initially ignored; in February 2008, however, the British government (having failed to find a private sector buyer) relented, and the bank was taken into public hands. Northern Rock's problems proved to be an early indication of the troubles that would soon befall other banks and financial institutions.\n\nThe first visible institution to run into trouble in the United States was the Southern California–based IndyMac, a spin-off of Countrywide Financial. Before its failure, IndyMac Bank was the largest savings and loan association in the Los Angeles market and the seventh largest mortgage originator in the United States. The failure of IndyMac Bank on July 11, 2008, was the fourth largest bank failure in United States history up until the crisis precipitated even larger failures, and the second largest failure of a regulated thrift. IndyMac Bank's parent corporation was IndyMac Bancorp until the FDIC seized IndyMac Bank. IndyMac Bancorp filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in July 2008.\n\nIndyMac Bank was founded as Countrywide Mortgage Investment in 1985 by David S. Loeb and Angelo Mozilo as a means of collateralizing Countrywide Financial loans too big to be sold to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. In 1997, Countrywide spun off IndyMac as an independent company run by Mike Perry, who remained its CEO until the downfall of the bank in July 2008.\n\nThe primary causes of its failure were largely associated with its business strategy of originating and securitizing Alt-A loans on a large scale. This strategy resulted in rapid growth and a high concentration of risky assets. From its inception as a savings association in 2000, IndyMac grew to the seventh largest savings and loan and ninth largest originator of mortgage loans in the United States. During 2006, IndyMac originated over $90 billion of mortgages.\n\nIndyMac's aggressive growth strategy, use of Alt-A and other nontraditional loan products, insufficient underwriting, credit concentrations in residential real estate in the California and Florida markets—states, alongside Nevada and Arizona, where the housing bubble was most pronounced—and heavy reliance on costly funds borrowed from a Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and from brokered deposits, led to its demise when the mortgage market declined in 2007.\n\nIndyMac often made loans without verification of the borrower's income or assets, and to borrowers with poor credit histories. Appraisals obtained by IndyMac on underlying collateral were often questionable as well. As an Alt-A lender, IndyMac's business model was to offer loan products to fit the borrower's needs, using an extensive array of risky option-adjustable-rate-mortgages (option ARMs), subprime loans, 80/20 loans, and other nontraditional products. Ultimately, loans were made to many borrowers who simply could not afford to make their payments. The thrift remained profitable only as long as it was able to sell those loans in the secondary mortgage market. IndyMac resisted efforts to regulate its involvement in those loans or tighten their issuing criteria: see the comment by Ruthann Melbourne, Chief Risk Officer, to the regulating agencies.\n\nMay 12, 2008, in a small note in the \"Capital\" section of its what would become its last 10-Q released before receivership, IndyMac revealed—but did not admit—that it was no longer a well-capitalized institution and that it was headed for insolvency.\n\nIndyMac reported that during April 2008, Moody's and Standard & Poor's downgraded the ratings on a significant number of Mortgage-backed security (MBS) bonds—including $160 million issued by IndyMac that the bank retained in its MBS portfolio. IndyMac concluded that these downgrades would have harmed the Company's risk-based capital ratio as of June 30, 2008. Had these lowered ratings been in effect at March 31, 2008, IndyMac concluded that the bank's capital ratio would have been 9.27% total risk-based. IndyMac warned that if its regulators found its capital position to have fallen below \"well capitalized\" (minimum 10% risk-based capital ratio) to \"adequately capitalized\" (8–10% risk-based capital ratio) the bank might no longer be able to use brokered deposits as a source of funds.\n\nSenator Charles Schumer (D-NY) later pointed out that brokered deposits made up more than 37 percent of IndyMac's total deposits, and ask the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) whether it had considered ordering IndyMac to reduce its reliance on these deposits. With $18.9 billion in total deposits reported on March 31, Senator Schumer would have been referring to a little over $7 billion in brokered deposits. While the breakout of maturities of these deposits is not known exactly, a simple averaging would have put the threat of brokered deposits loss to IndyMac at $500 million a month, had the regulator disallowed IndyMac from acquiring new brokered deposits on June 30.\n\nIndyMac was taking new measures to preserve capital, such as deferring interest payments on some preferred securities. Dividends on common shares had already been suspended for the first quarter of 2008, after being cut in half the previous quarter. The company still had not secured a significant capital infusion nor found a ready buyer.\n\nIndyMac reported that the bank's risk-based capital was only $47 million above the minimum required for this 10% mark. But it did not reveal some of that $47 million capital it claimed it had, as of March 31, 2008, was fabricated.\n\nWhen home prices declined in the latter half of 2007 and the secondary mortgage market collapsed, IndyMac was forced to hold $10.7 billion of loans it could not sell in the secondary market. Its reduced liquidity was further exacerbated in late June 2008 when account holders withdrew $1.55 billion or about 7.5% of IndyMac's deposits. This \"run\" on the thrift followed the public release of a letter from Senator Charles Schumer to the FDIC and OTS. The letter outlined the Senator's concerns with IndyMac. While the run was a contributing factor in the timing of IndyMac's demise, the underlying cause of the failure was the unsafe and unsound way they operated the thrift.\n\nOn June 26, 2008, Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, chairman of Congress' Joint Economic Committee and the third-ranking Democrat in the Senate, released several letters he had sent to regulators, which warned that, \"The possible collapse of big mortgage lender IndyMac Bancorp Inc. poses significant financial risks to its borrowers and depositors, and regulators may not be ready to intervene to protect them.\" Some worried depositors began to withdraw money.\n\nOn July 7, 2008, IndyMac announced on the company blog that it:\nIndyMac announced the closure of both its retail lending and wholesale divisions, halted new loan submissions, and cut 3,800 jobs.\n\nOn July 11, 2008, citing liquidity concerns, the FDIC put IndyMac Bank into conservatorship. A bridge bank, IndyMac Federal Bank, FSB, was established to assume control of IndyMac Bank's assets, its secured liabilities, and its insured deposit accounts. The FDIC announced plans to open IndyMac Federal Bank, FSB on July 14, 2008. Until then, depositors would have access their insured deposits through ATMs, their existing checks, and their existing debit cards. Telephone and Internet account access was restored when the bank reopened. The FDIC guarantees the funds of all insured accounts up to US$100,000, and has declared a special advance dividend to the roughly 10,000 depositors with funds in excess of the insured amount, guaranteeing 50% of any amounts in excess of $100,000. Yet, even with the pending sale of Indymac to IMB Management Holdings, an estimated 10,000 uninsured depositors of Indymac are still at a loss of over $270 million.\n\nWith $32 billion in assets, IndyMac Bank was one of the largest bank failures in American history.\n\nIndyMac Bancorp filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy on July 31, 2008.\n\nInitially the companies affected were those directly involved in home construction and mortgage lending such as Northern Rock and Countrywide Financial, as they could no longer obtain financing through the credit markets. Over 100 mortgage lenders went bankrupt during 2007 and 2008. Concerns that investment bank Bear Stearns would collapse in March 2008 resulted in its fire-sale to JP Morgan Chase. The financial institution crisis hit its peak in September and October 2008. Several major institutions either failed, were acquired under duress, or were subject to government takeover. These included Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Washington Mutual, Wachovia, Citigroup, and AIG. On October 6, 2008, three weeks after Lehman Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in US history, Lehman's former CEO Richard S. Fuld Jr. found himself before Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who chaired the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Fuld said he was a victim of the collapse, blaming a \"crisis of confidence\" in the markets for dooming his firm.\n\nIn September 2008, the crisis hit its most critical stage. There was the equivalent of a bank run on the money market funds, which frequently invest in commercial paper issued by corporations to fund their operations and payrolls. Withdrawal from money markets were $144.5 billion during one week, versus $7.1 billion the week prior. This interrupted the ability of corporations to rollover (replace) their short-term debt. The US government responded by extending insurance for money market accounts analogous to bank deposit insurance via a temporary guarantee and with Federal Reserve programs to purchase commercial paper. The TED spread, an indicator of perceived credit risk in the general economy, spiked up in July 2007, remained volatile for a year, then spiked even higher in September 2008, reaching a record 4.65% on October 10, 2008.\n\nIn a dramatic meeting on September 18, 2008, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Fed chairman Ben Bernanke met with key legislators to propose a $700 billion emergency bailout. Bernanke reportedly told them: \"If we don't do this, we may not have an economy on Monday.\" The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, which implemented the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), was signed into law by President George W. Bush on October 3, 2008.\n\nEconomist Paul Krugman and US Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner explain the credit crisis via the implosion of the shadow banking system, which had grown to nearly equal the importance of the traditional commercial banking sector as described above. Without the ability to obtain investor funds in exchange for most types of mortgage-backed securities or asset-backed commercial paper, investment banks and other entities in the shadow banking system could not provide funds to mortgage firms and other corporations.\n\nThis meant that nearly one-third of the US lending mechanism was frozen and continued to be frozen into June 2009. According to the Brookings Institution, at that time the traditional banking system did not have the capital to close this gap: \"It would take a number of years of strong profits to generate sufficient capital to support that additional lending volume.\" The authors also indicate that some forms of securitization were \"likely to vanish forever, having been an artifact of excessively loose credit conditions.\" While traditional banks raised their lending standards, it was the collapse of the shadow banking system that was the primary cause of the reduction in funds available for borrowing.\n\nThere is a direct relationship between declines in wealth and declines in consumption and business investment, which along with government spending, represent the economic engine. Between June 2007 and November 2008, Americans lost an estimated average of more than a quarter of their collective net worth. By early November 2008, a broad US stock index, the S&P 500, was down 45% from its 2007 high. Housing prices had dropped 20% from their 2006 peak, with futures markets signaling a 30–35% potential drop. Total home equity in the United States, which was valued at $13 trillion at its peak in 2006, had dropped to $8.8 trillion by mid-2008 and was still falling in late 2008. Total retirement assets, Americans' second-largest household asset, dropped by 22%, from $10.3 trillion in 2006 to $8 trillion in mid-2008. During the same period, savings and investment assets (apart from retirement savings) lost $1.2 trillion and pension assets lost $1.3 trillion. Taken together, these losses total a staggering $8.3 trillion. Since peaking in the second quarter of 2007, household wealth is down $14 trillion.\n\nFurther, US homeowners had extracted significant equity in their homes in the years leading up to the crisis, which they could no longer do once housing prices collapsed. Readily obtainable cash used by consumers from home equity extraction doubled from $627 billion in 2001 to $1,428 billion in 2005 as the housing bubble built, a total of nearly $5 trillion over the period. US home mortgage debt relative to GDP increased from an average of 46% during the 1990s to 73% during 2008, reaching $10.5 trillion.\n\nTo offset this decline in consumption and lending capacity, the US government and US Federal Reserve committed $13.9 trillion, of which $6.8 trillion was invested or spent as of June 2009. In effect, the Fed went from being the \"lender of last resort\" to the \"lender of only resort\" for a significant portion of the economy. In some cases the Fed was considered the \"buyer of last resort.\"\n\nIn November 2008, economist Dean Baker observed:\n\nAt the heart of the portfolios of many of these institutions were investments whose assets had been derived from bundled home mortgages. Exposure to these mortgage-backed securities, or to the credit derivatives used to insure them against failure, caused the collapse or takeover of several key firms such as Lehman Brothers, AIG, Merrill Lynch, and HBOS.\n\nThe crisis rapidly developed and spread into a global economic shock, resulting in a number of European bank failures, declines in various stock indexes, and large reductions in the market value of equities and commodities.\n\nBoth MBS and CDO were purchased by corporate and institutional investors globally. Derivatives such as credit default swaps also increased the linkage between large financial institutions. Moreover, the de-leveraging of financial institutions, as assets were sold to pay back obligations that could not be refinanced in frozen credit markets, further accelerated the solvency crisis and caused a decrease in international trade.\n\nWorld political leaders, national ministers of finance and central bank directors coordinated their efforts to reduce fears, but the crisis continued. At the end of October 2008 a currency crisis developed, with investors transferring vast capital resources into stronger currencies such as the yen, the dollar and the Swiss franc, leading many emergent economies to seek aid from the International Monetary Fund.\n\nSeveral commentators have suggested that if the liquidity crisis continues, an extended recession or worse could occur. The continuing development of the crisis had prompted fears of an impending global economic collapse. The financial crisis is likely to yield the biggest banking shakeout since the savings-and-loan meltdown.\nInvestment bank UBS stated on October 6 that 2008 would see a clear global recession, with recovery unlikely for at least two years. Three days later UBS economists announced that the \"beginning of the end\" of the crisis had begun, with the world starting to make the necessary actions to fix the crisis: capital injection by governments; injection made systemically; interest rate cuts to help borrowers. The United Kingdom had started systemic injection, and the world's central banks were now cutting interest rates. UBS emphasized the United States needed to implement systemic injection. UBS further emphasized that this fixes only the financial crisis, but that in economic terms \"the worst is still to come\". UBS quantified their expected recession durations on October 16: the Eurozone's would last two quarters, the United States' would last three quarters, and the United Kingdom's would last four quarters. The economic crisis in Iceland involved all three of the country's major banks. Relative to the size of its economy, Iceland's banking collapse is the largest suffered by any country in economic history.\n\nAt the end of October UBS revised its outlook downwards: the forthcoming recession would be the worst since the early 1980s recession with negative 2009 growth for the US, Eurozone, UK; very limited recovery in 2010; but not as bad as the Great Depression.\n\nThe Brookings Institution reported in June 2009 that US consumption accounted for more than a third of the growth in global consumption between 2000 and 2007. \"The US economy has been spending too much and borrowing too much for years and the rest of the world depended on the US consumer as a source of global demand.\" With a recession in the US and the increased savings rate of US consumers, declines in growth elsewhere have been dramatic. For the first quarter of 2009, the annualized rate of decline in GDP was 14.4% in Germany, 15.2% in Japan, 7.4% in the UK, 18% in Latvia, 9.8% in the Euro area and 21.5% for Mexico.\n\nSome developing countries that had seen strong economic growth saw significant slowdowns. For example, growth forecasts in Cambodia show a fall from more than 10% in 2007 to close to zero in 2009, and Kenya may achieve only 3–4% growth in 2009, down from 7% in 2007. According to the research by the Overseas Development Institute, reductions in growth can be attributed to falls in trade, commodity prices, investment and remittances sent from migrant workers (which reached a record $251 billion in 2007, but have fallen in many countries since). This has stark implications and has led to a dramatic rise in the number of households living below the poverty line, be it 300,000 in Bangladesh or 230,000 in Ghana. Especially states with a fragile political system have to fear that investors from Western states withdraw their money because of the crisis. Bruno Wenn of the German DEG recommends to provide a sound economic policymaking and good governance to attract new investors\n\nThe World Bank reported in February 2009 that the Arab World was far less severely affected by the credit crunch. With generally good balance of payments positions coming into the crisis or with alternative sources of financing for their large current account deficits, such as remittances, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) or foreign aid, Arab countries were able to avoid going to the market in the latter part of 2008. This group is in the best position to absorb the economic shocks. They entered the crisis in exceptionally strong positions. This gives them a significant cushion against the global downturn. The greatest effect of the global economic crisis will come in the form of lower oil prices, which remains the single most important determinant of economic performance. Steadily declining oil prices would force them to draw down reserves and cut down on investments. Significantly lower oil prices could cause a reversal of economic performance as has been the case in past oil shocks. Initial impact will be seen on public finances and employment for foreign workers.\n\nThe output of goods and services produced by labor and property located in the United States decreased at an annual rate of approximately 6% in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009, versus activity in the year-ago periods. The US unemployment rate increased to 10.1% by October 2009, the highest rate since 1983 and roughly twice the pre-crisis rate. The average hours per work week declined to 33, the lowest level since the government began collecting the data in 1964.\nWith the decline of gross domestic product came the decline in innovation. With fewer resources to risk in creative destruction, the number of patent applications flat-lined. Compared to the previous 5 years of exponential increases in patent application, this stagnation correlates to the similar drop in GDP during the same time period.\n\nTypical American families did not fare as well, nor did those \"wealthy-but-not wealthiest\" families just beneath the pyramid's top. On the other hand, half of the poorest families did not have wealth declines at all during the crisis. The Federal Reserve surveyed 4,000 households between 2007 and 2009, and found that the total wealth of 63 percent of all Americans declined in that period. 77 percent of the richest families had a decrease in total wealth, while only 50 percent of those on the bottom of the pyramid suffered a decrease. A 2015 study commissioned by the ACLU found that white home-owning households recovered from the financial crisis faster than black home-owning households, and projected that the financial crisis will likely widen the racial wealth gap in the US.\n\nThe US Federal Reserve Open Market Committee release in June 2009 stated:\n\nThe US Federal Reserve and central banks around the world took steps to expand money supplies to avoid the risk of a deflationary spiral, in which lower wages and higher unemployment led to a self-reinforcing decline in global consumption. In addition, governments enacted large fiscal stimulus packages, by borrowing and spending to offset the reduction in private sector demand caused by the crisis. The US Federal Reserve's new and expanded liquidity facilities were intended to enable the central bank to fulfill its traditional lender-of-last-resort role during the crisis while mitigating stigma, broadening the set of institutions with access to liquidity, and increasing the flexibility with which institutions could tap such liquidity.\n\nThis credit freeze brought the global financial system to the brink of collapse. The response of the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, the Bank of England and other central banks was immediate and dramatic. During the last quarter of 2008, these central banks purchased US$2.5 trillion of government debt and troubled private assets from banks. This was the largest liquidity injection into the credit market, and the largest monetary policy action, in world history. Following a model initiated by the United Kingdom bank rescue package, the governments of European nations and the US guaranteed the debt issued by their banks and raised the capital of their national banking systems, ultimately purchasing $1.5 trillion newly issued preferred stock in their major banks. In October 2010, Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz explained how the US Federal Reserve was implementing another monetary policy —creating currency— as a method to combat the liquidity trap. By creating $600 billion and inserting this directly into banks, the Federal Reserve intended to spur banks to finance more domestic loans and refinance mortgages. However, banks instead were spending the money in more profitable areas by investing internationally in emerging markets. Banks were also investing in foreign currencies, which Stiglitz and others point out may lead to currency wars while China redirects its currency holdings away from the United States.\n\nGovernments have also bailed out a variety of firms as discussed above, incurring large financial obligations. To date, various US government agencies have committed or spent trillions of dollars in loans, asset purchases, guarantees, and direct spending. Significant controversy has accompanied the bailout, leading to the development of a variety of \"decision making frameworks\", to help balance competing policy interests during times of financial crisis.\n\nThe US executed two stimulus packages, totaling nearly $1 trillion during 2008 and 2009. Other countries also implemented fiscal stimulus plans beginning in 2008.\n\nUnited States President Barack Obama and key advisers introduced a series of regulatory proposals in June 2009. The proposals address consumer protection, executive pay, bank financial cushions or capital requirements, expanded regulation of the shadow banking system and derivatives, and enhanced authority for the Federal Reserve to safely wind-down systemically important institutions, among others. In January 2010, Obama proposed additional regulations limiting the ability of banks to engage in proprietary trading. The proposals were dubbed \"The Volcker Rule\", in recognition of Paul Volcker, who has publicly argued for the proposed changes.\n\nThe US Senate passed a reform bill in May 2010, following the House, which passed a bill in December 2009. These bills must now be reconciled. The \"New York Times\" provided a comparative summary of the features of the two bills, which address to varying extent the principles enumerated by the Obama administration. For instance, the Volcker Rule against proprietary trading is not part of the legislation, though in the Senate bill regulators have the discretion but not the obligation to prohibit these trades.\n\nEuropean regulators introduced Basel III regulations for banks. It increased capital ratios, limits on leverage, narrow definition of capital (to exclude subordinated debt), limit counter-party risk, and new liquidity requirements. Critics argue that Basel III doesn't address the problem of faulty risk-weightings. Major banks suffered losses from AAA-rated created by financial engineering (which creates apparently risk-free assets out of high risk collateral) that required less capital according to Basel II. Lending to AA-rated sovereigns has a risk-weight of zero, thus increasing lending to governments and leading to the next crisis. Johan Norberg argues that regulations (Basel III among others) have indeed led to excessive lending to risky governments (see European sovereign-debt crisis) and the ECB pursues even more lending as the solution.\n\nAt least two major reports were produced by Congress: the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission report, released January 2011, and a report by the United States Senate Homeland Security Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations entitled (released April 2011). \n\nIn Iceland in April 2012, the special Landsdómur court convicted former Prime Minister Geir Haarde of mishandling the 2008–2012 Icelandic financial crisis.\n\nAs of September 2011, no individuals in the UK have been prosecuted for misdeeds during the financial meltdown of 2008.\n\nAs of 2012, in the United States, a large volume of troubled mortgages remained in place. It had proved impossible for most homeowners facing foreclosure to refinance or modify their mortgages and foreclosure rates remained high.\n\nThe US recession that began in December 2007 ended in June 2009, according to the US National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) and the financial crisis appears to have ended about the same time. In April 2009 \"TIME\" magazine declared \"More Quickly Than It Began, The Banking Crisis Is Over.\" The United States Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission dates the crisis to 2008. President Barack Obama declared on January 27, 2010, \"the markets are now stabilized, and we've recovered most of the money we spent on the banks.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\" identifies March 2009 as the \"nadir of the crisis\" and noted in 2011 that \"Most stock markets around the world are at least 75 percent higher than they were then. Financial stocks, which led the markets down, have also led them up.\" Nevertheless, the lack of fundamental changes in banking and financial markets worries many market participants, including the International Monetary Fund.\n\nThe distribution of household incomes in the United States has become more unequal during the post-2008 economic recovery, a first for the US but in line with the trend over the last ten economic recoveries since 1949. Income inequality in the United States has grown from 2005 to 2012 in more than 2 out of 3 metropolitan areas. Median household wealth fell 35% in the US, from $106,591 to $68,839 between 2005 and 2011.\n\nThe financial crisis generated many articles and books outside of the scholarly and financial press, including articles and books by author William Greider, economist Michael Hudson, author and former bond salesman Michael Lewis, Kevin Phillips, and investment broker Peter Schiff.\n\nIn May 2010, a documentary, \"Overdose: A Film about the Next Financial Crisis\", premiered about how the financial crisis came about and how the solutions that have been applied by many governments are setting the stage for the next crisis. The film is based on the book \"Financial Fiasco\" by Johan Norberg and features Alan Greenspan, with funding from the libertarian think tank The Cato Institute. Greenspan is responsible for de-regulating the derivatives market while chairman of the Federal Reserve.\n\nIn October 2010, a documentary film about the crisis, \"Inside Job\" directed by Charles Ferguson, was released by Sony Pictures Classics. In 2011, it was awarded the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature at the 83rd Academy Awards.\n\n\"Time\" magazine named \"25 People to Blame for the Financial Crisis\".\n\nMichael Lewis published a best-selling non-fiction book about the crisis, entitled \"The Big Short\". In 2015, it was adapted into a film of the same name, which won the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay. One point raised is to what extent those outside of the markets themselves (i.e., not working for a mainstream investment bank) could forecast the events and be generally less myopic. Subsequent to the crisis itself some observers furthermore noted a change in social relations as some group culpability emerged.\n\n\"Advanced\" economies led global economic growth prior to the financial crisis with \"emerging\" and \"developing\" economies lagging behind. The crisis overturned this relationship. The International Monetary Fund found that \"advanced\" economies accounted for only 26.5% of global GDP while emerging and developing economies accounted for 73.5% of global GDP (PPP) from 2007 to 2017.\n\nIn the table, the names of emerging and developing economies are shown in boldface type, while the names of developed economies are in Roman (regular) type.\n\nThe initial articles and some subsequent material were adapted from the Wikinfo article Financial crisis of 2007–2008 released under the \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6778324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6778324", "title": "Flooz.com", "text": "Flooz.com\n\nFlooz.com was a dot-com venture, now defunct, based in New York City that went online in February 1999. It was promoted by comic actress Whoopi Goldberg in a series of television advertisements. Started by iVillage co-founder Robert Levitan, the company attempted to establish a currency unique to Internet merchants, somewhat similar in concept to airline frequent flier programs or grocery store stamp books. The name \"flooz\" was based upon the Arabic word for money, فلوس, \"fuloos\". Users accumulated flooz credits either as a promotional bonus given away by some internet businesses or purchased directly from flooz.com which then could be redeemed for merchandise at a variety of participating online stores. Adoption of flooz by both merchants and customers proved limited, and it never established itself as a widely recognized medium of exchange, which hindered both its usefulness and appeal. \n\nIn 2001, Flooz.com was notified by the Federal Bureau of Investigation that a Russian organized crime syndicate was using Flooz and stolen credit card numbers as part of a money-laundering scheme, in which stolen credit cards were used to purchase currency and then redeemed. Levitan has stated that fraudulent purchases accounted for 19% of consumer credit card transactions by mid-2001.\n\nThe company announced its closure on August 26, 2001, perceived as an early indicator of the growing dot-com bubble bust. Upon the company's closing, all unused flooz credits became worthless and nonrefundable. Over its short history, flooz.com reportedly exhausted from $35 million to $50 million in venture capital.\n\n"}
{"id": "28662824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28662824", "title": "Formula Dream", "text": "Formula Dream\n\nFormula Dream was an open wheel racing series based in Japan. The series was replaced by Formula Challenge Japan in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5007662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5007662", "title": "Galway International Oyster Festival", "text": "Galway International Oyster Festival\n\nThe Galway International Oyster Festival is a food festival held annually in Galway on the west coast of Ireland on the last weekend of September, the first month of the oyster season. Inaugurated in 1954, it was the brainchild of the Great Southern Hotel (now Hotel Meyrick) manager, Brian Collins. In 2000 was described by the Sunday Times as \"one of the 12 greatest shows on earth\" and was listed in the 1987 AA Travel Guide one of Europe's Seven Best Festivals.\n\nThe Galway International Oyster Festival was created to celebrate the Galway Native Oyster as it is a unique feature of Galway City & County. Hotel Manager, Brian Collins had been searching for something unique to attract more visitors to Galway in what was then, a quieter month of the year. Collins discussed the idea with the folk at Guinness and Patrick M. Burke's Bar in Clarenbridge and the first Galway Oyster Festival was created in 1954 with a whole 34 attendees.\n\nThe festival was originally held in Clarenbridge village during the day and the Great Southern Hotel in Galway City at night until the mid-1980s when it grew so large, all of the festivities were held in the city centre of Galway. There was a red & white striped marquee at Spanish Arch and then at Nimmo's Pier by the Claddagh. In order to reduce ticket prices, the festival changed location to The Radisson Hotel Galway in 2009 but due to popular demand, the marquee was brought back in 2011, located in the Docks and the festival was renamed as the Galway International Oyster & Seafood Festival. In 2014, the 60th anniversary of the event, its producers, Milestone Inventive, brought it back to its original Galway City home at the aptly named Fishmarket at the Spanish Arch.\n\nThe main events are two Oyster Opening Championships, the \"Irish Oyster Opening Championship\" and the \"World Oyster Opening Championship\". Other events include a Masquerade Gala 'Mardi-Gras', a seafood trail, a silent disco and a family day featuring everything from cookery demonstrations, to jazz, to circus skills workshops.\n\n"}
{"id": "40350819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40350819", "title": "George Denholm", "text": "George Denholm\n\nGroup Captain George Lovell \"Uncle\" Denholm, (20 December 1908 – 15 June 1997) was a fighter pilot and flying ace of the Royal Air Force during the Second World War. He flew Spitfires during the Battle of Britain, and is counted amongst the ranks of 'The Few'.\n\nDenholm was born at Tidings Hill in Bo'ness, West Lothian, the son of a coal exporters and pit-prop/timber importer. He attended Cargilfield Preparatory School and Fettes College, and later studied law at St John's College, Cambridge.\n\nAt Cambridge, he joined the University Cadet Corps. In 1933, Denholm took an interest in planes and joined No. 603 (City of Edinburgh) Squadron of the Royal Auxiliary Air Force. He took flight training on Airco DH.9A biplanes at RAF Macmerry and RAF East Fortune in East Lothian. In August 1939, Denholm was drafted as a flight commander to 603 Squadron at RAF Drem.\n\nBy the start of the Second World War, Denholm had converted to fly the new Mk.I Spitfire. It was whilst on combat patrol in his Spitfire on 16 October 1939 that he shared in the shooting down of a Heinkel He 111 (which was attempting to bomb the Forth Railway Bridge) near Port Seton in East Lothian. It was the first German bomber to be shot down over Great Britain in the Second World War. On 12 March 1940 he damaged a Dornier Do 17 off the coast near Aberdeen.\n\nDue to Denholm being 32 at the time and much older than other pilots in the squadron he was nicknamed \"Uncle George\".\n\nWith the Battle of Britain in full swing in the summer of 1940, Denholm's squadron was transferred to RAF Hornchurch in southern England. Flying regular bomber interception sorties, Denholm claimed a probable He 111 on 26 June and shared Junkers Ju 88 on 3 July, plus a Messerschmitt Bf 109 destroyed and another probable on 28 August. On 30 August, whilst in combat with Bf 110s over Snargate in Kent he was shot down but managed to bail out.\n\nTwo days later (1 September 1940), Denholm was back in action, and claimed a Bf 109 damaged. On 15 September claimed two Do 17's and a single Bf 109 damaged. However, it was during this sortie that he himself was shot down. His Spitfire crashed at Warren Farm, Fairlight, East Sussex, but he came down safely at Guestling.\n\nAnother damaged Bf 109 was claimed by Denholm on 18 September and on 27 September he shared a Bf 109 destroyed (plus a probable Bf 109 and a shared probable Bf 109). On 20 October 1940 he damaged another Bf 109.\n\nOn 22 October 1940, acting Squadron Leader Denholm was awarded the DFC. His citation in the London Gazette read:\nOn 11 November he shot down and destroyed an Bf 109 and towards the end of November on the 29th he also shot down an Bf 110.\n\nIn April 1941, he relinquished command of No. 603 Squadron and was posted as Fighter Controller to the Operations Room at RAF Turnhouse in Edinburgh. On 10 May 1941, Denholm was on duty when Rudolf Hess's Bf 110 was intercepted over Scotland and the Reich Deputy Führer was arrested.\n\nIn mid-December 1941 Denhom was posted as commander of No. 1460 Flight RAF at RAF Acklington with Turbinlite searchlights fitted to British Douglas Havoc night fighters. He latter remarked that the experiment was a great success.\n\nIn March 1942 he was posted as commander of No. 605 Squadron RAF at RAF Ford. The squadron was equipped with de Havilland Mosquito fighter-bombers and were tasked in the run up to D-Day in June 1944 with strafing enemy positions in the Pas-de-Calais area and throughout northern France. Low flying was a perilous activity and the squadron suffered many losses.\n\nDenholm subsequently became the Station Commander at RAF North Weald, where Norwegian and Danish squadrons operated. He developed a close friendship with the Norwegian Commanding Officer, Helge Mehre, and Denholm accompanied him at the end of the war to receive the German surrender in Norway at Gardermoen outside Oslo.\n\nDenholm's last 'kill' came on 11 March 1943 when he shot down an unidentified enemy aircraft over Gilze-Rijen in the Netherlands. In January 1945 he was awarded a Mention in Despatches and stayed with the RAF until discharged in 1947 as a group captain.\n\nDenholm had been Richard Hillary's senior commander at No. 603 Squadron, and Hillary had written about how highly regarded \"Uncle George\" was in his 1943 memoir \"The Last Enemy\". Hillary had been severely burnt after bailing out of a plane but managed to get back into active service. However, on 18 January 1943 he was killed along with his navigator when their Bristol Blenheim crashed during a night training exercise. Following the cremation of Hillary's body at Golders Green, it was Denholm who scattered his ashes over the English Channel.\n\nDenholm ended the war an ace, claiming 6 confirmed destroyed (4 destroyed and 4 shared), 3 probables, 1 shared probable and 5 damaged.\n\nDenholm returned to the family business, J & J Denholm, and in the 1950s was briefly a member of Bo’ness Municipal Council. He married Betty Tooms in 1939. They had two sons and two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "3076433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076433", "title": "Ghosting (identity theft)", "text": "Ghosting (identity theft)\n\nGhosting is a form of identity theft in which someone steals the identity, and sometimes even the role within society, of a specific dead person (the \"ghost\") who is not widely known to be deceased. Usually, the person who steals this identity (the \"ghoster\") is roughly the same age that the ghost would have been if still alive, so that any documents citing the birthdate of the ghost will not be conspicuously incorrect if appropriated by the thief now claiming to be that person.\n\nThe use of counterfeit identification falsely documenting a completely fictional identity is not ghosting, as false identification cannot be used to obtain social services or interact with government agencies or law enforcement officials. The purpose of ghosting is to enable the ghoster to claim for their own use an existing identity that is already listed in government records—an identity that is dormant because its original possessor is dead.\n\nGhosting is based on the premise (now less justified than in previous times) that separate government agencies do not share a total exchange of information. Therefore, a ghoster can obtain a passport or Social Security benefits in the name of a dead person because the agencies in charge of those services do not routinely cross-check an applicant's history to determine if a death certificate has been issued in that person's name.\n\nTypically, identity theft is done for criminal financial gain, with the thief preying upon the credit rating of a living person who is an active member of society. The identity thief retains their own name and place in society while making unlawful use of someone else's more advantageous financial status. The so-called \"identity thief\" is really more interested in exploiting someone else's financial credit rather than acquiring that person's identity. In this sense, it is the creditors, not the person's family and friends, who are the primary victims of this crime.\n\nThe motives for ghosting are more complex. The ghoster is sincerely interested in acquiring another person's identity for their own ongoing use and therefore usually selects a person who is dead in order to avoid the risks that would occur if two living people used the same Social Security number. Generally, a ghoster is unwilling to sustain their existing identity and takes a new identity to get a fresh start in life. Unlike a typical identity thief, who squeezes quick profits from one stolen identity then moves on to the next victim, a ghoster may actively seek to acquire and \"maintain\" a respectable credit rating in their new identity.\n\nGhosting is largely a phenomenon of the 20th century. Before the arrival of the Social Security system, a person who possessed no identity documents (no birth records, no high school diploma) could live openly without incurring suspicion. Counterfeit identification could not be easily exposed as fake. Only with the arrival of income tax and social benefits in the 1920s did it become essential for every adult to possess an identity that was registered in government archives—if not their own lawful identity, then one appropriated from a person no longer using it. In the 21st century, advances in technology have made ghosting increasingly difficult to achieve, while governments have increased the penalties for those who get caught.\n\nDashiell Hammett's novel \"The Maltese Falcon\" (1930) recounts the story, apparently based on a true case, of a businessman named Flitcraft who spontaneously abandons his career and his marriage, abruptly moving to another city and inventing another identity. If this incident did indeed occur in the 1920s or earlier, Flitcraft would have encountered little difficulty in establishing a new life without formal documents such as a birth certificate and Social Security number. If this had occurred ten years later, Flitcraft would have needed a ghost identity to begin his new life.\n\nIn the days before computerized databases, ghosting was easy to achieve—especially in Britain, where birth certificates and death certificates are public documents. The General Register Office in London contains indexed registers of all births, deaths, marriages and adoptions in England and Wales. The typical ghoster might consult the Deaths index (black volumes, archived by year) for the period 15 years after their own birth, seeking records of the death of a man approximately 15 years old (that is, whose birthdate would be near the birthdate of the ghoster). Finding a suitable candidate, the ghoster would then consult the Births index (red volumes, in a different section of the Records Office) for the deceased person's date of birth. Armed with this knowledge, they could then pay a small fee to obtain a copy of the deceased's birth certificate. Using this document as the foundation for the stolen identity, the ghoster would gradually acquire evidence enabling them to pass as the other person, still alive. Some of this evidence would be faked, with other evidence, such as school records, having been legitimately issued to the deceased before their death. Other archives outside of Britain, such as the genealogy records of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have unwittingly served this same purpose of enabling ghosters to find new identities.\n\nIt is easier for a female to appropriate a dead person's identity than it is for a male. For instance, a female ghoster can steal the identity of a dead female who had married and taken her husband's name. Detection is more difficult in this case because the death certificate and the birth certificate will show two different surnames. Also, gaps in the ghost identity's employment history (for the years between the ghost's death and the date when the ghoster claims that identity) will arouse less suspicion if the impostor is a female, who might conceivably have spent the transition years as a homemaker with no wages.\n\nIn the 1970s, a counterculture publishing firm in California named Eden Press published a pamphlet, \"The Paper Trip\", giving detailed instructions for acquiring a dead person's identity. Among other pointers, the pamphlet advised readers to search newspaper archives for old articles about an entire family getting killed in an accident while on vacation outside of their home state. This scenario offers several advantages to a ghoster:\n\n\nWhereas typical identity thieves will steal the credit rating of anyone, regardless of age, race or sex, a ghoster intends to \"live\" in the stolen identity and therefore usually seeks to acquire the identity of a dead person whose physical description strongly resembles the living ghoster's appearance: similar birthdate, height, sex, race or ethnic background. Rare exceptions are transsexual ghosters (see below), who seek to acquire the identity of a dead person of the opposite sex but otherwise resemble the ghoster as much as possible.\n\nGhosting is no longer as easy as it once was. This is largely due to the increasing computerization of vital records and the increasing power of search engines. Until the 1990s, each state in the United States maintained its birth records and death records in separate registries with no cross-referencing. Modern search engines enable government clerks to establish quickly if a death certificate has ever been issued to the person named on a given birth certificate.\n\nMany ghosters have criminal records under their original identities and seek new identities in order to gain a fresh start (or to start a new criminal career without the prior arrest record). Before the days of enhanced computer imaging, it was a difficult and time-consuming process for law-enforcement officials to search fingerprints archives. If a ghoster were arrested and fingerprinted under their new identity (with no prior arrests under that name), there was a good chance that authorities would fail to discover any records of a prior arrest for the same set of fingerprints linked to a different name and birthdate. This is no longer true. Modern imaging technology now enables search engines to scan a database of millions of fingerprints quickly, finding a positive match which police can transmit electronically to other police forces anywhere in the world. New identity documents can no longer conceal prior arrests.\n\nIn the United States, it was formerly the case that citizens were not issued a Social Security number until their first paid employment. Thus, in the year 1975, a man ghoster aged 25 would acquire the birth certificate of a boy who was born circa 1950 (the same age as the ghoster) but who had died at age 15 or younger. An individual who died before adulthood would not be likely to possess a Social Security number; therefore, a ghoster claiming to be this person and applying for a first-time Social Security number at age 25 would not arouse suspicion if he could explain why he waited until age 25 to begin working for wages. But a ghoster who attempted this scheme in the year 2000 (or later) would arouse great suspicion because parents are now required to acquire a Social Security number for their offspring before the next annual income tax return is filed, and government computers can instantly retrieve any individual's entire history of employment and income-tax records. A ghoster who applies to a Social Security office for a replacement of a Social Security card issued to someone who died ten years earlier (who claims to be that individual, still living) will immediately be asked why he has not reported any wages for the past ten years and will be challenged to explain how he has supported himself for ten years without wages. There will also be a gap in the tax records, requiring the ghoster to explain why he hasn't filed tax returns for the intervening years.\n\nAnother factor that discourages ghosting is the fact that the stakes are now much higher. In prior times, a criminal with a long record of felony convictions had strong incentive to commit the minor crime of ghosting in order to acquire a new identity with no prior arrests. This is no longer true. The unlawful acquisition of false identification, whether counterfeit or falsely appropriated from a dead person, will now be prosecuted far more aggressively than he might have been in the past.\n\nGhosting has never been foolproof. One reason is the overconfidence of ghosters who, after acquiring a new identity, refuse to abandon the habits and associations of their previous identity. Christopher John Boyce was a spy for the USSR, traitor to the USA, and an armed bank robber who was nicknamed \"The Falcon\" for his interest in competitive falconry. There are barely a hundred falconers in the entire United States, and Boyce was known personally to all of them. After escaping from federal prison and acquiring a new identity via ghosting, Boyce resumed his old habit of attending falconry competitions, now wearing a new name but still associating with falconers who had known him by his original name. Boyce was swiftly rearrested.\n\nMost ghosters are running away from something: a criminal record, a marriage, or bad debts. Unlike more typical identity thieves, it is often the case that a ghoster is a former criminal who genuinely desires to reform and who seeks an unblemished identity (even if acquired illegally) as a necessary part of the process. Several members of the Revolutionary Youth Movement of the 1960s eventually disavowed their radical pasts and wished to erase ties to their earlier actions. In several cases, former radicals were able to evade arrest for more than 20 years because, through ghosting, they acquired new identities in which they proceeded to live entirely law-abiding lives. During the Vietnam war, many young men in the United States avoided the draft by fleeing to Canada or other nations, where they acquired ghost identities enabling them to live as natives of those countries.\n\nDuring the days of racial segregation in the United States and apartheid in South Africa, light-skinned mulattos who were legally defined as Negroes had strong incentive to pass as Caucasians. Some of these individuals may have stolen the identities of deceased white persons, acquiring birth certificates that listed them as \"white.\" (In South Africa, there was a third legal category of colored people, which would make the transition less noticeable.)\n\nThe American film actor Wallace Ford was a successful ghoster. Born in England under the name Samuel Jones, he was estranged from his family at an early age and placed in a school in Canada. At the age of 15, Jones became a hobo and stowed away aboard freight trains with a fellow hobo named Wallace Ford. The two boys eventually were in a train accident; Jones survived, but Ford was killed. Jones then appropriated the other man's name and some aspects of his biography, becoming a successful actor under the name Wallace Ford, eventually starring on Broadway and in Hollywood films. As \"Wallace Ford,\" Jones used the real Ford's birthdate and other statistics on all of his own tax returns and official documents, even applying for a passport as Wallace Ford for his 1937 return to England. Only shortly before his death in 1966 did the actor reveal the complete truth about his identity.\n\nJones (Ford) was fortunate to have an ideal candidate for his ghost identity: a dead person of his own race, sex and approximate age whose death was \"never officially recorded\". (No one came forward to identify the real Wallace Ford's remains.) Typically, ghosters seeking a dead person's identity must choose someone whose death has been recorded in public archives, creating a risk that, after donning this new identity, the ghoster will eventually be confronted with a copy of his \"own\" death certificate.\n\nGhosters have appeared in fiction. One example is Seymour Skinner, the grade-school principal in \"The Simpsons\". Several years after his first appearance on this series, Skinner revealed that he was an impostor who had stolen the real Seymour Skinner's life and identity after the real Skinner was captured in Vietnam and sold to a shoe-producing company in China. Don Draper, the main character in AMC's \"Mad Men\", is another example of a ghoster, obtaining his identity from a deceased superior officer during the Korean War. In the film \"The Day of the Jackal\" the would-be assassin assumes the identity of a deceased person to hide his movements from the authorities.\n\nIn Naruto, the character Obito used the identity of Uchiha Madara until it was revealed that the real Madara is dead by Kabuto.\n\nIn Father is Strange, a Korean drama, Byun Han-soo is revealed to actually be Lee Yoon Seok. The real Byun Han-soo died in an explosion in the US. His body was mistaken for his friend Lee Yoon Seok as they had switched coats- which had each other's passports in. Mr Lee didn't correct the mistake as he wanted him, his girlfriend and his soon-to-be-born son to escape the title of ex-convict that was tied to his real name.\n"}
{"id": "4453501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4453501", "title": "Grand Opera House (Macon, Georgia)", "text": "Grand Opera House (Macon, Georgia)\n\nThe Grand Opera House, often called The Grand and originally known as the Academy of Music, is a historic opera house located in Macon, Georgia, United States. Listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1970, it is now the performing arts center of Mercer University.\n\nThe Academy of Music was constructed in 1884 with the largest stage in the southeastern United States and seating for 2,418, almost one-fifth of Macon's population at the time. The building was renovated in 1905; the present seven-story facade was added and the building reopened as the Grand Opera House.\n\nThe Grand has had numerous historic uses; live horses and chariots appeared in a 1908 production of \"Ben-Hur\" and during World War I, actor Charlie Chaplin led the John Philip Sousa band for a fundraising effort. The theater has also hosted, among others, Sarah Bernhardt, Will Rogers, George Burns and Gracie Allen, Lionel Barrymore, Ethel Barrymore, Bob Hope, the Allman Brothers Band, and Ray Charles.\n\nMagician Harry Houdini was also a featured player at the Grand, leaving a well-known legacy: the stage sports a number of trap doors, one of which remains operational and is used occasionally today in performances such as annual production of \"The Nutcracker\" ballet. Local lore claims that the trap doors were installed specifically for Houdini.\n\nIn 1936, as the popularity of vaudeville waned, the Grand changed to a movie theater, hosting Macon's only Hollywood premiere, 1945's \"God is My Co-Pilot\".\n\nBy the 1960s, the Grand had ceased showing movies and plans were made to replace it with a parking lot. Those plans were blocked in 1967 by the Macon Arts Council, a group formed to save and restore the Grand; the group held a fundraising gala featuring the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra and had the property placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1970. Among the founders of the group was Macon architect Ellamae Ellis League who also supervised a restoration of The Grand so it could reopen as a live theater in 1969. (The second balcony, or peanut gallery, remained closed to the public and was dedicated to lighting equipment at this time, reducing the maximum seating to its current number of 1,030). Fund-raising efforts continued through the next several decades, with ongoing physical plant upgrades, with another renovation taking place in 1985.\n\nIn 1995, Mercer University signed a lease with Bibb County to manage the Grand. Subsequently, Mercer has invested in upgrading the facility to modern standards as well as making it a fixture for community events. Today, the Grand hosts many Broadway touring companies, concerts (such as those of the Macon Symphony Orchestra, community theatre productions (including the aforementioned \"Nutcracker\" holiday show), and other performances and events.\n\n"}
{"id": "11735638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11735638", "title": "Green Apple Music &amp; Arts Festival", "text": "Green Apple Music &amp; Arts Festival\n\nThe Green Apple Festival, now in its fourth year, is America’s largest Earth Day Celebration. Its mission is to involve audiences of all ages in celebrating Earth Day, raising local and environmental awareness, educating individuals on environmental issues, hosting cultural events suitable for a wide and varied audience, and providing tangible benefits to local communities and environments.\n\nGreen Apple Festival was founded by Peter Shapiro and Zenbu Media. It is produced in partnership with Earth Day Network (EDN), the non-profit organization created by the original founders of Earth Day in 1970. The Executive Director is Kathryn Stoddard.\n\nSince the mid-nineties, the growth of Earth Day in the US and around the world has been explosive. More than one billion people in 175 countries now take part in Earth Day activities, according to the Earth Day Network. Businesses too have increasingly become involved and now view Earth Day as a day each year to focus on \"going green\", exploring climate solutions, and promoting environmental achievements.\n\nWith growing public demand for meaningful ways to participate in Earth Day in the US, Green Apple Festival has expanded each year since 2006. It began with one city, New York, in 2006; in 2007, it was held in New York, Chicago and San Francisco. By 2008, Green Apple Festival had grown to eight cities: New York, Washington DC, Miami, Chicago, Denver, Dallas, Los Angeles and San Francisco. In 2009, plans are to grow to 10 cities with events on April 19, 2009. In each city, the festival presents large-scale free events in landmark parks, and includes live music, entertainment, guest speakers and environmental activities.\n\n\"By featuring a diverse group of musicians and uniting these under one cause, we are able to coordinate an exciting, and unprecedented event. We hope the national footprint of the Festival will help inform as many people as possible on these important issues. And, we hope to keep expanding in future years. I think everyone would agree that Earth Day should be recognized in a big way every year.\" – Peter Shapiro, Founder.\n\nOnce the worlds's largest Earth Day celebration, Green Apple Festival has been inactive since 2009. Green Apple Festival took place in New York City, Washington DC, Miami, Chicago, Denver, Dallas, Los Angeles and San Francisco.\n\nOn April 20, 2008, eight simultaneous events were held to observe Earth Day, with over 200,000 people attending in landmark venues: Central Park in New York, the National Mall in Washington DC, Bicentennial Park in Miami, Fair Park in Dallas, Lincoln Park Zoo in Chicago, City Park in Denver, Golden Gate Park in San Francisco, and Santa Monica Pier in Los Angeles.\n\nIn addition, Green Apple Festival also presented 220 music shows in indoor music venues in the eight cities on April 18 and 19. Each of the 110 venues where the shows took place and 475 performances themselves were made \"green\" through the use of environmentally sustainable paper, lighting and cleaning products.\n\nIn 2007, The Green Apple Music & Arts Festival ran from April 20–22 in New York City, Chicago and San Francisco with over 200,000 in attendance and millions more reached through the media. Large-scale free public events were held in Central Park and on Vanderbilt Avenue outside Grand Central Terminal in New York, the Lincoln Park Zoo in Chicago and at Golden Gate Park in San Francisco. Green Apple partnered with Earth Day Network, the worldwide coordinating body for Earth Day events, campaigns and activities.\n\nThe first annual Green Apple Music & Arts festival was held at over 35 venues in the New York City area and ran from April 20–23. On Thursday, April 20, The Sixth Annual Jammy Awards show (Jammys)at Madison Square Garden kicked off the festivities. Jammys performances included: Blues Traveler, Guster, Peter Frampton, Martin Sexton, Béla Fleck and The Flecktones, and many more. The festival concluded at The Ziegfeld Theatre with the world premiere of the film Wetlands Preserved directed by Relix senior editor and Jambands.com founder Dean Budnick and executive produced by Peter Shapiro. The documentary examines the social, political and musical history of the celebrated New York City rock club The Wetlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "11637904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11637904", "title": "Historic Formula One Championship", "text": "Historic Formula One Championship\n\nThe Historic Formula One Championship, previously known as the Thoroughbred Grand Prix Championship, was a championship for Formula One cars from the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s which is sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile, motor sport's world governing body. The championship was recognised by the FIA in 1994 as the only official FIA Historic Formula One Championship and its first season was in 1995. For 2013, the series was taken over by Masters Racing to become the FIA Masters Historic Formula One Championship.\n\nThe championship is split into four classes according to the vehicle's age and technical specification.\nThe HFO Competition features classic Grand Prix racing cars from the 20-year period between 1966 and 1985. During that period, there were design innovations and regulatory changes which resulted in significant performance differences and there is a vast speed differential between the elder cars such as Jackie Stewart’s Tyrrell 001 and the latter machines like the Steffan Johannsen Tyrrell 012 and Brabham BT49.\nTo level the playing field, the championship is split into four classes according to age and design characteristics of the car. Drivers score points within their particular car’s class and all have the chance to claim the overall FIA Trophy at the end of the season.\nPoints\nEffectively, there are four competitions going on within every race and each provides points for the driver based on his or her placing in the car’s class and the number of competing cars in that class.\n1st — 9 points \n2nd — 6 points \n3rd — 4 points \n4th — 3 points \n5th — 2 points\n6th — 1 point\n1st — 6 points \n2nd — 4 points\n1st – 4 points\nFastest lap – An additional point will be awarded to the drivers who achieve the fastest lap in each class during the race.\n\nChampionship awards – The Champion is the driver who scores the greatest points total, regardless of the class in which he or she competes and it is possible for a driver to switch classes during the season. \nIn addition to overall champion, awards also go to drivers with the highest total of points in each class excluding the overall champion, as follows:\n\nHistoric Formula One Historic Cup \nThe competitor scoring the highest number of points in Class ‘A’\n\nHistoric Formula One Classic Cup \nThe competitor scoring the highest number of points in Class ‘B’\n\nHistoric Formula One Cup \nThe competitor scoring the highest number of points in Class ‘C’\n\nHistoric Formula One Sporting Cup \nThe competitor scoring the highest number of points in Class ‘D’\n\nThese are all FIA awards which are presented at an official FIA Historic Awards event.\n\nHFO also presents its own awards at a slightly less formal and usually much more boisterous event as follows:\nThe Chairman’s Trophy - Introduced in 2009 Tony Smith, this is awarded to the competitor who, in the chairman‘s opinion, best \"exhibits\" the “Spirit of the Championship”.\n\nThe Geoff Richardson Trophy - Provided by an engine builder, the trophy is awarded to the best newcomer.\n\nThe Nicholson McLaren Trophy - Provided by another engine builder. This 'trophy' is awarded to the 'best' team.\n\nThe Ensign Trophy - Provided by the former CEO of HFO, Mike Wheatley, who is something of an Ensign fan, having 'raced' an example in HFO very successfully.\n\nAlthough never a winner, the marque was at its peak during the class B period and this trophy goes to the winner of Class B.\n\nThe Colin Chapman Trophy – Provided by Clive Chapman and Classic Team Lotus. It is hard to imagine any historic category without a Colin Chapman Trophy but, as in HFO’s case, it is equally hard to determine which period it might be applied to since Chapman was responsible for so many 'innovations'.\n\nAfter considering that Class C covers the period when ground effects, carbon fibre chassis and the controversial twin chassis Lotus Type 88 all emerged from Chapman's expertise, it was agreed that this trophy would go to the winner of Class C.\n\n"}
{"id": "52231391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52231391", "title": "Inauguration of Donald Trump", "text": "Inauguration of Donald Trump\n\nThe inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States marked commencement of the four-year term of Donald Trump as President and Mike Pence as Vice President. An estimated 300,000–600,000 people (far fewer than the crowds of Barack Obama in 2009 and 2013) attended the public ceremony held on Friday, January 20, 2017 on the West Front of the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe event was the 58th presidential inauguration. Held in Washington, D.C. from January 17 to 21, 2017, inaugural events included concerts, the swearing-in ceremony, a Congressional luncheon, parade, inaugural balls, and the interfaith inaugural prayer service.\n\nAdministered by Chief Justice of the United States John Roberts, the presidential oath was taken by Trump as his first task after becoming president at noon, in keeping with and the 20th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, with the vice presidential oath taken by Pence and administered by Associate Justice Clarence Thomas immediately preceding it. Trump was sworn in with his left hand on a pair of Bibles, his personal copy and the Lincoln Bible. The inauguration was accompanied by protests worldwide.\n\nThe inauguration marked the formal culmination of the presidential transition of Donald Trump that began when he won the U.S. presidential election on November 8, 2016 and became the President-elect. Trump and his running mate, Mike Pence, were formally elected by the Electoral College on December 19, 2016. The win was certified by an electoral vote tally by a joint session of Congress on January 6, 2017.\n\nUpon his inauguration, Trump became the first person to become President without any prior public sector experience. He is also the oldest person to assume the Presidency, as well as the wealthiest. His wife, Melania, is the second First Lady to be born outside the U.S. (after Louisa Adams), the first naturalized citizen to become First Lady, and the first born in the 1970s.\n\nThe inauguration was planned primarily by two committees: the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies and the 2017 Presidential Inaugural Committee. The election was scheduled for November 8, 2016, but the congressional committee began construction of the inaugural platform on September 21.\n\nA number of artists who were approached to perform refused, including Jennifer Holliday who was originally intended to perform, but withdrew herself from the program after further consideration.\n\nThe swearing-in ceremony and the inaugural luncheon for President-elect Trump and Vice President-elect Pence were planned by the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, a committee composed of United States Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, the committee chair, and Senate party leaders Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Chuck Schumer of New York, and House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin and House party leaders Kevin McCarthy of California and Nancy Pelosi of California. The committee was overseen by the U.S. Senate Committee on Rules and Administration.\n\nThe Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies chose the inaugural theme \"Uniquely American\" to highlight the inaugural ceremony as \"a uniquely American expression of our Constitutional system\" and stress the peaceful transition of power.\n\nThe Inauguration Committee released the full schedule of the January 20 inaugural events on December 21, 2016. Military support to the 58th inauguration was coordinated by Joint Task Force National Capital Region, providing musical military units, marching bands, color guards, ushers, firing details, and salute batteries.\n\nThe 2017 Presidential Inaugural Committee organized several other inauguration-related events at the direction of the President‑elect and Vice President‑elect of the United States, such as the concerts, parade, balls and prayer service. The chairman of the committee was Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a real estate investor and longtime Trump friend and ally, and the founder of Colony Capital. The co-chairs of the committee were Lewis M. Eisenberg and Roy Bailey. Committee members included casino magnates Sheldon Adelson and Miriam Adelson, Steve Wynn and Phil Ruffin, oil entrepreneur Harold Hamm, businesswoman Diane Hendricks, coal businessman Joe Craft, Gail Icahn, wife of Carl Icahn, and Woody Johnson, owner of the New York Jets. The committee reported raising over $100 million for the inauguration from donors.\n\nNews reports surfaced in April 2018 that the Special Counsel investigation is looking into the inaugural committee's finances. Prosecutors have questioned several Russian oligarchs, upon their arrival at a U.S. airport, about whether any Russian money was illegally funneled into the inauguration committee or the Trump campaign itself. Robert Mueller's team has questioned Barack and other witnesses, reportedly asking about \"donors with connections to Russia, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar.\" Counterintelligence agents with the FBI began investigating this possibility immediately after the inauguration itself, their interest sparked by the large number of wealthy Russians who attended the inauguration and the special events that attended it.\n\nIn August 2018, American political consultant W. Samuel Patten, an associate of Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, pleaded guilty in federal court to failure to register as a foreign agent in connection with the illegal funneling of foreign funds to the presidential inauguration committee. Patten admitted to arranging a \"straw donation\" in which $50,000 was funneled from a Ukrainian businessman to a U.S. citizen to donate to the committee in exchange for four tickets to the inauguration. Patten also admitted to giving misleading testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee about the matter. In exchange for a recommendation of a lenient sentence, Patten pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with Special Counsel investigation led by Robert Mueller.\n\nIn court documents, prosecutors wrote that Patten formed a lobbying and consulting firm with a Russian national identified as \"Foreigner A\"; the firm was paid for work advising the Ukrainian Opposition Bloc party and some Bloc members, including \"a prominent Ukraine businessman identified only as 'Foreigner B.'\" The \"Washington Post\" and \"The New York Times\" identified Konstantin Kilimnik (a Manafort associate whom prosecutors allege is a Russian intelligence operative) as \"Foreigner A\" and Serhiy Lovochkin (a former aide to Viktor Yanukovych, the pro-Russian former president of Ukraine) as \"Foreigner B.\"\n\nOn Tuesday, January 17, then-President-elect Trump arrived in Washington, D.C. to attend what was titled the \"Chairman's Global Dinner,\" a high-profile dinner that was intended to serve as an introduction between foreign diplomats and the incoming Trump administration officials and appointees. The dinner was black tie and invitation-only, and was described by \"The Wall Street Journal\" as the most high-profile event preceding the inauguration, with both Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence addressing the gathering. The event was held at the Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium.\n\nRex Tillerson, Trump's choice to succeed John Kerry as Secretary of State, was in attendance, as well as former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani and National Security Advisor-designate Michael T. Flynn, and Israeli Ambassador Ron Dermer, according to reporters in attendance at the event. More than 200 foreign diplomats attended the event out of 500 total guests. During his speech to the group, Trump praised his choices thus far for Cabinet positions as well as his choice of Pence as his Vice President. According to \"The Boston Globe\" and the Associated Press, the menu included mustard black cod and filet mignon as entrees, and baked Alaska for dessert.\n\nOn the morning and afternoon of January 19, a day-long \"Voices of the People\" public concert was held at the Lincoln Memorial. The concert featured The King's Academy (West Palm Beach, Florida) Honor Choir, the Republican Hindu Coalition, the Montgomery Area High School Marching Band, Marlana Van Hoose, the Maury NJROTC Color Guard, the Pride of Madawaska, Webelos Troop 177, the Northern Middle School Honors Choir, the American Tap Company, the Everett High School Viking Marching Band, the TwirlTasTix Baton Twirling group, and three bagpipe groups.\n\nAfter returning home to New York City, Trump returned to Washington, D.C. on Thursday, January 19, arriving at Joint Base Andrews on a plane flown by the U.S. Air Force.\n\nTrump and Vice President-elect Pence attended a luncheon at Trump's hotel at the Old Post Office Pavilion, and afterwards, the official wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery, accompanied by his wife and family. Trump and Pence were escorted by Major General Bradley Becker at the ceremony. The Arlington National Cemetery is the final resting place of more than 400,000, mostly members of the armed forces, Medal of Honor recipients, and high ranking political officials.\n\nOn the evening of January 19, Trump hosted the \"Make America Great Again! Welcome Celebration,\" a concert for his supporters that were attending his inauguration the following day. The concert, held on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, featured performances by Lee Greenwood (who performed \"God Bless the USA\"), Toby Keith, 3 Doors Down, DJ Ravidrums, The Piano Guys, and The Frontmen of Country (Tim Rushlow, Larry Stewart, and Richie McDonald). Trump addressed his supporters at the end of the festivities, saying that the \"forgotten man and the forgotten woman will not be forgotten anymore\". Actor Jon Voight also spoke at the event, stating, \"We have been witness to a barrage of propaganda that left us all breathless with anticipation, not knowing if God could reverse all the negative lies against Mr. Trump, whose only desire was to make America great again.\" The concert concluded with a fireworks celebration.\n\nOn the morning of the inauguration, on January 20, after staying the night at the Blair House, the traditional house used by the incoming President-elect due to its proximity to the White House, Trump and his wife, Melania, and Mike Pence and his wife, Karen, attended a church service at St. John's Episcopal Church. The tradition dates back to James Madison, with every President since then attending the church service the morning of their inauguration. The service was led by Robert Jeffress, a Southern Baptist minister who campaigned for Trump during the election.\n\nAfter the church service, Trump and his wife went to the White House to meet with President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama. The Obamas greeted the Trumps, and Melania presented the couple with a gift. They then posed for photos in front of the White House press corps. The presentation of a gift was a tradition started by Michelle Obama when she presented George W. Bush and Laura Bush with a gift on the day of her husband's inauguration in 2009. Afterward, they held a tea reception inside the White House, along with Vice President Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, and Mike Pence and his wife, Karen Pence. As per tradition, following the meeting between the President and the President-elect, they shared the Presidential motorcade limousine, and made their way to the Capitol for the inaugural ceremony.\n\nRoy Blunt commenced the inauguration ceremony at 11:41 a.m. with welcoming remarks about the nation's \"commonplace and miraculous\" tradition of a peaceful transition of power. Three religious figures delivered invocations, followed by the Missouri State University chorale performing an original work, \"Now We Belong\". After short remarks, Chuck Schumer ended his speech by asking everyone to stand for the swearing-in ceremony.\n\nPresident Barack Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, former Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush, and former Vice Presidents Dan Quayle and Dick Cheney, along with their respective wives, attended the inauguration, including Hillary Clinton, who had been Trump's main opponent in the general election (Clinton was attending as a former First Lady, not as the losing candidate). George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush did not attend the inauguration due to health reasons.\n\nAt 11:54 a.m., Associate Justice Clarence Thomas swore in Mike Pence as the 48th Vice President of the United States, with Pence's hand on his personal Bible as well as the Bible of Ronald Reagan, the politician who inspired Pence to join the Republican Party. A performance of \"America the Beautiful\" by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir followed. At noon Trump became the 45th President of the United States, taking the oath of office with Chief Justice John Roberts. Trump was also sworn in using two Bibles, a Bible his mother gifted him and the historic Lincoln Bible. After the swearing-in, the Marine Band performed \"Hail to the Chief\" and Trump received the traditional 21-gun salute in his honor.\n\nTrump then delivered his 16-minute inaugural address of 1,433 words. The speech was the shortest inaugural address since Jimmy Carter's in 1977.\n\nIn late December 2016, Trump told visitors that he was writing the first draft of his inaugural address, citing previous inauguration speeches by John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan as inspirations. Trump \"insisted publicly that he wrote his own speech,\" although \"The Wall Street Journal\" and others reported that it had been written by Trump senior aides Stephen Miller and Steven Bannon.\n\nThe speech struck a tone that was both nationalist and populist, with suggestions of absolutism and distrust of democracy. The \"Los Angeles Times\" described the address as a \"a truncated version of Trump's campaign rally addresses, absent specific policy and big on a sense of anger at what he defined as a ruling class that has raided America for its own benefit.\" Historians and speechwriters termed the inaugural address as \"one of the most ominous\" in U.S. history, striking an unusually dark and bleak note. Former President George W. Bush reportedly referred to the speech as \"some weird shit\" after the ceremony concluded.\n\nTrump pledged to end what he referred to as \"American carnage,\" depicting the United States in a dystopian light—as a \"land of abandoned factories, economic angst, rising crime\"—while pledging \"a new era in American politics.\" After one year, the phrase \"American carnage\" has been said \"the dark heart of Trump's inauguration speech, was relentlessly mocked for its dark and despondent view of the state of the country\".\nFact-checking organizations, such as FactCheck.org, PolitiFact, and \"The Washington Post\"s Fact Checker noted that Trump's portrayal of the United States in decline \"did not always match reality.\" The fact-checking organizations noted, among other things, that the U.S. violent crime rate was far below its 1991 peak; that the U.S. economy had gained jobs for 75 consecutive months and that unemployment was significantly below its historical average; and participation in U.S. welfare programs had declined.\n\nIn the speech, Trump repeated his campaign-trail \"America First\" slogan in reference to economic and foreign policy issues. Trump's use of the phrase was controversial because of the slogan's association with U.S. isolationists who had opposed the American entry in World War II. Trump's decision \"not to make a strong case for the role of American power in shaping the outside world was a departure from the inaugural addresses of recent Republican presidents from Ronald Reagan to George W. Bush,\" and represented \"a sharp break with the internationalist vision of nearly every U.S. president of the past 100 years that troubled veteran foreign policy experts.\" Nevertheless, Trump's themes on foreign policy appealed \"to many Americans as well as to critics of Washington's bipartisan foreign policy establishment.\"\n\nThree religious leaders delivered benedictions following Trump's speech, bringing the total number of prayers during the ceremony to six, a record number. Reverend Franklin Graham; Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan, Archbishop of New York; Reverend Dr. Samuel Rodriguez; Pastor Paula White; Rabbi Marvin Hier; and Bishop Wayne T. Jackson gave the benedictions. Jackie Evancho concluded the ceremony with a performance of the U.S. national anthem.\n\nAfter the inaugural ceremony, President Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and Second Lady Karen Pence escorted former President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama to a departure ceremony on the east side of the U.S. Capitol. The Trumps exchanged remarks and bid farewell to the Obamas at the base of the helicopter that would transport them to Joint Base Andrews, and then returned to the steps of the Capitol building where they waved as the Obama's helicopter took off. Meanwhile, the Bidens took a limousine to Union Station where they boarded a train for Dover, Delaware. Before the luncheon and in keeping with tradition, President Trump signed his first presidential orders in the President's Room at the Capitol, and then signed the guest book for the luncheon.\nNext, Trump signed orders to officially present the nominations for his Cabinet and several sub‑Cabinet officials to the Senate for confirmation. His first bill that he signed into law was a waiver of the National Security Act of 1947 granted to him that allowed the nomination of retired General James Mattis to be nominated for the position of United States Secretary of Defense. The National Security Act of 1947 requires a seven-year waiting period before retired military personnel can assume the role of Secretary of Defense. Mattis became only the second Secretary of Defense to receive such a waiver, following George Marshall, who served under President Harry S. Truman. Following in tradition, Trump used various commemorative pens to sign the Cabinet nominations, and distributed them among the lawmakers and guests that had gathered. The pens are traditionally given as a gift to politicians or individuals touched by the action, or were instrumental in its implementation.\n\nTrump also signed a proclamation declaring his inauguration a National Day of Patriotic Devotion. In this he followed Barack Obama, who declared his a National Day of Renewal and Reconciliation, and previous declarations of periods of patriotism by such former presidents as Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.\n\nTrump was accompanied at the signing ceremony by his wife, and children, and several of his grandchildren, as well as the chairs of the Joint Congressional Inauguration Committee, including Senators Roy Blunt, Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer, and Congressional leaders Paul Ryan, Kevin McCarthy and Nancy Pelosi. During the ceremony, the lawmakers joked with President Trump, he handed pens to participants (e.g. Elaine Chao's nomination pen to Nancy Pelosi, Trump stating, because \"they were both women\") and then traded pens in an offer to give, not as an ask to receive (Nancy Pelosi gave Elaine Chao's nomination pen to Chao's husband, Mitch McConnell). The Trumps and Pences then attended an inaugural luncheon at the U.S. Capitol before traveling from there to the presidential reviewing stand at the White House to watch the parade.\nAs former President and Mrs. Obama began their journey to a vacation in California, the Trumps and Pences joined several congressional guests for the inaugural luncheon in National Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol. Guests included top Washington lawmakers as well as former presidents and vice presidents. During his formal address at the lunch, Trump asked those in attendance to give Hillary Clinton, his opponent during the 2016 election, a standing ovation.\n\nA luncheon at the U.S. Capitol has been part of the inaugural program since 1953 (before that time, the luncheon was usually held at the White House and hosted by the outgoing President and First Lady). The menu for the 2017 inaugural luncheon, which in the past has often featured dishes representative of the home states of the new President and Vice President, included more traditional dishes from around the country. The first course consisted of Maine lobster and Gulf shrimp with saffron sauce and peanut crumble, accompanied by a J. Lohr 2013 Arroyo Vista Chardonnay. The second dish contained Seven Hills Angus beef in dark chocolate and juniper jus with potato gratin, served with a Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon, and dessert included a chocolate soufflé and cherry vanilla ice cream with California Champagne. Since 1985, a painting has served as a backdrop for the head table. For the 2017 inaugural luncheon, the featured painting was George Caleb Bingham's \"The Verdict of the People\", which depicts a Missouri town and its citizens both celebrating and mourning the election victory of what historians say was a likely proslavery candidate.\n\nFollowing the luncheon, Trump, Pence, and their wives reviewed an honor guard of troops at the East Front of the U.S. Capitol before beginning the parade. The inaugural parade route ran along Pennsylvania Avenue, NW from the U.S. Capitol, ending at the north face of the White House. During most of the parade, President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump traveled in the armored limousine used by the President because of potential security threats. The President and First Lady exited their limousine twice, walking on Pennsylvania Avenue for portions of the parade, a longstanding custom. Vice President Pence and his wife Karen walked the parade route at several points with their children as well.\n\nThe parade lasted approximately two hours during the afternoon and early evening following the inaugural ceremony. Parade participants included more than 8,000 people, \"representing forty organizations including high school and university marching bands, equestrian corps, first responders, and veterans groups,\" according to the Joint Congressional Inauguration Committee. Each branch of the United States military was also represented.\n\nVice President Mike Pence invited several groups from Indiana to march in the parade in the Indiana section, including the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department Drill Team, the Culver Military Academy, and the Columbus North High School marching band from Pence's native Columbus, Indiana. Shortly after the parade, Trump went to the Oval Office to sign his first executive orders as president, including an order to start the process of dismantling the Affordable Care Act.\n\nPresident Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump attended three official inaugural balls during the evening of January 20, 2017, titled \"Liberty and Freedom: The Official Presidential Inaugural Balls.\" Donald Trump wore a classic black tuxedo, with a white button up shirt, and a black bow tie, in keeping with tradition. Melania Trump wore a white, off-the-shoulder, sleeveless gown designed by French-American fashion designer Hervé Pierre. Pierre has also designed dresses for First Ladies Laura Bush, Hillary Clinton and Michelle Obama, and he has been styling for Melania Trump for several years. The dress featured a front slit, a ruffled accent and a thin red belt to cinch the waist.\n\nThe Liberty Ball, one of two official balls held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, was the first stop of the evening for the President and First Lady. The Trumps danced to their first song, which was chosen to be \"My Way\" by Frank Sinatra, and was performed by Erin Boheme, an American jazz singer. In an attempt to allow more access to the inaugural balls, the Presidential Inauguration Committee announced that they intended to make the inaugural balls the most affordable in recent history, offering $50 tickets to either the Liberty or Freedom Balls. The second ball that the Trumps attended was the Freedom Ball, also held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, and also featured a first dance to \"My Way\", as with the Liberty Ball.\nThe third ball that the President and First Lady attended was the Salute To Our Armed Services Ball, which took place at the National Building Museum. The ball was by invitation only, with free tickets being provided to \"active duty and reserve military, Medal of Honor recipients, wounded warriors, military families, veterans, and first responders,\" according to the Presidential Inauguration Committee. At the beginning of the ball, Trump and his wife, Melania, addressed the crowd of gathered service members, and then spoke via satellite with active duty soldiers in Bagram Airfield, Afghanistan. Trump thanked the active duty soldiers for the congratulations on his inauguration as Commander-in-chief. Tony Orlando and the Josh Weathers Band performed at the Armed Services Ball.\n\nIt is tradition for the President and First Lady, and the Vice President and Second Lady, to dance with military service members during the Armed Services Ball. A cover of the song \"I Will Always Love You\" by Whitney Houston was performed during the dance. President Trump danced with U.S. Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Catherine Cartmell of Newport, Rhode Island. Sgt. Angel Rodriguez, who danced with Second Lady Karen Pence, drew attention for his dancing style, spinning the Second Lady, which provoked playful laughter from Tiffany and Eric Trump. After the dance concluded, President Trump and Vice President Pence used a saber to cut the ceremonial military cake in order to honor the sacrifice and service of the members of the Armed Forces.\n\nOn January 21, President Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, Vice President Pence and Second Lady Karen Pence gathered at the Washington National Cathedral for a national day of prayer, a tradition dating back to the first President, George Washington. Among the parishioners were more than two dozen religious leaders from a variety of different faiths. Marlana VanHoose, a 20-year-old vocalist who was born with cytomegalovirus, performed at the ceremony, singing \"How Great Thou Art\". Melania Trump was visibly emotional during the performance, and led a standing ovation for her after she finished performing. The service began with call to prayer by the Reverend Rosemarie Duncan, Mikhail Manevich, a Jewish cantor, and Mohamed Magid, a Muslim imam. The clergy spoke of both compassion and diversity.\n\nBefore the event, federal and local agencies estimated turnout between 700,000 and 900,000. Trump predicted his inauguration having \"an unbelievable, perhaps record-setting turnout.\"\n\nThe US Park Service does not publish crowd estimates about events at the National Mall. Overhead imagery and statistics on public transportation ridership from the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA), which operates Metrorail, are therefore used to estimate crowd sizes.\n\nThe WMATA reported that 193,000 passengers rode the Metro before 11 a.m. on the day of Trump's inauguration, and 570,557 passengers during the entire day, noting that it was lower than the average weekday ridership of 639,000 passengers. \"USA Today\" reported on \"a notable number\" of empty seats along the parade route.\nCrowd counting experts cited by \"The New York Times\" estimated that about 160,000 people were in the National Mall areas in the hour leading up to Trump's speech. Crowd science professor Keith Still estimated the total attendance at 300,000 to 600,000 people, or one-third the estimated 1.1 million to 1.8 million people that attended Obama's 2009 inauguration – which set a record for the total number of people in the National Mall at any one given time, and which marked the inauguration of the nation's first African American president. CNN provided a gigapixel panorama of the area.\n\nNielsen ratings showed that TV viewership of the inauguration in the US was 30.6 million, more than Obama's second inauguration in 2013 (20.6 million), but less than Obama's first inauguration in 2009 (38 million) and Reagan's first in 1981 (42 million). Trump's inauguration became the most streamed Twitter video during the site's decade long history with more than 6.8 million views.\n\nIn a press conference on January 21, Sean Spicer, Trump's White House Press Secretary, stated that the crowd \"was the largest audience ever to witness an inauguration, period, both in person and around the globe\", and accused the media of reporting false crowd estimates to \"lessen the enthusiasm of the inauguration\". Spicer also stated that 420,000 people rode the Metro on the day of Trump's inauguration, and that only 317,000 rode on the day of Obama's. In fact, 570,557 Metro trips were taken on the day of Trump's inauguration, compared to 1.1 million on Obama's 2009 inauguration day and 782,000 on Obama's 2013 inauguration day. Ridership at 11 a.m. was 193,000, 513,000 and 317,000 respectively.\n\nNumerous sources highlighted the fact that Spicer's statements were incorrect, and many accused him of intentionally misstating the figures. In response, Donald Trump's counselor and spokesperson, Kellyanne Conway, in an interview with NBC's Chuck Todd, stated that Spicer merely presented \"alternative facts\". Todd responded by saying \"alternative facts are not facts. They're falsehoods.\"\n\nOn January 23, Spicer admitted his error concerning WMATA ridership levels, stating that he was relying on statistics given to him, but he stood by his claim that the inauguration was the most-viewed, stating he also included online viewership in addition to in-person and television in his estimates. Spicer's claim of the largest audience ever was still shown inaccurate as Nielsen reported 30.6 million viewers across 12 networks while Obama had 37.8 million and Ronald Reagan 41.8 million. As for online viewership, Spicer himself cited a figure of 16.9 million livestreams provided by CNN. However, CNN served nearly 27 million streams in 2009 for Obama's inauguration.\n\nThe incoming administration briefly shut down the Interior Department's Twitter accounts. The National Park Service's official Twitter account had re-tweeted two Tweets on \"omissions on policy areas\" on the White House website and Trump's and Obama's crowd sizes. An NPS spokesman issued an apology for \"mistaken RTs\".\n\nOn the morning following the inauguration, Trump telephoned acting National Park Service director Michael T. Reynolds and personally directed him to produce additional aerial photographs of the Inauguration Day crowds. Reynolds and the Park Service complied with the directive; the additional photos, however, \"did not prove Trump's contention that the crowd size was upward of 1 million.\" In September 2018, documents released from a Freedom of Information Act request showed that Reynolds and the National Park Service doctored photos of the inauguration, at the direction of the President, in an attempt to make the crowd size seem larger.\n\nIn September 2018, a government photographer admitted that he, at Trump's request, edited pictures of the inauguration to make the crowd appear larger: \"The photographer cropped out empty space 'where the crowd ended' for a new set of pictures requested by Trump on the first morning of his presidency, after he was angered by images showing his audience was smaller than Barack Obama's in 2009.\"\n\nAs of mid-December, there were 20 requests for demonstration permits for Trump's inauguration, including , and the Women's March on Washington, which took place the day after inauguration day. Supported by nearly 200 activist groups and organizations, and drawing an estimated three times as many participants as the inauguration, the Women's March demonstrated on racial and gender equality, affordable healthcare, abortion rights and voting rights.\n\nProtests occurred during the inauguration ceremonies in Washington, D.C. The vast majority of protesters, several thousand in all, were peaceful. DisruptJ20 protesters linked arms at security checkpoints and attempted to shut them down. Some elements of the protesters were black bloc groups and self described anarchists, and engaged in sporadic acts of vandalism, rioting, and violence. Six police officers sustained minor injuries, and at least one other person was injured.\n\nA total of 234 people were arrested and charged with rioting, launching controversial trials that gave rise to allegations that the government was overreaching. Ultimately, 21 defendants pleaded guilty, and every other defendant were either acquitted, or had charges dropped by prosecutors; the government failed to obtain a guilty verdict at any trial. In December 2017, the first six people to be tried in connection with the events of January 20 were acquitted by a jury of all charges. Twenty other defendants pleaded guilty and prosecutors dropped cases against 20 others. In January 2018, prosecutors dropped charges against 129 other defendants. In May 2018, prosecutors dropped charges against seven more defendants, after the court found that prosecution had intentionally made misrepresentations to the court and hidden exculpatory evidence from defendants in violation of the \"Brady\" rule, and prosecutors also reduced charges against others. Finally, in July 2018, the government dropped charges against all remaining defendants.\n\nSixty-seven Democratic U.S. Representatives declined to attend Trump's inauguration, citing \"what they described as his alarming and divisive policies, foreign interference in his election and his criticism of civil rights icon John Lewis, a congressman from Georgia\".\n\nThere were 16.63 million viewers of Trump taking the oath of office and giving his inaugural address on the three major cable news networks Fox, CNN, and MSNBC. The number of viewers for Obama in 2009 was more at 17.06 million and in 2013 less at 6.73 million. According to Nielsen data, there were 30.64 million people who viewed Trump's inauguration on the 12 networks that covered it live. The number of viewers for Obama's 2009 inauguration on the 18 networks that covered it live was more at 37.8 million. At Obama's 2013 inauguration, it was less at 20.55 million.\n\nLegend\nTotal cable TV viewers11:45 AM to 12:15 PM Eastern\nTotal cable TV viewers8:00 to 11:00 PM Eastern\nTotal television viewers11:00 AM to 4:00 PM Eastern\nSource:Adweek\n\nThe inaugural committee raised an unprecedented $107 million, twice the amount raised by any previous inauguration committee. Observers agree that the actual inauguration expenses would have been a fraction of that amount, and the advocacy group Public Citizen has been seeking to know what happened to the remaining funds. Committee officials said they were evaluating charities to give the remaining funds to. In September 2017 the committee said it had given $3 million to three separate hurricane rescue organizations. An unspecified amount had also been used for redecorating the White House and Vice President Mike Pence's Washington residence. Thomas Barrack, the committee chair, said that further information about charitable donations would be released in November 2017, but no such announcement was made. The inauguration committee reported having $2.8 million in the bank .\n\nAccording to a tax filing released on February 15, 2018, the committee donated $5 million to charity in 2017 - namely, the previously announced donations to hurricane relief, the White House Historical Association, and the Vice President's Residence Foundation. The majority of the committee's outlay - $57 million - went to four event planning companies. The largest amount, $26 million, went to a California firm called WIS Media Partners, which was created in December 2016 by a close friend and advisor to Melania Trump named Stephanie Winston Wolkoff. The committee reported nearly $15 million in administrative expenses, including $9.4 million for travel and $4.6 million for salaries and benefits for 208 employees.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27257356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27257356", "title": "International Disaster and Risk Conference", "text": "International Disaster and Risk Conference\n\nOrganized and hosted by the Global Risk Forum The International Disaster and Risk Conference IDRC is a global gathering of experts for risk reduction, disaster management, and climate change adaptation. IDRCs are held as a biennial conference in Davos, Switzerland and complemented every other year with regional conferences hosted in different regions of the world and endorse the UNISDR Global Platform meetings (GP in 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013, and 2015).\n\nThe IDRC conferences promote the integral risk management approach – across subject areas, professions, and sectors – encompassing scientific understanding with business, policy responses, the media and citizen participation. The IDRCs encourage stronger ties with adequate public-private partnership models and devising approaches for moving towards a more truly integrative way of thinking about disaster and risks.\n\nAdditional conferences and workshops dealing with specific disaster and risk topics may be organized in Davos or elsewhere. The conferences and workshops aim to provide solutions for effective and efficient global disaster and risk management and climate change adaptation. These issues need the involvement of all stakeholders of the public and the private sector.\n\nOriginally organized by the Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL, since 2007 IDRCs are organised by the Global Risk Forum GRF Davos. Patronage of IDRC include the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation SDC, UN organisations such as UNESCO, UN ISDR, UNDP, UNEP and ILO as well as the private sector like SWISS RE.\n\nIDRC conferences and workshops contribute to harmonizing risk reduction and disaster management with climate change adaptation measures. The IDRC Conferences provide an ideal platform for assessment and dissemination activities, as well as for networking activities.\n\nThe next IDRC conference will be held from 28 August to 1 September 2014 in Davos, Switzerland.\n\nThe International Disaster and Risk Conference IDRC Davos 2010 with its motto “Risk, Disasters, Crisis and Global Change – From Threats to Sustainable Opportunities” was a milestone toward the integration of the ever more complex and interwoven portfolio of risk, security and disaster related topics, themes and trends as addressed by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon in his message to IDRC Davos 2010.\n\nAt IDRC Davos 2010 some 850 conference participants from 100 countries all over the world have gathered in a unique setting and atmosphere. High-ranking delegations from The Gambia, Uganda, Republic of the Congo, from the I.R.Iran, from India, P.R. China, and Indonesia participated.\n\nThirteen plenary sessions, around 50 special and parallel sessions, side events, poster sessions, exhibitions, workshops, training courses and cultural events provided the frame for this worthwhile undertaking. It is remarkable to realize how far the formerly fragmented, global risk and disaster community has grown into one distinctive body of excellence.\n\nTo increase the interaction and exchange knowledge and ideas, GRF transformed the concentrated collection of ideas and knowledge presented at IDRC Davos 2010 into an interactive portfolio of presentations, video recorded plenary sessions and video statements.\n\nOver 700 participants from more than 80 countries attended the conference, including participants, from the United Nations and international organizations; from NGOs, the private sector, science and the media.\n\nWith 9 keynote presentations, 15 special panels, 85 sessions, 5 workshops, 78 posters, 23 panellists and 311 presenters; 5 book presentations; 4 lunch cinemas, the IDRC Davos continues to be a tradition of bringing together different actors and stakeholders to take stock of the progress made in integrative risk management and to suggest ways forward to improve risk management.\n\nThe outcomes of the IDRC Davos 2014 shall serve as the science & technology input for the post-2015 framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (HFA2) and provide recommendations towards the UN World Conference WCDRR in Sendai, Japan. An outcomes report will be published in due time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3864015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3864015", "title": "Jetseta Gage", "text": "Jetseta Gage\n\nJetseta Marrie Gage (August 25, 1994 – March 24, 2005) was an American child whose kidnapping, rape and murder prompted major changes in sentencing laws for those who commit child sex crimes in Iowa. Roger Bentley, a convicted sex offender and friend of Gage's family, was arrested in connection with 10-year-old Jetseta's death. He was convicted of first-degree murder and first-degree kidnapping on January 31, 2006. On February 24, he was sentenced to two consecutive mandatory sentences of life in prison without parole.\n\nProsecutors alleged that Bentley took Gage from her home to a run-down trailer in rural Johnson County, Iowa, where he raped and killed her. An AMBER Alert was issued shortly after it was noticed that the young girl was missing. The AMBER Alert program had errors that night. A proper description with name and picture did not appear until hours after she had vanished. Bentley was arrested a day later. Investigators found her body inside a bathroom cabinet inside the trailer.\n\nBentley's trial was moved to Scott County on the defense's change of venue motion because of extensive pre-trial publicity; local media dubbed the case \"Justice for Jetseta.\" During his trial, prosecutors linked DNA evidence found on Gage's body to Bentley, while the defense (which did not call any witnesses) claimed there were no eyewitnesses to the crime or direct evidence. It took just over two hours for the jury to arrive at its guilty verdict.\n\nBentley’s brother, 34-year-old James Bentley, was indicted in November 2004 on felony sexual abuse charges after authorities alleged he sexually abused Gage between 2002 and 2004. The Bentley brothers were not strangers to the family. Gage's mother had dated both men and allowed the brothers contact with her children. James Bentley was found guilty of second-degree sexual abuse at the Clarke County courthouse in Osceola, Iowa, on August 1, 2008. On March 1, 2007, a federal judge in Cedar Rapids found James Bentley guilty of six counts of child pornography and sexual exploitation charges in a separate trial. Bentley was accused of taking explicit photos of Gage and another infant girl in late 2003 and transporting those photos with him to Arkansas shortly afterwards. He was sentenced to life in prison without parole on June 12, 2007.\n\nWriters and broadcasters affiliated with the Associated Press named the Jetseta Gage murder as Iowa's top news story of 2005.\n\nIn 2005, the Iowa General Assembly passed a bill extending prison sentences and strengthening supervision of sex offenders – through methods such as electronic monitoring – upon their release from prison.\n\nAlso, numerous local governments throughout the state moved swiftly to enact stricter residency restrictions for sex offenders. Like a number of other states, Iowa already had a moratorium barring those on the sex offender registry from living within of a school or state-registered day care center, and local officials proposed expanding the buffer zone to such child-oriented places as libraries, parks and swimming pools. While some cities and county governments passed such ordinances, other governments – such as the city of Davenport and Scott County – were cool to the proposal and ultimately did not enact the tighter restrictions.\n\nCritics contended that the stricter residency proposals had several flaws, most notably:\n\n\nIn January 2006, 45 members of the Iowa Senate – 23 Democrats and 22 Republicans – co-sponsored a bill increasing the penalties for those convicted of certain sex crimes, including lascivious acts with a child and sexual exploitation of a minor. Under the proposal, a first-time offender would face a mandatory minimum 25-year prison sentence upon conviction.\n\nMany Iowans, including the Gage family, have called for a restoration of the death penalty, particularly for crimes in which children are raped and killed. Iowa abolished capital punishment in 1965, and is one of 12 states that currently do not have a death penalty. A GOP-sponsored bill failed to pass in 2005, and no action has been taken since.\n"}
{"id": "23750418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23750418", "title": "King's Ball", "text": "King's Ball\n\nIn New France and in modern Missouri, a King's Ball is a celebration held on Epiphany (\"La fête des rois\"), or some later time before Lent.\n\nThe tradition was brought to the New World by Catholic émigrés. The parties lasted throughout the night and into the next day, when a late morning breakfast was served. Music, dancing and fine food were always important elements of the event. But the centerpiece of the annual celebration was the selection of the royal personage.\n\nAs in other European Epiphany celebrations, a \"Galette des Rois\" was baked, with a bean hidden in it. The man who found the bean in his slice was crowned King of the festivities; he selected his Queen, and they reigned over the year's festivities. More recently, a small Christ child trinket has been substituted for the bean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2119227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2119227", "title": "List of LGBT conferences in Singapore", "text": "List of LGBT conferences in Singapore\n\nThis is a list of LGBT conferences in Singapore.\n\nA day-long conference held in August 2003, by SPACES, a private counseling agency. It was groundbreaking in that it was the first widely advertised seminar organized by a predominantly gay volunteer organization which dealt with homosexuality in a scientific and balanced manner. Any previous public talk had to avoid portraying homosexuality as normal, or else the police would not issue a license to allow it to proceed.\n\nHeld from 19–22 August 2003 at the Raffles City Convention Centre, it was hosted and co-organised by the National University of Singapore's Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences. It drew over 1000 participants from around the world, almost all of whom were academics. Over 900 papers were presented. The conference was a landmark in that its programme included the most papers touching on sexuality and transgend issues ever assembled in Singapore. The 60-80 queer scholars who flew in for the conference were the largest group of queer academics meeting at a local venue at the same time.\n\nMany felt that the theme of sexuality and transgenderism fielded more papers than any other, such as IndoChinese history or modern Chinese politics. Altogether 10 panels (each with about 4 papers) discussed topics on sexuality and transgenderism. They were: \nSome of the academics from Australia and other Western countries had wondered, before the conference, whether their papers would be accepted, considering that the conference was to be held in Singapore, and the NUS would play a big part in its organisation. Academic and activist Russell Heng felt they need not have worried as NUS had actually pitched for it.\n\nHeld from 25–28 November 2003 by the Singapore chapter of the controversial US-linked organisation Focus on the Family. This despite the organisers having received protest letters and a statement issued by the AFFIRM Network, a US-based group of psychologists, which highlighted \"serious ethical and scientific concerns\" about \"reparative therapy\" for gays and lesbians. The letter listed three \"serious problems\" which the Singaporean public should have been made aware of if they were considering attending at the event. Recipients of the letter included \"The Straits Times\", the Singapore Psychological Society, the California Psychological Association Ethics Committee and Melvin Wong, Ph.D., the California-based speaker of the seminars. The series of seminars, which was supported by the Metropolitan YMCA, the YMCA of Singapore, the Salvation Army, the Boys' Brigade and the State-run and funded National Council of Social Service (NCCS), covered topics such as \"Preventing Homosexuality\", \"Recovery Therapy\" and \"Unwanted Homosexuality: Steps to Early Detection and Prevention\". People Like Us (PLU) had also sent a different set of letters to the NCCS, the Ministry of Community Development, volunteer organisations and the media highlighting that the claims purported by the seminar's organisers were contrary to the opinions of the mainstream medical community. One of the main points of contention was that voluntary welfare organisations were eligible to receive a 70% training grant from the NCCS if they attended, according to the seminar brochure. The NCCS subsequently withdrew its previously-offered training grant to participants on the grounds of the speaker, Dr. Melvin Wong's lack of qualifications.\n\nIn March 2004, The Fun Stage, a theatre group, applied to the Public Entertainment Licensing Unit (PELU), which is under the Singapore Police Force and handles the licensing of public lectures and forums, for permits to hold three talks at SPACE 21, 21 Tanjong Pagar Road. These were to be lead-up events to their play \"Lovers' Words\", scheduled for mid-April 2004. The 3 talks entitled the \"Lovers' Lecture Series\" were meant for academics, arts practitioners and critics. Its scheduled programmed was as follows:\n\nA forum held on 29 March 2004, organised by the National University of Singapore Society (NUSS) at Kent Ridge Guild Hall. The main speaker was activist Alex Au who argued that resolving the question of whether the State should be regulating the sexual choices of consenting adults depended on whether the State was a paternalistic or liberal one. In the former case, the State's default tendency was to regulate, and one would have to present positive reasons for it not to. The opposite applied in the liberal paradigm. Au used the example of homosexuality to show how weak the arguments for regulating sexual behaviour in a liberal context were, even for such a contentious issue. The other speaker was Associate Professor Michael Hor, Faculty of Law, NUS who dissected section 377 and section 377A of the Penal Code, discussed some pertinent cases and also delved into constitutional principles involved. He touched on the reasoning used by the US Supreme Court in the Lawrence vs Texas case, and how such reasoning might apply in Singapore's constitutional provisions.\n\n\nHeld on Tuesday, 1 March 2005, it was the first workshop organised by Oogachaga-Looking Glass, the non-profit lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and straight affirming counseling service. This was part of regular personal development and growth workshops for lesbians, gays and their friends which were to take place on the first Tuesday of every other month in 2005.\n\nClarence Singam and Eileena Lee shared their own journeys of growth into self acceptance and affirmation. Eileena and Clarence shared the lessons they learned about being human, being strong, finding empathy and learning to love from their unique and yet common journeys. They shared their ups and downs, their self rejections, their own healing and the celebration of their selfhoods. The sharing was followed by a question and answer session, to engage Eileena and Clarence further.\n\nA dialogue held on Saturday, 12 March 2005 as part of an event curated by Ong Keng Sen of Theatreworks, under the umbrella of the National Arts Council-funded Singapore Season. It took place at the Institute of Contemporary Arts, London, UK. PLU3's Alex Au was one of the panelists at the dialogue.\n\nHeld on Tuesday, 3 May 2005, the second in the series of Oogachaga-Looking Glass workshops. A panel of 3 gay persons (Kok Wei, Dominic Chua and Eileena Lee), 2 mothers and 2 brothers shared their journey of coming home to each other. What were the challenges they faced when they found out their family members were gay? What made these three gay persons share their lives as gay people to their families? If they could do it all over again, would they? How would they do it differently?\n\nHeld on Tuesday, 5 July 2005, the third in the series of Oogachaga workshops.\n\nIt explored the multitude of challenges, from a lack of role models and social support to dealing with one's own and one's partner's hangups. Questions tackled were: What makes a healthy relationship? How does one deal with trials that pop up in every relationship? How does one negotiate one's relationship commitments? What sacrifices does one have to make to maintain a relationship? How does one's biological families fit in, if at all? A panel of gay and lesbian persons shared the ups & downs and joys & sorrows of their relationships. Speaker Kim shared the twists and turns of his 20-year partnership with Leong. Jo and Jorg talked about their long distance stint and why they decided to get married after a 10-year partnership. The panelists shared the lessons they learned about being human, being strong, finding empathy and learning to love from their unique and yet common journeys.\n\nSexualities, Genders and Rights in Asia was organised by the Australian National University and Mahidol University and held in Bangkok, Thailand from 7–9 July 2005. The conference had difficulties raising funds because many donors had been exhausted by the recent tsunami relief effort. Furthermore, many of them also had policies where their contributions should be linked to health issues. This made it hard for the conference to include thematic streams that dealt with identity and representation not connected with HIV/AIDS. Singapore's People Like Us 3 rendered financial assistance which made possible the \"Cinema and Media\" thematic stream, in particular the panel on Asian Queer Filmmakers, by funding scholarships for speakers from poorer countries who would present papers on this subject. Fridae was also another proud Singaporean sponsor of the conference. Over 200 papers were presented, including studies by Singaporean and Singapore-based researchers.\n\nIn August 2005, gay activists, bolstered by broad-based grassroots support organised Singapore's inaugural month-long gay pride celebration called IndigNation. The latter moniker was a clever play of words representing the gay community's displeasure at the unexpected official ban of the annual Nation mega-parties which had been approved and held without incident 4 years in a row prior to 2005.\n\nThe first talk of the \"festival\" was delivered in Mandarin by Dr. Tan Chong Kee to a capacity audience at 7:30pm on 2 August 2005 at Xposé Café, Bar and Restaurant. Its management allowed free use of the premises to conduct the historic event, namely, the first widely advertised talk on homosexuality, open to all and held in a public indoor venue ever to take place in Singapore since Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's 2004 liberalisation of the rules governing public talks in indoor areas. Dr. Tan, who had conducted extensive research into Chinese civilization, challenged the notion that same-sex love was contrary to Asian culture. He traced and explored various ancient classical Chinese texts to demonstrate that same-sex love had been an integral part of Asian life.\n"}
{"id": "487164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487164", "title": "List of public lecture series", "text": "List of public lecture series\n\nRecurrent series of prestigious public lectures are presented in various countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "523033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=523033", "title": "List of recessions in the United States", "text": "List of recessions in the United States\n\nThere have been as many as 47 recessions in the United States dating back to the Articles of Confederation, and although economists and historians dispute certain 19th-century recessions, the consensus view among economists and historians is that \"The cyclical volatility of GNP and unemployment was greater before the Great Depression than it has been since the end of World War II.\" Cycles in the country's agricultural production, industrial production, consumption, business investment, and the health of the banking industry contribute to these declines. U.S. recessions have increasingly affected economies on a worldwide scale, especially as countries' economies become more intertwined.\n\nThe unofficial beginning and ending dates of recessions in the United States have been defined by the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), an American private nonprofit research organization. The NBER defines a recession as \"a significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than two quarters which is 6 months, normally visible in real gross domestic product (GDP), real income, employment, industrial production, and wholesale-retail sales\".\n\nIn the 19th century, recessions frequently coincided with financial crises. Determining the occurrence of pre-20th-century recessions is more difficult due to the dearth of economic statistics, so scholars rely on historical accounts of economic activity, such as contemporary newspapers or business ledgers. Although the NBER does not date recessions before 1857, economists customarily extrapolate dates of U.S. recessions back to 1790 from business annals based on various contemporary descriptions. Their work is aided by historical patterns, in that recessions often follow external shocks to the economic system such as wars and variations in the weather affecting agriculture, as well as banking crises.\n\nMajor modern economic statistics, such as unemployment and GDP, were not compiled on a regular and standardized basis until after World War II. The average duration of the 11 recessions between 1945 and 2001 is 10 months, compared to 18 months for recessions between 1919 and 1945, and 22 months for recessions from 1854 to 1919. Because of the great changes in the economy over the centuries, it is difficult to compare the severity of modern recessions to early recessions. No recession of the post-World War II era has come anywhere near the depth of the Great Depression, which lasted from 1929 until 1941 and was caused by the 1929 crash of the stock market and other factors.\n\nAttempts have been made to date recessions in America beginning in 1790. These periods of recession were not identified until the 1920s. To construct the dates, researchers studied business annals during the period and constructed time series of the data. The earliest recessions for which there is the most certainty are those that coincide with major financial crises.\n\nBeginning in 1835, an index of business activity by the Cleveland Trust Company provides data for comparison between recessions. Beginning in 1854, the National Bureau of Economic Research dates recession peaks and troughs to the month. However, a standardized index does not exist for the earliest recessions.\n\nIn 1791, Congress chartered the First Bank of the United States to handle the country's financial needs. The bank had some functions of a modern central bank, although it was responsible for only 20% of the young country's currency. In 1811 the bank's charter lapsed, but it was replaced by the Second Bank of the United States, which lasted from 1816–36.\n\nIn the 1830s, U.S. President Andrew Jackson fought to end the Second Bank of the United States. Following the Bank War, the Second Bank lost its charter in 1836. From 1837 to 1862, there was no national presence in banking, but still plenty of state and even local regulation, such as laws against branch banking which prevented diversification. In 1863, in response to financing pressures of the Civil War, Congress passed the National Banking Act, creating . There was neither a central bank nor deposit insurance during this era, and thus banking panics were common. Recessions often led to bank panics and financial crises, which in turn worsened the recession.\n\nThe dating of recessions during this period is controversial. Modern economic statistics, such as gross domestic product and unemployment, were not gathered during this period. Victor Zarnowitz evaluated a variety of indices to measure the severity of these recessions. From 1834 to 1929, one measure of recessions is the Cleveland Trust Company index, which measured business activity and, beginning in 1882, an index of trade and industrial activity was available, which can be used to compare recessions.\nFollowing the end of World War II and the large adjustment as the economy adjusted from wartime to peacetime in 1945, the collection of many economic indicators, such as unemployment and GDP, became standardized. Recessions after World War II may be compared to each other much more easily than previous recessions because of these available data. The listed dates and durations are from the official chronology of the National Bureau of Economic Research. GDP data are from the Bureau of Economic Analysis, unemployment from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (after 1948). Note that the unemployment rate often reaches a peak associated with a recession after the recession has officially ended.\nNo recession of the post-World War II era has come anywhere near the depth of the Great Depression. In the Great Depression, GDP fell by 27% (the deepest after demobilization is the recession beginning in December 2007, during which GDP has fallen 5.1% as of the second quarter of 2009) and unemployment rate reached 10% (the highest since was the 10.8% rate reached during the 1981–82 recession).\n\nThe National Bureau of Economic Research dates recessions on a monthly basis back to 1854; according to their chronology, from 1854 to 1919, there were 16 cycles. The average recession lasted 22 months, and the average expansion 27. From 1919 to 1945, there were six cycles; recessions lasted an average 18 months and expansions for 35. From 1945 to 2001, and 10 cycles, recessions lasted an average 10 months and expansions an average of 57 months. This has prompted some economists to declare that the business cycle has become less severe. \n\nMany factors that may have contributed to this moderation including the establishment of deposit insurance in the form of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in 1933 and increased regulation of the banking sector. Other changes include the use of fiscal policy in the form of automatic stabilizers to alleviate cyclical volatility. The creation of the Federal Reserve System in 1913 has been disputed as a source of stability with it and its policies having mixed successes. Since the early 1980s the sources of the Great Moderation has been attributed to numerous causes including public policy, industry practices, technology, and even good luck.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163857", "title": "Livonian Brothers of the Sword", "text": "Livonian Brothers of the Sword\n\nThe Livonian Brothers of the Sword (, , ) was a Catholic military order established by Albert, the third bishop of Riga (or possibly by Theoderich von Treyden), in 1202. Pope Innocent III sanctioned the establishment in 1204 for the second time. The membership of the order comprised German \"warrior monks\" who fought Baltic and Finnic pagans in the area of modern-day Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Alternative names of the Order include Christ Knights, Sword Brethren, and The Militia of Christ of Livonia. The seal reads: \"+MAGISTRI ETFRM (et fratrum) MILICIE CRI (Christi) DE LIVONIA\".\n\nFollowing their defeat by the Samogitians and Semigallians in the Battle of Schaulen (Saule) in 1236, the surviving Brothers merged into the Teutonic Order as an autonomous branch and became known as the Livonian Order.\n\nAlbert, Bishop of Riga (also called Prince-Bishop of Livonia) (or possibly Theoderich von Treyden), founded the Brotherhood in 1202 to aid the Bishopric of Livonia in the conversion of the pagan Livonians, Latgalians and Selonians living across the ancient trade routes from the Gulf of Riga eastwards. From its foundation, the undisciplined Order tended to ignore its supposed vassalage to the bishops. In 1218, Albert asked King Valdemar II of Denmark for assistance, but Valdemar instead arranged a deal with the Brotherhood and conquered northern Estonia (now known as Danish Estonia) for Denmark.\n\nThe Brotherhood had its headquarters at Fellin (Viljandi) in present-day Estonia, where the walls of the Master's castle stand. Other strongholds included Wenden (Cēsis), Segewold (Sigulda) and Ascheraden (Aizkraukle). The commanders of Fellin, Goldingen (Kuldīga), Marienburg (Alūksne), Reval (Tallinn), and the bailiff of Weißenstein (Paide) belonged to the five-member entourage of the Order's Master.\n\nPope Gregory IX asked the Brothers to defend Finland from the Novgorodian attacks in his letter of November 24, 1232. However, no known information regarding the knights' possible activities in Finland has survived. (Sweden eventually conquered Finland following the Second Swedish Crusade in 1249.)\n\nThe Order was decimated in the Battle of Schaulen (Saule) in 1236 against Lithuanians and Semigallians. This disaster led the surviving Brothers to become incorporated into the Order of Teutonic Knights in the following year, and from that point on they became known as the Livonian Order. They continued, however, to function in all respects (rule, clothing and policy) as an autonomous branch of the Teutonic Order, headed by their own Master (himself \"de jure\" subject to the Teutonic Order's Grand Master).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47090372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47090372", "title": "Mars Orbiter Mission 2", "text": "Mars Orbiter Mission 2\n\nMars Orbiter Mission 2 (MOM 2), also called Mangalyaan 2 (\"Mars-craft\", from \"mangala\", \"Mars\" and यान \"yāna\", \"craft, vehicle\"), is India's second interplanetary mission planned for launch to Mars by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) in the 2022-2023 time frame. The orbiter will utilize aerobraking to lower its initial apoapsis and enter into an orbit more suitable for observations.\n\nAfter the successful insertion of Mars Orbiter Mission into Martian orbit, ISRO announced its intent to launch a second mission to Mars on 28 October 2014 at the Engineers Conclave conference held in Bangalore. The proposed launch vehicle for this campaign is the GSLV Mk III, which flew for the first time on 5 June 2017. Prior to the MOM 2 mission, the would also launch \"Chandrayaan-2\" to the Moon in 2019.\n\nIn January 2016, India and France signed a letter of intent for ISRO and CNES to jointly build MOM 2 by 2020, but by April 2018, France was not yet involved in the mission. The Indian government funded MOM 2 in its 2017 budget proposal, and ISRO is considering whether the best path is to conduct an orbiter/lander/rover mission or to opt for only an orbiter with more sophisticated instruments than those flown on MOM.\n\nAn Announcement of Opportunity was released requesting submissions for scientific instruments for an orbiter only, with a deadline set for 20 September 2016.\n\nOne of the science payloads under development is an ionosphere plasma instrument named ARIS. It is being developed by Space Satellite Systems and Payloads Centre (SSPACE), which is part of the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST). The engineering model and high vacuum test have been completed.\n\n"}
{"id": "18186452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18186452", "title": "Murder of Stephanie Roper", "text": "Murder of Stephanie Roper\n\nThe Murder of Stephanie Roper involved a Frostburg State University student. On April 3, 1982, Stephanie Roper, a 22-year-old, was kidnapped, repeatedly and brutally raped, tortured, shot, set afire, and partially dismembered.\n\nRoper was home on a college break, and she and a friend were returning from an evening with friends at a West End Washington, D.C. bar, the \"Twenty-First Amendment\" late at night. After dropping her friend off in Brandywine, Maryland, Stephanie proceeded toward her own home in Croom, but her car became disabled on a dark rural road. Two men stopped and instead of helping, kidnapped her at gunpoint. The two men, Jack Ronald Jones and Jerry Lee Beatty, kidnapped Stephanie and took her to an abandoned shack in Prince George's County. There she was tortured and raped repeatedly. One of the men called the other by his first name. Afraid now that Stephanie knew his name, they decided to kill her. Stephanie made several attempts to escape and upon her last capture, her skull was fractured with a logging chain and she was shot to death. In order to hinder identification, the murderers burned her body and severed her hands. They were captured after the younger man bragged about his part in the crime. Both men were charged with kidnapping, rape, and felony murder. The primary killer was convicted in Baltimore County while his co-defendant pleaded guilty to the same charges in Anne Arundel County. Both courts imposed sentences of two concurrent life sentences, with parole eligibility after twelve years.\n\nThe Roper family was excluded from observing the trial and was denied the opportunity to present a victim impact statement at sentencing. Stephanie's mother, Roberta Roper, has taken on the cause of victims' rights, including the right of victims' families to address the court before sentencing. She actively lobbies and advocates for rights and support services to crime victims and their survivors. She and her husband, Vincent, formed the Stephanie Roper Committee and Foundation, Inc. and she served as its Executive Director for 20 years. The agency is now known as the Maryland Crime Victims' Resource Center, Inc. (MCVRC). Roberta Roper has dedicated her life to these causes. She serves as the Chair of the MCVRC Board of Directors and co-chairs the National Victims' Constitutional Amendment Network.\n\nThe Crime Victims' Rights Act of 2004 was named, in part, for Stephanie Roper, whose parents were not notified of trial continuances, were excluded from proceedings, and were prevented from giving a victim impact statement. The Act grants victims those and other rights in federal criminal cases.\n\nIn 2012, the Maryland General Assembly passed House Bill 766 (Chapter 678 of the Laws of Maryland 2012) which requires the Governor annually to proclaim April 3 as Crime Victims and Advocates Commemorative Day to give recognition to the individuals in the State who have become crime victims and to honor the advocates who serve those victims. In addition to issuing the proclamation, the Governor is also required to take appropriate steps to publicize Crime Victims and Advocates Commemorative Day. April 3 was chosen as the date for the commemorative day in memory of Stephanie Roper, who was murdered on that day in 1982 and whose family members established the Maryland Crime Victims' Resource Center, Inc.\n\nOn October 20, 2012, Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley issued a proclamation which named part of Maryland Route 4 (the part of Pennsylvania Avenue just north of Croom, and part of Southern Maryland Boulevard in adjacent Anne Arundel County) in honor of Stephanie Roper and the efforts of her parents Roberta and Vincent Roper.\n\nThe Stephanie Ann Roper Gallery is located in the Fine Arts Building on the Frostburg State University campus.\n\nThe Roper Victim Assistance Academy trains victims' advocates. The Roper Academy was created in 2003 through a grant from the United States Department of Justice, Office for Victims of Crime received by the Maryland Governor's Office of Crime Control and Prevention in partnership with the University of Baltimore.\n\n"}
{"id": "23653084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23653084", "title": "Music Hack Day", "text": "Music Hack Day\n\nMusic Hack Day is a Hack Day specifically for the music industry. The first was organised by Dave Haynes and James Darling and held at the London offices of The Guardian newspaper over the weekend 11/12 July 2009.\n\nThe event was attended by around 200 developers who had 24 hours to build new hacks or web applications using the API's or tools of 10 participating companies. These companies were 7digital, BBC Music, The Echo Nest, Gigulate, Last.fm, PeoplesMusicStore, Songkick, SoundCloud. The weekend also included workshops from companies like RjDj and Tinker.it and anyone else who wished to arrange one. Many developers stayed overnight at the venue and over 35 hacks were built, submitted and demo'ed by the end of the weekend.\n\nSince that first event, more than 50 Music Hack Day events have taken place around the world, with over 3500 participants who have built over 1300 innovative hacks. \n\nThe events are attended by a diverse range of music and technology enthusiasts. A related event, that includes a music hack component, but with a broader focus on performance and research, is the Music Tech Fest, a festival of music ideas that brings musicians, artists, hackers, academics and industry together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57683079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57683079", "title": "New York City Independent Film Festival", "text": "New York City Independent Film Festival\n\nThe New York City Independent Film Festival (a.k.a. NYC Independent Film Festival, NYCIndieFF) is an annual film festival held in New York City. It was founded in 2009 by Dennis Cieri and Bonnie Rush.\n\nOfficial website https://www.nycindieff.com/\n"}
{"id": "8262616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8262616", "title": "Nickanan Night", "text": "Nickanan Night\n\nNickanan Night (sometimes called Hall Monday or Peasen Monday) is a Cornish feast, traditionally held during Shrovetide, specifically on the Monday before Lent.\n\nSometimes called roguery night in West Cornwall, England, UK, this event was an excuse for local youths to undertake acts of minor vandalism and play practical jokes on neighbours and family. The name Nickanan may come from the practice of knocking on doors and running away which is known as 'Nicky nicky nine doors' in some parts of the English-speaking world. The eating of pea soup and salt bacon was also associated with this date.\n\nIn the 19th century Thomas Quiller Couch described Nickanan Night.\n\nOn the day termed Hall Monday, which precedes\nShrove Tuesday, about the dusk of the evening, it is the\ncustom for boys, and, in some cases, for those who are\nabove the age of boys, to prowl about the streets with\nshort clubs, and to knock loudly at every door, running\noff to escape detection on the slightest sign of a motion\nwithin. If, however, no attention be excited, and especially\nif any article be discovered negligently exposed, or\ncarelessly guarded, then the things are carried away;\nand on the following day are discovered displayed in\nsome conspicuous place, to expose the disgraceful want of\nvigilance supposed to characterise the owner. The time\nwhen this is practised is called 'Nicka-nan night' and\nthe individuals concerned are supposed to represent some\nimps of darkness, that seize on and expose unguarded\nmoments\n\nThe following rhyme was used by the Cornish children during the evening and the following day Shrove Tuesday.\n\nNicka nicka nan<br>\nGive me some pancake, and then I'll be gone<br>\nBut if you give me none<br>\nI'll throw a great stone<br>\nAnd down your door shall come.\n\nIn St Ives this was \n\nGive me a pancake, now—now—now,<br>\nOr I will souse in your door with a row—tow—tow.<br>\n\nIn coastal communities it was also traditional to gather shell fish such as limpets, mussels and winkles. This practice was known as 'going a triggin' and the produce gathered known as 'trigg meat'. This is still practised at Easter by people living close to the Helford River.\n\nDuring this 'Nickanan' period another custom prevailed throughout Cornwall. In some villages it was usual to make a 'Jack o' Lent' a straw figure dressed not unlike a Guy Fawkes Night guy. This Jack-o-Lent was paraded through local communities and pelted with projectiles and then burned on a Bonfire. This practice was until the late 19th century common in Polperro. Fire rituals such as those associated with the Jack-O-Lent may also indicate Celtic pagan origins and may be closely related to the Imbolc festival.\n\nThe popularity of Cornish Hurling during the 'Nickanan' season indicates similarity to St Ives feast and other festivities near Candlemas. The 'Hurling of the silver ball' at St Columb Major still occurs during the run up to Lent.\n\n"}
{"id": "203583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203583", "title": "North Sea Jazz Festival", "text": "North Sea Jazz Festival\n\nThe North Sea Jazz Festival is an annual festival held each second weekend of July in the Netherlands at the Ahoy venue. It used to be in The Hague but since 2006 it has been held in Rotterdam. This is because the Statenhal where the festival was held before was demolished in 2006. As of 3 November 2017 the festival officially will be known as the NN North Sea Jazz Festival.\n\nThe founder of the three-day festival was Paul Acket, a businessman and jazz lover who made a fortune in the 1960s with his pop magazine publishing company. When Acket sold his company in 1975, he was able to start and sponsor the North Sea Jazz Festival. Acket wanted to present American jazz and European avant-garde jazz. In 1976 the first edition of the festival took place. It was an immediate success: six stages, thirty hours of music, and 300 performances drew over 9000 visitors. Acts included Count Basie, Miles Davis, Billy Eckstine, Stan Getz, Dizzy Gillespie, Benny Goodman, and Sarah Vaughan.\n\nThe Edison Jazz Awards and the Bird Awards are presented at the North Sea Jazz Festival. \n\nIn 1990, two sub-festivals were introduced: North Sea Jazz Heats, a free festival performed in pubs throughout The Hague, and the more exclusive Midsummer Jazz Gala. Both take place on the evening before the festival. Musicians that have performed at the Midsummer Jazz Gala include Tony Bennett, Herbie Hancock, and Oscar Peterson. Amy Winehouse performed at the festival in 2004. \n\nThe festival has grown to fifteen stages, 1,200 musicians, and about 25,000 visitors a day. The festival presents concerts in New Orleans jazz, swing, fusion, blues, gospel, funk, soul and drum and bass.\n\nThe festival is acknowledged as the \"biggest indoor jazz festival in the world\" and has a reputation for showcasing different areas of jazz from all eras.\n\n"}
{"id": "3487178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3487178", "title": "Practolol", "text": "Practolol\n\nPractolol (Eraldin, Dalzic, Praktol, Cardiol, Pralon, Cordialina, Eraldina, Teranol) is a selective beta blocker (beta-1 blocker) that has been used in the emergency treatment of cardiac arrhythmias. Practolol is no longer used as it is highly toxic despite the similarity of its chemical formula to propranolol. After its introduction, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, conjunctival scarring, fibrosis, metaplasia, and shrinkage developed in 27 patients as an adverse reaction to practolol. Rashes, nasal and mucosal ulceration, fibrous or plastic peritonitis, pleurisy, cochlear damage, and secretory otitis media also occurred in some cases. Three patients suffered profound visual loss though most retained good vision. Symptoms and signs improved on withdrawal of the drug, but reduction of tear secretion persisted in most patients. (British Medical Journal, March 15, 1975)\n\nThe compound was studied by scientists at the Research Department of the ICI Pharmaceuticals Division in Alderley Park with physiologists at the University of Leeds in the early 1970s when it was known as compound \"ICI 66082\"; they utilised dogs, cats and rats in their investigations. Earlier research had also been carried out as early as 1967 on this and similar molecules by other research teams also with ICI.\nSide effects are similar to those of other beta blockers, such as bronchoconstriction, cardiac failure, cold extremities, fatigue and depression, hypoglycaemia.\n\nFurthermore, chronic use of practolol may cause oculomucocutaneous syndrome, a severe syndrome whose signs include conjunctivitis sicca and psoriasiform rashes, otitis and sclerosing serositis. This syndrome has not been observed with other such beta blockers.\n\nThis drug has been withdrawn from the market in India.\n\nThe part of the structure coming from (1) is based on paracetamol.\nA synthesis is available which relates the absolute configuration of the more potent optical isomer to (+)-lactic acid. The glycerol derivative (2) is available from D-mannitol and retains optical activity as the two 1° alcohol functions are differentially protected. Displacement with sodium p-acetamidophenoxide (1, deprotonated paracetamol) gives 3 which is deprotected with dilute acid, the primary alcohol function is selectively reacted with one molar equivalent of tosyl chloride and pyridine, then treated with NaOH in dimethylsulfoxide to yield 3. Epoxide opening with isopropylamine leads to optically active prolactolol (4).\n\n"}
{"id": "40949254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40949254", "title": "Radical cheerleading", "text": "Radical cheerleading\n\nRadical cheerleading is a performative style of political activism, derived from mainstream cheerleading. Radical cheerleading combines elements of peaceful protest or non-violent direct action with theatrical elements including costuming, spectacle and choreographed dance. Radical cheerleading was created by sisters Cara, Aimee and Colleen Jennings in Miami, Florida, in 1996. It grew to become an international movement with squads in the United States, Canada and Europe. Radical cheerleaders create and adapt cheers that promote feminism and left-wing ideals. \n\nOver time, radical cheerleading developed into a subculture apart from cheerleading. To understand how radical cheerleading became a culture of its own, it is important to consider the impacts of mainstream cheerleading.\n\nMainstream cheerleading reached new heights of popularity in the 1990s, as it transformed from a form of entertainment to being understood as an athletic sport. The first Cheerleading World Championship took place in 2001, asserting cheerleading as a competitive sport. Still, cheerleaders were (and often still are) consistently stereotyped as unintelligent, ditzy, and promiscuous, as opposed to true athletes. Regular cheerleaders are often hypersexualized and defined by an idealized female body type. Author Christine Ro writes, \"the popular image of cheerleading was still very much of the minimally dressed female cheerleader on the sidelines of a male sports event. This was the image radical cheerleaders seized upon in order to subvert gender messages while serving up peppy support for social justice causes.\"\n\nRadical cheerleaders reclaimed the identity of the cheerleader and re-shaped mainstream cheerleading to include all bodies, as opposed to certain bodies. They transformed cheerleading from a sideshow into the main event. They shifted the focus of cheerleading from sexualized spectacle to the promotion of larger ideas, like civilian empowerment and political awareness. In these ways, radical cheerleading developed into a distinct culture of its own.\n\nMainstream cheerleading is marked by heteronormativity. In contrast, gender non-conformity is a foundation upon which the subculture of radical cheerleading developed. Since its creation, radical cheerleading has been a movement open to all: participants may be male, female, transgender, non-binary or non-gender identified. Often, radical cheerleaders subvert gender norms through costuming and aesthetics. According to author and radical cheerleader Jeanne Vaccaro, the movement was responsible for \"cultivating a queer sensibility.\" The subculture’s inclusion of non-gender-conforming individuals creates a space for all bodies, which in turn creates a uniquely accepting community. This is more than just an open-door policy, but an identifying characteristic of the subculture of radical cheerleading, just as relevant to the movement as the leftist messages it asserts.\nRadical cheerleaders reappropriate the aesthetics of cheerleading, sometimes in an ironic fashion. Radical cheerleaders dress in diverse ways. Radical cheerleading is often marked by a DIY aesthetic, with handmade costumes and props. Some radical cheerleaders make pom-poms using garbage bags by folding them in half, tying off one side with a rubber band and then cutting strips from the other end. \n\nEvery squad has a unique aesthetic of its own. The Dirty Southern Belles, from Memphis, Tennessee, wear the colors pink and black to cheer for gay pride. The Pirate Cheerleaders, a squad from Milwaukee, wear black skirts with white pleats, and shirts with pirate logos when performing at basement punk shows. The New Paltz Rads, a squad from the State University of New York at New Paltz, sport signature colors black and red.\n\nRadical cheerleaders often perform at political demonstrations, festivals and other feminist events, where they lead protest chants. Radical cheerleading is used at demonstrations to promote political messages in a media-friendly, people-friendly way. Radical cheerleaders may also perform on stage at music venues, to bring political issues (as well as entertainment) to an unsuspecting crowd. Chicago's Lickity Split radical cheerleaders frequently used this tactic.\n\nA notable radical cheerleading appearance was at the March for Women's Lives in Washington, DC on April 25, 2004. The participants' aim was to raise awareness about the lack of access low-income women have to abortion clinics.\n\nAnother remarkable demonstration took place at a Taco Bell restaurant in Auburn, Alabama in 2001, where radical cheerleaders gathered to protest for fair wages. Dubbed the \"Taco Bell Protest,\" participants explained to police that the purpose of their demonstration was to protest the business relationship between corporate Taco Bell and the Six L's Packing Company, Inc., a firm that pays employees low wages with zero benefits. The Taco Bell Protest serves as an encapsulating example of all that radical cheerleading stands for: peaceful (if not disruptive) demonstration, DIY construction of protest tools/props, an anti-capitalist agenda, and a demand for fair wages, a classic feminist ideal. \n\nRadical cheerleaders demonstrated at the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York.\n\nThe Resistin' Radicatz, a radical cheerleading squad, performed at the 2004 Million Worker March.\n\nCheers are usually written from scratch or by rewriting the words of popular and historic songs. The first radical cheer book was published in 1997.\n\nAn example of a radical cheer, led by creator Cara Jennings, performed at the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York:\n\nAn example of a cheer performed by the Radical Teen Cheer Squad: \"We're teens, we're cute, we're radical to boot! We're angry, we're tough, and we have had enough!\"\n\nWhile the subculture has received some attention from the media, radical cheerleading receives less media attention than mainstream cheerleading.\n\nIn \"Give Me An F: Radical Cheerleading and Feminist Performance\", radical cheerleader and Author Jeanne Vaccaro describes the process of archiving radical cheerleading through the examination of cheers, zines, photographs and personal testimony from fellow radical cheerleader Mary Xmas.\n\nIn a speech at the National Women's Studies Association in 2004, feminist magazine director Lisa Jervis placed radical cheerleading within a tradition of playful feminist comment on popular culture.\n\nIn August 2004 the New York City Radical Cheerleaders completed \"Don't Let the System Get You Down—Cheer Up\", a video documentary of the Radical Cheerblock at the March for Women's Lives. The video was released in time to celebrate and honor and inspire the hundreds of radical cheerleaders who converged in New York to protest the Republican National Convention.\n\nRadical cheerleading is a style of performance, and is inherently defined by the element of spectacle. Responses within the media have ranged from positive to negative. Sheila Noone, the editorial director of \"American Cheerleader\" magazine, commented that cheerleaders are involved in an \"uphill battle\" towards gaining respect, asserting that radical cheerleading makes this even more difficult. In contrast, Lauren Jack, member of Harvard University's Cheerleading squad, made the statement that cheerleading is \"all about trying to get everyone else excited about your causes, so it's perfect for political activism.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45449091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45449091", "title": "Roaring 1980s", "text": "Roaring 1980s\n\nThe Roaring 1980s () is the name of the economic boom in Sweden during the mid-late 1980s.\n\nThe years after the 1973 oil crisis was a time of economic recession. In October 1982 a devaluation of the Swedish currency was done. On 21 November 1985, the credit market became free. and the international economic boom that had begun spread into Sweden.\n\nA yuppie culture developed at the Stockholm Stock Exchange. Mobile telephones were also known by the popular nickname \"yuppienalle\". (\"Yuppie's teddy bear\") Even the term finance puppy (\"finansvalp\") was common when referring to young businessmen. The contemporary yuppie culture was criticized by, among others, Stig Malm in his 1987 First of May speech.\n\nBuying and selling art also became popular within the world of businesses.\n\nThe Stockholm Globe Arena was built between 1986-1988 and opened in 1989. It has been described as an expression of the contemporary optimism for the future. Even the summer park phenomena was booming.\n\nThe 1993 Magnus Uggla song \"Mitt decennium\" describes the phenomena.\n\n"}
{"id": "30352206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30352206", "title": "Shalva Loladze", "text": "Shalva Loladze\n\nShalva Loladze () (April 16, 1916 – April 25, 1945) was a former Soviet Georgian POW and an officer in the German Wehrmacht who headed a revolt of the Georgian soldiers against the German commandership on the Dutch island of Texel.\n\nLoladze served in the Soviet military at the outbreak of World War II. In 1942, he was a Soviet Air Force captain and an air squadron commander. His airplane was shot down over Ukraine and Loladze was captured by the Germans. He then joined the Georgian Legion of the Wehrmacht and served in the 882nd Infantry Battalion \"Königin Tamara\" with the rank of \"Leutnant\" (second lieutenant). The battalion was deployed on the German-occupied Dutch island of Texel in the closing months of World War II. On April 9, 1945, Loladze led an insurrection of the battalion’s Georgian personnel. Loladze was killed in fighting on April 25, 1945. He is buried together with his comrades-in-arms at the Georgian War Cemetery of Texel which has been given Loladze’s name.\n"}
{"id": "3345699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3345699", "title": "Snake dance", "text": "Snake dance\n\n'Snake dance' is a term used to refer to a parade before or during a high school or a related event like a football game. The parade includes floats built by each high school class, marching bands, students, and alumni. Snake dance may also be more narrowly used to describe a student parade, a line of students celebrating, or a parade starting in a central business district or school location and ending with an evening bonfire and pep rally near the school. Line of students as \"snake dance\" is a traditional term. The University of Northern Iowa archives refer to snake dance as early as 1922. A 1911 Associated Press dispatch covering Philadelphia fans celebrating the Philadelphia Athletics victory in Game 2 of the 1911 World Series reported, \"Staid business and professional men joined their office boys and ragged urchins in a snake dance around city hall\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4080273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4080273", "title": "Sónar", "text": "Sónar\n\nSónar is an arts, design, and electronic and advanced music festival, founded in Barcelona in 1994 by , Enric Palau, and . The festival has been divided into two parts since its inception: Sónar by Day and Sónar by Night, with Sónar+D, a three-day congress dedicated to Creativity, Technology and Business running concurrently since 2013. As well as the flagship event in Barcelona, Sónar hosts events around the world, with annual festivals currently taking place in Bogota, Buenos Aires, Hong Kong, Reykjavik and Istanbul.\n\nArtists to have performed at Sónar include: Björk, Thom Yorke, Jean-Michel Jarre, Duran Duran, Grace Jones, Beastie Boys, De La Soul, Kraftwerk, Gorillaz, New Order, Skrillex, Diplo, M.I.A., Chic, Ryuichi Sakamoto, Aphex Twin, Richie Hawtin and Laurent Garnier.\n\nWriting in 2017, the New York Times states that “Sónar has built itself into a European institution... It’s a festival of the experimental and the crowd-pleasing, the subtle and the unsubtle, scaled from quiet small-auditorium performances to seismic stadium dance music...”\n\nSónar was founded in Barcelona in 1994 as the “Festival of Advanced Music and Multimedia Art”, by music journalist Ricard Robles and musicians and visual artists Enric Palau and Sergio Caballero. The first festival took place on 2, 3 and 4 June at the Centre de Cultura Contemporània de Barcelona (Sónar by Day) and the Apolo club (Sónar by Night), with performances by Holger Czukay, Mixmaster Morris, Laurent Garnier, Sven Väth, Atom Heart, and Trans Global Underground, among others. This first event, which included the Record Fair and Technology Fair - the forerunner of what is now known as Sonar+D - was attended by nearly 6,000 people and 40 representatives of the Spanish media.\n\nOver the next two years, the festival expanded considerably: the number of accreditation holders doubled in 1995 and tripled in 1996, and the number of visitors rose from 6,000 to over 12,000 in 1995 and 18,000 in 1996. Sónar by Night relocated in its second year, moving to various areas in the Poble Espanyol, where it was based in 1995 and 1996. Some of performances and sessions during these years included Coldcut, Spring Heel Jack, Josh Wink, Autechre, Richie Hawtin, Ken Ishii, Slam, Jeff Mills, Scanner, Orbital, Fangoria, John Acquaviva, Kenny Larkin, and Biosphere.\n\nThe year 1997 marked a turning point for the festival, as Sónar by Night moved to a new venue, the Mar Bella sports pavilion, tripling its capacity. \nWith the late 1990s came considerable growth: from 18,000 visitors in 1996 to 28,000 in 1997, 38,000 in 1998, 43,000 in 1999 and over 53,000 in 2000. The festival's evolution can also be measured in the number of accredited media: in 1996 there were 72 Spanish and 15 international media, by 2000 the number had risen to 158 and 185, respectively.\n\nArtists performing at Sónar by Day during these four years included Squarepusher, Fennesz, Bruce Gilbert, Patrick Pulsinger, Pan Sonic, Mouse On Mars, Suicide, Aviador Dro, DJ Spooky, Pole, DJ Zero, Goldfrapp, and Merzbow, Daft Punk, Kraftwerk, Kruder & Dorfmeister, Jimi Tenor, Laurent Garnier (under his real name or the alias DJ Jamon), Marc Almond, Deep Dish, Motorbass, Plastikman, Herbert, Death In Vegas, Fila Brazillia, Roger Sánchez, Coldcut, DJ Hell, Sólo Los Solo, Atari Teenage Riot, An Der Beat, Chicks On Speed, Super Collider, and Miss Kittin.\n\nIn the early years of the new decade, Sónar continued to grow, first stabilizing at around 80,000 visitors each year and then growing further to 121,000 for its 20th anniversary in 2013. This attendance record was beaten again in 2017 (123,00) and at the 25th anniversary celebration in 2018 (126,000).<ins> In this period Sónar continued to exert an influence on critics and artists alike</ins>, thanks to its forward thinking programming and production<ins>. As the Financial Times reported in a 2006 review: \"[The Scissor Sisters' Jake Shears] was not alone among artists in citing S</ins>ó<ins>nar as a fundamental influence upon his career\"</ins>\n\nThe 2001 festival saw another change of venue for Sónar by Night to the larger venue of the Fira Gran Via area in L'Hospitalet de Llobregat. This new home meant that it was possible to offer large format concerts with a strong audiovisual component, attracting performances by artists such as bjork (2002), Kraftwerk (with a 3D show in 2013) and The Chemical Brothers (2005 and 2015)\n\nThe Sónar by Night Venue hosts several stages; the 15,000 capacity SonarClub, the open air SonarLab and SonarPub and SonarCar. In 2016 this stage received an upgrade, featuring a custom sound system and a new format featuring continuous 7hr sets by selected DJ's. The inaugural edition featured Laurent Garnier (who assisted in the format's development) and Four Tet.\n\nSónar by Day also consolidated its extensive range, which is based not only on music but also the exhibitions at SonarMàtica, the activities at SonarPro, the screenings at SonarCinema, and the installations at Sonarama. During these years, the festival also collaborated with various institutions, spaces, and centres such as the GREC festival, the Centre d’Arts Santa Mónica, the Mies Van Der Rohe Foundation, CosmoCaixa, and L'Auditori, the venue for concerts by the Barcelona Symphony and Catalonia National Orchestra with Ryuichi Sakamoto + Pan Sonic + Fennesz, Francesco Tristano + Murcof, Matthew Herbert Big Band, and DJ /rupture, among many others.\n\nIn 2013, Sónar by Day, moved out of its previous home in MACBA to a larger space in the Fira Montjuïc facilities at Plaza d'Espanya. The music program at Sónar by Day takes place over 5 stages: SonarHall, SonarDome (presented by Red Bull Music), the SonarComplex auditorium, SonarXS (dedicated to urban sounds from the global streets)  and the outdoor stage SonarVillage by Estrella Damm with its trademark artificial grass. In 2018, Sónar added an additional stage Sonar360º by Mediapro, dedicated to full dome experiences.\n\nNotable artists performing in this period include M.I.A., De La Soul, Linton Kwesi Johnson, The Roots, Justice, Hot Chip,Janelle Monáe, Leila, Madlib, Prefuse 73, Ricardo Villalobos, Kode9, Plaid, The Sugarhill Gang, and Flying Lotus. Björk (2002), Beastie Boys (2007), LCD Soundsystem (2010), Chic (2006), Pet Shop Boys (2002), Masters At Work (2001), Grace Jones(2009), and The Chemical Brothers (2005 and 2015), \nKraftwerk, Jurassic 5, Richie Hawtin, Skrillex, Paul Kalkbrenner, Major Lazer, Jamie Lidell, Diamond Version, Chromatics, Diplo, Baauer, Nicolas Jaar, Liars, Lindstrøm & Todd Terje, Adrian Sherwood & Pinch, Seth Troxler, Gold Panda. Autechre, FKA Twigs, A$AP Rocky Jean-Michel Jarre, New Order, and Anhoni\n\nOver its 25-year history, Sónar has transformed the dynamics and atmosphere of the city every June, adding substantially to the city's cultural tourism sector, and establishing Barcelona as the epicenter of the European electronic music scene during the week of the event.\n\nIn 2004, Sónar contributed 47 million euros to Catalonia's GDP (according to a study performed by Deloitte) A follow-up 360º study commissioned by Sónar in 2015 updated this figure to 126 million euros; a 226% increase over the decade, with a net value to the city of 559.7 Euros per attendee.\n\nThe impact on hotel occupancy in the city is also considerable. Occupancy rate in 2011 was 83.65%, and in 2012 it was 83.11%. These figures increase to 100% for officially approved tourist apartments.\n\nIn addition to the above, Sónar also leads to the proliferation and organisation of other events, presentations and showcases that take place in Barcelona outside the scope of the festival itself, which in turn also attract very large audiences of between 50 and 70 thousand visitors, in addition to the 126,000 visitors attending the official event.\n\nSince making its first international foray to London in 2002, Sónar has expanded its presence globally, having hosted eponymous events in 65 cities worldwide and across 4 continents. All Sónar events reflect the wider mission of creating a dialogue between the local and international scene in each territory, and feature a strong creative technological component.\n\nTo date, these locations include Chicago, Buenos Aires, São Paulo, Hamburg, Bogota, New York, Seoul, Rome, Cape Town, Copenhagen, Tokyo and Hong Kong. Sónar+D has also expanded its international program in recent years, forming part of the program in São Paulo (2015) Santiago de Chile (2015), Buenos Aires (2015), Reykjavik (2015), Bogota (2016), Hong Kong (2017) and Istanbul (2017).\n\nAs of 2018, Sónar hosts yearly events in 6 cities: Bogota, Buenos Aires, Reykjavik, Hong Kong and Istanbul, with a combined yearly attendance of 30,000.\n\nSónar Reykjavik takes place across four stages in the HARPA concert hall. Notable acts to have played include Skrillex, Underworld, Danny Brown, Fatboy Slim, Gus Gus, Kiasmos and Paul Kalkbrenner.\n\n\"\"A must for anyone wanting to combine the experience of some breathtaking natural beauty alongside a programme of world-leading electronic music\"\"\n\n\"The festival is ‘an experiment in how music can reach those who truly seek it’\"\n\nThe inaugural edition of Sónar Istanbul took place in 2017 at the ZorluPSM auditorium. To date, the festival has featured performances by artists including, Nina Kraviz, Black Coffee, Fatboy Slim and Jon Hopkins.\n\nIn 2017, Sónar added Hong Kong to its international festivals. Taking place at Hong Kong Science Park the event has featured performances from DJ Shadow, Laurent Garnier, The Black Madonna and Squarepusher among others.\n\n\"\"In total, the festival featured more than 40 international, regional and local DJs and live acts – including 11 making their HK debut – as Sónar once again confirmed its reputation as the world's best electronic music festival.\"\n\nSónar's Latin American dates take place in late November annually, at Multiparque (Sónar Bogotá) and Technopolis Argentina (Sónar Buenos Aires). Notable artists to have performed include Sigur Rós, Nina Kraviz, Dubfire, Pantha du Prince, Moderat and more.\n\nSince December 2015, Sónar is part of We are Europe, a cooperation project co-founded by the Creative Europe programme of the European Union, led by the French organization Arty Farty (Nuits sonores Festival) and gathering 8 major European events joining forces in order to promote, create and produce innovative cultural practices, defined by creative diversity and exchanges.\n\nIn its inaugural edition in 1994, Sónar organized a fair for professionals with a dual dimension: a record and publishing fair (record labels, distributors, publications, publishers, promoters) and a technology fair (hardware and software brands, musical equipment companies). This format would undergo several incarnations over the years, gradually evolving away from the trade fair format and expanding to include art installations, film screenings, talks and conferences. Coinciding with the move of Sónar by Day to Fira Montjuic in 2013, this section of the festival program was re-imagined as Sónar+D.\n\nOriented as a 3-day congress of Creativity, Technology and Business running concurrently to Sónar by Day, (SonaR+D = Sónar+D). The congress includes installations, talks, exhibitions and displays of new technologies with creative applications. Since 2017, a Networking Day has been added to the program. Starting one day before the start of the festival this event is oriented towards b2b activities, and only accessible to Delegate pass holders.\n\nDuring the 3 days of Sónar by Day, 80% of the activities at Sónar+D are open to general admission ticket holders, encouraging cross-pollination between, artists, makers and the creatively curious.\n\nSónar +D also feeds from and into the wider festival program, with tech-shows featured across all the festival stages, and prominent artists invited to give talks and workshops. Recent editions have featured artists and thinkers such as Brian Eno, Björk, Jean-Michel Jarre, Richie Hawtin, Kode 9, Holly Herndon, Alva Noto and Ryuichi Sakamoto.\n\nAs of 2018, companies and institutions  that have actively participated in Sónar+D  include BBC R+D, Spotify, Google Arts and Culture, Universal Music Group, Sony Music, PS4, HP, Me by Melia, Mediapro, Native Instruments, MIT Media Lab, Roland Instruments and Pioneer DJ, among others.\n\nSónar+D Hong Kong, takes place concurrently to the annual Sónar Hong Kong event at Hong Kong Science Park.  \n\nTo commemorate Sónar's 25th anniversary in 2018, the festival embarked on a groundbreaking experiment to send 33 pieces of music to Luytens Star b, a potentially habitable exo-planet located 12.4 light years from Earth.\n\nDevised as \"A celebration, an artistic and scientific experiment and a collective rumination on what it means to be human, and alien\", and developed in collaboration with the Catalonia Institute of Space Studies and METI International, the transmission took place in October 2017 and May 2018 from the EISCAT antenna in Tromsø, Norway.\n\nArtists close to the festival who submitted specially created pieces of music include Jean-Michel Jarre, Autechre, Squarepusher, Nina Kraviz, The Black Madonna, Matmos, Laurent Garnier and Olafur Arnalds.\n\nThe message will take approximately 12.4 Earth years to arrive at its destination, making a potential reply arrive in time for Sónar's 50th anniversary in 2043.\n\nDirected by Sergio Caballero since the first festival in 1994, Sónar's visual image is an intrinsic part of the festival's identity.\n\nDeliberately avoiding the design clichés of music festival advertising, and by turns, witty, provocative and thought-provoking, the festival's image has incorporated a range of media over the years, from film, collage, sculpture, installations, commercial photography and viral video.\n\nIn 2018, coinciding with the 25th anniversary of the festival, the exhibition NI FLYERS, NI POSTERS: 25 years of SonarImage was held at Tecla Sala Art Center in L'Hospitalet, Barcelona. Presented as a multi-installation experiential exhibit, many of the key themes, characters and ideas over the preceding quarter century were re-imagined across 7 rooms in the ex-industrial space.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "26196551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26196551", "title": "The Scottsboro Boys (musical)", "text": "The Scottsboro Boys (musical)\n\nThe Scottsboro Boys is a musical with a book by David Thompson, music by John Kander and lyrics by Fred Ebb. Based on the Scottsboro Boys trial, the musical is one of the last collaborations between Kander and Ebb prior to the latter's death. The musical has the framework of a minstrel show, altered to \"create a musical social critique\" with a company that, except for one, consists \"entirely of African-American performers\".\n\nThe musical debuted Off-Broadway and then moved to Broadway in 2010 for a run of only two months. It received twelve Tony Award nominations, but failed to win any. The previous record for nominations without a win was eleven, held by \"Steel Pier\" and the original production of \"Chicago\", both also by Kander and Ebb. The musical's twelve nominations were second only to \"The Book of Mormon\", which garnered fourteen nominations that year. Nevertheless, \"The Scottsboro Boys\" played in US regional theatres in 2012 and moved to London in 2013, where, after a sell-out production at the Young Vic, it moved to the West End in 2014.\n\nAs she is waiting for a bus, a lady lifts a corner of a cake box she's holding. As it brings back memories, the scene around her fades aways, and the minstrels arrive (\"Minstrel March\"). The Interlocutor, the host of the Minstrel Show, introduces the players in the troupe, including Mr. Bones and Mr. Tambo, then begins the story of the Scottsboro Boys (\"Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey!\").\n\nIn 1931, Haywood Patterson, one of the nine boys riding in a boxcar on a train to Memphis, is ready to see the world (\"Commencing in Chattanooga\"). As the train is stopped, two white girls jump out, and two policemen recognize them as prostitutes. To get away, they accuse the nearby boys of rape (\"Alabama Ladies\"), and the boys are sent to jail. At their trial, their lawyer is drunk and mounts no defense, and Haywood, speaking for the boys, can only respond that he has done nothing. (\"Nothin'\") They are found guilty and are sentenced to death at Kilby Prison. Eugene, the youngest, has nightmares (\"Electric Chair\"). Awaiting execution, the boys long to return home (\"Go Back Home\"). Just as the executions are about to begin, the verdict is overturned. In the North, the case has become a cause célèbre, and the Supreme Court has ruled the boys didn't have effective counsel. While the boys aren't free, they do get another trial (\"Shout!\").\n\nA year later, they are still in prison. Haywood learns to write, and shares his short story (\"Make Friends With the Truth\"). The next trial gets under way in the spring of 1933. Public outrage over the trial has grown, especially in the North. They are given a New York lawyer, Samuel Leibowitz, to represent them to court (\"That's Not The Way We Do Things\"). During the trial, Ruby Bates, one of the girls, surprises the court and admits that the boys are innocent (\"Never Too Late\"). But, upon cross-examination, the Southern District Attorney makes antisemitic claims that Ruby Bates' change of heart was purchased by Leibowitz (\"Financial Advice\").\n\nWhile the boys sit in a holding cell, waiting for the verdict, they talk about what they will do when the trial is over, believing that they can't be found guilty of crime that never happened. They talk about heading North, but the Interlocutor reminds them that they belong in the South (\"Southern Days\"). The boys are found guilty again and are sent back to prison. Haywood tries to escape in order to see his mother before she dies (\"Commencing in Chattanooga (Reprise)\"), but he's quickly caught.\n\nAs time passes, Leibowitz continues to appeal the verdict. In every trial, the boys are found guilty. Even the other girl, Victoria Price, begins to buckle (\"Alabama Ladies (Reprise)\"), tired of being dragged to repeated trials, but she never recants her testimony. One of the boys, Ozie Powell, is shot in the head after assaulting a guard and is left brain-damaged. By 1937, four of the youngest boys are released, but the other five remain in prison. Haywood wonders if he will ever get justice, and the Interlocutor advises him to be patient (\"It's gonna take time\"). Finally, Haywood is brought up for parole in front of the governor of Alabama, but will not be given parole unless he pleads guilty (\"Zat So?\") He defiantly refuses (\"You Can't Do Me\"). Haywood dies twenty-one years later in prison. As the show ends, the Interlocutor calls for the finale. The boys appear dressed in full-blown Minstrel attire and blackface, alternating between a high-energy closing number and solemnly relating how their experiences in prison left them unable to leave normal lives, leading to careers of unemployment, addiction, suicide and tragedy. The Interlocutor calls for the cakewalk, but the boys refuse, wiping off their make-up in defiance, and disappear. (\"The Scottsboro Boys\").\n\nThe scene fades back to the bus stop, just as the bus arrives. The lady, who is, in fact, Rosa Parks, boards the bus. The driver, who is revealed to be the Interlocutor, tells her to move to the back of the bus, but she refuses to comply.\n\nIn 2002, Susan Stroman first met with Thompson, Kander, and Ebb. The team began to \"research the famous American trials\" and found the Scottsboro Boys trial, which they thought was \"a story that needed to be told.\" After Ebb's death in 2004, the project was put on hold. However, in 2008, Kander reapproached Stroman and Thompson, and the project continued. Kander finished writing the lyrics in Ebb's place.\n\nThe Off-Broadway production opened at the Vineyard Theatre on March 10, 2010, with previews starting on February 12, 2010. This was a limited engagement, which closed on April 18, 2010. Directed and choreographed by Susan Stroman, the original cast included John Cullum, Brandon Victor Dixon, and Colman Domingo. The creative team included sets by Beowulf Boritt, costumes by Toni-Leslie James, and lighting by Kevin Adams.\n\nThe musical opened at the Guthrie Theater, Minneapolis, Minnesota, starting July 31, 2010 and officially August 6 through September 25, with Susan Stroman as director and choreographer.\n\nThe musical began previews on Broadway on October 7, 2010, at the Lyceum Theatre, and officially opened on October 31, 2010, directed and choreographed by Susan Stroman. The Set Design was by Beowulf Boritt; Costume Design, Toni-Leslie James; Lighting Design, Ken Billington; Sound Design, Peter Hylenski; Orchestrations, Larry Hochman; Musical Arrangements, Glen Kelly; Music Direction and Vocal Arrangements, David Loud; Conducting, Paul Masse. This production closed on December 12, 2010, after 29 previews and 49 regular performances.\n\nA Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, production of \"The Scottsboro Boys\" featuring several of the original Broadway cast members played at the Philadelphia Theatre Company in the Suzanne Roberts Theatre beginning on January 20, 2012. Stroman's original direction and choreography was replicated by Jeff Whiting. The limited engagement concluded on February 19, 2012.\n\nA new production opened at San Diego's Old Globe Theatre on April 22, 2012, running until June 10, 2012.\n\nThe musical ran at the American Conservatory Theater, San Francisco, from June 21, 2012, to July 22, 2012.\n\nSpeakEasy Stage produced the Boston premiere of \"The Scottsboro Boys\" in 2016. After an extended and remounted run, it won the Elliot Norton Award for Outstanding Musical Production, Midsize, Small or Fringe Theater.\n\nThe show made its Chicago premiere with Porchlight Music Theatre on February 7, 2017.\n\nIn May 2018, the musical opened at the Signature Theater in Arlington, Virginia.\n\nA producer of the Broadway production, Catherine Schreiber, brought The Scottsboro Boys to The Young Vic in London. The production recreated the 12 time Tony nominated Broadway production. It opened October 18, 2013 with Stroman directing. In January 2014 the Catherine Schreiber/Young Vic production received the Peter Hepple award for Best Musical, from The Critics' Circle. The production sold out, receiving \"glowing\" reviews. The show was nominated for 6 Olivier Awards in 2014 including Mastercard Best New Musical, Best Director Susan Stroman, Best Theatre Choreographer Susan Stroman , Outstanding Achievement in Music Fred Ebb John Kander, Best Actor Kyle Scatliffe, Best Performance in a Supporting Role in a Musical Colman Domingo,\n\nThe Catherine Schreiber/Paula Marie Black/Young Vic production opened in the West End's Garrick Theatre for a limited run from October 4, 2014, and was the critical hit of the season. The production won Best Musical at the 2014 London Evening Standard Awards. The cast starred Brandon Victor Dixon as Haywood Patterson and featured Colman Domingo as Mr. Bones, Forrest McClendon as Mr. Tambo, James T. Lane as Ozie Powell and Julian Glover as the Interlocutor. The production closed on 21 February 2015. Brandon Victor Dixon was nominated in the 2015 Olivier Awards for Best Actor in a Musical in 2014.\n\n\n\nThe show is performed without an intermission.\n\nAn original cast recording was released by Jay Records on April 23, 2010, featuring the 2010 off-Broadway cast. The Original London Cast Recording was released on May 26, 2015. Paula Marie Black is the executive producer.\n\nThe original off-Broadway production received mostly positive reviews. \"The New York Post\"'s Elisabeth Vincentelli referred to it as \"a masterwork, both daring and highly entertaining... Director/choreographer Susan Stroman has given it the best production possible at the intimate Vineyard Theatre. The book, score, and staging are so organically linked, you can't imagine one without the others.\" Steven Suskin of \"Variety\" praised the cast.\n\nReviews for the Broadway production were mixed (the median grade of 28 major reviews was a \"B+\"). While the show received mostly positive reviews, \"The Wall Street Journal\" called the show \"a musical that slathers this terrible tale in a thick coat of musical-comedy frosting that has been spiked with cheap, elephantine irony. I can't imagine a nastier-tasting recipe.\"\n\nThe \"CurtainUp\"'s reviewer wrote, \"While \"The Scottsboro Boys\" has made the leap from a small downtown theater to Broadway without a stumble, the tricky question as to whether it will clear the financial hurdle of having to sell more and higher priced tickets, has yet to be answered. For all the singing and dancing, this is not a cheerful story, nor does it have sexy ladies or a romantic element. But neither is it the overly familiar standard fare geared to the tourist trade.\"\n\nBen Brantley, reviewing for \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"With \"Scottsboro\" it is as if the events on which it is based are still too raw and upsetting to be treated with too much panache. Though it features some high-kicking dancing from its personable and industrious ensemble, this production gives the impression of always treading carefully, with furrowed brow, stooped shoulders and an accusatory glare.\"\n\nJohn McWhorter of \"The New Republic\" panned the production, writing that \"ideally, [this would be] a piece that grappled with the real story of the Scottsboro boys, a rich one driven by the conflicting impulses of desperate people with conflicting agendas. But the musical paints it in such broad strokes that it’s hard to engage with it on any substantial level.\" McWhorter concluded that \"[i]f this thing were about Haymarket or Tiananmen Square we’d never have heard of it. The only reason The Scottsboro Boys has made it to the Great White Way is the Great White Guilt.\"\n\nThe score was generally well received by critics, with \"The Associated Press\" review saying, \"Kander’s melodies are effortless, pouring out in a variety of styles from cakewalk to folk ballad to comic ditty. Ebb died in 2004, but here his clear, precise and often quite funny lyrics have been finished by Kander, and the transitions are seamless.\" McWhorter, however, disagreed, writing that \"the Scottsboro score isn’t even much. One of John Kander and Fred Ebb’s least celebrated scores, \"Steel Pier\", is \"Porgy and Bess\" compared to this one. Time passes for show music writers: the Scottsboro score is perhaps analogous to Cole Porter’s \"Aladdin\" or Jule Styne’s \"The Red Shoes\". I would barely suspect Kander and Ebb had written this score if not told.\"\n\nOn November 6, 2010, about thirty people gathered outside the Lyceum Theatre to protest \"The Scottsboro Boys\", arguing that \"the use of minstrelsy and blackface were racist.\" Stroman said she was disappointed that the protesters, who \"probably had not seen the musical,\" had \"misunderstood that the creators were not celebrating the minstrel tradition but rather using it to reveal the evils of the system.\" Weissler said the minstrel show is \"not meant to demean or degrade anybody,\" but rather that it \"houses the story we’re trying to tell.\"\n\nWhoopi Goldberg addressed these protests on \"The View\", saying that \"there's been a lot of protests all over New York against this show – a show that people have not seen. The people who are protesting this show, 90% of the people have not seen it. ... People are protesting saying that it shouldn't be a minstrel show, this is too serious. What people don't understand is that you have to bring information to people in a most invigorating way.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40553209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40553209", "title": "The Sound of Music Live!", "text": "The Sound of Music Live!\n\nThe Sound of Music Live! is a television special that was originally broadcast by NBC on December 5, 2013. Produced by Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, the special was an adaptation of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\". The television special starred country singer and \"American Idol\" winner Carrie Underwood as Maria von Trapp, and was performed and televised live from Grumman Studios in Bethpage, New York.\n\nSpearheaded by NBC chairman Bob Greenblatt, the network positioned the special as being a live television \"event\". In preparing for the broadcast, Meron and Zadan emphasized the logistical challenges that they would face due to the live aspects of the special, and the fact that \"The Sound of Music Live!\" was an adaptation based on the musical itself and not the 1965 film version. Meron felt that if the telecast were successful, the concept could become \"another kind of entertainment that can exist on TV.\" By her request, Underwood's casting as Maria was personally endorsed by Julie Andrews, who starred in the 1965 film.\n\nThe production was met with mixed reviews; much of its criticism was directed towards the casting of Carrie Underwood to play Maria, whom critics (including the real-life von Trapp family) believed was not experienced enough in theatre to portray such an iconic role. While her vocal performance was praised, her acting was described by critics as \"amateur\", \"lifeless\" and lacking emotion. The production was a ratings success for NBC; with a total of 18.62 million live viewers, \"The Sound of Music Live!\" brought the network its highest Thursday night viewership for an entertainment program since the series finale of \"Frasier\" in 2004, and prompted NBC to sign Zadan and Meron on to produce more live musicals for the network in the future.\n\nMaria Rainer, a postulant at Nonnberg Abbey in Salzburg, is contemplating the day she has spent in the mountains (\"The Sound of Music\"). When she returns to the Abbey, she learns from the Mother Abbess that she is to be the new governess for the von Trappe children. Before she leaves the Abbey, Mother Abbess asks her to teach her the song that she's always singing (\"My Favorite Things\"). When Maria arrives at the von Trappe house, she is greeted coldly by the Captain and introduced to the children, who enter with military precision. Maria finds that the Captain has emotionally closed himself off since the death of his wife and decides to teach his children the basics of singing to gain their trust and acceptance.\n\nA month, later the captain returns home with Elsa Schraeder, whom he is courting, and their friend Max Detweiler, who is looking for the perfect local singing group to perform at the annual Kaltzberg Festival. When his children arrive dressed in clothes Maria had made from her old bedroom curtains he is outraged and embarrassed. Maria then confronts him and tells him how he does not know or understand his children and that they need him but this only upsets him more and he orders her to return to Nonnberg Abbey. However, upon hearing his children sing to Schraeder, his eyes are open to the truth Maria had been speaking and he embraces his children and ask Maria to stay on as governess.\n\nHe then throws a grand party for Schraeder and when the band plays the Ländler, the captain's youngest son asks Maria to teach him the dance and the captain steps in to help. As the two dance an unspoken attraction begins to arise in the two and Maria puts a stop to the dancing. However, this unspoken attraction did not go unnoticed by Brigitta who confronts Maria on this. Though Maria strongly denies it she begins to realize that Brigitta is telling the truth. Then, Schraeder calls the children out to say good night to the guests and Max is instantly smitten with the idea to have the children sing in the festival and during all the hustle and bustle Maria sneaks off unnoticed and returns to the Abbey, where she confides in the Mother Abbess that she has fallen in love with the captain but that she is ready to take the orders of poverty, obedience and chastity. The Mother Abbess denies her this and encourages her to take face her problem head-on and to find the life she was born to live.\n\nMaria then returns to the von Trapp home and is warmly greeted by the children, who no longer feel the joys of singing due to her sudden departure. When she finds out that the captain intends to marry Schraeder she decides to see her duties through until arrangements can be made for a new governess. However, the political differences between Schraeder and the captain cause the two to realize that they have no future together and she leaves. Meanwhile, the captain confronts Maria and the two admit their feelings for each other. The two agree to marry at the Abbey and while the two are on honeymoon, Germany invades Austria.\n\nWhen they return, the captain is ordered to accept a commission in the German Navy and report immediately to Bremerhaven. Maria, thinking quickly, hands the Admiral the program for the Kaltzberg Festival showing that the von Trapp Family Singers are scheduled to perform, so the captain couldn’t possibly leave right away. They are granted permission to perform. During the finale, Max announces that a guard of honor is waiting to escort the captain away as soon as the concert is over. Maria leads the family in one more song to which they escape to one by one and flee to the Abbey. The Nazi soldiers search the Abbey for the von Trapps to no avail, as the family decides to flee Austria over the mountains with Maria's help.\n\n\n\nBenanti had previously portrayed Maria von Trapp on Broadway in 1998. Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, who had previously worked with Borle on the NBC musical drama television series \"Smash\", served as executive producers. Other credits include Rob Ashford and Beth McCarthy-Miller as directors, Ashford also was the choreographer, Priscilla Taussig served as producer, David Chase as music director and Derek McLane as production designer. Catherine Zuber was costume designer and Bernie Telsey was the casting director. The production is taken from the book by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse and is based off the memoir, \"The Story of the Trapp Family Singers\" by Maria von Trapp.\n\nOn June 30, 2012, NBC's chairman Bob Greenblatt announced the network's plans to broadcast a live adaptation of the Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\" in 2013. On November 30, 2012, the network announced that country music and fourth season of \"American Idol\", winner performer Carrie Underwood would star as Maria von Trapp in the production. In a statement, Greenblatt justified Underwood's involvement, saying that \"[Maria] was an iconic woman who will now be played by an iconic artist.\" On September 16, 2013, NBC revealed the full cast of the special, and released a promotional image depicting Underwood as Maria von Trapp, wearing blond braids and a dirndl, referencing one of Julie Andrews' \"most iconic moments\" from the film adaptation. Prior to being cast, Underwood personally asked Andrews for her endorsement of the role and the production, stating that \"whenever I do a cover of somebody's song or whatever, I always get permission of the artist first.\"\n\nProduced on a budget of around $9 million, \"The Sound of Music Live!\" was broadcast live from a soundstage built at Grumman Studios in Bethpage, New York. NBC, as well as producers Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, emphasized that the production was not a remake of the film, but an adaptation of the musical itself; Meron iterated that \"the audience will discover, within the first few minutes of watching the show, that they are not seeing a TV version of the movie. They'll know right away it's \"The Sound of Music\", but it's a different \"Sound of Music\" than they are accustomed to seeing on film.\" Meron felt that if successful, the broadcast could \"open the door to another kind of entertainment that can exist on TV.\" He also praised the involvement of Underwood as the star of the production, believing that she was a quick learner, and \"has all of the qualities of Maria.\" Greenblatt was highly supportive of the project, as he was, in the words of Zadan, a \"passionate devotee of theater\". Zadan considered the production to be \"one of the profoundly complicated, amazing experiences we’ve ever had\", noting the additional challenges created by the live broadcast.\n\nPromoted by NBC as a \"three-hour holiday event\", \"The Sound of Music Live!\" was aired as part of a push by NBC to air more live entertainment specials. Among its most popular programs in recent years have been those with live components (such as \"The Voice\" and \"Sunday Night Football\"); NBC's Jennifer Salke believed that the increased level of social network interaction possible in a live broadcast, along with the feeling of being part of an \"event\", would encourage viewers to watch the special live instead of on-demand or from a recording. NBC's previous attempt at event television, \"The Million Second Quiz\", was met with mixed reviews and viewership, but NBC did indicate that Subway's advertising throughout the series brought a higher level of awareness to the brand. The television special was also the first live musical special in almost fifty years on NBC.\n\nRetail chain Walmart served as the presenting sponsor for \"The Sound of Music Live!\". NBC also produced five themed Walmart commercials to air throughout the special, featuring scenes of a family using products from the store set to songs from \"The Sound of Music\". The five ads were timed to air during the commercial break following the scene where the song was featured; NBC's advertising chief Dan Lovinger considered the ads to be a way to \"enhance the excitement\" of the presentation for families.\n\nPrior to the broadcast, members of the real-life von Trapp family were critical of casting Underwood to play Maria, agreeing with the notion that she would be a good singer but a poor actor. They suggested that Anne Hathaway, who played Fantine in the 2012 film adaptation of \"Les Misérables\" for which she won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, would have been a better choice. \"The Sound of Music Live!\" received mixed reviews from entertainment critics, commending the show for its scope and supporting cast while questioning Underwood's acting capabilities.\n\nKevin Fallon of \"The Daily Beast\" wrote: \"Naturally, Underwood sounded astounding, as alive as those damned hills, every time she was asked to stand on top of things and belt. But whether it was because of nerves or lack of experience, her acting was painfully lifeless and amateur throughout the first two thirds of the lengthy ordeal. The singer, it seems, is a proud graduate of the school of 'If I don't blink, they'll think I'm acting!'\" Verne Gay of \"Newsday\" liked Underwood's performance, commenting that not only could she sing, but \"she is a luminous stage presence who had the guts to take on one of the most iconic roles of the stage or screen.\"\n\nBrian Lowry of \"Variety\" described the production \"as lifeless as [its] alpine backdrops.\" Marc Bernardin of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" commended the production's aesthetics but called it a \"very expensive karaoke\", and he wrote that Underwood \"doesn’t acquit herself so well when it comes to the carrying the emotional weight of the production.\" He also panned Moyer, criticizing his vocal performance and describing \"his attempt at conveying an emotional hollowness\" as \"mildly constipated\" and \"clenched.\" However, he lauded Benanti, Borle and McDonald's \"strong\" performances.\n\n18.62 million viewers watched \"The Sound of Music Live!\", making it the most-watched program of the night. It had a 4.6 rating, 13 share in the 18–49 demographic, which led all networks. It attracted NBC's largest non-sports Thursday audience since the series finale of \"Frasier\" in 2004 (which averaged 22.6 million viewers), and NBC's largest non-sports audience on any night since the 2007 Golden Globe Awards. The special performed the best with women in the 25–54 demographic, reaching a household rating of 7.0 for that demographic during the primetime broadcast. It did particularly well in Oklahoma City, the capital of Underwood's home state, where it was watched by 28% of TV viewers. At least 38.69 million viewers watched a portion of \"The Sound of Music Live!\". Factoring in DVR viewership over the week following the broadcast, the special was viewed by 21.84 million, with 3.1 million within the first three days.\n\nFollowing its original airing, an encore presentation of \"The Sound of Music Live!\" aired on December 14, 2013, attracting 3.1 million viewers. It notably displaced one of NBC's two traditional airings of the film \"It's a Wonderful Life\" (the other being on Christmas Eve), which was bumped ahead to December 20, 2013.\n\nNBC's Bob Greenblatt considered the production to be a success, and signed Meron and Zadan to produce another live musical for the 2014 holiday season. Greenblatt felt that there were enough recognizable, family-friendly musicals to make events like \"The Sound of Music Live!\" an annual tradition, and he indicated that NBC received e-mails and phone calls from various theatrical rightsholders, expressing interest in having their musicals adapted in a similar fashion, In January 2014, NBC announced that it would broadcast a live version of \"Peter Pan\" in December 2014, and at NBC's upfronts in May 2014, Greenblatt announced that NBC had also obtained rights to produce an adaptation of \"The Music Man\", although the network did not announce any timeframe for the production. It was later revealed that \"The Music Man\" project was put on hold for a live performance of \"The Wiz\". Interest in the concept also spread to competing networks: in April 2014, Fox announced that it would produce a of \"Grease\", which aired in January 2016. NBC aired \"Hairspray Live!\" later that year.\n\nThe special also had an influence on viewership for ABC's annual broadcast of the 1965 film version of \"The Sound of Music\"; with 6.5 million viewers and a 1.3 share, it was ABC's highest-rated airing of the film since 2007, although it was beaten by NBC's \"Sunday Night Football\".\n\nThe broadcast has been nominated for four Emmy Awards for the 66th Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Music Direction, Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special, Outstanding Special Class Program and Outstanding Technical Direction, Camerawork, Video Control for a Miniseries, Movie, or Special in 2014. It won the Emmy for Outstanding Technical Direction, Camerawork, Video Control for a Miniseries, Movie, or Special.\n\nA soundtrack for the broadcast was released on December 3, 2013 and consists of 22 studio recordings. Walmart outlets exclusively released a nine-track instrumental (sing-along) bonus CD with the soundtrack. It peaked at number 17 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and number 2 on the \"Billboard\" Soundtracks chart. The soundtrack had sold 103,000 copies as of January 2, 2014.\n\nA DVD of the special was released on December 17, 2013, through Universal Studios Home Entertainment. The DVD includes a behind-the-scenes look, titled \"The Making of \"The Sound of Music Live!\"\" and a preview of the soundtrack. It was released on DVD in Canada on January 7, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "125277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=125277", "title": "USS Stark (FFG-31)", "text": "USS Stark (FFG-31)\n\nUSS \"Stark\" (FFG-31), 23rd ship of the of guided-missile frigates, was named for Admiral Harold Rainsford Stark (1880–1972). Ordered from Todd Pacific Shipyards in Seattle, Washington, on 23 January 1978, \"Stark\" was laid down on 24 August 1979, launched on 30 May 1980, and commissioned on 23 October 1982 with CDR Terence W. Costello commanding. In 1987, an Iraqi jet fired two missiles at \"Stark\", killing 37 U.S. sailors on board. Decommissioned on 7 May 1999, \"Stark\" was scrapped in 2006.\n\nUSS \"Stark\" was deployed to the Middle East Force in 1984 and 1987. Captain Glenn R. Brindel was the commanding officer during the 1987 deployment. The ship was struck on 17 May 1987 by two Exocet anti-ship missiles during the Iran–Iraq War fired from an Iraqi Dassault Mirage F1 aircraft. The Reagan administration however attributed the blame to Iran for its alleged belligerence in the underlying conflict. The plane had taken off from Shaibah (in Iraq) at 20:00 and had flown south into the Persian Gulf. The pilot fired the first Exocet missile from a range of , and the second from , just about the time \"Stark\" issued a standard warning by radio. The frigate did not detect the missiles with radar; warning was given by the lookout only moments before the missiles struck. The first penetrated the port-side hull and failed to detonate, but left flaming rocket fuel in its path. The second entered at almost the same point, and, leaving a gash, exploded in crew quarters. 37 sailors were killed and 21 were injured.\nNo weapons were fired in defense of \"Stark\". The Phalanx CIWS remained in standby mode, Mark 36 SRBOC countermeasures were not armed until seconds before the missile hit. The attacking Exocet missiles and Mirage aircraft were in a blindspot of the STIR fire control director (Separate tracking and illumination Radar, part of the Mk 92 Guided Missile Fire Control System), and the Oto Melara Mk 75 76 mm/62 caliber naval gun, but in the clear for the MK 92 CAS (Combined Antenna System, primary search and tracking radar of the Mk 92 Guided Missile Fire Control System) and the Mk 13 Mod 4 single-arm launcher. The ship failed to maneuver to bring its Mk 75 to bear before the first missile hit.\n\nOn fire and listing, the frigate was brought under control by its crew during the night. The ship made its way to Bahrain where, after temporary repairs by the destroyer tender to make her seaworthy, she returned to her home port of Naval Station Mayport, under her own power. The ship was eventually repaired at Ingalls Shipbuilding in Mississippi for $142 million.\nIt is unknown whether Iraqi leaders authorized the attack. Initial claims by the Iraqi government (that \"Stark\" was inside the Iran–Iraq War zone) were shown to be false. The motives and orders of the pilot remain unanswered. American officials have claimed he was executed, but an ex-Iraqi Air Force commander later said that the pilot who attacked \"Stark\" was not punished, and remained alive.\n\nCiting lapses in training requirements and lax procedures, the U.S. Navy's board of inquiry relieved Captain Brindel of command and recommended him for court-martial, along with Tactical Action Officer Lieutenant Basil E. Moncrief. Instead, Brindel and Moncrief received non-judicial punishment from Admiral Frank B. Kelso II and letters of reprimand. Both opted for early retirement, while Executive Officer Lieutenant Commander Raymond Gajan Jr. was detached for cause and received a letter of admonition.\n\n\"Stark\" was part of the Standing Naval Forces Atlantic Fleet in 1990 before returning to the Middle East Force in 1991. She was attached to UNITAS in 1993 and took part in Operation Uphold Democracy and Operation Able Vigil in 1994. In 1995, she returned to the Middle East Force before serving with the Standing Naval Forces, Atlantic (STANAVFORLANT) in 1997 and in 1998.\n\n\"Stark\" was decommissioned on 7 May 1999. A scrapping contract was awarded to Metro Machine Corp. of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on 7 October 2005. The ship was reported scrapped on 21 June 2006. Her stern plate was saved and donated to the Naval Station Mayport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14843825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14843825", "title": "Unique Theater", "text": "Unique Theater\n\nThe Unique Theater was an 830-seat vaudeville theater built in 1904 on Hennepin Avenue in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota. It was situated between the Hennepin Center for the Arts and the West Hotel, built in the Renaissance Revival style, and catered to a family audience with daily performances costing $0.10 or $0.20. A then-unknown Charlie Chaplin performed at the Unique very early in his career. However, when vaudeville declined in the 1920s, the theater became a single-screen movie theater, which was demolished in the 1930s. The lot where it once stood is now a parking lot, but will eventually be part of the Minnesota Shubert Performing Arts and Education Center.\n"}
{"id": "18402206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18402206", "title": "World Chess Championship 1975", "text": "World Chess Championship 1975\n\nThe 1975 World Chess Championship was not played due to a dispute over the match format. Champion Bobby Fischer (United States) was to play Anatoly Karpov (Soviet Union) in Manila, commencing June 1, 1975. Fischer refused to play the then-standard \"Best of 24 games\" match, and after FIDE were unable to work out a compromise, forfeited his title instead. Karpov was named World Champion by default on April 3, 1975.\n\nTwo 18-player, single round robin Interzonals were played with the top three from each qualifying for the Candidates Tournament. Leningrad and Petropolis, Brazil were the venues.\n\nKorchnoi, Karpov, and Byrne qualified for the Candidates Tournament.\n\nMecking qualified outright for the Candidates Tournament, while the three players tied for second place contested a playoff in Portoroz for the remaining two spots.\n\nPortisch and Polugaevsky qualified.\n\nThe 1974 Candidates Tournament was played as knockout matches. Spassky as the loser of the last championship match and Petrosian as loser of the previous candidates final were seeded directly into the tournament and joined by the top three from each of the two interzonals.\n\nThe first round matches were first to win three games, draws not counting. Semifinals were first to four wins, while the final was first to five wins but with a maximum of 24 games. Karpov beat Korchnoi 3–2 with 19 draws, earning the right to challenge Fischer.\n\nThe semifinal stage was marked by the presence of two ex-champions, Petrosian and Spassky, playing in different matches. The two had faced each other in the 1966 and 1969 title matches. Both were eliminated in this stage of the current cycle. Although the match rules called for four wins in the semifinals, Petrosian resigned the match after losing three games.\n\nFischer had, prior to his 1972 match against Spassky, felt that the first-to-12½-points format was not fair, since it encouraged whoever was leading to play for draws instead of wins. He himself espoused this strategy in the match: after having taken a comfortable lead, he drew games 14–20. With each game, he coasted closer to the title, while Spassky lost a chance to fight back. This style of chess offended Fischer. Instead he demanded the format be changed to that used in the very first World Championship, between Wilhelm Steinitz and Johannes Zukertort, where the winner was the first player to score 10 wins with draws not counting. In case of a 9–9 score, the champion would retain title, and the prize fund split equally. A FIDE Congress was held in 1974 during the Nice Olympiad. The delegates voted in favor of Fischer's 10-win proposal, but rejected the 9–9 clause as well as the possibility of an unlimited match. In response, Fischer refused to defend his title. Deadlines were extended for Fischer's reconsideration, but he did not respond, so Karpov was named World Champion by default on April 3, 1975.\n\nAfter Fischer defaulted, Karpov became World Champion by forfeit. Whether Karpov could have beaten Fischer is a matter of speculation. Future world champion Garry Kasparov argued that Karpov would have had good chances, because he had beaten Spassky convincingly and was a new breed of tough professional, and indeed had higher quality games, while Fischer had been inactive for three years. Spassky thought that Fischer would have won in 1975 but Karpov would have qualified again and beaten Fischer in 1978.\n\nKarpov had become world champion without defeating the previous champion in a match, causing some to question the legitimacy of his title. He combated these questions by participating in nearly every major tournament for the next ten years. He convincingly won the very strong Milan tournament in 1975, and captured his first of three Soviet titles in 1976. He created a phenomenal streak of tournament wins against the strongest players in the world. Karpov held the record for most consecutive tournament victories (9) until it was shattered by Garry Kasparov (14). As a result, most experts soon acknowledged him as a legitimate world champion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33390372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33390372", "title": "Zeta Perseids", "text": "Zeta Perseids\n\nThe Zeta Perseids (ζ–Perseids) are a daylight meteor shower that takes place from about May 20 to July 5. The shower was discovered at Jodrell Bank Observatory in 1947 using radio equipment. The Zeta Perseids and Beta Taurids are both probably associated with the Taurid Complex of meteor showers. The Arietids and Zeta Perseids maxima tend to blend into one another.\n"}
