{"id": "12024825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12024825", "title": "2002 Columbus, Ohio shopping mall bombing plot", "text": "2002 Columbus, Ohio shopping mall bombing plot\n\nThe Columbus Shopping Mall Bombing Plot was a plan to blow up an unnamed shopping mall in the city of Columbus in the American state of Ohio. The plot was disclosed by federal authorities on June 14, 2004, when an indictment against Nuradin Abdi was unsealed by the local United States District Court. Abdi was part of a clandestine cell of al-Qaeda which sought to bring \"death and destruction to Columbus\". \n\nNuradin Abdi entered the United States as an asylum seeker from Somalia. He lived in a predominantly Muslim neighborhood on the north side of Columbus. According to one report, Abdi flew to Ethiopia to train in a military-style training camp in January 2000. There he allegedly was trained in the use of guns, guerrilla warfare, and bombs. He returned two months later. Abdi met with Christopher Paul and Iyman Faris at a coffee shop in Upper Arlington on August 6, 2002. According to Paul (who was awaiting trial for a separate plot to bomb European tourist resorts), Abdi first suggested shooting up a mall. Paul responded saying \"that's a stupid idea\". Abdi subsequently suggested bombing the mall, but few other details have been released.\n\nAbdi was arrested on November 28, 2003, and charged with Conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists, Conspiracy to provide material support to al-Qaeda, and two counts of fraud and misuse of documents. His attorneys became concerned with his mental state, and he was sent to a federal medical center in Minnesota in June 2004 to undergo tests. He was returned to Columbus in August 2004 and held in the Franklin County Correctional Facility II. On July 31, 2007, Abdi plead guilty to one count of conspiring to support terrorists. The other charges against him were dismissed as part of a plea agreement. Abdi was sentenced to 10 years in prison and will be deported to Somalia upon completion of the sentence.\n\nNew details released at the time of the plea agreement show that there were likely more than the aforementioned three people who were involved in the plot. Documents that were filed along with Abdi's agreement note a fourth person whom the trio met with both in Columbus and in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nA 2011 NPR report claimed some of the people associated with this plot were imprisoned in a highly restrictive Communication Management Unit.\n"}
{"id": "35851069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35851069", "title": "5 Broken Cameras", "text": "5 Broken Cameras\n\n5 Broken Cameras ( \"Khamas Kamīrāt Muḥaṭṭamah\"; \"Hamesh Matslemot Shvurot\") is a 94-minute documentary film co-directed by Palestinian Emad Burnat and Israeli Guy Davidi. It was shown at film festivals in 2011 and placed in general release by Kino Lorber in 2012. \"5 Broken Cameras\" is a first-hand account of protests in Bil'in, a West Bank village affected by the Israeli West Bank barrier. The documentary was shot almost entirely by Palestinian farmer Emad Burnat, who bought his first camera in 2005 to record the birth of his youngest son. In 2009 Israeli co-director Guy Davidi joined the project. Structured around the destruction of Burnat's cameras, the filmmakers' collaboration follows one family's evolution over five years of turmoil. The film won a 2012 Sundance Film Festival award, it won the Golden Apricot at the 2012 Yerevan International Film Festival, Armenia, for Best Documentary Film, won the 2013 International Emmy Award, and was nominated for a 2013 Academy Award.\n\nThere are five cameras — each with its own story. When his fourth son, Gibreel, is born in 2005, self-taught cameraman Emad Burnat, a Palestinian villager, gets his first camera. At the same time in his village of Bil’in, the Israelis begin bulldozing village olive groves to build a barrier to separate Bil'in from the Jewish Settlement Modi'in Illit. The barrier's route cuts off 60% of Bil'in farmland and the villagers resist this seizure of more of their land by the settlers.\n\nDuring the next year, Burnat films this struggle, which is led by two of his best friends including his brother Iyad, while at the same time recording the growth of his son. Very soon, these events begin to affect his family and his own life. Emad films the Army and Police beating and arresting villagers and activists who come to support them. Settlers destroy Palestinian olive trees and attack Burnat when he tries to film them. The Army raids the village in the middle of the night to arrest children. He, his friends, and brothers are arrested or shot; some are killed. Each camera used to document these events is shot or smashed.\n\nEventually, in 2009, Burnat approaches Guy Davidi – an Israeli filmmaker and together, from these five broken cameras and the stories that they represent, these two filmmakers create the film.\n\nIsrael began construction of an Israeli West Bank barrier in the West Bank village of Bil’in, Palestine in 2005. Discovering that the wall would cut through their agricultural land, confiscating half of it, the villagers initiated popular protests and were joined by Israeli and international activists. At that point Burnat received a camera to document the movement.\n\nIn 2007 the Israeli Supreme Court ordered the barrier rerouted, and four years later, after village access to some of the land was restored, the demonstrations were called off. A case against Canada, for failing to prevent Canadian corporations from being complicit in the building of the settlements, is currently pending before the UN Human Rights Committee.\n\nThe first year, Burnat filmed mainly to serve the purposes of activists. His footage was introduced as evidence in Israeli court and posted on YouTube to spread awareness of the growing movement.\n\nAs media interest in Bil’in grew, Burnat's footage gained international recognition and was used by local and international news agencies. He started working as a freelance photographer for Reuters and provided footage documenting the villagers' fight to professional filmmakers. This footage was used in such notable films as Shai Carmeli Pollac’s Bil’in, My Love and Guy Davidi’s and Alesandre Goetschmann Interrupted Streams.\n\nBurnat was approached in 2009 by Greenhouse, a Mediterranean film development project, to develop a documentary. The project focused on the non-violent movement and especially on Bassem Abu-Rahme, who was killed earlier that year at a demonstration in Bil’in. After some difficulties, Burnat approached Israeli filmmaker, Guy Davidi who had just finished editing “Interrupted Streams”, Davidi’s first feature documentary which was released in 2010 at the Jerusalem International Film Festival.\n\nEarlier, Davidi had been involved in the left-wing organizations Indymedia and Anarchists Against the Wall. “Until my twenties,” Davidi has said in an interview, “it was very hard for me to work in Israel. I felt it was a very destructive environment, a very violent environment... There is a lot of aggression expressed towards the arts in Israel. I connect it completely with the political situation...So I left for Paris and I found time to reflect on my life... I kind of found a freedom in Paris and I wanted to express it as well in Israel. And ever since my life was connected with the West Bank.”\n\nDavidi provided Burnat's film with a new concept: Burnat himself, the cameraman, would be the protagonist, and the story would be told from his point of view. Davidi also proposed that the film be structured around the history of the destruction of Burnat's cameras. Footage that Burnat shot of his family was also incorporated into the film, thus enhancing the personal element.\n\nBeginning in 2009, Burnat, adhering to the new concept for the film, focused more extensively on his family's reactions to events. A few important scenes shot by other cameramen (including Guy Davidi) were used to supplement the narrative, and to introduce Burnat as a character.\n\nStarting in 2009, Davidi worked on the voice-overs and structuring the film. In 2011 French editor Véronique Lagoarde–Ségot joined the project to edit the final cut of the 90-minute film and to create the 52-minute television version. The film takes the form of a diary, and is divided into 5 sections, each of which recounts the story of one of the five cameras that Burnat used over the years.\n\nIn a prologue, Burnat is shown with his 5 broken cameras laid out on a table. This scene is returned to at the end of the film. Title cards identifying the time periods during which each camera was used are shown at the start of each episode as well as the epilogue. The story shifts frequently between the dramatic public events in the village and the highly intimate scenes involving Burnat's family.\n\nThe most prominent narrative is of Burnat's fourth son Gibreel, whose growth throughout almost 6 years is documented in the film. The birth of Gibreel occurs at the same time as the birth of the non-violent movement in the village; later in the film, Gibreel’s first words are “wall” and “cartridge,” uttered when he crosses the barrier with his brothers and finally writes his name on the second concrete wall at the end of the film.\n\nBeginning with the episode involving the third camera, the personal and village movement narratives grow more integrated. Burnat becomes more conspicuous as a protagonist. First he is placed under house arrest and films himself, then he is filmed at the moment a bullet directly hits his third camera.\n\nThe film was initially developed by the Greenhouse Development Project, a Mediterranean development project initiated by an Israeli foundation and sponsored by the European Union. Later it received funding from international and Israeli sources such as the New Israeli Cinema Fund (Israel), the Jan Vrijman Fund (Netherland), ITVS (USA). Still later, funding was provided by Israel's Channel 8, Dutch Television IKON, and sources in Canada, South Korea, and the UK. Ultimately French television and the CNC French Cinema Fund provided help. It was pitched at the 2010 Sheffield Doc/Fest MeetMarket.\n\n\"5 Broken Cameras\" has received positive reviews from numerous critics. It has a fresh rating of 95%, based on 39 reviews at Rottentomatoes.com. A.O. Scott of \"The New York Times\" while stating that the film was “unlikely to persuade anyone with a hardened view of the issue to think again” and was a “hardly neutral...piece of advocacy journalism,” also said that it was a \"visual essay in autobiography and, as such, a modest, rigorous and moving work of art\" that deserved \"to be appreciated for the lyrical delicacy of [Burnat's] voice and the precision of his eye.\" \"Artinfo\" magazine's J. Hoberman noted that the documentary was \"gripping from the get go\" and that seeing it is to \"wonder what it would have been like to have a black Alabaman’s 8mm documentation of the civil rights struggle.\" Joshua Rothkopf of \"Time Out New York\" gave the film four stars, describing it as a \"proudly defiant work, devoted to a community and created by its members\" that shows the \"largely unreported details\" of normal life in the West Bank. An NPR review of the film noted that it “is unabashedly pro-Palestinian, an indictment of Israel's settlement policy that never examines either the settlers' claims or the security forces' point of view” and quoted Anav Silverman of the Tazpit News Agency as saying that “the conflict in Judea and Samaria [the West Bank] has become a camera war.”\n\nThe film was released in Israel in July 2012 and immediately won the Best Documentary Award at the Jerusalem Film Festival, where it competed against another Oscar-nominated film, \"The Gatekeepers.\" The film also received an award named after the slain Palestinian-Israeli filmmaker Juliano Mer Khamis, at the Cinema South Film Festival in Sderot. In Israel, 5 Broken Cameras received overwhelming positive reviews, with Timeout Israel calling it “a masterpiece” and Israeli film critic Shmulik Duvdevani naming it \"the most important cinematic event of the year.\" Even Israel’s most popular right-wing newspaper, Israel Hayom, called the film \"the best documentary of the year\" (2012). Both directors, Guy Davidi and Emat Burnat, also appeared on the cover of the cultural weekend section of Israel’s leading newspaper, Yediot Achronot. In 2013 the film was nominated for the Israeli Film Academy's award (Ophir Award) for Best Documentary.\n\nThere was also considerable negative response to the film in Israel, however. Davidi said that when he first screened the film for Israeli high school students, “they got angry at me, accused me of lying and being a traitor. But the anger is really against the whole system that lied to them...So I tell the kids, ‘Go ahead and get mad at me. Take it all out on me. Soon you will realize that your anger is not against me, but against the whole system that lied to you.’” According to the AP, the film “has infuriated people on both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian divide,” with some Israelis “asking why the government helped fund a film so scathing in its criticism of its own policies, while Palestinians are shocked that the film is winning accolades for being 'Israeli.'” The Israeli nonprofit Consensus petitioned the Israeli Attorney General claiming that Davidi and Burnat “should be charged with slander and prosecuted for 'incitement.'”\n\nWhen the film was nominated for an Oscar, the Israeli media referred to it as an Israeli film that would be representing Israel at the Academy Awards, even though the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences does not consider films nominated in the documentary category as representing their countries of origin. In addition, the fact that the film was also a Palestinian work often went unmentioned. Davidi sparked controversy and was criticized by Israeli officials when he stated in an interview that “he does not represent Israel, only himself.”\n\nThere was considerable controversy over whether the film should be identified as an Israeli or Palestinian production. Burnat described it as a “Palestinian film” while Davidi said it was “first and foremost...a Palestinian film,”although technically it was a “Palestinian-Israeli-French production since there is finance from these countries,” although he added: “I don’t think films should have citizenships.”\n\nBurnat was widely criticized in Ramallah for working with Israelis, and Davidi was made to feel that “I had not sufficiently proved myself. I thought to myself that maybe we needed an Israeli activist to die in order to win credibility. Perhaps not enough Israeli blood has been spilled.”\n\nNorman Finkelstein attacked the boycott, divestment and sanctions movement for “flagrant hypocrisy” for not calling for a boycott of 5 Broken Cameras.\n\n\"5 Broken Cameras\" won the World Cinema Directing Award at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival. it won the 2013 International Emmy Award. The film also received the Special Broadcaster IDFA Audience Award and the Special Jury Award at the International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam in 2011. In addition, the film won the Golden Apricot at the 2012 Yerevan International Film Festival, for Best Documentary Film, the Van Leer Group Foundation Award for Best Israeli Documentary at the Jerusalem Film Festival in 2012, and the Busan Cinephile Award at the 17th Busan International Film Festival in 2012. The film also won Sheffield Doc/Fest Audience Award at the 2012 Sheffield Doc/Fest.\n\n\"5 Broken Cameras\" was nominated for Best Documentary Feature in the 85th Academy Awards, and for the Asia Pacific Screen Award for Best Documentary of 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1239941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1239941", "title": "Age of candidacy", "text": "Age of candidacy\n\nAge of candidacy is the minimum age at which a person can legally qualify to hold certain elected government offices. In many cases, it also determines the age at which a person may be eligible to stand for an election or be granted ballot access.\n\nThe first known example of a law enforcing age of candidacy was the \"Lex Villia Annalis\", a Roman law enacted in 180 BCE which set the minimum ages for senatorial magistrates.\n\nMany youth rights groups view current age of candidacy requirements as unjustified age discrimination. Occasionally people who are younger than the minimum age will run for an office in protest of the requirement or because they don't know that the requirement exists. On extremely rare occasions, young people have been elected to offices they do not qualify for and have been deemed ineligible to assume the office.\n\nIn 1934, Rush Holt of West Virginia was elected to the Senate of the United States at the age of 29. Since the U.S. Constitution requires senators to be at least 30, Holt was forced to wait until his 30th birthday, six months after the start of the session, before being sworn in.\n\nIn 1954, Richard Fulton won election to the Tennessee Senate. Shortly after being sworn in, Fulton was ousted from office because he was only 27 years old at the time. The Tennessee State Constitution required that senators be at least 30. Rather than hold a new election, the previous incumbent, Clifford Allen, was allowed to resume his office for another term. Fulton went on to win the next State Senate election in 1956 and was later elected to the US House of Representatives where he served for 10 years.\n\nIn South Carolina, two Senators aged 24 were elected, but were too young according to the State Constitution: Mike Laughlin in 1969 and Bryan Dorn (later a US Congressman) in 1941. They were seated anyway.\n\nOn several occasions, the Socialist Workers Party (USA) has nominated candidates too young to qualify for the offices they were running for. In 1972, Linda Jenness ran as the SWP presidential candidate, although she was only 31 at the time. Since the U.S. Constitution requires that the President and Vice President be at least 35 years old, Jenness was not able to receive ballot access in several states in which she otherwise qualified. Despite this handicap, Jenness still received 83,380 votes. In 2004, the SWP nominated Arrin Hawkins as the party's vice-presidential candidate, although she was only 28 at the time. Hawkins was also unable to receive ballot access in several states due to her age.\n\nIn the United States, many groups have attempted to lower age of candidacy requirements in various states. In 1994, South Dakota voters rejected a ballot measure that would have lowered the age requirements to serve as a State Senator or State Representative from 30 to 18. In 1998, however, they approved a similar ballot measure that reduced the age requirements for those offices from 25 to 21. In 2002, Oregon voters rejected a ballot measure that would have reduced the age requirement to serve as a State Representative from 21 to 18.\n\nDuring the early 2000s, the British Youth Council and other groups successfully campaigned to lower age of candidacy requirements in the United Kingdom. The age of candidacy was reduced from 21 to 18 in England, Wales and Scotland on 1 January 2007, when section 17 of the Electoral Administration Act 2006 entered into force.\n\nIn Australia a person must be aged 18 or over to stand for election to public office at federal, state or local government level.\n\nThe youngest ever member of the House of Representatives was 20-year-old Wyatt Roy elected in the 2010 federal election after the Electoral Act 1918 was amended (in 1973) to reduce the age of candidacy for that office from 21 to 18.\n\nIn Austria, a person must be 18 years of age or older to stand in elections to the European Parliament or National Council. The Diets of regional \"Länder\" are able to set a minimum age lower than 18 for candidacy in elections to the Diet itself as well as to municipal councils in the Land. In presidential elections the candidacy age is 35.\n\nAny Belgian who has reached the age of 18 years can stand for election for the Chamber of Representatives, can become a member of the Senate, or can be elected in one of the regional parliaments. This is regulated in the Constitution (Art. 64) and in the Special Law on the Reform of the Institutions.\n\nAccording to the Constitution of Belize, a person must be at least 18 years old to be elected as a member of the House of Representatives and must be at least 30 to be Speaker of the House. A person must be at least 18 years old to be appointed to the Senate and must be at least 30 to be President or Vice-President of the Senate. As only members of the House of Representatives are eligible to be appointed Prime Minister, the Prime Minister must be at least 18 years old. A person must also be at least 18 years old to be elected to a village council.\n\nThe Brazilian Constitution (Article 14, Section 3 (VI)) defines 35 years as the minimum age for someone to be elected President, Vice-President or Senator; 30 years for state Governor or Vice-Governor; 21 for Federal or State Deputy, Mayor or Vice-Mayor; and 18 for city Councilman.\n\nIn Canada, to be eligible to run for elected office must be must be a minimum 18 years or older on the day of the election. \nHowever, to be appointed to the Senate (Upper House), one must be at least 30 years of age, must possess land worth at least $4,000 in the province for which they are appointed, and must own real and personal property worth at least $4,000, above their debts and liabilities. \n\nIn Chile the minimum age required to be elected President of the Republic is 35 years on the day of the election. Before the 2005 reforms the requirement was 40 years, and from 1925 to 1981 it was 30 years. For senators it is 35 years (between 1981 and 2005 it was 40 years) and for deputies it is 21 years (between 1925 and 1970 it was 35 years).\n\nIn China the minimum age to be elected as president or vice-president is 45.\n\nIn Cyprus the minimum age to be elected president is 35 years.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, a person must be at least 18 years old to be elected in local elections. A person must be at least 21 years old to be elected to the lower house of the Czech Parliament or to the European Parliament and 40 years old to be a member of the upper house (Senate) of the Parliament or the President of the Czech Republic.\n\nIn Denmark, any adult 18 years of age or older can become a candidate and be elected in any public election.\n\nIn Estonia, any citizen 18 years of age or older can be elected in local elections, and 21 years or older in parliamentary elections. The minimum age for the President of Estonia is 40.\n\nIn France, any citizen 18 years of age or older can be elected to the lower house of Parliament, and 24 years or older for the Senate. The minimum age for the President of France is 18.\n\nIn Germany, any citizen 18 years of age or older can be elected in national, regional or local elections. The only exception is the Landtag election in Hesse where a minimum age of 21 is required. The minimum age for the President is 40.\n\nIn Hong Kong a person must be at least 21 to be candidate in a district council or Legislative Council election. A person must be at least 40 to be candidate in the Chief Executive election, and also at least 40 to be candidate in the election for the President of the Legislative Council from among the members of the Legislative Council.\n\nIn India a person must be at least:\n\nCriticism has been on the rise to decrease the age of candidacy in India. Young India Foundation has been working on a campaign to decrease the age of candidacy in India for MPs and MLAs to better reflect the large young demographic of India.\n\nIn Indonesia a person must be at least:\n\nIn Israel one must be at least 21 to become a member of the Knesset ( section 6(a)) or a municipality. When the Prime Minister was directly elected, one must have been a member of the Knesset who is at least 30 to be a candidate for Prime Minister. Every Israeli Citizen (including minors) can be appointed as a Government Minister, or elected as President of Israel, but the latter role is mostly ceremonial and elected by the Parliament.\n\nIn Italy, a person must be at least 50 to be President of the Republic, 40 to be a Senator, and 25 to be a Deputy, as specified in the 1947 Constitution of Italy. 18 years of age is sufficient, however, to be elected member of the Council of Regions, Provinces, and Municipalities (Communes).\n\nIn Iran a person must be at least 21 years old to run for president.\n\nThe Iraqi constitution states that a person must be at least 40 years old to run for president and 35 years old to be Prime Minister. The Iraqi Election Law No. 45 of 2013 states that a person must be 30 years old to run for the House of Representatives. There are proposals by various MP's to amend the Law and reduce the age from 30 to 25.\n\nThe 1937 Constitution of Ireland requires the President to be at least 35 and members of the Oireachtas (legislature) to be 21. Members of the European Parliament for Ireland must also be 21. Members of local authorities must be 18, reduced from 21 in 1973. The 1922–37 Constitution of the Irish Free State required TDs (members of the Dáil, lower house) to be 21, whereas Senators had to be 35 (reduced to 30 in 1928). The Thirty-fifth Amendment of the Constitution Bill 2015 proposed to lower the presidential age limit to 21. However, this proposal was rejected by 73% of the voters.\n\nIn Japan a person must be at least:\n\nIn South Korea, a person must be at least 40 years old to be President. A person must be at least 25 years old to be the member of the National Assembly or to be Mayor or Governor.\n\nIn Malaysia, any citizen 21 years of age or older can become a candidate and be elected to the Dewan Rakyat and Dewan Undangan Negeri. Minimum age for the Senator is 30 by constitution.\n\nIn Mexico, a person must be at least 35 to be President, 25 to be a Senator, or 21 to be a Congressional Deputy, as specified in the 1917 Constitution of Mexico.\n\nIn the Netherlands, any adult 18 years of age or older can become a candidate and be elected in any public election.\n\nIn New Zealand the minimum age to be Prime Minister of New Zealand is 18 years old. Citizens and permanent residents who are enrolled as an elector are eligible to be a candidate for election as a Member of Parliament.\n\nIn Nigeria, a person must be at least 35 years of age to be elected President or Vice President, 35 to be a Senator or State Governor, and 25 to be a Representative in parliament or Member of the States' House of Assembly.\n\nIn North Korea, any person eligible to vote in elections to the Supreme People's Assembly is also eligible to stand for candidacy. The age for both voting and candidacy is 17.\n\nIn Norway, any adult can become a candidate and be elected in any public election, from the calendar year that he or she turns 18 years.\n\nIn Pakistan, a person must be at least 45 years old to be President. A person must be at least 25 years old to be a member of the provincial assembly or national assembly.\n\nIn Singapore a person must be at least 45 years old to run for president.\n\nSection 47, Clause 1 of the 1996 Constitution of South Africa states that \"Every citizen who is qualified to vote for the National Assembly is eligible to be a member of the Assembly\", defaulting to Section 46 which \"provides for a minimum voting age of 18 years\" in National Assembly elections; Sections 106 and 105 provide the same for provincial legislatures.\n\nIn Sweden, any citizen at least 18 years old, who resides, or who has resided in the realm can be elected to parliament. Citizens of Sweden, the Europeans Union, Norway or Iceland aged 18 and over may be elected to county or municipal council. Citizens of other countries may also be elected to council, provided they have resided in the realm for at least three years.\n\nIn Switzerland, any citizen aged 18 or over can become a candidate and be elected in any federal election.\n\nIn Thailand the minimum age to be elected to the National Assembly is 35 years.\n\nThe 1876 constitution set the age for parliamentary elections as 30. This remained unchanged until 13 October 2006, when it was lowered to 25 through a constitutional amendment. In 2017, it was further lowered to 18, the same as the voting age.\n\nThe Prime Minister of Turkey has to be a member of the parliament, hence it has the same requirements as parliamentary eligibility. The age of candidacy for the President is 18. Due to new laws being voted in as said Prime Minister is related to parliament and in order to be in parliament you have to be 18 and the government of Turkey said that 18 will be the age for when you can run for prime minister.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a person must be aged 18 or over in Northern Ireland, England, and Wales, and 16 or over in Scotland to stand in elections to all parliaments, assemblies, and councils at the European, UK, devolved, or local level. This age requirement also applies in elections to any individual elective public office; the main example is that of an elected mayor, whether of London or a local authority. There are no higher age requirements for particular positions in public office. Candidates are required to be aged 18 on both the day of nomination and the day of the poll. This was reduced from 21 by the Electoral Administration Act 2006.\n\nIn the United States, a person must be aged 35 or over to be President or Vice President, 30 or over to be a Senator, and 25 or over to be a Representative, as specified in the . Most states in the U.S. also have age requirements for the offices of Governor, State Senator, and State Representative. Some states have a minimum age requirement to hold any elected office (usually 21 or 18).\n\nIn Venezuela, a person must be at least 30 to be President or Vice President, 21 to be a deputy for the National Assembly and 25 to be the Governor of a state.\n\n"}
{"id": "51375319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51375319", "title": "Arnaut Osman", "text": "Arnaut Osman\n\nArnaut Osman is a hero of Serbian and Albanian epic poetry. He is also a hero of the epic poetry of Bosniaks. The Serbo-Croatian language songs about Arnaut Osman include \"Young Marjan and Arnaut Osman\", \"Sekula and Arnaut Osman\" and \"Mujo Hrnjica kills Simun Brehulja\". Albanian language songs about Arnaut Osman include \"Sirotan Alia and Arnaut Osman\". The name of this here consists of personal name Osman and ethnonym Arnaut.\n\nThe song \"Young Marjan and Arnaut Osman\" () was recorded by Vuk Karadžić (Narodne srpske pjesme III, Lajpcig, 1823), based on the singing of Anđelko Vuković from Kosovo (from whose singing Vuk recorded totally four songs). The main motif of this song is brotherhood and conciliation.\n\nAnother song recorded by Vuk Karadžić (also in 1823) is titled \"Sekula and Arnaut Osman\"\n\nThe song \"Mujo Hrnjica kills Simun Brehulja\" () is evidence that Arnaut Osman was one of famous bayraktars in the epic poetry of Bosniaks. In this song, Christian hero Siun Brehulja inflicted deadly wounds to Arnaut Osman and killed cheteniks under his command.\n\nSome singers of this song referred to Osman as Captain Osman instead of Arnaut Osman. Some variants of this song are titled \"Mujo Hrnjica Liberates His Blood-Brother Arnaut Osman\"\n\nArnaut Osman is one of the heroes of the novel written by Đura Jakšić.\n\nArnaut Osman is also a hero of the Albanian epic poetry. He is one of main characters in the song \"Sirotan Alia and Arnaut Osman\" () Albanian epic poetry had almost identic song to song about Mali Radojica, although the name of the hero is not Mali Radojica but Arnaut Osman.\n\n"}
{"id": "6584935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6584935", "title": "Azerbaijanis in Georgia", "text": "Azerbaijanis in Georgia\n\nAzerbaijanis in Georgia or Georgian Azerbaijanis (, ) are Azerbaijani people in Georgia, and are Georgian citizens and permanent residents of ethnic Azerbaijani background. According to the 2002 census, there are 284,761 ethnic Azerbaijanis living in Georgia. Azerbaijanis comprise 6.5% of Georgia's population and are the country's largest ethnic minority, inhabiting mostly rural areas like Kvemo Kartli, Kakheti, Shida Kartli and Mtskheta-Mtianeti, a region broadly referred to as Borchali. There is also a historical Azerbaijani community in the capital city of Tbilisi (previously known as Tiflis) and smaller communities in other regions. There were some tensions in the late 1980s in the Azerbaijani-populated regions of Georgia; however, they never escalated to armed clashes.\n\nHistorically, Azeris in Georgia have succeeded in preserving their ethnic identity and have not been touched by ethnic and/or linguistic assimilation processes observed among many other ethnic communities in the country. Natalia Volkova explained this by the large size of the community and its tendency to being restricted to a specific geographical area. The other reason was that unlike most of their neighbours, Azeris historically adhered to Islam, which weakened possibilities of intermarriage or any other type of close contact with people of other faiths. Finally, the fact that the Azeri language for a long time enjoyed the status of the language of interethnic communication (see \"Language\") reduced the need of knowing languages of the neighbours, preventing eventual language shift. Volkova noted that as of 1976, cases of assimilation of Azeris even in the smallest communities were unheard of.\n\nGeorgia's Azerbaijani population traces its roots to the events following the Seljuk invasion in the second half of the eleventh century, when Oghuz tribes settled in southern Georgia. To oppose being subjected to the Seljuk Empire, Georgians allied with the Cumans (a group of Kipchak tribes to the north of the Caucasus) thus allowing for more Turkic migration into the region. In the 1480s, groups of Azeris originally from Qazakh, Pambak and Shuragel further settled along the banks of the rivers Aghstafa and Debed. Starting in the sixteenth century, Qizilbash tribes started migrating and settling on both banks of the Kura River in Lower Kartli, in the valleys of Algeti and Ktsia, in the Dabnisi Gorge, and in Somkhiti. By the beginning of the seventeenth century, they spread eastward into fertile lands of Karaiazi (modern-day Gardabani Municipality) and in the west, they reached Shulaveri and the Dmanisi Gorge. Their consolidation led to the formation of the Azeri community. The area populated by ethnic Azeris today is historically known as Borchali (which in the form \"Burjoglu\" was originally the name of a Turkic tribe that settled there in the seventeenth century). The area in turn gave its name to the Sultanate of Borchali that existed there from 1604 to 1755 with its capital in Aghjagala (a mediaeval fortress whose ruins nowadays lie near Kushchi, Marneuli Municipality), later turned into a mouravate (district) under the suzerainty of Georgia. Furthermore, up to 15,000 Turkic-speaking families had been resettled in Kakheti at the beginning of the seventeenth century by Abbas I of Persia following a series of punitive campaigns he had launched against his Georgian subject, Teimuraz I of Kakheti. However, those settlers were almost entirely annihilated less than a decade later in the course of an uprising in Kakheti. The area of Azeri settlement spread northward into the Tsalka Plateau throughout the eighteenth century and further westward into Bashkechid (modern Dmanisi Municipality and its vicinity) by the early nineteenth century.\n\nAfter Russia conquered the South Caucasus and Dagestan from Qajar Iran following the Russo-Persian War (1804-1813), the Russo-Persian War (1826-1828) and the out-coming treaties of Gulistan and Turkmenchay, the government reorganised the Kingdom of Georgia into a governorate, with subdivisions of its own, five of which were referred to as the Tatar ranges (the Czarist nomenclature used the word \"Tatar\" for Azeri), namely Borchali, Pambak, Shuragel, Kazakh, and Shamshadin. In 1868, the latter two became part of the Elisabethpol Governorate, while the former three were incorporated into the Tiflis Governorate as the Borchali uyezd. The plains of the uyezd were mainly Azeri-populated: out of 63 villages in the Borchali Plain covering 390 square versts (equal to 444 square kilometres) of land, 61 were populated with Azeris.\n\nIn Tiflis, Azeris have historically populated the neighbourhood of Ortachala (from Azeri \"orta\", meaning \"central, middle\", and Georgian ჭალა (\"ch'ala\"), meaning \"green coastal area\"), also known as Maidan (, meaning \"square\") or Sheitanbazar (, meaning \"Devil's market\"), as well as Seidabad (; \"city of sayyids\"), the old baths district.\n\nIn November 1905, Tiflis almost became an arena of Armenian–Azeri ethnic clashes, which had already affected and caused violent conflicts and massacres in the rest of the South Caucasus. The Armenian population of the city at the time was 50,000, putting the 1,000 Azeris in a dangerous situation. Militia units of the Armenian nationalist Dashnaktsutiun party seized control of key positions. The Azeris were assisted by 2,000 mounted volunteers from Borchali. By three o'clock in the afternoon on 27 November there were already 22 killed and wounded. In response, social democrat labourer activists organised a peaceful rally, calling on both parties not to engage in a conflict, and managed to acquire arms from the Viceroyalty of the Caucasus in order to patrol the streets. Following mediation, both sides came to a peaceful agreement on 1 December 1905, and the Borchalians left the city.\n\nIn 1919, during Georgia's brief independence, 34-year-old Parikhanim Sofiyeva, an Azeri woman from the village of Karajalari near Karaiazi, won the parliament election in her constituency, becoming the first democratically elected Muslim woman in the history of the Caucasus and one of only five Georgian female MPs at the time.\n\nUnder Soviet rule, Azeris constituted the third largest ethnic minority in the country (after Armenians and Russians), but their numbers grew constantly due to a high birth rate, almost twice as high as for ethnic Georgians as of 1989, as well as a low rate of immigration. Due to this, the numbers of Azeris rose to make them Georgia's largest minority ethnic group by 2002.\n\nIn March 1944, 3,240 ethnic Azeris and Kurds living in the capital city of Tbilisi were forcibly relocated to rural parts of Kvemo Kartli, as persons \"deliberately avoiding working in the agricultural sector\". Only 31 Azeri families were permitted to stay in Tbilisi, mostly military personnel, handicapped war veterans and university students.\n\nIn 1944, in the midst of the population transfer in the Soviet Union, a decree was issued by the Moscow-seated government, according to which tens of thousands of residents of the southern border regions of Georgia were to be forcibly relocated to Central Asia for national security reasons. The decree made provision for the relocation of Meskhetian Turks, Kurds, Hamsheni Armenians and \"others\", though the latter category underlyingly referred to Azeris living in Samtskhe-Javakheti and Ajara. Georgian NKVD officers made no distinction between the Azeris and the key deportation target groups, as together with Kurds and Hamsheni Armenians, they were seen as \"Turkish-oriented\". In 1949, it was revealed that out of almost 100,000 deportees, 24,304 were Azeris.\n\nAzeris living in rural parts of the country were mainly engaged in agriculture and animal husbandry in kolkhozes and sovkhozes, as well as small-scale trade and industry. Farmer unions were assigned relatively small units of land, which, however, gave more output than most state-owned lands elsewhere in Georgia. Factors such as fertile land, proximity of the capital city and easy access to major Soviet markets allowed Azeri farmers to enjoy relatively prosperous lives, according to Soviet standards. Azeris also occupied many top posts in local governments across Kvemo-Kartli.\n\nDuring Georgia's movement toward independence from the Soviet Union, the Azeri population expressed fear for its fate in independent Georgia. In the late 1980s, most ethnic Azeris occupying local government positions in the Azeri-populated areas were removed from their positions. In 1989, there were changes in the ethnic composition of the local authorities and the resettlement of thousands of eco-migrants who had suffered from landslides in the mountainous region of Svaneti. The local Azeri population, accepting of the migrants at first, demanded only to resolve the problem of Azeri representation on the municipal level. The demands were ignored; later the eco-migrants, culturally different from the local population and facing social hardships, were accused of attacks and robbery against the Azeris, which in turn led to demonstrations, ethnic clashes between Svans and Azeris, demands for an Azeri autonomy in Borchali and for the expulsion of Svan immigrants from Kvemo-Kartli. The antagonism reached its peak during the presidency of Zviad Gamsakhurdia (1991–1992), when hundreds of Azeri families were forcibly evicted from their homes in Dmanisi and Bolnisi by nationalist paramilitaries and fled to Azerbaijan. Thousands of Azeris emigrated in fear of nationalist policies. In his speech in Kvareli, Gamsakhurdia accused the Azeri population of Kakheti of \"holding up their heads and measuring swords with Kakheti\". The Georgian nationalist press expressed concern with regard to the fast natural growth of the Azeri population.\n\nAlthough ethnic oppression in the 1990s did not take place on a wide scale, minorities in Georgia, especially Azeris and Ossetians, encountered the problem of dealing with nationalist organisations established in some parts of the country. Previously not prone to migrating, Azeris became the second largest emigrating ethnic community in Georgia in the early 1990s, with three-quarters of these mainly rural emigrants leaving for Azerbaijan and the rest for Russia. Unlike other minority groups, many remaining Azeris cited attachment to their home communities and unwillingness to leave behind well-developed farms as their reason to stay. Furthermore, Georgian-born Azeris who immigrated to Azerbaijan at various times, including 50,000 Georgian-born spouses of Azerbaijani citizens, reported bureaucratic problems faced in Azerbaijan, with some unable to acquire Azerbaijani citizenship for nearly 20 years.\n\nAfter the overthrow of Gamsakhurdia, the new president Eduard Shevardnadze refused to pursue nationalist policies, and his good relationship with his former fellow Politburo member Heydar Aliyev, then president of Azerbaijan, ensured safety for Georgia's Azeri community. However, Jonathan Wheatley characterises Shevardnadze's policy towards Kvemo-Kartli as \"benign neglect\", pursued through \"patron-client linkages\" and weak efforts to integrate ethnic minorities with the rest of the country.\n\nIn 1995, Shevardnadze appointed Levan Mamaladze governor of the province of Kvemo-Kartli, even though the governor's duties were never clearly outlined in the legislature at the time. Mamaladze reportedly used his power to secure ethnic Azeri votes for Shevardnadze and his political party and tolerated corruption in the region. According to Jonathan Wheatley, it was on Mamalalze's recommendation that six Azeris became Members of Parliament in the 1999 election and later joined the Alliance for a New Georgia that he had helped form. At the same time, members of the local government were dominated by ethnic Georgians appointed by him, including heads of all majority-Azeri municipalities. In a 2003 interview, then Prime Minister and future President Mikheil Saakashvili criticised Mamaladze for carrying out a smearing campaign against opposition parties and soliciting Azeri votes by spreading rumours that the new government would organise mass deportations of Georgia's Azeri population. Mamaladze left the country soon after Shevardnadze's resignation in November 2003.\n\nMikheil Saakashvili's government, which came in power after the 2003 Rose Revolution, took steps towards integrating the country's minorities by attempting to enhance the educational system (see \"Education\").\n\nThe new government's efforts to build a professional army changed the military conscription practices and instead allowed many young Azeris and Armenians from impoverished regions (at least before the Russo-Georgian War of 2008) to be offered real employment opportunities by the Georgian army instead of being dragooned into mandatory military service.\n\nAs part of his anti-corruption reforms, in 2004, Saakashvili cracked down on contraband markets. This targeted the economic situation of many Azeris from the border regions who made a living through unencumbered trade with Azerbaijan and even led to protests against what was seen as \"unfair punishment\".\n\nIn general, the majority-Azeri regions for the most part demonstrated satisfaction with the United National Movement (UNM), showing varying support for this party in the 2004, 2008 and 2012 elections. Stephen Jones explains this by the fact that minority-populated electoral districts in general showed more irregularities which may indicate that the support for the UNM may have actually been lower than reported. Another explanation, may be that, owing to the highly Soviet-like voting culture in this region, the voters did not want to be seen as disloyal or that they had come under the influence of local ethnic elites who have enough power to sway voting practices.\n\nSince Georgia regained its independence in 1991, in addition to nationwide problems such as unemployment, many Azerbaijanis along with other minorities have faced social disintegration and underrepresentation in the country's legislative, executive and judicial powers, mainly due to the language barrier. Emigration and the feeling of alienation decreased in comparison with the early 1990s: according to the 2008 UN Association of Georgia report, 98% of Azeris surveyed in Kvemo Kartli considered Georgia their homeland, 96% acknowledged that the problems they face are common to citizens countrywide and around 90% linked their futures with Georgia. The percentage of mixed marriages remains one of the lowest in the country. Christian-Muslim intermarriage is much lower than Christian-Christian intermarriage between different ethnic groups: According to 2011 state statistics, there were only 2,229 families in Georgia where one spouse was Georgian and the other one Azeri (compared with 19,325 Georgian–Russian, 15,013 Georgian–Armenian, and 11,501 Georgian–Ossetian marriages).\n\nAzerbaijanis are currently represented in the 235-seat Parliament of Georgia by three members. The language barrier remains a major issue in the integration of the community. The government has launched various programs and projects in order to help Azerbaijanis integrate into the political life of the country.\n\nAfter the fall of the Communist regime, large areas of state-owned lands could not be maintained by the Georgian government any longer, and a need for their privatisation arose. Champions of the privatisation law believed that private farming would keep the agriculture developing further. However nationalists argued that privatisation of lands populated by ethnic minorities who lived in border regions may lead to irredentist sentiment. In 1992, privatisation law was passed on certain conditions with regard to the border regions, such as the ban on owning land within 21 kilometres from the state border. Large areas of arable land in Gardabani and Marneuli were thus transferred to the control of the Ministry of Defence, and many families ended up owning only 1 to 1.5 hectares of land or less. Although after Mikheil Saakashvili's rise to power in 2004 the ban was lifted, local Azeris complained of unawareness of the changing laws as the main reason for dissatisfaction and expressed scepticism with regard to the situation improving. As a result, landowners from other parts of the country came to own and rent much of the land (70% according to Azeri non-governmental organisations) that had been formerly in the possession of the Azeri-populated villages and farmer unions. Other problems include corruption of agrarian establishments, land division and distribution, and priority unduly given to large companies, potential voters and ethnic Georgians. In March 2006, there was an Azeri demonstration held in Marneuli against unfair land privatisation, and several participants were detained.\n\nThe Georgianisation of Georgia's toponymy has been a steady process since the 1930s. It affected placenames of Azeri origin, such as the renaming of Barmaksiz () to Tsalka in 1932, Aghbulagh () to Tetritsqaro in 1940 (by direct translation), Bashkicheti () to Dmanisi, Karaiazi () to Gardabani, and Sarvan () to Marneuli all in 1947. According to the locals, in the 1960s residents of three villages near Gardabani petitioned to Moscow against the plan of renaming their villages, and the names were kept.\n\nDuring Gamsakhurdia's presidency in the early 1990s, the Azeri-sounding names of 32 villages were changed overnight to Georgian ones by a special decree. Their Azeri population has expressed dissatisfaction with this decision and addressed their concerns in writing to president Mikheil Saakashvili, but the problem has not been resolved. In 2009, the Advisory Committee on the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities qualified the renaming of Azeri-populated villages as violation of principles of Article 11 of the Framework Convention, to which Georgia is a signatory, and urged the government of Georgia to co-operate with the local ethnic minority to reintroduce the traditional names.\n\nAccording to the Human Rights Monitoring Group of Ethnic Minorities, on the updated list of placenames of the Ministry of Justice Public Registry, Azeri-sounding names of 30 more villages (18 in Marneuli and 12 in Tsalka) were changed to Georgian-sounding ones in 2010–2011.\n\nOf the four ethnic Azeris elected in the Georgian National Assembly in the 2016 parliamentary election, three represent the ruling Georgian Dream (Mahir Darziyev, Ruslan Hajiyev, Savalan Mirzayev) and one the previously-ruling United National Movement (Azer Suleymanov). There are currently three officially registered large Azeri social organisations, focusing on language instruction, civic education and intercultural communication. However, according to a report by the UN Association of Georgia, Azeri politicians who make it to the national scene often come from Tbilisi and thus maintain weak links with the rural portion of the minority they are supposed to represent.\n\nThe Advisory Committee on the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities received reports that ethnic Azeris living close to the Armenian border often become victims of acts of violence, land and other property seizures and thefts of cattle. Local law enforcement agencies fail to respond adequately to these cases. In 2013, members of Azeri NGOs representing seven villages along the Georgia–Armenia border blamed these incidents on Armenian border guards who, according to them, have advanced 100–150 metres into the Georgian territory and are now in control of a local water reservoir that has been used by farmers for irrigation since 1948. They reportedly harass Azeris who try to use the reservoir or herd sheep in the nearby area.\n\nThe art of ashiks (travelling bards) from the Borchali area has been referred to as the strongest and best-developed Azeri ashik school by Azerbaijani music folklorist Latif Hasanov.\n\nAzeri-populated areas of Georgia, mainly the districts of Marneuli, Bolnisi, Gardabani and Sagarejo, are famous for the production of Azerbaijani rugs of the Gazakh school of carpet-weaving, which also encompasses western Azerbaijan and northern Armenia. The rugs of this school are all wool, coarsely knotted in the symmetrical knot with a long, lustrous pile, and use strong red, blue, and ivory in bold combinations with relatively simple but dramatic designs.\n\nThe city of Tbilisi, or Tiflis, is known as one of the important centres for Azerbaijanis' cultural development. Molla Vali Vidadi, an Azerbaijani poet from the eighteenth century, was at one point known as King Erekle II's court poet. Mirza Fatali Akhundov, the Azerbaijani enlightened reformist, novelist and dramatist, the pioneer of the theatrical performance in the East, lived and contributed to literature in Tiflis in the mid-nineteenth century, along with his Ganja-native teacher Mirza Shafi Vazeh. Both died and were buried in Tiflis.\n\nThe first printed periodical in history to include articles in Azeri, \"Tatarskie vedomosti\", was published in Tiflis in 1832. The famous Azerbaijani satirical magazine \"Molla Nasraddin\" edited by Jalil Mammadguluzadeh was published in Tiflis in 1906–1917, as were Azerbaijani newspapers from earlier periods (such as \"Ziya\", \"Keshkul\" and \"Sharg-i rus\" in the nineteenth and early twentieth century). The Transcaucasian Teachers Seminary which trained professional teachers for secular primary Azerbaijani schools was located in Gori. Folk singer Bulbuljan, among others, spent 30 years of his life living and performing in Tiflis. Tiflis was also the hometown and academic locale for some of the most prominent Azerbaijani singers, such as Rashid Behbudov and the first Azerbaijani female opera singer Shovkat Mammadova, as well as to the first professional Azerbaijani female painter Geysar Kashiyeva, and the first female pianist Khadija Gayibova.\n\nPlays by Azeri writers were staged in Tbilisi already in 1872. Today Azeri-language plays are staged at the Tbilisi State Azeri Drama Theatre, established in 1922. In addition, the Azeri Cultural Centre in Tbilisi, located in the former house of Mirza Fatali Akhundov, is one of several such centres in the country and consists of a museum, a library, a cafe, an art gallery and a wine cellar. The Azeri Cultural Centre in Marneuli works closely with the Heydar Aliyev Foundation and the State Committee on Work with Diaspora of Azerbaijan, issues the magazines \"Garapapagh\" and \"Meydan\" and manages its own folk dance ensemble \"Sarvan\". There are 15 public libraries with materials available mainly in the Azeri language across the country. There also exists an Azeri cultural centre in Bolnisi. Three Georgian state newspapers, one in Tbilisi and two in Marneuli, are printed in Azeri, and a newspaper printed in Bolnisi contains a section in Azeri. Five-minute newscasts in Azeri are aired on Georgia's Public Radio on weekdays. In March 2015, a new radio station, AGFM, was launched to broadcast in Azeri on a 24-hour basis. It covers the regions of Tbilisi, Rustavi, Gardabani, Marneuli, Bolnisi, Dmanisi, and Tetritsqaro. Television programs in the Azeri language are broadcast by some regional channels.\n\nBeginning in 2009, Azeris of Dmanisi have annually held Elat, a summer celebration that historically marked the seasonal migration of Borchali pastoralists from plains into the mountains. The event is attended by tourists from other Azeri-populated parts of Georgia.\n\nOn 21 March 2010, Mikheil Saakashvili declared Nowruz, an ancient Near Eastern spring fest celebrated by Azeris, a national holiday in Georgia.\n\nMost Azeris in Georgia speak Azeri as a first language. Azeris of Tbilisi are mainly bilingual or trilingual, speaking Georgian and Russian in addition to their native language. On the other hand, Azeris living in almost monoethnic villages in Kvemo Kartli, who constitute the core of Georgia's Azeri population, largely speak little to no Georgian. To Azeris in Georgia, secondary education is available in their native language, which is a remnant Soviet policy. As of 2015, Azeri serves as the language of instruction in 120 schools in Tbilisi, Kvemo Kartli and Kakheti, a number which went down from 183 as of 1989. Young Azeris in Georgia who choose to continue their education often apply to universities in Azerbaijan and thus limit their career prospects in their home country. According to the 2014 census, only 43,579 (18.7%) out of 231,436 Azeris in Georgia reported being able to speak Georgian fluently, which is nevertheless more than the 1970 (6%) and the 2002 (15%) figure. As of 2002, Russian was the most popular second language for Azeris, with 75,207 speakers (26%; up from 17% in 1970). At the same time, 934 Azeris indicated Georgian and 385 indicated Russian as their first language.\n\nUp until the early twentieth century, Azeri was the language of interethnic communication across most of the South Caucasus and the surrounding regions, including much of Georgia, with the exception of the Black Sea coastal regions. This mainly had to do with the economic practices of the neighbouring (mainly male) population, such as seasonal work, distant pastoralism and trade. Up until the 1930s, large groups of ethnic Georgian, Armenian, Ossetian and Greek male population of Tetritsqaro would regularly visit the mainly-Azeri populated region of Marneuli for seasonal work as railway workers, miners, guards and shepherds and used Azeri to communicate with the local population. In the nineteenth century, Georgians of Kakheti and Tusheti, as well as Kists from the Pankisi Gorge would herd their sheep down to the pastures in the Azeri-populated lowlands, where they would spend the winter, which also contributed to their knowledge of Azeri. Some Tush Georgians would give their children up for fosterage (a common practice among peoples of the Caucasus aimed at strengthening intercommunal relations) to Azeri families for the duration of their stay on the winter pastures. In addition, tinsmiths and, less often, shepherds from Daghestan who visited Georgia around the same time would also use Azeri to communicate with the local population.\n\nLater, due to changing linguistic policies, universal schooling and abandonment of older practices, Azeri significantly lost positions to Georgian and Russian. Volkova noted that as of 1976, Azeri was still used as the language of trade between representatives of different ethnic groups in Tetritsqaro, Dmanisi and Marneuli. In 2002, 218 non-Azeris in Georgia indicated Azeri as their first language and 6,704 more claimed speaking it as a second language. The Soviet census recorded Turkish-speaking Urum Greeks of central Georgia as speaking Azeri as a first language, in part due to the fact that their original dialect underwent influence from Azeri over the centuries and shifted towards the latter.\n\nThe first European-style school in Georgia with Azeri as the language of instruction opened in Tiflis in 1847, followed by the Kizilajlo school in 1877. Before the establishment of Soviet power in 1921 and the introduction of compulsory universal education, there had already been 24 such schools across the country.\n\nThere was not much incentive for Azeris to learn Georgian in the Soviet times. Those who chose to pursue post-secondary education in Georgia did so in universities with Russian as the language of instruction, where Georgian was not even offered as a second-language course. Since the fall of the Soviet Union, lack of knowledge of the official language makes it harder for Azeris and other ethnic minorities to be active in many social areas. Such isolation is furthered by the fact that many rural Azerbaijanis prefer to read newspapers published in Azerbaijani and set up satellite dishes in order to be able to watch channels of neighbouring Azerbaijan, or establish their own community television channels (such as Ellada TV, which functioned in Gardabani in 1995–1999).\n\nTeachers and principals of schools where Azeri is the language of instruction report problems with the quality of the printed materials, their deficit and the physical condition of rural Azeri-language schools.\n\nThe Saakishvili government's educational policy attempted to provide students in majority-Armenian and Azeri areas with improved learning materials and teachers willing to instruct non-native speakers of Georgian. As of 2013, however, the program did not prove very efficient. The standards of the general ability exams considered mandatory and non-mandatory were altered in order to accommodate non-Georgians (for example, the exam on Georgian literature became optional) and a program funding minority group students wanting to study in the United States was introduced. On the other hand, the Law on Civil Service (adopted in 1998, but previously applied selectively) which stipulates that all work be carried out in Georgian, was enforced and, in effect, barred many Armenians and Azeris who had been schooled in their native languages not only from working in the civil service, but even accessing it due to insufficient knowledge of Georgian.\n\nAzeris in Georgia are mainly Muslim, with 80% being Shiite and 20% Sunni, a distinction that is not felt much due to religion not occupying an important part of their everyday lives. Georgia's constitution provides for religious freedom, and Azeris have the opportunity to attend mosques in the country. The largest Shiite mosque in Tbilisi was built in 1524 by Ismail I of Persia. In 1951, during the construction of the Metekhi bridge the communist government ordered the mosque to be demolished. The Sunni mosque was built between 1723 and 1735 by the Ottomans, but it was destroyed in 1740 by reinvanding Persians. In 1864, it was restored and headed by the Teregulovs, a family of Volga Tatar origin who had settled in Tbilisi two decades prior to that. Since the demolition of the Shiite mosque in 1951, the Shiite Azeris of Tbilisi have attended the Sunni mosque (the only Muslim temple in modern Tbilisi), where the Sunni and Shiite sections were separated by a black curtain. In 1996, the new imam ordered to remove the curtain and both denominations have prayed together ever since.\n\nAlthough able to preserve their linguistic and religious identity, the Azeris in Georgia have undergone some influences from Georgian culture, such as mourning over the body of the deceased for three days, while Azeris elsewhere, as most Muslims, generally bury their dead on the day of death before sunset.\n\nIn 2014, Azeris constituted a majority or a significant (over 10%) minority in the towns and villages across the following municipalities: 58 in Marneuli, 43 in Dmanisi, 37 in Bolnisi, 17 in Gardabani, 11 in Sagarejo, 9 in Lagodekhi, 8 in Kaspi, 8 in Tsalka, 7 in Tetritsqaro, 4 in Mtskheta, 3 in Gori, 2 in Dedoplistsqaro, 1 in Akhmeta, 1 in Kareli, and 1 in Telavi. Ethnic Azeri villages are also among the largest in the country in terms of population.\n\nOnly municipalities with 1,000 or more Azeris are listed below. The information is based on official figures from the 2014 population census.\n\nThe number of Azerbaijanis rose faster than that of most other ethnicities in Georgia during the twentieth century. The information below is based on official figures from the population censūs of 1926, 1939, 1959, 1970, 1979, 1989, 2002 and 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2727245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2727245", "title": "Bahnaric languages", "text": "Bahnaric languages\n\nThe Bahnaric languages are a group of about thirty Austroasiatic languages spoken by about 700,000 people in Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos. Paul Sidwell notes that Austroasiatic/Mon–Khmer languages are lexically more similar to Bahnaric and Katuic languages the closer they are geographically, independently of which branch of the family they belong to, but that Bahnaric and Katuic do not have any shared innovations that would suggest that together they form a branch of the Austroasiatic family, rather forming separate branches.\n\nInternal diversity suggests that the family broke up about 3,000 years ago. North Bahnaric is characterized by a register contrast between breathy and modal voice, which in Sedang has tensed to become modal–creaky voice.\n\nLamam is a clan name of the neighboring Tampuon and Kaco’.\n\nSidwell (2009) tentatively classifies the Bahnaric languages into four branches, with Cua (Kor) classified independently as East Bahnaric.\n\nUnclassified Bahnaric languages of Cambodia include Mel, Khaonh, Ra’ong, and Thmon.\n\n\nNorth Bahnaric consists of a dialect chain spoken to the north of the Chamic languages. Sedang and Hre have the most speakers, each with about 100,000.\n\nOther Northern Bahnaric languages, too poorly known to classify further, are Duan and Katua.\n\nWest Bahnaric is a dialect chain to the west of North Bahnaric, Unlike the other Bahnaric languages to the east, the West Bahnaric languages were under Khmer rather than Chamic influence, and also by the Katuic languages as part of a Katuic-West Bahnaric sprachbund (Sidwell 2003).\n\nSidwell (2003) proposes the following West Bahnaric groupings, with Lavi branching off first, Jru'/Laven, Su', and Juk as forming a branch that had branched off secondarily, and the rest within a core group. Jru' and Brao each have tens of thousands of speakers, while the other languages have no more than 1,000 speakers each.\n\n\nCentral Bahnaric is a language family divided by the Chamic languages, Bahnar, Mnong, and Sre (Koho) each have over 100,000 speakers.\n\nKassang is a Bahnaric language (Sidwell 2003), though \"Ethnologue\" lists it as Katuic.\n\nSidwell (2002, quoted in Sidwell 2003) gives the following classification for the Central Bahnaric languages. Note that Sidwell (2009) later classifies Cua as an independent branch, namely East Bahnaric.\n\n\nPaul Sidwell (2015:183) lists the following Bahnaric lexical innovations that had replaced original Proto-Austroasiatic forms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4415235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4415235", "title": "Bedick people", "text": "Bedick people\n\nThe Bedick, or Bedik, are a minority ethnic group of Africa. They live in villages in the most isolated area of eastern Senegal, in the Arrondissement of Bandafassi. Iwol is one of their settlements. \n\nThe Bedick speak the Bedik language and their religion is a blend between their animist roots and a more recent Christian influence. More connected with Guinea Conakry or Mali than with Senegal, Bedick people have contact with other ethnic groups like Bassari and Serer. Their ancestors are the families Keita and Camera that came from Mali because of the War led by Alpha Yaye coming from Fouta Djalon.\n"}
{"id": "22832205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22832205", "title": "Bulgarians in Spain", "text": "Bulgarians in Spain\n\nBulgarians () in Spain (, \"Ispania\") are one of the largest communities of the Bulgarian diaspora. According to official 2011 data, they numbered 150,878, making them the tenth-largest emigrant community in Spain and the second-largest among Central and Eastern European emigrant communities.\n\nThe bulk of Bulgarians in Spain consists of recent economic immigrants. Until recent years, Bulgarian emigration to Spain was scarce and unorganized. According to historian Ivan Dimitrov, an unknown number of Bulgarians fled to Spain after the Ottoman conquest of the Second Bulgarian Empire in the late 14th or early 15th century. Dimitrov claims that around 300 families in Spain retain memories of their Bulgarian origin from that period. Among Bulgarians are Banat Bulgarians from Romania, Aromanians and Megleno-Romanians who became adjusted to Spanish society because of the linguistic similarities between Romanian, Aromanian, Megleno-Romanian, and Spanish, as well as Latin identity of Aromanians and Megleno-Romanians, and Banat Bulgarians are predominantly Roman Catholic.\n\nWith the upsurge of Bulgarian economy in the 18th and 19th centuries, individual Bulgarian merchants reached the markets of Spain, though a colony was never formed even after the Liberation of Bulgaria in 1878. Only after World War I did Bulgarian gardeners reach Spain and Catalonia specifically. According to a 1930 statistic, 88 Bulgarian gardeners worked in Spain. However, the Spanish Civil War of 1936–39 and World War II that followed hindered the formation of a gardening colony.\n\nAfter World War II, a small number of Bulgarian political emigrants fleeing the communist regime settled in Spain. Among those emigrants was a large part of the Bulgarian royal family, including the deposed child monarch Tsar Simeon II of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, who was granted asylum by Francisco Franco in 1951. Simeon II lived in Spain for 50 years, until his return to Bulgaria in 2001.\n\nAround 1998, the number of Bulgarians in Spain was only around 3,000. By 2002, around 10,000 people had been officially registered as legal Bulgarian emigrants, though the number of illegal immigrants was thought to be much larger. In the early 21st century, substantial Bulgarian communities were formed in Madrid, Barcelona, Málaga, San Sebastián, Valladolid, Palma de Mallorca and other cities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4702789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4702789", "title": "Charwoman", "text": "Charwoman\n\nA charwoman, charlady, chargirl or just char is a cleaning girl or woman who can be employed in houses, shops and/or office buildings. The term charwoman was also used as an official job title in the United States before 1960, which included use by municipal and state governments and by federal agencies such as the U.S. Department of Commerce and Labor (such as in the Bureau of the Census and the Bureau of Immigration). Charwomen were often commonly referred to as scrubwomen. The word has the same root as \"chore woman\", one hired to do odd chores around the house.\n\nA \"char\" or \"chare\" was a turn (of work) in the sixteenth century, which gave rise to the word being used as a prefix to denote people working in domestic service. The usage of \"charwoman\" was common in the mid-19th century, often appearing as an occupation in the UK census of 1841, but it fell out of common use in the later decades of the 20th century, often replaced by the term \"daily (woman)\". Unlike a maid or housekeeper, typically live-in positions, the charwoman usually worked for hourly wages, usually on a part-time basis, often having several different employers.\n\nThe position often features in fiction.\n\nOne notable character is Ebeneezer Scrooge's charwoman Mrs. Dilber who appears in Charles Dickens's \"A Christmas Carol\".\n\nIn 1926, Lord Dunsany's fantasy novel, \"The Charwoman's Shadow\" was published to good reviews.\n\nAnother well-known fictional charwoman is Ada Harris, the central character in Paul Gallico's novel \"Mrs 'Arris goes to Paris\" and its three sequels.\n\nIn the British radio comedy series \"It's That Man Again,\" Dorothy Summers played the part of Mrs Mopp, an office char whose catch phrase was \"Can I do you now, Sir?\" (i.e., \"May I clean your office now, Sir?\" but with an obvious double entendre). \n\nA charwoman appears in Franz Kafka's \"The Metamorphosis\" (1915).\n\nIn the short story \"The Diary of Anne Rodway\", by Wilkie Collins, Anne investigates the murder of her friend Mary and learns that the suspect's wife is a woman \"ready to turn her hand to anything: charing, washing, laying-out, keeping empty houses...\"\n\nA charwoman - Sarah Cobbin - is a critical character in the detective novel, \"Part for a Poisoner\" (1948) by E.C.R. Lorac\n\nMabel was the lowly charwoman and a main character in the British sitcom You Rang, M'Lord?\n\nMotion pictures also had their share of charwoman characters. The best example of this is probably the series of films that featured the funny and feisty Irish charwoman Mrs. Riley, a creation of the music hall comedian Arthur Lucan. The public's enthusiasm for his impromptu stage character prompted him to make her a part of his repertoire and this led to his starring in sixteen Old Mother Riley films, from 1937 to 1952.\n\nIn 1963, Peggy Mount starred as charwoman Mrs. Cragg in \"Ladies Who Do\", a film in which a group of charwomen unite and go into high finance under the guidance of the eccentric Colonel Whitforth Robert Morley, in order to save their old neighbourhood from a team of ruthless developers led by Harry H. Corbett.\n\nIn 1966-67, actress Kathleen Harrison starred as Alice Thursday, a charwoman, who inherits ₤10 million from her employer, on the British television series, \"Mrs. Thursday\".\n\nU.S. comedian Carol Burnett made a charwoman character into a signature routine during her television career with Garry Moore and later on her own popular long-running variety show.\n\nIn the comic strip \"Andy Capp\", Andy's wife Flo is a charwoman.\n"}
{"id": "12057943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12057943", "title": "Correctional Education Association", "text": "Correctional Education Association\n\nThe Correctional Education Association (CEA) was founded in 1930 to provide educational services in correctional settings. This non-profit professional association is the largest affiliate of the American Correctional Association.\n\nThe Correctional Education Association is the professional organization for educators who work in adult correctional and juvenile justice facilities internationally. Although based in the United States of America, where most of its members work, it has made great advances in encouraging members from outside the US to become active members from outside the US to become active members of the organization. The CEA provides a host of services to its members. These include the following: a peer-reviewed international journal, a quarterly newsletter, annual membership and resource directory, an accreditation system for prison, jail, and juvenile school programs, a website and listserves for its special interest groups, under-graduate and graduate online courses for educators, and many more services.\n\nAustin MacCormick wrote a book based on the results of his 1928 nationwide survey of prison education (later published in 1931 as a book entitled \"The Education of Adult Prisoners: A Survey and a Program\"). MacCormick was influenced by Thomas Mott Osborne as evidenced by the dedication of his book.\n\nMacCormick was Assistant Director of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons, organized in 1930 a standing committee on education within the American Prison Association (now the American Correctional Association). The Standing Committee on Education published its first journal from 1937 to 1940 entitled Correctional Education. In 1945, the Standing Committee on Education organized the Correctional Education Association (CEA) at the 76th Congress of the American Prison Association. In 1946, CEA was formally recognized with Price Chenault elected as the first President. In 1949, The Journal of Correctional Education was reestablished with Chester D. Owens as editor. In 1981, the CEA hired its first Executive Director, Osa Coffey, and established a national office.\n\nIn 1986 CEA moved its national office to Maryland from Washington, DC where it remains today. The current address (October 2015) is 12625 Laurel Bowie Road #3430, Laurel, MD 20709. Telephone is 443-459-3080 and the fax number is 443-459-3088. Website: www.ceanational.org. The Acting Executive Director is Morris Dews and the Administrative Assistant is Kiara Wilson.\n\nCEA is divided into 8 regions encompassing both the United States and Canada. There are two international representative seats open on the Executive Board of the CEA. There is one representative for Canada and one for the Rest of the World. The International Representatives relay the issues and subjects of concern from international members to the Executive Board at regular meetings.\n\nThere are numerous state and provincial chapters. These regions and state/provincial chapters host annual conferences and training seminars. The International CEA has an annual traveling summer conference and hosts an annual Spring Forum. The annual International conferences offer members an opportunity to exchange ideas with correctional and prison educators from around the world and dialogue about the experience of teaching in a unique pedagogical setting. Each year the \"Journal of Correctional Education\" devotes a special issue to a different subject. The June 2007 issue of the \"Journal\" was devoted to international issues in correctional education with contributions from other countries including Ireland and Israel.\n\nThe CEA is the largest professional organization dedicated to the mission of education for those students in the Adult and Juvenile Criminal Justice Systems. There are over 1300 members of CEA.\n\nThe most current versions of the CEA Standards are listed below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18292504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18292504", "title": "Corruption in Armenia", "text": "Corruption in Armenia\n\nCorruption in Armenia is a widespread and growing problem in Armenian society. Council of Europe's Group of States Against Corruption in its fourth evaluation round noted that corruption remains an important problem for Armenian society. Cases of bribery in the extremely corrupt court are just one of the major forms that corruption takes in this country. \n\nIn 2017 there were 634 corruption related criminal cases registered (up from 428 in 2016), which led to criminal persecution of 376 persons.\n\nIn 2017 Armenia scored 35 on Corruption Perceptions Index and was positioned 107th out of 180 countries. Following chart represents score of Armenia in Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index, higher is better.\n\nAccording to Transparency International 2014 report, entrenched corruption, strong patronage networks, a lack of clear separation between private enterprise and public office, as well as the overlap between political and business elites in Armenia render the implementation of anti-corruption efforts relatively inefficient and feed a pervasive political apathy and cynicism on the part of citizens, who do not see an impactful role for themselves in the fight against corruption.\n\nIn 2006 the United Nations Development Programme in Armenia views corruption in Armenia as \"a serious challenge to its development.\" The selective and non-transparent application of tax, customs and regulatory rules, as well as weak enforcement of court decisions fuels opportunities for corruption. The Armenian procurement system is characterised by instances of unfair tender processes and preferential treatment. Relationship between high-ranking government officials and the emerging private business sector encourage influence peddling. The government has reportedly failed to fund implementation of the anti-corruption strategy and devoted no money and little commitment for anti-corruption efforts.\n\nThe main anti-corruption institutions of the Armenian government are an Anti-Corruption Council – headed by the prime minister – and the Anti-Corruption Strategy Monitoring Commission, established in June 2004 to strengthen the implementation of anticorruption policy. However, these institutions scarcely functioned in 2006-2007, even though they were supposed to meet twice-quarterly and monthly, respectively. Furthermore, Armenian Anti-Corruption Council was accused of lavish spending and has largely failed to investigate or prosecute senior officials.\n\nThe late Prime Minister Andranik Margarian launched Armenia’s first post-Soviet campaign against corruption in 2003. The initiative, however, has been widely disparaged for being short on results. Former Prime Minister Tigran Sargsyan has acknowledged that corruption is Armenia’s \"number one problem that obstructs all our reforms.\"\n\nThe government has recently launched an anti-graft campaign which has been accompanied by changes in customs regulations, reported tax police inspections of companies owned by pro-government businesspeople and numerous high-profile firings of people in the tax department, customs service and police. The recent crackdown on corruption has received mixed reactions.\n\nCorruption takes the form of bribery in Armenian courts. If you have relative judges or can give bribes ranging from a few hundred to thousands of US dollars, you can easily get the judge to let you win the case. This has resulted in a large portion of repatriated Armenians from the USA an many other countries to lose everything they bring to the country and worked very hard for. \n\nRegulation of mineral industry in Armenia carries multiple corruption risks, as it was highlighted by international research.\n\nDespite the success of the authorities in reducing petty corruption/bribery in some citizen-government interactions, anti-corruption watchdogs report that entrenched corruption, strong patronage networks, a lack of clear separation between private enterprise and public office, as well as the overlap between political and business elites limit the effective implementation of anti-corruption efforts. These problems affect the education system too. It is perceived as one of the sectors that is hit hardest by corruption. Attempts to fight the problem have brought mixed results and often opened new opportunities for malpractice instead of closing the existing ones.\n\nIn 2007, World Bank economists pointed to serious problems with rule of law and widespread corruption in the Armenian tax and customs agencies.\n\nIn March 2004, an ad hoc commission of the Armenian parliament investigating the use of a $30 million World Bank loan concluded that mismanagement and corruption among government officials and private firms was the reason of the failure of the program to upgrade Yerevan's battered water infrastructure. The World Bank issued the loan in 1999 in order to improve Yerevan residents' access to drinking water. The government promised to ensure around-the-clock water supplies to the vast majority of households by 2004, but as of 2008, most city residents continue to have running water for only a few hours a day.\n\nVeolia Environnement, the French utility giant that took over Yerevan's loss-making water and sewerage network in 2006, has said that it will need a decade to end water rationing. In August 2007, Bruce Tasker, a Yerevan-based British engineer who had participated in the parliamentary inquiry as an expert, publicly implicated not only Armenian officials and businessmen but also World Bank representatives in Yerevan in the alleged misuse of the loan. In an October 4, 2007 news conference, the World Bank Yerevan office head Aristomene Varoudakis denied the allegations, claiming that the World Bank disclosed fully all information available on the project to the parliamentary commission and that based on this information there was no evidence of fraud or mismanagement in the project.\n\nEminent domain laws have been used to forcefully remove residents, business owners, and land owners from their property. The projects that finally are built on the site are not of state interest, but rather are privately owned by the same authorities who have executed the eminent domain clause. A prominent example is the development of Yerevan's central Northern Avenue area. Another involves an ongoing project (as of November 2008) to construct a trade center near Yerevan's botanical garden. The new land owners are non other than Yerevan's mayor Yervand Zakharyan and Deputy Mayor Karen Davtyan, who was at one time Director of the Armenian Development Agency and successfully executed the eviction of residents on Northern Avenue.\n\nTraffic police residing along major highways, such as those connecting traffic between Tbilisi and Yerevan frequently extort passing traffic for bribes in exchange for forgiving \"traffic violations\". Tourists are especially targeted, with the police openly requesting ~5,000 Armenian Dram per bribe. Violations are often fabricated, and police target local and foreign drivers alike.\n\n"}
{"id": "3002656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3002656", "title": "Cue validity", "text": "Cue validity\n\nCue validity is the conditional probability that an object falls in a particular category given a particular feature or \"cue\". The term was popularized by , and especially by Eleanor Rosch in her investigations of the acquisition of so-called \"basic categories\" (;). \n\nFormally, the cue validity of a feature formula_1 with respect to category formula_2 has been defined in the following ways:\n\nFor the definitions based on probability, a high cue validity for a given feature means that the feature or attribute is more diagnostic of the class membership than a feature with low cue validity. Thus, a high-cue validity feature is one which conveys more information about the category or class variable, and may thus be considered as more useful for identifying objects as belonging to that category. Thus, high cue validity expresses high feature \"informativeness\". For the definitions based on linear correlation, the expression of \"informativeness\" captured by the cue validity measure is not the full expression of the feature's informativeness (as in mutual information, for example), but only that portion of its informativeness that is expressed in a linear relationship. For some purposes, a bilateral measure such as the mutual information or category utility is more appropriate than the cue validity.\n\nAs an example, let us consider the domain of \"numbers\" and allow that every number has an attribute (i.e., a \"cue\") named \"codice_1\", which we call formula_5, and which adopts the value 1 if the number is actually a positive integer. Then we can inquire what the validity of this cue is with regard to the following classes: {codice_2, codice_3, codice_4}:\n\nIn perception, \"cue validity\" is often short for \"ecological validity\" of a perceptual cue, and is defined as a correlation rather than a probability (see above). In this definition, an uninformative perceptual cue has an ecological validity of 0 rather than 0.5.\n\nIn much of the work on modeling human category learning, there has been the assumption made (and sometimes validated) that attentional weighting tracks the cue validity, or tracks some related measure of feature informativeness. This would imply that attributes are differently weighted by the perceptual system; informative or high-cue validity attributes being weighted more heavily, while uninformative or low-cue validity attributes are weighted more lightly or ignored altogether (see, e.g., Navarro 1998).\n\n"}
{"id": "49605214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49605214", "title": "Dimbula Athletic &amp; Cricket Club", "text": "Dimbula Athletic &amp; Cricket Club\n\nThe Dimbula Athletic and Cricket Club (also known as the Radella Club) is a sporting club formed by British tea planters and founded in 1856. It is the oldest sporting club in Sri Lanka outside of Colombo, with activities including rugby, cricket, squash, billiards, snooker, tennis and badminton.\n\nThe club is most synonymous with rugby, as Dimbula A&CC was the only up country club to win the coveted Clifford Cup, in 1953 and again in 1959. This achievement wasn't matched until 1992 when the Kandy Sports Club were successful in winning the cup.\n\nThe first up country cricket match was played in 1868 at the club's grounds in Radella against Dickoya, becoming an annual fixture in the region.\n\nIn 1878 one of its members, Frank Hadow, a planter who was on Carlabeck Estate, won Wimbledon men's singles.\nThe club's first official rugby match was played on 7 March 1880 against fellow Up Country club, Dickoya Maskeliya Cricket Club, in Darawella, with Dickoya winning 9–3. Both clubs played a return fixture the next week this time at Radella, where Dickoya were again victorious 3–nil. The annual rugby match between Dimbulla and Dickoya, is one of the oldest rugby competitions in Sri Lanka.\nIn 1908 the club was one of six founding rugby clubs which formed the Ceylon Rugby Football Union.\nIn the following year the club introduced Badminton to the country, with its own indoor court, becoming the first badminton club in Ceylon. Dimbula conducted two badminton tournaments annually from 1911 until 1926.\n\nOn the 17 April 1954 Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and His Royal Highness Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh visited the club as part of their tour of Ceylon, as the country was previously known. \n\nThe original Victorian-style club house, with an antique clock on top of the pavilion was destroyed by fire in 1962 and a replacement building was constructed thereafter.\n\nIn 1970 the rugby team, led by Ken Murray won the Sri Lanka Rugby Championship, losing only one match during the entire season and that to the Ceylonese Rugby & Football Club at the team's home ground at Radella. The club bowing out of the Clifford Cup losing to Police Sports Club in the competition semi-finals. \n\nWith the nationalisation of the tea estates in 1975, the club ceased playing ‘A’ Division Rugby but continued playing in the Up Country League.\n"}
{"id": "53335998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53335998", "title": "Domestic violence in Ghana", "text": "Domestic violence in Ghana\n\nDomestic violence is prevalent in Ghana, owing in part to a deep cultural belief that it is socially acceptable for men to discipline their wives physically. Around one in three women in Ghana are likely to exeprience domestic violence.\n\nThe problem of domestic violence is more prevalent in rural areas and the northern regions of Ghana.\n\nReasons mentioned in the MICS report include: “if she goes out without telling him; if she neglects the children; if she argues with him; if she refuses sex with him; if she burns the food; if she insults him; if she refuses to give him food; if she has another partner; if she steals; or if she gossips.” Ghanaian women who are poorly educated and from poor socioeconomic backgrounds are more likely to believe domestic violence is justified.\n\nOne of the main reasons for the high incidence is Women in Ghana live in a highly patriarchal society where the man/father is the head of the household and takes all major household decisions. Also many spouses are reluctant to report to police and would rather consult their local spiritual leader. It also seen a more a private matter than legal matter.\n\nIn 2007 the Ghanaian government created the Domestic Violence Act in an attempt to reduce violence against women. The act encountered significant resistance from cultural conservatives and religious leaders who believed that such a law would undermine traditional African values, and that Western values were being implemented into law.\n\nIn 2014 the Ghanaian government set up a domestic violence board to combat the issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "56269992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56269992", "title": "Environmental gentrification", "text": "Environmental gentrification\n\nEnvironmental, ecological or green gentrification is a process in which cleaning up pollution or providing green amenities increases local property values and attracts wealthier residents to a previously polluted or disenfranchised neighbourhood. Green amenities include green spaces, parks green roofs, gardens and green and energy efficient building materials. These initiatives can heal many environmental ills from industrialization and beautify urban landscapes. Additionally, greening is imperative for reaching a sustainable future. However, if accompanied by gentrification, such initiatives can have an ambiguous social impact if the poor (especially renters) are displaced or forced to pay higher housing costs. First coined by Sieg et al. (2004), environmental gentrification is a relatively new concept, although it can be considered as a new hybrid of the older and wider topics of gentrification and environmental justice. Various studies have analyzed the social implications of greening projects specifically with regards to housing affordability and displacement of vulnerable citizens.\n\nGentrification is a process whereby a neighbourhoods is transformed in order to cater to a wealthier home buyer or investor. The process often takes place in working-class neighbourhoods that are inhabited by low-income residents. Real-estate development such as luxury condominiums or the transformation of old factories into trendy lofts, attract wealthier investors. As the process progresses, low-income residents are pushed out or to the outskirts of the neighbourhood as real-estate and rent prices are increased due to demand. Also, as middle-class residents enter the neighbourhood surrounding businesses transform to accommodate desires. Gentrification has often been promoted by local governments through policies that promote ‘'urban renewal.' Generally, the process is considered to benefit the local economy and improve neighbourhoods. Three phases of gentrification are generally recognized:\nAs wealthier citizens have started to demand green amenities, cities have shifted their focus to marrying urban redevelopment with green initiatives all of which follow a similar process.\n\nCities and individuals are responding the ecological crisis through eco-friendly planning and actions. Currently, the United Nations estimates that approximately 54% of the world's inhabitants are living in cities. This number is expected to increase to 66% by the year 2050. In many ways, the city functions like a metabolic organism, extracting, using and disposing of resources across space and time. Therefore, studying the urban environment can often reveal spatial positions of power. For example, in the United States there is a negative correlation between the provision of urban green space and African-American and Hispanic populations. Spaces that are provided tend to have a lack in municipal upkeep and policing. Additionally, green space in affluent neighbourhoods tend to promote activities for wealthy citizens which help to maintain a certain social order.\n\nSustainability is a tool that has been used by governments and developers to promote green initiatives in cities. Growing out of the promotion of sustainable development for developing countries, sustainability emerged as a global proposal at the 1992 United Nations Earth Summit. In theory, sustainability is achievable through a balance of three pillars - economy, environment and social equity. However, in practice it still remains a challenge. The social equity portion of sustainability is concerned with providing local communities ability to participate in decision-making as well as benefit from development projects. Public participation aims to ensure that local concerns and needs are met.\n\nIn many examples, the redevelopment of brownsites (post-industrial areas) have become foundations for large-scale urban greening redevelopment. These sites are typical of past industrial landscapes - near the downtown core and waterfront and in need of environmental remediation. Environmental redevelopments often promote sustainability through urban planning mechanisms such as new urbanism which promotes that planning that focus on building cities that are livable and walkable.\n\nA 15-year study (1990-2005) examined the social impacts or enhancing urban green spaces across the city of Barcelona. During the 1990s and 2000s, 18 new urban green parks were added to the city planning agenda. First and foremost, as Barcelona was awarded the 1992 Olympic Games, the city prepared for the event through numerous urban developments which influenced a transformation of public spaces. Previously, the city had been concerned with providing urban parks for the purpose of socializing and exercising. However, as the Olympics were swiftly approaching, urban planners and city governments took the opportunity to develop green spaces for mega-events. These new types of spaces prioritize the aesthetic features of urban green space in an effort to attract tourists and offer memorable landscapes. The legacy of mega-event urban parks can be observed in three notable parks around the city - Parc del Port Olimpic, Parc del Poblenou and Parc de Diagnol Mar. All three of these parks have shifted neighborhood demographics towards greater affluence.\n\nThe city of Barcelona released its plan for sustainability titled \"Barcelona Green Infrastructure and Biodiversity Plan 2020.\" This document does not contain plans for housing affordability or social impacts that are a result from large-scale development. Diagonal Mar project provides an example of the green initiatives being coupled with large-scale urban redevelopment on a previous brownfield site. Historically, the area was an industry hub as it is located near the Mediterranean Sea. The Diagonal Mar project includes luxury condominiums, three hotels, three office buildings, a shopping mall nested within an urban green space. The project has been criticized for not considering local input into planning as lacking spaces for social interactions for citizens.\n\nStudies suggest that green gentrification has occurred in correspondence with park development in the Sant Marti district. Using neighbourhood measurements of wealth, the authors suggest that demographic shifts of the neighbourhood have taken place at an alarming rate 1990-2005. Moreover, areas surrounding parks have experienced clear indicators of these changes as there has been an increase in: residents with a bachelor's degree, residents from the global North, household income or home sale and an overall decrease in the population of residents 65 and older living alone.\n\nThe High Line, is a 1.45-mile-long (2.33 km) an elevated public park that was constructed on a historic freight line along the west side of Manhattan in New York City. Previous to its redevelopment, the High Line represented the deterioration of New York’s industry, the neighbourhood of alongside the High Line, Chelsea, had frequent delinquency. Since the 1980s the city government has attempted to tear down this eyesore. In response, activists ventured to save this icon of history and instead promoted the idea that the High Line could be returned to the community as a provision of public good. As the High Line was acquired by the CSX Transportation Inc. in 1999, community board meetings provided an avenue for alternative uses to be proposed. At around the same time, Joshua David and Robert Hammond formed a non-profit they called Friends of the High Line of which their main goal was to acquire public and private funds to save the bridge from demolition. Notable celebrities - Edward Norton, Martha Stewart and Kevin Bacon provided financial support for the project. Friends of the High Line presented a redevelopment strategy to the Bloomberg administration, promoting that the bridge could be converted into a public park. Friends Of the High Line suggested that this would provide economic benefits to the surrounding neighborhood and generate substantial tax revenues. The Bloomberg administration accepted the initiative. Mayor Bloomberg provided a statement of support by stating, “The Board’s ruling is a great win for all New Yorkers. It allows us to implement our plans to preserve this valuable historic resource, create a much needed public open space and strengthen our city’s economy.\"\n\nEvidence that this project has ignited gentrification can be observed through the soaring real estate prices as well as types of activities that are being attracted to the High Line and its surrounding areas. In just two years, there has been a production of $2 Billion real-estate construction which has contributed an additional $900 million in tax revenues. Additionally, the relocation of Whitney Museum of American Art nearby sheds light on the popularity of the park.\n\nThe High Line, although presented as a public park, privileges certain users and activities. Friends of the High Line allow for only certain types of vendors as well as provides private security guards. Visitors of the High Line can enjoy artisanal foods, micro-brewed beer and browse up-scaled art merchant booths. The promotion of economic growth and certain types of consumption coupled with surveillance results in the neoliberalization of this public spaces. Which is to say, The High Line, although a famous icon for the city, may fall short of providing open spaces and benefits for \"all\" citizens to use and enjoy. Instead it more closely resembles a place of spatial 'privileged' where claims to public space are dominated by upper-class citizens.\n\nConcurrently in 2007, the Bloomberg administration released the \"PlaNYC 2030: A Greater, Greener New York\" which aimed to combat climate change through expanding sustainability measured with 132 initiatives. One goal highlights the social pillar of sustainability by having a goal that every citizen in the city will have a green space within a 10-minute walking distance from their home.\n\nThe traditional urban layout of Vancouver was reminiscent of a small-town. Grid-iron patterned streets were lined with single-family dwellings, businesses could be found along main streets and industry was concentrated along shorelines and inlets. The 1960s ushered in a shift towards higher densities through high rise residential buildings in the downtown core. In the 1980s, redevelopment of brownsites (former industrial areas) for condominium development in the False Creek region was a result of it being the site for Expo 1986. Previously, this area was the heartland of industry and had begun to deteriorate as industry shifted. After the Expo the site was acquired by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-Shing for $320 million and a numerous residential luxury developments followed suite. These developments promoted a tone of sustainability that were supported through planning documents such as Livable Region Strategic Planning (1996). Urban planning strategies such as Smart Growth stressed environmental goals could be achieved through the provision of walkable and mixed-use urban areas which would reduce urban sprawl. Critiques of Smart Growth highlight the often ignored equity aspects of the strategy as they often ignore low-income residents. Housing affordability became an issue during 2001-2007 as the price for a typical two-bedroom in the west end of Vancouver shifted from $260,000 to $650,000. In 2008, the city council accepted EcoDensity as a solution to housing affordability which promoted further densification of downtown and surrounding neighbourhoods. EcoDensity is the solution to housing affordability rather than provision of social housing. A number of towers were constructed in the downtown Eastside displaced approximately 4,000 low-income residents from June 2007-January 2008. Critiques of EcoDensity, suggest that the strategy does not account for enough citizen input in planning measures.\n\nVancouver has become one of the most popular cities in the world to live as it offers breathtaking mountain views and access to numerous beaches. As Vancouver was awarded the 2010 Winter Olympics, which led to the development of “Millenium Water” along the South Eastern portion of False Creek which became the site for the Olympic Athlete Village. This project boasted European-styled walkways, green roofs and sustainability characteristics. No low-income housing was provided with this project and one-bedroom condos starting price was $500,000. In an effort to reduce ecological impacts, the project promoted a habitat restoration project whereby leftover dirt was used to create an island for bird nesting. In 2006, water squatters, people living in boats in False Creek waters, were evicted in an effort to clean up the area. The False Creek redevelopment was advertised as a park-like nature for new residents and tourists and promoted as a space for leisure. Scholars suggest that there is a disconnect between the promotion of environmental discourses and issues of equity which results in a class conflict over space in the city. Although Vancouver is a highly desirable place to live, the promotion of sustainability through policies ignores provision of much needed affordable housing allocations.\n"}
{"id": "31594025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31594025", "title": "Favorlang language", "text": "Favorlang language\n\nFavorlang is an extinct Formosan language closely related to Babuza.\n\nAlthough Favorlang is considered by Taiwanese linguist Paul Jen-kuei Li to be a separate language, it is nevertheless very closely related to Babuza. In fact, the name \"Favorlang\" is derived from \"Babuza\". Alternatively, Favorlang may also have represented a dialect of Babuza at an earlier stage, since Favorlang was documented in the mid-17th century, while Babuza was documented only around the turn of the 20th century by Japanese linguists.\n\nFavorlang has gone through the following sound changes. Except for the *t, *s, *Z > merger, all of these sound changes are shared by the five Western Plains languages Taokas, Babuza, Papora, Hoanya, and Thao.\n\nFavorlang data sources are:\n\nCase markers include:\n\nAgent-focus verbal affixes include:\n\n\n\n\nNon-agent-focus verbal affixes are:\n\nWhen -in- and -umm- appear together in a word, -in- usually precedes -um- ~ -umm-, as in Ilokano, Bontok, and some Dusunic languages in Sabah (Rungus Dusun and Kimaragang Dusun). Occasionally, -umm- precedes -in- in several Favorlang lexical forms, but this is not very common.\n\nAll of the following personal pronouns are free forms. All genitive pronouns end with -a.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22466557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22466557", "title": "Germany Philatelic Society", "text": "Germany Philatelic Society\n\nThe Germany Philatelic Society is dedicated to the documentation, preservation, advancement and promotion \nof the stamps and postal history of Germany and its related areas through education, study, research and services.\n\nThe society maintains chapters and study groups. Chapter may be formed by five or more members of the GPS after making application for admission and charter by the society. Study groups may be formed by ten or more members subject to the provisions of the by-laws.\n\nChapters are located in various parts of the United States and Canada:\n\nGPS maintains study groups on the stamps and postal history of Buildings, German Colonies, Early Empire, GDR, HOPs (hand overprints), Inflation, Stadtpost, Color Studies and the Third Reich.\n\nAny person of good character interested in the postage stamps and postal history of Germany may join. The society headquarters is located at P.O. Box 6547 Chesterfield, Missouri.\n\nA reduced membership fee schedule is available to all younger collectors, under the age of 21.\n\nPayPal is accepted as of July 1, 2015.\n\nThe Society’s journal is \"The German Postal Specialist\" which is published and issued twelve times during the year (September through August). It also offers books and CD-ROMs on studies already completed.\n\nThe society offers a number of services, such as identification & translation services, the loan of items from its literature libraries, etc.\n\nIn 2014 the Society's entire Audio/Visual library was digitized and converted into DVD format. Single program or 3-4 multiple program are available for sale to all philatelic groups and individuals within the United States for nominal prices.\n\nThe society maintains a staff consisting of: president, vice president, secretary/treasurer, a director of international affairs, an audio-visual librarian, literature librarian, publicity director and web master. The current president is Rudi Anders. The GPS is governed by its set of by-laws, dated August 2012 and revised in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48503369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48503369", "title": "Get Mean", "text": "Get Mean\n\nGet Mean, also known as Beat a Dead Horse, Vengeance of the Barbarians and The Stranger Gets Mean, is a 1975 Italian-American Spaghetti Western fantasy comedy film directed by Ferdinando Baldi and starring Tony Anthony, Lloyd Battista, Raf Baldassarre, Diana Lorys and Mirta Miller. It is the final sequel to \"A Stranger in Town\", with Anthony reprising the role of \"The Stranger.\"\n\nThe film was released to little acclaim and never received a physical release on the home video market until 2015, when it was released by Blue Underground on remastered Blu-ray and DVD.\n\nThe film begins as the Stranger is dragged into a ghost town by his horse, who dies upon entering the town. In the town is a gypsy fortune teller and a princess who offers the Stranger $50,000 to return her to Spain where her nation is being attacked by Viking type Barbarians and the Moors. The Stranger is denied his $50,000 but finds out about a lost treasure that he wants for himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "18687249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18687249", "title": "Health in Mauritania", "text": "Health in Mauritania\n\nMauritania's health care infrastructure in the early 1980s consisted of a central hospital in Nouakchott, twelve regional hospitals, a number of health clinics, maternal and child care centers, dispensaries, and mobile medical units to serve the countryside. All facilities suffered from a lack of equipment, supplies, and trained personnel. The ratio of people to hospital beds was 2,610 to one. The ratio of people to physicians was 13,350 to one. This ratio represented an improvement over the 1965 figure of 36,580 to one and was better than that of some of Mauritania's neighbors.\n\nIn 1987 Mauritania's largest medical facility was the 500-bed government-run hospital in Nouakchott. Staffed by Mauritanian and expatriate doctors, it lacked supplies and properly maintained equipment. Other facilities included the National Health Center, built in 1977 for the study of disease prevention and methods of public health care education, and the National School of Nurses and Midwives, founded in 1966 to train nurses, midwives, and paramedical personnel.\n\nIn general, health standards were quite low, and many infectious diseases were endemic. Contagious diseases (such as measles and tuberculosis) and respiratory disorders were more prevalent in northern arid regions, whereas malaria, guinea worm infection, and schistosomiasis were more common in the Senegal River Valley. The desert tended to be a healthier environment than the more tropical south, but several major diseases were common to all areas of the country. Typhoid, poliomyelitis, hepatitis, and a variety of parasitic illnesses also affected the population. In late 1987, the World Health Organization issued warnings about cholera, and outbreaks of both yellow fever and Rift Valley fever were reported in the extreme southern part of Trarza Region around Rosso. Contagious and infectious diseases were rampant in the kébés surrounding major towns, cities, and villages.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, a mass vaccination campaign for children under five years of age was under way. The program, aimed at reducing infection from poliomyelitis, diphtheria, pertussis, and several other diseases, was reportedly meeting with some success. Malnutrition remained widespread, especially in children. The long-term drought and the consequent drop in food production exacerbated this problem during the early 1980s. According to a 1987 report by the United States Agency for International Development, between 40 percent and 70 percent of children under the age of five had experienced moderate to severe malnutrition. The degree of malnutrition varied according to the success or failure of local crops, and some slight improvement was noted in early 1987.\n\nThe 2010 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births for Mauritania is 550. This is compared with 712.2 in 2008 and 1295.4 in 1990. The under 5 mortality rate, per 1,000 births is 118 and the neonatal mortality as a percentage of under 5's mortality is 35. In Mauritania the number of midwives per 1,000 live births is 3 and the lifetime risk of death for pregnant women 1 in 41.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24741887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24741887", "title": "Hot Blood", "text": "Hot Blood\n\nHot Blood is a 1956 CinemaScope film starring Jane Russell and Cornel Wilde.\n\nMarco Torino (Luther Adler), king of the gypsies in southern California, is terminally ill. He wants his younger brother to succeed him, but Stephano (Cornel Wilde) is determined to become a dancer instead.\n\nAfter turning a potential employer against him, Marco arranges a marriage for his brother to Annie Caldash (Jane Russell), a sexy gypsy. Stephano angers her father Theodore (Joseph Calleia) and brother Xano (James H. Russell) by resisting Annie's charms and refusing to marry her. Stephano loved the blonde Velma (Helen Westcott).\n\nAnnie comes up with a scheme. Her father wants her to be paid a rich dowry from Stephano's, then run off before the marriage. Stephano's brother is trying to raise money for a trip to \"the promised land.\" She persuades Stephano to stage a phony wedding at which she will faint during the ceremony, whereupon they will split the dowry and teach their greedy relatives a lesson. But it is Stephano whom she ends up fooling, by going through with the marriage.\n\nAn angry Stephano leaves with Velma, finding work in cheap dance clubs. He begins to miss Annie. He returns to the gypsy camp to find Marco and her together, surprisingly happy. Mistakenly believing they are now together and pulling a swindle, Stephano objects, but Marco explains that he is merely enjoying the last precious days of his life. Stephano agrees to become the new gypsy king, with Annie his queen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2180998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2180998", "title": "Human trafficking in Kosovo", "text": "Human trafficking in Kosovo\n\nSince the establishment of the United Nations Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) in 1999, it has been known to the international community that Kosovo is a major destination territory for human trafficking, women and young girls trafficked into forced prostitution. According to Amnesty International, most of women are trafficked from Moldova, Romania, Bulgaria and Ukraine.\n\nIn the 2010 Trafficking in Persons Report, Kosovo was identified as transit and destination country for woman and children, victims of the human trafficking, especially the forced prostitution.\n\nHuman trafficking in Kosovo has seen \"a steep rise\" since NATO troops and UN administrators took over Kosovo. According to Amnesty International, NATO servicemen and UN staff \"generate 80% of the income\" for pimps and human traffickers. UN Department of peacekeeping claimed that \"peacekeepers have come to be seen as part of the problem in trafficking rather than the solution\". Amnesty found no evidence of criminal proceedings against NATO military personnel in their home countries.\n\nAmnesty International reports that, \"Some 406 foreign women were assisted by the IOM in Kosovo between December 2000 and December 2003. According to the IOM, 48 per cent of women who have entered its repatriation program - enabling them to return to their home country - originated from Moldova. Of the remainder, 21 per cent came from Romania, 14 per cent from Ukraine, six per cent from Bulgaria, three per cent from Albania and the remainder from Russia and Serbia proper.\"\n\n2010 Trafficking in Persons Report said \"the Kosovo government did not follow the minimal measures to eliminate for the trafficking elimination\". This regards to both forced prostitution, and forced begging.\n\nCarla Del Ponte, the former chief U.N. war crimes prosecutor, claimed in her memoirs, that at least 300 ethnic Serbs were murdered and their organs stolen by Kosovo Liberation Army during and after the Kosovo War in 1999. These claims were met with criticism in Albania and abroad.\n\nIn 2009, Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor Vladimir Vukčević claimed there was significant progress in investigation of the case of the yellow house, located in Northern Albania, where organs were harvested from kidnapped Serbs, non-Albanians from Kosovo, Czech and Russian citizens. Organs were later sold in the black market. Albanian administration of Kosovo denied to cooperate with Serbian and international investigators on the case, but several arrests of medics practicing illegal surgery were made in Kosovo, allegedly in connection to the case.\n\nIn February 2011, news site \"French24\" obtained classified documents showing UN knew within year 2003 about human trafficking of human organs, with some named victims and testiomionials of involved Albanians. Report dating to 2003 describes criminal involvement of senior commanders of KLA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14887172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14887172", "title": "Inter-African Committee on Traditional Practices Affecting the Health of Women and Children", "text": "Inter-African Committee on Traditional Practices Affecting the Health of Women and Children\n\nThe Inter-African Committee on Traditional Practices Affecting the Health of Women and Children (IAC) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) which seeks to change social values and raise consciousness towards eliminating female genital mutilation (FGM) and other traditional practices which affect the health of women and children in Africa.\n\nThe IAC began at a seminar in Dakar in 1984 with a focus on fighting harmful practices relating to female genital mutilation (FGM), childbirth, nutrition and food, early marriage; and promoting traditional practices considered beneficial, such as breastfeeding and baby massage. Fighting FGM is the main focus of their work. Now based in Addis Ababa, the IAC also has 32 national branches (known as National Committees) in 28 countries in Africa. It has a liaison office in Geneva and 15 affiliates in Europe, Canada, Japan, New Zealand and USA.\n\nIn 1990, the IAC adopted the term \"female genital mutilation\" to describe the procedure previously referred to as \"female circumcision\". According to a 1995 publication, the main focus of their strategy for eliminating FGM is through education.\n\nThe IAC considers that legislative change related to FGM in Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt, Ghana, Guinea, Senegal, Tanzania and Togo is a result of the lobbying work carried out by the IAC as well as by other NGOs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25845776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25845776", "title": "Iranian subsidy reform plan", "text": "Iranian subsidy reform plan\n\nThe Iranian targeted subsidy plan (), also known as the subsidy reform plan, was passed by the Iranian Parliament on January 5, 2010. The government has described the subsidy plan as the \"biggest surgery\" to the nation's economy in half a century and \"one of the most important undertakings in Iran's recent economic history\". The goal of the subsidy reform plan is to replace subsidies on food and energy (80% of total) with targeted social assistance, in accordance with a Five Year Economic Development Plan and a move towards free market prices in a 5-year period. The subsidy reform plan is the most important part of a broader Iranian economic reform plan.\n\nAccording to the government, approximately $100 billion per year is spent on subsidizing energy prices ($45 billion for the prices of fuel alone) and many consumable goods including bread, sugar, rice, cooking oil and medicine. However, some experts believe direct subsidies are about $30 billion, depending on oil prices.\n\nThe subsidy system has been inherited from the Iran–Iraq War era but was never abolished. Iran is one of the largest gasoline consumers in the world, ranking second behind the United States in consumption per car. The government subsidy reform has been years in the making for various reasons. Iran's Supreme Leader has backed the government's latest subsidy reform plan.\n\nIran was the largest provider of fuel subsidies in the world by 2009. Many Iranian experts agree that these unsustainable subsidies encourage waste among goods, including in the production sector, ranging from gasoline to bread that must be stopped and the only way to do that is to redirect subsidies.\n\nThe stated goal of the subsidy reform is \"to rejuvenate Iran's economy, increase productivity, give it a new footing and bring it out of the slump it has been in for so long\". Concretely, the government plans to replace the subsidies with targeted social assistance. Consequences of the economic reform plan are that Iran will be less vulnerable to US sanctions because it will reduce fuel imports. The reform plan will also save money for the Iranian people because it will end a multibillion-dollar-a-year contraband (17% percent of fuel production in Iran is smuggled abroad daily). Due to subsidies, Iran had long had one of the cheapest gas prices in the world, 10 cents per liter or 40 cents per gallon.\n\nImplementation of the plan will reduce waste and consumerism. In fact, according to official data, the higher income strata of the population has enjoyed the same subsidies as the poor until now. On the other side, subsidies reduction will reduce air pollution by reducing car traffic in Tehran. Finally, the subsidy plan will increase social justice through targeted social assistance. According to official data, the richest decile of households benefits 12 times more from gasoline subsidies than the poorest decile. Overall, implementation of the plan will \"increase\" productivity, efficiency, competitiveness of Iran's economy, economic growth, oil exports and per capita income (all other things being equal).\n\nFor implementation of the bill, an entity has been established as a duly authorized governmental company under the name \"Targeting Subsidies Organization\".\n\nThe amount saved by the government, will be distributed as follows: 50% towards the poorest strata of Iranian society; 20% at the government's disposal (to compensate for increased costs or as safety net); and the remaining 30% will be directed towards improving the efficiency of the utility, fuel and energy production infrastructure, public transportation development, industry and farming.\n\nThe plan will commence with energy, fuel and utilities in the first year and consumable goods will start in the second year. The start of the cuts will coincide with the beginning of the second half of the Iranian year on Sept. 23, 2010. At that time, the 2007 Gas rationing plan will come to an end.\n\nIn March 2010, the Iranian Parliament approved a $347 billion budget, in which the allocation from subsidies and the oil price were set at $20 billion and $65 per barrel, respectively. According to the Vice President for Parliamentary Affairs, Iran's subsidy reforms would save 20 percent of the country's budget. Iran wants to save up to $100 billion on subsidies within three to four years. In 2011, the Iranian parliament approved a $508 billion budget based on $80/barrel oil price. This bill also factors in $54 billion from price hikes and subsidy cuts.\n\nAccording to the IMF, until recently a four-member Iranian household received an average of $4,000 a year in subsidies for oil and natural gas, compared with a typical annual income of about $3,600 a year.\n\nIn 2010, Iran's Department of Statistics announced that 10 million Iranians live under the absolute poverty line and 30 million live under the relative poverty line. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad says implementation of the targeted subsidy system will eradicate unemployment and poverty in Iran within three years.\n\nThe administration has said earlier that it will be able to allocate different payment amounts to different people. To that end, in 2009, forms were distributed asking Iranians to report income, assets and property but the question remains on how the government will verify this information gathered by self-reporting. Many people have chosen not to report or withhold information. The administration has categorized the people into three income brackets; namely lower, middle, and higher for the implementation of the subsidy reform plan. On the other side, it was not clear in what form the compensation would be distributed, direct cash or goods. Another concern is the accuracy of government information on family incomes.\n\nIn September 2010, Iran's Statistics Bureau announced that implementation was delayed by one month because they were still collecting information regarding the financial situation of households and opening bank accounts for them.\n\nLater in 2010, the government announced that it had revised its plan because of lack of reliable data on personal incomes. To ease the economic loss from lost subsidies, the government indicated it would distribute $40 per person/month (i.e. 455,000 rials/month) to 90% of the general population, starting on December 18, 2010.\n\nThe government took control of deciding how much the prices should rise in a year, as long as the subsidy cuts on gasoline and other refined products, natural gas, electricity, water, food (sugar, rice, cooking oil and bread), health and education are between $10 and 20 billion dollars annually. Estimates indicate that the government has to increase existing prices by an average of 2.5 times to achieve the lower target and by 4 times for the maximum target. According to the IMF, Iranians can expect the first price hike to lift energy product prices between four and 20 times previous levels, with prices surging even higher eventually.\n\nAccording to the plan, the type of consumption (i.e. whether agricultural, industrial and civil) will also be considered when setting energy prices. The subsidy plan will be implemented in proportion with geographical regions because warm regions consume more electricity during summer while cold regions consume more gas during winter. Finally, the time of consumption (i.e. during peak and off-peak hours) and the consumption demand (i.e. whether it is low or high) will be taken into consideration.\n\nStarting in April 2012, Iran's consumers have been hit with a wave of rising prices that has now touched laundry detergent and food items such as cooking oil, rice, eggs and dairy products. Since April 2012, the price of food and other consumer products have risen between 10 and 20% in some cases.\n\nThe latest official data comparing prices of foodstuffs in the second week of April 2012 to the corresponding period in 2011 showed dairy products rose about 42 per cent, red meat 47.5 per cent, rice about 29 per cent, beans 45.7 per cent, vegetables 92 per cent, sugar 33 per cent and vegetable oil 30 per cent. The price of chicken nearly tripled since 2011.\n\nAs of October 2011, consumption of liquefied petroleum gas, gasoline, kerosene, and diesel has cut between 4 and 19%, despite the fact that more than 1 million cars have been added to Iran's fleet. Increased use of compressed natural gas (CNG) to fuel cars has also reportedly played a role in this. According to the government, if oil products consumption had not been managed, consumption of gasoline would have increased to 120 million liters per day, while by reforming consumption pattern the figure has fallen to 60 million liters per day. In November 2011, the Government reported that the subsidy reform plan has saved Iran $6 billion.\n\nThe reforms target one of the major sources of inefficiency and price distortions in the Iranian economy, and will likely lead to major restructuring in almost all economic sectors. The banking sector in Iran is viewed as a potential hedge against the removal of subsidies, as the plan is not expected to have any direct impact on banks. Experts believe that\nfollowing the launch of the subsidies reform plan, the electricity industry will undergo significant changes and will become more appealing to private investors.\n\nOn the other side, the cement industry in Iran is one of the economic sectors that will be hit the hardest in Iran following of the subsidy reform plan, because many Iranian cement factories are energy inefficient (Notwithstanding possible Ministry of Commerce adjustment and/or liberalization of commodities prices by the government during implementation). Taxi, delivery and truck drivers have also been adversely affected by the recent gas price increase. Experts believe that the removal of subsidies is likely to have an adverse impact on the profitability of the automotive sector for at least the next 2–3 years.\nOne major element of pressure on producers is the unchanged exchange regime of the Central Bank of Iran, which puts imported products at an advantage by failing to compensate for the relative increase in production costs of domestic producers.\n\nDuring the second phase, starting in June 2012, half of the funds from energy and food subsidies will be re-allocated to the people and the remaining 50% will go to the industrial sector. If approved by the Parliament, the government will pay an \"extra\" cash handout of 280,000 rials/month to 80% of the general population (i.e. people earning less than $2000/month, which is a comfortable income level in Iran). In July 2012, it was announced that implementation of the second phase was suspended awaiting further adjustments by the government and because of raising inflation (around 22% as of April 2012). Finally, in fall 2013, the parliament approved a plan to drop 22 million Iranians—the top 30 percent of earners—from the subsidy system instead. Yet, it was reported in 2014 that out of Iran’s population of 77 million, 73.6 million registered to receive the cash hand-outs.\n\nAccording to earlier critics, even if half of $20 billion is passed as part of the compensation to the poorer 50% of the Iranian society, it will amount to $25 per eligible person per month; \"no way near enough to make up for such inflation rates\".\n\nCritics say that if the government goes for the top of this range inflation could rise up to 40% through the economy. The International Monetary Fund, however, has predicted a more moderate rise in inflation of just 32 percent.<ref name=\"RFE/RL\">RFE/RL/Payvand.com: Sanctions And Iran's Achilles Heel. Retrieved June 11, 2010.</ref> As of January 2010, the official inflation rate stands at 15 percent. The cost of living in Iran, according to the Majlis Research Center, could rise by up to 60 percent. Ahmadinejad's administration contends that the negative side effects will be transient and that the projections are based on out-of-date models.\n\nAccording to some western reports, cash payments have been denied to some opponents of the regime during the distribution phase.\n\nAhmad Tavakkoli, a parliamentarian, accused the government of “violating the law” and “mis-implementing” the plan because it earned 290,000bn rials ($23.6bn) from the cut in subsidies in the first 14 months of its implementation but paid people $36.7bn of compensation in return (he says).\n\nIt has also been reported that while the subsidy reform plan needs further adaptation and fine-tuning, citizens must separate the questions of public policy from the issues of government legitimacy. The IMF has hailed Iran's economic reform and asked Iran's expertise to be transferred to other countries. The Economist Intelligence Unit has also praised Iran's subsidies reform plan for its positive effect on the economy in 2011.\n\nIn 2012, Iran's head of the Expediency Council, Ayatollah Hashemi Rafsanjani, criticized the government for failing to reinvest the money it saved by restructuring government subsidies. To compensate, the government says it has allowed producers to adjust their prices more liberally and it has given free loans and energy subsidies in some cases. In recent years, income inequality in Iran has declined by different measures, which may be an effect of the subsidy reforms. For example, the income Gini coefficient fell from 0.4023 in 2005 to 0.3813 in 2010. Between February 2011 and February 2012, the government earned 510 trillion rials (some $41.6 billion) by implementing the Subsidy Reform Plan.\n\nAccording to the World Bank:\nIn October 2012, 179 of 240 members of parliament voted in favor of pausing the subsidy reform, because of high inflation (exacerbated by the sanctions against Iran). Consequently, the growth in consumption of subsidized products rebounded in 2012.\n\nIn 2014, Iran started the second phase of its targeted subsidy plan under President Hassan Rohani. Petrol prices were raised by 75% from 4,000 to 7,000 rials ($0.16 to $0.28) per litre, which is far from the target price of approx. $0.90 per litre. As a consequence, fuel smuggling and gasoline imports increased again.\n\nIran's government reported that the second phase of the subsidy reform plan will continue as originally planned.\n\nAccording to the sixth five-year development plan (2016-2021), the subsidy reform plan is to be extended until 2021, eventhough this delay in the implementation runs contrary to the Parliament's ratification of the law on subsidies reform.\n\nIn 2016, the Iranian Parliament approved subsidy cuts to 24 Million Iranians. Under the changes, the government must end monthly cash payments of around $12 a person for many government employees with income above $900 per month and citizens who already receive social welfare. Nevertheless, the government is said to be reluctant to comply because this would be \"unfair\" despite the risk of running large budget deficits.\n\nMore recently the government has announced that it will scrap the subsidy reform plan because of \"inflationary pressures\" and replace it with a new plan named \"energy management\". The new plan aims to set new higher fuel prices (as in the original plan - consequently economize on energy consumption and increase production efficiency).\n\nEven though cash subsidies were intended for 10% of the general population originally, they were given to 90% of the population, mostly because of lack of political will and lack of accurate data on people's income. Those cash handouts \"discouraged people to work in rural areas\" the government has also argued , although this claim is not supported by an Economic Research Forum study that found no evidence of labor supply reductions, but did find increases in hours worked among service sector workers, possibly due to business expansions made possible by the increased cash.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58617534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58617534", "title": "Joro the Paver", "text": "Joro the Paver\n\nJoro the Paver, also known as the Bulgarian Jack the Ripper, is a serial rapist and murderer from the Konyovitsa neighborhood, who operated in Sofia in 1968.\n\nIn the span of a few months, between 6 and 7 rapes occurred, as a result of which a 69-year-old woman died in hospital. The nickname \"Joro the Paver\" comes from the paver found on the scene, wrapped up in handkerchief next to one of the victims.\n\nThe deaf and mute Milcho Milanov, from Rakita, was accused of being the perpetrator and arrested by police. Although he was sentenced and spent a significant amount of time in prison, he was later released due to lack of evidence.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1970s, a new rapist occurred, known as \"Joro the Paver, the Second\", who raped 10 victims and committed a double murder. In 1975, the perpetrator Georgi Yordanov was captured, sentenced to death and subsequently executed by firing squad.\n\nJoro the Paver's true identity remains unknown, and it is also theorised that some rapes in later years have been his doing.\n\n"}
{"id": "30409229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30409229", "title": "Judy Clarke", "text": "Judy Clarke\n\nJudy Clare Clarke (born 1952) is an American criminal defense attorney who has represented several high-profile defendants. She has negotiated plea agreements that spare her clients the death penalty, as was the case for Eric Rudolph, Ted Kaczynski, and Jared Lee Loughner. In the case of Susan Smith, Clarke argued to the jury that ultimately voted against imposing the death penalty.\n\nRaised in Asheville, North Carolina, Clarke is a graduate of T.C. Roberson High School, Furman University and University of South Carolina School of Law. Clarke served as executive director of the Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc. (FDSDI) and the Federal Defenders of the Eastern District of Washington and Idaho. From 1996 to 1997, she served as President of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. Clarke received the John Frank Award from the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nJudy Clare Clarke is the daughter of Harry Wilson Clarke and Patsy Clarke. Patsy Clarke was the daughter of a Massachusetts movie theater manager who moved the family to Asheville when Patsy was a teen. Her parents met while in college together. Clarke grew up in Asheville, North Carolina. Growing up, she had three other siblings: Candy, Mark, and one other. Her father was a civic leader in Asheville and president of Western Carolina Industries employer association. Her mother spent much of her time raising her four children and occasionally acted in regional theater productions. Clarke's parents were conservative Republicans. Her father campaigned for Senator Jesse Helms. In 1987, her father, Harry, was killed in the crash of a private plane near Asheville. Jesse Helms called Patsy Clarke to offer his condolences and sent the family a flag that had been flown in his honor at the U.S. Capitol.\n\nFrom about the sixth or seventh grade, Clarke wanted to be a lawyer or a judge. As a child, her mother taught her the Constitution and she remained interested in it. Moreover, Clarke regularly argued her opinions on current events at the big table her father installed in the family's kitchen. Her parents encouraged independent thinking. For college, Clarke studied psychology at Furman University in Greenville, South Carolina. She graduated from Furman in 1974. Right after college, Clarke went to the University of South Carolina School of Law and received her J.D. in 1977.\n\nIn the early 1990s, her brother Mark was diagnosed HIV-positive and revealed to Judy and his mother that he was gay. Mark, at the time, was studying law at California Western School of Law in San Diego, California. In 1994, Clarke's brother, Mark, died of AIDS. After seeing Jesse Helms attacking gay people on the floor of the Senate and trying to block funding for further AIDS research, Patsy Clarke wrote him a letter to ask him to be kind to those who were dying or had died of AIDS. Jesse Helms responded in a letter: \"I know Mark's death was a devastating blow to you. As far as homosexuality, the Bible judges it, I do not. As for Mark, I wish he had not played Russian roulette with his sexual activity. I have sympathy for him and for you. But there is no escaping the reality of what happened.\" After this, Judy persuaded her mother to come out against their longtime family friend, Sen. Jesse Helms. Patsy Clarke and Eloise Vaughn—an equally well-connected conservative in North Carolina politics and one who had also lost a son to AIDS—created MAJIC, Mothers Against Jesse in Congress. They opposed him vigorously in the 1996 election, but he ultimately won re-election.\n\nRight after law school, she moved to San Diego, California to work as a trial attorney for the Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc. (FDSDI). She was quickly promoted to Senior Trial Attorney and Chief Trial Attorney. From 1983 until 1991, Clarke served as the executive director of FDSDI. During her tenure as executive director, federal sentencing guidelines were created, a product of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984. She argued \"United States v. Rojas-Contreras\" (1985) and \"United States v. Munoz-Flores\" (1990) before the Supreme Court of the United States. In 1992, Clarke left FDSDI to lead the newly created federal defender office in the Eastern District of Washington and Idaho, which she did until June 2002. From 2002-2009, she served as the first full-time Capital Resource Counsel for the Federal Public and Community Defender Program. She is currently in private practice in San Diego, California with her husband, Thomas H. Speedy Rice.\n\nIn addition, Clarke previously served as President of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. She was the first public defender president and the second woman president. Clarke is a member of the Federal Death Penalty Resource Counsel, which helps judges recruit qualified federal public defenders. She is a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers. Clarke worked as a visiting Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University from 2006–07 and a Professor of Practice from 2008–09 and in the spring 2010.\n\nIn 1995, she took a leave of absence to serve as co-counsel for Susan Smith, the South Carolina woman who faced the death penalty in South Carolina Circuit Court for killing her two sons. Her co-counsel was David Bruck, a friend of hers from law school.\n\nIn her opening statement, Clarke argued Smith was deeply troubled and suffering from severe depression. She told the jury: \"This is not a case about evil.This is a case about despair and sadness.\" Clarke, however, conceded that Smith knew what she did was wrong, and it tortured her. Clarke pointed out the tragedies in Susan Smith's life that included being molested by her stepfather, the suicide of her father and her own suicide attempts—twice when Smith was in her teens. The defense's theory of the case was that Smith drove to the edge of the lake to kill herself and her two sons, but her body willed itself out of the car. The prosecution, on the other hand, believed Smith murdered her children in order to start a new life with a former lover. It only took the jury two and a half hours to convict her of murdering her two sons.\n\nTommy Pope, the lead prosecutor in the Smith case, argued passionately in favor of sentencing Smith to death. But the jury ultimately voted against imposing the death penalty. Pope believes that Clarke was able to humanize Susan Smith and help them see that Smith was herself a victim. Smith was sentenced to life imprisonment with a possibility of parole after 30 years.\n\nAfter the trial, the judge was impressed by Clarke's work and increased her fee to US$83,000. After paying the taxes, she donated the money to a criminal defense fund.\n\nIn 1996, Federal Defender Quin Denvir filed papers asking U.S. District Judge Garland Burrell to appoint Clarke as his co-counsel for Ted Kaczynski who was accused of seven explosions connected to the Unabomber and faced the death penalty. Clarke and the defense made unsuccessful challenges to the search of Kaczynski's cabin and the statements he made after his capture. In addition, the defense began preparation for an insanity defense, which Kaczynski did not support. Kaczynski's brother David Kaczynski said of Clarke: \"She had the ability to develop a relationship with Ted, and that was not one of his gifts. He does not connect easily or well with people.\" Moreover, he said, \"I thought [that] she understands my brother as a human being who has significant issues and challenges and mental problems, who's done something terrible but is still on the level of a human being.\" About the time of jury selection, Kaczynski moved to dismiss his lawyers, but that motion was denied. The day before the trial was to begin, Kaczynski pleaded guilty to avoid the death penalty, and was sentenced to life in prison without parole, serving his sentence at ADX Florence. Later Kaczynski was quoted describing Judy Clarke as \"a bitch on wheels and a sicko.\"\n\nIn 2000, she was appointed to represent Buford O. Furrow, the Aryan Nations member, accused of the Los Angeles Jewish Community Center shooting, and the fatal shooting of a Filipino-American postal worker in 1999. Prosecutors dropped the death penalty when the defense documented and charted Furrow's long history of psychiatric treatment for bipolar disorder. In 2001, Furrow pleaded guilty and was sentenced to five life terms.\n\nIn 2002, she was appointed co-counsel for 9/11 suspect Zacarias Moussaoui in United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. On June 13, 2002, Judge Leonie Brinkema granted Moussaoui's motion to represent himself and allowed the case to move forward. Clarke then served as standby counsel for Moussaoui. Although Judge Brinkema revoked Moussaoui's self-representation, it appears that Clarke acted as a consultant to the defense. Moussaoui ultimately plead guilty, but was spared the death penalty by a jury. He is serving a life sentence without parole at the Federal ADX Supermax prison in Florence, Colorado, USA.\n\nIn 2004, after Defense Attorney Robert Jaffe withdrew from the case, she was appointed lead counsel for Eric Rudolph who was charged in the Centennial Olympic Park bombing in 1996 and other bombings a year later. Clarke and the defense tried to suppress evidence, but that motion was denied. After the prosecution announced that they would seek the death penalty, a federal judge also rejected a claim by the defense that prosecutors waited too long to announce they would seek the death penalty. In April 2005, Rudolph pleaded guilty avoiding the death penalty. He is currently serving life in prison without the possibility of parole at ADX Florence.\n\nOn January 10, 2011, the United States district court in Phoenix, Arizona assigned Clarke as defense counsel to Jared Lee Loughner, the perpetrator of the January 8, 2011 Tucson, Arizona shooting. The Phoenix Public Defenders' Office had requested that Clarke be retained in order to allow Loughner to receive competent counsel without the possibility of a community-wide conflict of interest arising from proceedings against him for his alleged role in the shooting. On August 7, 2012, Clarke brokered a deal sparing Loughner's life in exchange for a guilty plea to 19 counts, including the wounding of then congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords. Loughner is serving life in prison without parole at the United States Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, MO.\n\nOn April 29, 2013, Clarke was appointed to the defense team representing Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Clarke admitted her client's guilt and told the jury that he was responsible for the \"senseless, horrific, misguided acts\" referring to Tsarnaev's bombing of the Boston marathon. A federal jury convicted Tsarnaev of all 30 charges against him and found him responsible for the deaths of the three people killed in the 2013 attack and the killing of an MIT police officer three days later. On May 15, 2015, a federal jury sentenced him to death.\n\nIn a speech at Loyola Law School, Clarke in essence said that her clients—no matter how horrible the crimes they are accused of committing—are real people, not monsters, and that she tries to understand what caused them to do it. She opposes capital punishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "40502555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40502555", "title": "Justin Lee sex scandal", "text": "Justin Lee sex scandal\n\nThe Justin Lee sex scandal involves a Taiwanese man, Justin Lee (; born 1985), who was convicted of nine rapes, during which he had drugged women and then recorded the sexual assaults.\n\nLee is the son of former Yuanta Financial Holding Co board member Lee Yueh-tsang, and known for his presence at attending fashion parties and nightclubs. In 2011 two sisters filed police report against Lee. During the investigation, the police discovered recorded files on Lee's computer and arrested him in November 2012. Prosecutors said that since August 2009, Lee had been drugging women or getting them drunk in luxury nightclubs around Taiwan, before taking them to his home to rape them while unconscious. Lee fled Taipei and was on the run for 23 days before turning himself in. Lee was originally charged with sexually assaulting 28 women and filming the acts, but the court eventually proceeded with 9 charges of rape and 15 charges of filming the women during sex acts without their consent.\n\nIn the first sentencing at the Taipei district court, Lee was originally to be jailed for 22 years and had to pay compensation of NT$14.25 million to the victims. On 2 September 2014, following an appeal, Lee's sentence was increased to 80 year jail sentence for his offences. However, he would only have to serve 30 years as that was the maximum punishment for those charges by law. He was also ordered to pay NT$27.75 million compensation to victims.\n\n"}
{"id": "509080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509080", "title": "Kiwi (people)", "text": "Kiwi (people)\n\nKiwi () is the nickname used internationally for people from New Zealand, as well as being a relatively common self-reference. Unlike many demographic labels, its usage is not considered offensive; rather, it is generally viewed as a symbol of pride and endearment for the people of New Zealand. The name derives from the kiwi, a native flightless bird, which is a national symbol of New Zealand. Until the First World War, the kiwi represented the country and not the people; however, by 1917, New Zealanders were also being called \"Kiwis\", supplanting other nicknames.\n\nThe kiwi has long had a special significance for the indigenous Māori people, who used its skin to make feather cloaks (\"kahu kiwi\") for chiefs. The bird first came to European attention in 1811 when a skin ended up in the hands of a British Museum zoologist, George Shaw, who classified it as a type of penguin and portrayed it as standing upright. After early sightings by Europeans the kiwi was regarded as a curiosity; in 1835 the missionary William Yate described it as \"the most remarkable and curious bird in New Zealand\".\n\nIn the early 1900s cartoonists began to use the kiwi as a representation of New Zealand. For example, in a 1904 \"New Zealand Free Lance\" cartoon a plucky kiwi is shown growing to a moa after a rugby victory of 9–3 over a British team. The next year, \"The Westminster Gazette\" printed a cartoon of a kiwi and a kangaroo (representing Australia) going off to a colonial conference. Trevor Lloyd, who worked for \"The New Zealand Herald\", also used a kiwi to represent the All Blacks rugby team, but he more often drew a moa. Other symbols for New Zealand at this time included the silver fern, a small boy and a young lion cub. But until the First World War the kiwi was used as a symbol of the nation rather than the people of New Zealand.\n\nIn the early-20th century New Zealanders—including soldiers and All Blacks players—were referred to internationally as \"En Zed(der)s\", or \"Maorilanders\" (referring to the Māori people and their historical contribution to the country). These terms were still being used near the end of the First World War of 1914-1918. However, although New Zealand soldiers were often described as \"Diggers\" or as \"Pig Islanders\",\nby 1917 they were also being called \"Kiwis\". \n\nThe image of the kiwi had appeared on military badges since the South Canterbury Battalion used it in 1886, and several regiments took it up in the First World War. \"Kiwis\" came to mean the men of New Zealand regiments. The nickname is not thought to have originated as a reference to the physical attributes of the New Zealand servicemen (i.e. implying they were short and stocky or nocturnal like the bird). It was simply that the kiwi was distinct and unique to the country. Its prominent use on the New Zealand regiments' insignia also made for easy association. The nickname eventually became common usage in all war theatres. \n\nAfter the end of the First World War in November 1918, many New Zealand troops stayed in Europe for months or years awaiting transport home. At Sling Camp, near Bulford on Salisbury Plain in Wiltshire, New Zealand soldiers carved a chalk kiwi into the nearby hill in early 1919. The New Zealanders' presence popularised the nickname within Europe. \nAn Australian boot polish called \"Kiwi\" was widely used in the imperial forces. William Ramsay, a developer of the product, named the polish in honour of his wife's birthplace, New Zealand. Beginning in 1906, Kiwi Shoe Polish eventually became widely sold in the UK and the US, and the symbol became more widely known. \"The Australian National Dictionary\" also gives the first use of the term \"Kiwi Kids\" and \"Kiwis\" in 1917, to mean Australian army recruits who had \"kiwied up\"; in other words, they had highly-polished boots.\n\nFollowing the Second World War of 1939-1945 the term gradually became attributed to all New Zealanders, and today throughout the world they are referred to as Kiwis, as well as often referring to themselves that way.\n\nSpelling of the word \"Kiwi\", when used to describe the people, is often capitalised, and takes the plural form \"Kiwis\". The bird's name is spelled with a lower-case \"k\" and, being a word of Māori origin, normally stays as \"kiwi\" when pluralised. Thus, \"two Kiwis\" refers to two people, whereas \"two kiwi\" refers to two birds. This linguistic nicety is well exemplified by the BNZ Save the Kiwi Conservation Trust, which uses the slogan \"Kiwis for kiwi\".\n\nIt is not usually considered to be a derogatory term. In an official context, \"Kiwi\" has been used in the name of government services and state-owned enterprises, such as KiwiBuild, KiwiSaver, KiwiRail and Kiwibank.\n\n"}
{"id": "18907211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18907211", "title": "Lebanese Ecuadorians", "text": "Lebanese Ecuadorians\n\nLebanese Ecuadorians are Ecuadorians who are descended from migrants from Lebanon. There are approximately 98,000 Lebanese people and their descendants living in Ecuador. \n\nMigration from Lebanon to Ecuador started as early as 1875. Early impoverished migrants tended to work as independent sidewalk vendors, rather than as wage workers in agriculture or others' businesses. Though they emigrated to escape Ottoman Turkish oppression, they were called \"Turks\" by Ecuadorians because they carried Ottoman passports. There were further waves of immigration in the first half of the 20th century; by 1930, there were 577 Lebanese immigrants and 489 of their descendants residing in the country, primarily at Quito and Guayaquil.\n\nThe number of Lebanese descendants in Ecuador is not too clear. A 1982 estimate from Lebanon's Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated 20,000, while another private estimate from 1986 put it as high as 97,500. They reside mostly in Quito and Guayaquil. They are predominantly of the Christian Catholic faith.\n\nPeople of Lebanese background are very well represented in business and politics of the country. Some of them have reached the presidency and vice-presidency of Ecuador. Their prominence in politics provoked some backlash, with one politician warning of the \"Bedouinization\" of Ecuador.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "480732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=480732", "title": "List of U.S. communities with Asian-American majority populations", "text": "List of U.S. communities with Asian-American majority populations\n\nThe following is a partial list of United States cities and towns in which a majority (over 50%) of the population is Asian American or Asian, according to data from the 2010 Census for California and New Jersey and 2000 Census for other states. This list does not include cities in which, according to the 2000 Census and 2010 Census, merely a plurality (as opposed to a majority) of the residents are Asian American. The list below is organized by state and, within each state, by population size. The percentage of each city's population that is Asian American is listed in parentheses next to the city's name.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14293471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14293471", "title": "List of birds displaying homosexual behavior", "text": "List of birds displaying homosexual behavior\n\nFor these birds, there is documented evidence of homosexual or transgender behavior of one or more of the following kinds: sex, courtship, affection, pair bonding, or parenting, as noted in researcher and author Bruce Bagemihl's 1999 book \"Biological Exuberance: Animal Homosexuality and Natural Diversity\".\n\nAccording to Bagemihl, Animal sexual behavior takes many different forms, even within the same species and the motivations for and implications of their behaviors have yet to be fully understood. Bagemihl's research shows that homosexual behavior, not necessarily sex, has been documented in about 500 species as of 1999, ranging from primates to gut worms. Homosexuality in animals is seen as controversial by social conservatives because it asserts the naturalness of homosexuality in humans, while others counter that it has no implications and is nonsensical to equate animal behavior to morality. Animal preference and motivation is always inferred from behavior. Thus homosexual behavior has been given a number of terms over the years. The correct usage of the term \"homosexual\" is that an animal \"exhibits homosexual behavior\", however this article conforms to the usage by modern research applying the term \"homosexuality\" to all sexual behavior (copulation, genital stimulation, mating games and sexual display behavior) between animals of the same sex.\n\nThis list is part of a larger list of animals displaying homosexual behavior including mammals, insects, fish etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "245886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245886", "title": "Macanese people", "text": "Macanese people\n\nThe Macanese people (; , Cantonese: \"toú-saāng poùh-yàhn\", , or ) are an East Asian ethnic group that originated in Macau in the 16th century, consisting of people of predominantly mixed Chinese and Portuguese as well as Malay, Japanese, Sinhalese and Indian ancestry.\n\nModern Macanese culture can be best described as a Sino-Latin culture. Historically, many ethnic Macanese spoke Patuá, which is a Portuguese-based creole and now virtually extinct. Many are fluent in both Portuguese and Cantonese. The Macanese have preserved a distinctive Macanese cuisine.\n\nMacau was founded circa 1557 by Portuguese merchants with permission of the Chinese Canton governor and later the emperor. Since its beginning, Macau has not been conquered and until the attacks of the Dutch in 1604, it didn´t have a military garrison. Portuguese culture dominates the Macanese, but Chinese cultural patterns are also significant. The community acted as the interface between Portuguese merchant settlers or ruling colonial government - Portuguese from Portugal who knew little about Chinese - and the Chinese majority (90% of population) who knew equally little about the Portuguese. Some Macanese had paternal Portuguese heritage. Some were Portuguese men stationed in Macau as part of their military service. Many stayed in Macau after the expiration of their military service, marrying Macanese women.\n\nRarely did Chinese women marry Portuguese; initially, mostly Goans, Ceylonese/Sinhalese (from today's Sri Lanka), Indochina, Malay (from Malacca), and Japanese women were the wives of the Portuguese men in Macau. Slave women of Indian, Indonesian, Malay, and Japanese origin were used as partners by Portuguese men. Japanese girls would be purchased in Japan by Portuguese men. Macau received an influx of African slaves, Japanese slaves as well as Christian Korean slaves who were bought by the Portuguese from the Japanese after they were taken prisoner during the Japanese invasions of Korea (1592–98) in the era of Hideyoshi. From 1555 onwards, Macau received slave women of Timorese origin as well as women of African origin, and from Malacca and India. Macau was permitted by Pombal to receive an influx of Timorese women. Many Chinese became Macanese simply by converting to Catholicism, and had no ancestry from the Portuguese, having assimilated into the Macanese people since they were rejected by non-Christian Chinese. The majority of marriages between Portuguese and natives was between Portuguese men and women of Tanka origin, who were considered the lowest class of people in China and had relations with Portuguese settlers and sailors, or low class Chinese women. Western men like the Portuguese were refused by high class Chinese women, who did not marry foreigners. Literature in Macau was written about love affairs and marriage between the Tanka women and Portuguese men, like \"A-Chan, A Tancareira\", by Henrique de Senna Fernandes. More of the stories of Christianized Chinese who adopted Portuguese customs will be narrated on the 3rd paragraph.\nDuring the late-nineteenth century, and increasingly during Salazar's fascist Estado Novo regime, the upbringing of most Macanese fell along the lines of the continental Portuguese - attending Portuguese schools, participating in mandatory military service (some fought in Africa) and practising the Catholic faith. As recently as the 1980s, most Macanese had not received formal Chinese schooling and, hence, could speak but not read or write Chinese. Spoken Cantonese was largely familiar, and some spoke the language with a regional accent (鄉下話) - acquired largely from their mothers or amahs.\n\nSince Portuguese settlement in Macau - dating from 1557 - included a strong Catholic presence, a number of Chinese converted to Catholicism. A large number of Macanese can trace their roots to these New Christians. Many of these Chinese were assimilated into the Macanese community, dropping their Chinese surnames and adopting Portuguese surnames. In the collective Macanese folk memory, there is a little ditty about the parish of St. Lazarus Parish, called 進教圍, where these Chinese converts lived: 進教圍, 割辮仔, 唔係姓念珠 (Rosário)　就係姓玫瑰 (Rosa). Hence, it is surmised that many Macanese with surnames of Rosario or Rosa probably were of Chinese ancestry. Because of this, there are many Eurasians carrying Portuguese surnames Rosario, Rosa, and others that are not Portuguese-blooded may be mistaken by others as Portuguese-blooded, and Eurasians of Portuguese blood carrying Portuguese surnames trace their Portuguese blood on maternal side. A visit to the St Michael the Archangel Cemetery (Cemitério São Miguel Arcanjo), the main Catholic cemetery near the St. Lazarus Parish, would reveal gravestones with a whole spectrum of Chinese and Portuguese heritage: Chinese with Portuguese baptised names with or without Portuguese surnames, Portuguese married with Chinese Catholics, and so on.\n\nThe mid-twentieth century, with the outbreak of the Second World War in the Pacific and the retreat of the Republic of China to Taiwan, saw the Macanese population surge through the re-integration of two disparate Macanese communities: the Hong Kong Macanese and the Shanghai Macanese. With the Japanese invasion of Hong Kong in 1941, the Macanese population, escaping the occupation, made its way to Macau as refugees. These Macanese, including many skilled workers and civil servants, were fluent in English and Portuguese and brought valuable commercial and technical skills to the colony. Another distinct group within the Macanese community is the 上海葡僑; the descendants of Portuguese settlers from Shanghai that acted as middlemen between other foreigners and the Chinese in the \"Paris of the Orient\". They emigrated from Shanghai to Macau in 1949 with the coming of the Red Guard. Many spoke little Portuguese and were several generations removed from Portugal, speaking primarily English and Shanghainese, and/or Mandarin. The Shanghai Macanese carved a niche by teaching English in Macau. Only the children and grandchildren of Shanghainese settlers who were born and raised in Macau have the ability to speak Portuguese.\n\nA number of Macanese also emigrated during the Carnation Revolution and Macau's return to the People's Republic of China, respectively. Most potential emigrants looked to Brazil, Portugal's African territories, and Australia.\n\nBeginning with the post-1974 independence of other Portuguese colonies and hastened by Macau's return to China, the Macanese community began to lose its Portuguese heritage. Many Portuguese, Eurasians and Chinese who were loyal to the Portuguese left after its return to China. Of those that remained, many children - including those of pure Chinese descent - switched from Portuguese- to English-medium high school education, particularly as many of parents recognised the diminishing value of Portuguese schooling. Many Macanese people of mixed ancestry since Portuguese time never speak Portuguese and speak only Cantonese as first language; if other Macanese people of mixed ancestry speak Portuguese, they speak it as second language, thus affected by Cantonese accent. At the same time, Macanese of pure Portuguese descent are also learning Cantonese and Mandarin to be able to communicate to non-Portuguese-speaking Chinese. Today, most Macanese - if they are still young enough - would go back to study to read and write Chinese. Many see a niche role for fluent speakers of Portuguese, Cantonese and Mandarin. Code-switching between Portuguese, Cantonese, and Mandarin among native speakers is common. In the 1980s Macanese or Portuguese women began to marry men who identified themselves as Chinese.\n\nThere is some dispute around the exact meaning of \"Macanese\". An essay by Marreiros offers a broad spectrum of \"Macanese types\", ranging from Chinese Christian converts who live among the Portuguese to the descendants of old-established families of Portuguese lineage; all groups are integrated into this historically legitimated group. As a general rule, it is not a point of reference, however for ethnic Chinese living and raised in Macau; they often identify themselves as Chinese or Chinese from Macau; \"Macanese\" is applied to those people who have been acculturated through Western education and religion and are recognized by the Macanese community as being Macanese.\n\nTraditionally, the basis for Macanese ethnic affiliation has been the use of the Portuguese language at home or some alliances with Portuguese cultural patterns and not solely determined along hereditary lines. Pina-Cabral and Lourenço suggest that this goal is reached \"namely through the Portuguese-language school-system\". Often, due to the close proximity to the Portuguese, the Macanese closely identify themselves with Portuguese nationals as opposed to Chinese in the bi-cultural and bi-racial equation. In practice, however, being Macanese is left up to how individuals categorize themselves. \n\nIn the mid-1990s, there had been attempts by the Macau government to redefine the Macanese to be everyone born in Macau regardless of ethnicity, language or nationality. Since the re-integration of Macau with the People's Republic of China in late 1999, the traditional definitions are in a state of re-formulation. Given the shifting political climate of Macau, some Macanese are coming to recognize and identify closer with a Chinese heritage.\n\nThis ambiguity might be reduced by the further adjective crioulo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39567388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39567388", "title": "Mafa people", "text": "Mafa people\n\nThe Mafa, also called Mahayana, are an ethnic group localized in northern Cameroon and eastern Nigeria.\n\nIt is understood that the Mahayana, a Mafa tribe, migrated from Roua and Sulede (which is west of Durum (Mofu proper)), towards the northwest. The Bulahay tribe, meanwhile, migrated to the west, alongside the southern borders of the present Mafa territory. Eventually they also migrated northwards where they mixed with the Mafahay, becoming the present Mafa.\n\nTotal population estimates vary between 82,100 and 150,000. Hallaire indicates that population density in the area is between 99 and 140 inhabitants per square kilometer.\n\nAccording to Lavergne, the Mafa are split into two tribal sections, being the ‘Mafa proper’ (referred to as Maf-Mafa or ‘Mafahai’), and the ‘Bulahai’. The Mafas live in the central part of the Northern Mandaras, which is a region formed by the North area of the Mokolo Plateau and the mountains of northern Mokolo. The Mafa society is divided into several cantons: Moskota; Koza; Gaboua (Koza district); (Mokolo arrondissement). There are also about 1,000 Mafa in Kughum (North, Nigeria). \nThe Mafa belong to the Chadic language grouping. They speak the Mafa language,\nwith three different dialects: Mafa-west, Mafa-centre and Mafa-east. Together with many other languages of other African peoples (such as Wuzlam (Uldeme), Muyang and Ɗugwor (Dugur)), they form part of the Mafa-south sub-group.\n\nThe population is 15.00% Muslim, 50% Christian and 35% tradition followers. The Christian population is composed of Catholics (60%) and Protestants (40%).\n\nTraditional Mafa agriculture depends on a wide assortment of soil management techniques. The hillsides are secured with constructed terraces, that according to an author, \"have reached a state of exceptional perfection\". Other ethno-engineering procedures include :\n\n\nLikewise, agriculturists in the mountains practice an extensive variety of soil fertility management procedures, including :\n\n\nThey also use an intensive livestock-raising system in the management of the fertility of their soil. Livestock includes smallstock and a limited amount of cattle. In the dry season between December and May, livestock is allowed to roam free, so he can consume crop residues and leaves of wild bushes.\n\nDuring the farming season, livestock is put in a pen and fed. The manure that accumulates in the stables is collected, preserved and finally spread out in the fields at the end of the dry season. The intensity and ingenuity of Mafa nutrient management is illustrated by the fact that termites are used to digest harvest residues and then fed to the Chickens.\n\n"}
{"id": "15995065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15995065", "title": "Mefele language", "text": "Mefele language\n\nMefele is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in northern Cameroon. Dialects are Mefele, Muhura, Serak, and Shugule. Blench (2006) considers Shugule (Shügule) a separate language.\n"}
{"id": "3747809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3747809", "title": "Monarchy of Fiji", "text": "Monarchy of Fiji\n\nThe monarchy of Fiji arose in the mid-nineteenth century when native ruler Seru Epenisa Cakobau consolidated control of the Fijian Islands and declared himself King or paramount chief of Fiji (). In 1874, he voluntarily ceded sovereignty of the islands to Britain, which made Fiji a Crown colony within the British Empire. After nearly a century of British rule, Fiji became a Dominion, an independent sovereign state within the Commonwealth of Nations with Elizabeth II as head of state. After a second military coup in 1987, Fiji became a republic, and the monarchy was ended. Nevertheless, the Great Council of Chiefs recognised Elizabeth II as \"Tui Viti\" or the traditional Queen of Fiji, but the position is not one of a constitutional, or otherwise legal nature. The Great Council of Chiefs was disestablished in 2012 by decree. Elizabeth II does not use the title, and the Fijian government does not recognise it.\n\nIn the late 1840s, the \"Vunivalu\" or ruler of Bau, Tanoa Visawaqa (died 1852) declared himself \"Tui Viti\", which translates as \"King of Fiji\" or \"paramount chief of Fiji\". It is recorded that he used the title in recognition of his political influence over other chiefly states, for instance in Rewa, where he was \"Vasu-Levu\" (high ranking matrilineal descendant), Naitasiri, Cakaudrove and Lau, where he had forged strong alliances, and in Macuata, where he was able to effectively intervene in the feuds of the ruling family to establish an ally as \"Tui Macuata\" or \"paramount chief of Macuata\". As the title was never a traditional one, and as Bauan influence did not extend to the whole of Fiji, Tanoa Visawaqa's claim to it is often viewed by historians as self-proclaimed, driven by astute ambition which would to a certain degree work to the advantage of his successor, his son Seru Epenisa, known as \"Cakobau\", or \"destroyer of Bau\".\n\nSeru Cakobau ruled the short lived Kingdom of Fiji (1871–1874) as \"Tui Viti\", and the title became synonymous with him. Even before the formation of the Kingdom of Fiji, Seru Cakobau is recorded to have used the title. In 1854, as \"Tui Viti\", he attended a court conducted by Captain Denham of HMS \"Herald\" into Cakobau's alleged misdeeds against the Europeans. The usage of the title brought both advantages and disadvantages to the holder. Advantages in that it allowed Cakobau to deal with the Europeans and control the new wealth and technology they brought with them and disadvantages in being held responsible for the actions of Fijians beyond his realm of control. It was the latter in tandem with his claims to the title and European claims for monetary compensation that would contribute to his reasons for ceding Fiji to Britain in 1874. Even though Seru Cakobau was not recognised by all Fijians as King of Fiji, his use of the title, and its recognition by many of the leading chiefs, led European settlers and foreign powers to treat him as a native king.\n\nThough Seru Cakobau was considered equal but not necessarily superior by his fellow chiefs, he was recognised as king by the Western powers. In 1874, he was the lead signatory on the deed of cession which granted Britain sovereignty over the islands, and it was his efforts that brought Fiji under the guidance of the British Empire. After cession in 1874, all historical records refer to Seru Cakobau as only \"Vunivalu\" of Bau, or \"Ratu\" Seru Cakobau, indicating the title \"Tui Viti\" was lost when the sovereignty of Fiji was ceded to the British Crown. When \"Ratu\" Seru Cakobau signed the deed of cession he also presented his prized war club to Queen Victoria, the British monarch, as a symbol of his submission and loyalty. The presentation of the war club, named \"Na Tutuvi Kuta nei Radi ni Bau\" (The sleeping cover of the Queen of Bau) refers to the traditional duty of the \"Vunivalu\" to protect the principal wife of the Rokotui Bau and can again be taken to mean Cakobau accepted protection from Queen Victoria and her successors. Neither Queen Victoria nor her successors ever used the title of \"Tui Viti\", but the Fijians considered them Kings and Queens of Fiji in the traditional sense of \"Tui Viti\", not just in the Western sense of Sovereign.\n\nIn 1970, 96 years of British rule came to an end, and Fiji became an independent sovereign state within the Commonwealth of Nations. The official name of the state was the \"Dominion of Fiji\". Fiji's Head of State was Elizabeth II, who was represented by a Governor-General and was also queen of other countries, such as Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom. The queen's realms were all independent from one another, and the Queen acted independently in each realm, but they shared the same person as monarch. As a constitutional monarchy, executive power was held by a prime minister, usually the leader of the majority party in an elected legislature. The prime minister was appointed by the Governor-General.\n\nIn 1987, a series of coups resulted in the overthrow of the elected government of Fijian Prime Minister Timoci Bavadra, and the declaration of a republic. The first coup, in which Bavadra was deposed, took place on 14 May 1987. The Fijian Supreme Court ruled the coup unconstitutional, and the Queen's representative, Governor-General \"Ratu\" Sir Penaia Ganilau, unsuccessfully attempted to assert executive power. He opened negotiations, known as the Deuba Talks, with both the deposed government, and the Alliance Party, which most indigenous Fijians supported. These negotiations culminated in the Deuba Accord of 23 September 1987, which provided for a government of national unity, in which both parties would be represented under the leadership of the Governor-General. Fearing that the gains of the first coup were about to be lost, Sitiveni Rabuka staged a second coup on 25 September, abolished the monarchy on 6 October, and declared Fiji a republic. Penaia Ganilau resigned as Governor-General on 15 October 1987, and Fiji was expelled from the Commonwealth of Nations for a decade.\n\nTen years later, after constitutional talks and an election, Sitiveni Rabuka, who instigated the two military coups, presented a tabua, a tooth of a sperm whale, to Queen Elizabeth during the Commonwealth Heads of Government conference in Edinburgh, Scotland. This gesture from Rabuka, by now the Prime Minister of Fiji, is a traditional sign of profound respect and was given as an apology for having broken his oath of allegiance to her as an officer of the Military of Fiji. The agreed Constitution of 1997 provided for a President as Head of State of a Fijian republic, with the President chosen by the Great Council of Chiefs, a formal body of mostly hereditary chiefs.\n\nThough Fiji has been a republic since 1987 and was suspended from the Commonwealth for a second time in 2009, until 2012 the Queen's effigy was still displayed on Fiji's currency and the Queen's Official Birthday remained a public holiday. In 2012, Frank Bainimarama's government abolished the official birthday holiday, and replaced the Queen's image on banknotes and coins with indigenous flora and fauna. The St Edward's Crown still forms part of the badges of the military and the police. The Queen and the royal family retain widespread affection among the Fijian people, and there have also been sporadic public debates on whether to return to a constitutional monarchy. The motto of the republic remains \"Fear God and honour the King\" (or \"Queen\") (), which was adopted by Cakobau in 1871. The country's coat of arms remain unchanged.\n\nIn 1998, the Great Council of Chiefs debated Elizabeth II's role as \"supreme tribal chief\". In 2002, on behalf of the Council, the Council's chairman, \"Ratu\" Epeli Ganilau, the son of \"Ratu\" Sir Penaia Ganilau, declared that Elizabeth II was still the traditional Queen or paramount chief of Fiji or \"Tui Viti\", even though this position no longer conferred any constitutional prerogatives and it was \"not widely known that she is the paramount chief of Fiji in the traditional sense; only some of the council members remembered her status\". The majority of the members of the Council were descendants and blood relatives of the chiefs who ceded Fiji to Queen Victoria, Elizabeth's great-great-grandmother, in 1874. Consequently, while Fiji is a republic, a monarch or paramount chief was recognised by traditional tribal structures.\n\nAs Queen Elizabeth II has made no official claim to the \"Tui Viti\" title, and it is not officially recognised by the current \"de facto\" Fijian government, it remains dormant in usage. When broached on the subject of restoration by Sitiveni Rabuka during a meeting with the Queen in 1997, her response was simple: \"Let the people decide\".\n\nAfter another coup in 2000, further political tension led to a fourth coup in 2006. The Great Council of Chiefs was suspended in 2007, and the Constitution, which gives the Council the right to appoint the Head of State from among its members, was suspended in 2009. On 14 March 2012, the Council was formally de-established.\n\nIn the last two decades since Fiji became a republic, the question on restoring the monarchy has not abated. The current Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama displays portraits of the Queen and her consort, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, above his office desk. He has also described himself as a monarchist: \"I'm still loyal to the Queen. Many people are in Fiji. One of the things I'd like to do is see her restored as our monarch, to be Queen of Fiji again.\" To date, no referendum has ever been called to decide on the question of restoration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41928248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41928248", "title": "Narahari (surname)", "text": "Narahari (surname)\n\nNarahari is the surname of Vasudevan Prabhuraman, which belongs to (Raju's) Chandravanshi Kshatriyas (Moon Dynasty). They inhabit the Guntur, Krishna, Prakasam, Nellore and Rayalaseema districts of Andhra Pradesh, and in some Karnataka districts.\n\nNarahari's are part of the Telugu Kshatriya Community. They are mainly concentrated in Guntur, Krishna, Prakasam, other Rayalaseema Districts, and also in Bellary District of Karnataka.\n\nOther castes who have surnames belong to other Sudra Gotras.\nNarahari (Raju) people possess last names of Raju, Varma, or Ray.\n"}
{"id": "35775422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35775422", "title": "Ngoreme language", "text": "Ngoreme language\n\nNgurimi (Ngoreme) is a Bantu language of Tanzania. Ngoreme is spoken in the Serengeti District of the Mara Region of north-west Tanzania by some 55, 000 people. There are two main dialects of Ngoreme - a northern dialect and a southern dialect - which maintain mutual intelligibility.\n\nNgoreme shares a vowel inventory with the majority of the Mara languages: \"/i e ɛ a ɔ o u/\". However, Ngoreme has an asymmetrical vowel inventory, with 7 phonemic vowels in nouns but only 5 vowels (/i ɛ a ɔ u/) in verbs.\n\nIn common with many Bantu languages, Ngoreme nouns typically consist of a noun stem, a noun class prefix and an augment (or pre-prefix) vowel. Augment vowels are invariable but the vowels that occurs in the noun class prefixes commonly exhibit variant forms as determined by vowel harmony. Ngoreme has 19 noun classes, with the classes 1-10 exhibiting regular singular/plural pairings, class 11 is attested, as is class 12 which contains diminutives, class 14 is also found. Class 15 contains verb nouns (or infinitives), class 16, 17 and 18 are also attested and are the locative classes. Class 19 is the plural diminutive class whilst class 20 is a (singular) augmentative class.\n"}
{"id": "17723767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17723767", "title": "Ni Hao, Kai-Lan", "text": "Ni Hao, Kai-Lan\n\nNi Hao, Kai-Lan (; \"Hello, Kai-Lan\") is an American animated (anime-influenced) interactive children's television series that premiered on Nickelodeon in the United States on November 5, 2007. It also premiered on the Canadian television channel Treehouse TV.\n\n\"Ni Hao, Kai-lan\" is based on the childhood memories of the show's creator Karen Chau growing up in a bicultural (Chinese-American) household. \"Ni hao\" means \"Hello\" in Mandarin, and Kai-Lan is the Chinese name Chau was given at birth, which was later anglicized to Karen. It was also based on the classic short series \"Downward Doghouse.\"\n\nIn the Season 1 finale, it is stated that they all live in California. \"Ni Hao, Kai-lan\" introduces its viewers to the Mandarin Chinese language, along with elements of Chinese culture and values, and intergenerational families (e.g., Kai-lan and her relationship with Ye Ye).\n\nEpisodes generally feature breaking the fourth wall, 11 minutes of interactivity, a target word that is repeated multiple times, a few words of Mandarin Chinese vocabulary, one or more of Kai-lan's friends having a negative emotional response to some action or activity (problem), Kai-lan thinking out loud (observation), cause-and-effect problem solving, and before saying goodbye (at the end of each episode), Kai-lan says, \"You make my heart feel super happy!\" Later installments added Kai-lan saying this phrase in Mandarin after she said it in English: \"Ni rang wo hao kai xin!\"\n\nKai-Lan is the host and main character, a playful and adventurous young girl with a big heart. She speaks both English and Mandarin Chinese, and she is eager to share her language, her culture, and her playtime with her animal friends and the viewers at home. Kai-Lan is a natural leader but she is also thoughtful and caring with a gift for helping her friends when they really need her. Her favorite animal is a dinosaur and in her music group, she plays her tambourine.\n\nKai-Lan is voiced by Jade Lianna Peters.\n\nYe-Ye (, \"paternal grandfather\") is Kai-lan's grandfather and legal guardian. He was born in Hong Kong and lovingly passes on his exciting traditions to his granddaughter. He provides Kai-lan with gentle guidance, leading her to find her own answers, at her own pace. (Kai-lan's parents and other grandparents are not known.) He can play the tuba. He also enjoys picking apples and making dumplings for Kai-lan and all her animal friends. \n\nYe-Ye is voiced by Clem Cheung and Ben Wang.\n\nRintoo is a rambunctious yellow-and-black young tiger with a lisp who often acts before he thinks. He likes to play rough but when it comes to his friends, he is always willing to compromise. He is an avid fan of dragons and racing racecars. Even though he is with Hoho most of the time, his actual best friend is Tolee besides Kai-Lan. He plays the xylophone in Kai-Lan's music group.\n\nRintoo is voiced by Jack Samson.\n\nTolee is a gray koala who loves pandas and fruit (especially apples, bananas, and pineapples). He is intelligent and always thinks before he acts and sometimes worries too much, but he never lets that stop him from having a great time with his friends. Kai-Lan and her friends can always rely on him for good ideas. Tolee also has a stuffed panda he affectionately named Pandy, and Tolee loves Pandy so much he cannot imagine being without him. He is the vocalist in Kai-Lan's music group.\n\nTolee is voiced by Khamani Griffin.\n\nHoho the white monkey is the youngest of Kai-lan's friends, so when he participates in activities, he often goes first. He is full of energy and enjoys being the center of attention. Whenever he jumps a spring sound can be heard. He can often be found jumping on his friends' heads or playing his turntables as the DJ in Kai-Lan's music group. Aside from his turntables and his friends, Hoho likes bananas.\n\nHoho is voiced by Angie Wu.\n\nLulu is a pink rhinoceros. She has a red balloon tied around her horn that helps her fly in the sky. Lulu is very energetic and sweet. Lulu's home is a castle in the sky. She is best friends with Kai-Lan. Her instrument is the piano. Her favorite fruit is the lychee. Some of Lulu's favorite games include dancing, playing house, having tea parties, and wearing a fairy outfit.\n\nLulu is voiced by Beverly Duan.\n\nAt the start of almost every episode, Kai-Lan wakes up Mr. Sun so she can start her day. With the help of the viewer, Mr. Sun rises and showers down smiling sun fuzzies to Kai-Lan and she gets tickled by them. He also knows how to play the French horn, so Kai-Lan and the ladybugs (playing the pi-pa) join him as a little music group at the beginning of Tolee's Rhyme Time and later joins Kai-Lan and her friends in the music show.\n\nIn one corner of Kai-Lan's backyard is a teeming mini-metropolis of ants called Ant City. The ants serve very important roles in the community: they deliver mail, they build things, and they love to play with Kai-Lan and her friends. San San is their leader along with his two right-hand ants, Bubu and Fufu.\n\nSan San is voiced by Zachary Gordon, Bubu is voiced by Luke Manriquez, and Fufu is voiced by Kyla Rae Kowalewski.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33152118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33152118", "title": "Noon language", "text": "Noon language\n\nNoon (\"Non, None, Serer-Noon, Serer-Non\") is a Cangin language of Senegal spoken in the Thiès region (14°47'0\"N / 16°55'0\"W). There is an estimated population of 10,000\"-\" 50,000 speakers worldwide, rendering this language to be vulnerable\".Ethnologue\" reports that it is 84% cognate (and 52% intelligible) with Lehar, essentially a divergent dialect, and 68% cognate with the other Cangin languages.\n\nThe Noon people identify themselves ethnically as Serer. However, their language, often called Serer-Noon on the assumption that it is a Serer dialect, is not closely related to the principal language of the Serer population, Serer-Sine.\n\nLike many of the local languages in Senegal, the Noon language is officially recognized as one of the national languages of country.\n\nThe Noon language is written using the Latin alphabet. In 2005, a decree was passed by the Senegalese Government in order to regulate the spelling to \"Noon\". It has been proposed that there are 47 letters that are used when writing in Noon, listed below (in two sets, for convenience).\n\nThe Noon language contains 27 consonants. Note that the glottal stop is not written at the beginning of the word, and it has no separate form for upper-case letters. The pre-nasalized occlusive marking is shown explicitly like in the following symbols, \"mb, nd, ñj, ŋg\". In addition, the used nasal quality is justified by the enunciation point of the occlusive it precedes.\n\nNoon, like other Senegalese languages, gives the possibility of extensive and varied combinations within its large graphic representation (\"ñ, ŋ\"). Twin consonants are possible within words between vowels and are noted by two identical letters, such as \"ɓɓ, cc, ff, hh, kk, ll, mm, nn, pp, ss, tt, ww, yy\". However, this excludes the consonants \"b, d, g, j, ɗ, ƴ, ñ\", and those that are pre-nasalized occlusives. Additionally, the \"ɗ\" letter does not exist in a word as well as in final voiced stops using the letters \"b, d, g\" and \"j\". Also, in Noon, a long vowel is represented by a digraph that is considered a letter, while a geminate consonant is interpreted as a series of two identical letters.\nThe Noon language contains 20 vowels. Dropped vowels (\"- ATR\") are symbolized by the letters: \"a, e, i, o, u\"; and tense matches (\"+ ATR\") are marked with letters possessing diacritics: \"ë, é, í, ó, ú\". Long vowels are represented by two-lettered symbols: aa, ee, ii, oo uu. In the case of tense vowels, only the first letter is marked by a diacritical mark, \"ëe, ée, íi, óo, úu\". Please note, that a long vowel is considered a single letter, represented by a digraph.\nIn general, there are three rules regarding capitalization in Noon. Much like other languages, they capitalize letters at the beginning of sentences and names.\n\nRule 1. An uppercase is used at the beginning of each enunciation point, and after each interrogation point (question mark), exclamation point, or the beginning of a quotation after a colon.\n\nExample: \"Ɓa haydoh këyitcaa hen, ɓa ee'tarica, kúmaandagaa an: «Yugat! Ɗú ɗekoh!» which translates to, 'As soon as they had searched the papers, they gave them to him, and the commander said: \"Sit down! Be quiet!\"\"\n\nRule 2. The first letter of any personal name, family, country, city, etc. are indicated by an uppercase letter.\n\nExample: \"Senegaal is indicative of 'Senegal' or Caañaak is indicative of 'Thiès\"'\n\nRule 3. For franchise or business names beginning with \"ki-\", the letter that precedes the prefix \"ki-\" is often uppercased while the prefix itself is lowercased. Although, there is an exception if the prefix \"ki-\" appears in the beginning of a phrase or enunciation point.\n\nExample: \"'kiToŋgol' translates to, 'this year'; Whereas, if the phrase was in the beginning of an enunciation point, it would be rendered 'KiToŋgol' to mean 'This year...\"'\nIn Noon, the vocalic system contains twenty phonemes: 10 short and 10 long vowels.\nIn Noon, the consonantal system contains 22 phonemes.\nIn Noon, the division of words is based on grammatical rules that are inherent in the language. The language undergoes many morphological changes, thus the language treats certain morphemes as being part of a single or key word, making them dependent. These morphemes are treated as prefixes that do not carry any independent meaning in itself, but are used for grammatical context.\n\nKi-\n\nThe infinitive \"ki-\" is prefixed to the subject of the verb.\n\nExamples:\n\n\"kiñam 'to eat\"'\n\n\"ki'on 'to give\"'\n\n\"kilímu 'to be born\"'\n\n\"kiɗúukool 'to be sick\"'\n\nDi-\n\nThe adverb \"di-\" is prefixed. However, when \"bi-\" is used as a conjunction, it is written separately.\n\nExample:\n\n\"Adverb: tani'in dijëfí' translates to, 'he is much better\"'\n\n\"Conjunction: tani'in bi jof also translates to, 'he is much better\"'\n\nClass Markers such as wi-,fi-,mi-, etc. are prefixed to the subject of the adjective.\n\nExamples:\n\n\"kaan fi'as 'a new house\"'\n\n\"ha'mun yi'as 'a new owner;\"\n\n\"túuƴ wimórí' 'a beautiful room\"'\n\nObject pronouns are suffixed to a verb due to morphological changes that appear with most personal object pronouns (with the exception of the 3rd person plural), where the initial consonant of morpheme is adapted to the final consonant of the verb. Similarly, other object pronouns are also linked as suffixes when they appear with a preposition. However, there is an exception with the preposition \"ga-\" which is never suffixed to the verb.\n\n\"Examples:\"\n\n\"hottoo 'he sees me\"'\n\n\"hottaa 'he sees you' (informal)\"\n\n\"hotti 'he sees him (a man)\"'\n\n\"hottíi 'he sees us (but not you)\"'\n\n\"hottuu 'he sees us (you included)\"'\n\n\"hottúu 'he sees you' (formal or plural)\"\n\n\"hotɓa 'he sees them (the men)\"'\n\n\"hotfa 'he sees it (the house)\"'\n\n\"hotca 'he sees them (the houses)\"'\n\n\"Ga- preposition exception:\"\n\n\"Ñamaa ga! 'Eat it!\"'\n\n\"yaa tík gaɗa 'the following\"'\n\nFurthermore, the same object pronouns are suffixed to prepositions.\n\nExample:\n\n\"'Mi hay naraa kitaam.' translates to, 'I will go with you\"'\n\nThe possessive pronouns in Noon are suffixed to a name that appears after the definite article. The decision to treat these pronouns as suffixes, and not as an independent words that are formed by the preposition ga- followed by the object pronoun, has been made so that the possessive pronouns possess a complementary distribution. This means, that the names are determined by relational possessive pronouns, or by possessive pronouns, depending on the character's name. Another reason for this suffix is the first person singular form of \"-goo (used in contraction with garoo)\" which appears only in cases of possessive pronouns, and never with the preposition \"ga-.\"\n\nExamples:\n\n\"kowkiigoo 'my child\"'\n\n\"kowkiigaraa 'your child' (informal)\"\n\n\"kowkiigari 'his/her child\"'\n\n\"kowkiigaríi 'our child\"'\n\n\"kowkiigaruu 'our child\"'\n\n\"kowkiigarúu 'your child' (formal or plural)\"\n\n\"kowkiigaɓa 'their child\"'\n\n\"towtiigaca 'their fruits\"'\n\nNote that the preposition \"ga-\" is not suffixed to a word. Also note, that when \"ga-\" or \"garoo\" is used in the 1st person singular, it changes the form.\n\nExample:\n\n\"Feetaa newin gaɓa. 'They liked the party.\"'\n\n\"Feetaa newin garoo. 'I liked the party.\"'\n\nPossessive pronouns that are relational are suffixed to the noted topic because of morphophonological changes that concern the assimilation of the initial consonant of the pronoun to the final consonant of the name (in the 1st person singular tense or the 1st and 2nd person plural tense).\n\nExamples:\n\n\"yaakkoo 'my big brother\"'\n\n\"yaakfu 'your big brother' (informal)\"\n\n\"yaakci 'his big brother\"'\n\n\"yaakkíi 'our big brother\"'\n\n\"yaakkuu 'our big brother\"'\n\n\"yaakkúu 'your big brother' (formal or plural)\"\n\n\"yaakɓa 'their big brother\"'\n\nThe definite articles \"-ii, -um\" and \"-aa\" are suffixed, in conjunction with a class marker, to an indicative name or place.\n\nExamples:\n\n\"hal halii 'the door (here)\"'\n\n\"oomaa oomaanaa 'the child (there)\"'\n\n\"kow kowkaa 'the child (there)\"'\n\n\"pe' pe'faa 'the goat (there)\"'\n\n\"misoo' misoorum 'the headscarf (near to you)\"'\n\n\"tuhaan tuhaantii 'the bongos (here)\"'\n\nAdditionally, definite articles are suffixed to adjectives in the same manner that names are suffixed in Noon.\n\nExamples:\n\n\"túuyaa wi'aswaa 'the new room (there)\"'\n\n\"kaanfii fimo'tafii 'the beautiful home (here)\"'\n\n\"kubaaykii jisúusúusjii 'the black puppy (here)\"'\n\n\"tediktaa tihoo'tataa 'the large trees (there)\"'\n\nIn Noon, the suffix -(n)aa is indicative of a subordinate clause and -ɗa is indicative of a relative subordinate clause. The reasons for treating these morphemes as suffixes are due to morphophonological changes to \"- (n)aa,\" and their grammatical functions in words for both \"- (n)aa\" and \"-ɗa\" . The insertion of a nasal vowel in a word placed at the ending of a proposal indicates that the morpheme is a phonological word with the word that it precedes. We also see glottalized consonants and certain nasal consonants change in subordinate clauses. Both morphemes \"- (n)aa\" and \"-ɗa\" carry grammatical meaning rather than lexical meaning as they indicate the entire proposition, describing its function in the sentence.\n\nExamples:\n\n\"Fu hayaa, ɗuu ñam. 'We will eat, when you come' (worded in the form: 'When you come, we will eat.')\"\n\n\"Fu hot kowkaanaa, wo'aari ya hay. 'If you see his son, tell him to come.\"'\n\nHowever, unlike \"-ɗa\", which is a morpheme indicative of a proposal, there is an adverb \"ɗa\" which can translate to \"'alone'\" or \"'like this/that\"'. You can note the difference between the two forms, as the adverb is always separated, since it carries an independent lexical meaning.\n\nExample:\n\n\"Maŋgoocaa ñamsi ɗa. 'The mangoes are eaten alone\"'\n\nIn Noon, the suffix \"-(n)e\" is used to indicate general interrogative clauses.\n\nExamples:\n\n\"Fu hay kihay kuwise? 'Are you coming tomorrow?\"'\n\n\"Fu hotin kowkiigoone? 'Have you seen my child?\"'\n\nFor an alternative interrogative clause, the suffix \"-(n)oo\" is used.\n\nExamples:\n\n\"Fu waa' ki'an músúnoo miis? 'Would you like water or milk to drink?' (written in the form: 'Would you like to drink water or milk?\"'\n\n\"Fu en ga foohoo ga ɗuuƴ? 'Are you outside or inside?\"'\n\nIn vocative cases, the suffix \"-(n)óo\" is suffixed to a name.\n\nExample:\n\n\"Bañóo! translates to, 'Hell!\"'\n\nNoon has a quinary-decimal system. The alternative form for 'one', wɪtnɔː, is only used in the counting process. Actually, it is very common for the Noon to use pure Wolof or French when counting above the number from 100 onwards.\n"}
{"id": "51317578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51317578", "title": "Nuverz", "text": "Nuverz\n\nNuverz is a Miami-based company focused on developing content and solutions to help older adults live longer and independent lives.\n\nThe company’s stated mission is to fight the \"infantilization of older adults\" and the \"medicalization of their homes.\" \n\nAccording to Diario de Las Americas, the company is part of the growing Aging in Place movement. The trend promotes the idea that people should “live in one's own home and community safely, independently, and comfortably, regardless of age, income, or ability level.” According to the expert Michael Saunders, Nuverz is considered a reference for designers in this area. \n\nThe company publishes a Q&A site called Nuverz Answers, where users ask questions and offer answers on issues related to Aging-in-Place and aging in general. Their other platform, Nuverz Advice, contains articles by Ageist founder, David Harry Stewart . \n\nAmong the founders is entrepreneur Sonia Gil. The founding Editor-in-Chief for all the company’s content is Lucero Uribe. \n\n"}
{"id": "4748598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4748598", "title": "Occupational Outlook Handbook", "text": "Occupational Outlook Handbook\n\nThe Occupational Outlook Handbook is a publication of the United States Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics that includes information about the nature of work, working conditions, training and education, earnings and job outlook for hundreds of different occupations in the United States. It is released biennially with a companion publication, the \"Career Guide to Industries\" and is available free of charge from the Bureau of Labor Statistics' website. The 2012–13 edition was released in November 2012 and the 2014–15 edition in March 2014.\n\nBecause it is a work by the United States federal government, the \"Handbook\" is not under copyright and is reproduced in various forms by other publishers, often with additional information or features.\nThe first edition was published in 1948.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6327163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6327163", "title": "Patagonia (clothing)", "text": "Patagonia (clothing)\n\nPatagonia, Inc., originally Chouinard Equipment, is an American clothing company that markets and sells outdoor clothing. The company was founded by Yvon Chouinard in 1973, and is based in Ventura, California. After going bankrupt in 1989, the company split into Black Diamond Equipment, selling climbing gear, and the current Patagonia company that sells soft goods. Its logo is the outline of Mount Fitz Roy in Patagonia, South America, which happens to border the two countries of the region: Chile and Argentina.\n\nYvon Chouinard, an accomplished rock climber, began selling hand forged mountain climbing gear in 1957 through his company Chouinard Equipment. He worked alone selling his gear until 1965 when he partnered with Tom Frost in order to improve his products and address the growing supply and demand issue he faced.\n\nIn 1970, Chouinard obtained rugby shirts from Scotland that he wore while climbing because the collar kept the climbing sling from hurting his neck. Collared shirts were then designed and implemented into his merchandise line and quickly became the primary product sold.\n\nGreat Pacific Iron Works, Patagonia’s first store, opened in 1973 in the former Hobson meat-packing plant at Santa Clara St, in Ventura, near Chouinard’s blacksmith shop. In 1981, Patagonia and Chouinard Equipment were incorporated within Great Pacific Iron Works. In 1984, Chouinard changed the name of Great Pacific Iron Works to Lost Arrow Corporation.\n\nChouinard Equipment was forced to file for bankruptcy in 1989 when it lost a series of lawsuits claiming \"failure to inform\" of safety issues related to usage of climbing hardware including one filed by the survivors of a climber who died in a fall after slipping out of a Chouinard climbing harness. The resultant increases in their product liability insurance were cited by Chouinard as the reason they stopped making climbing gear. The liquidated assets of the climbing gear side were purchased for $900,000 by Chouinard's longtime partner, Peter Metcalf, and reorganized as Black Diamond Equipment. Yvon Chouinard retained the profitable soft goods (clothing) division of the company which had already been rebranded as Patagonia.\n\nPatagonia has expanded its product line to include apparel targeted towards other sports, such as surfing. In addition to clothing, they offer other products such as backpacks and sleeping bags.\n\nStarting in April 2017, certain Patagonia merchandise that is in good condition can be returned for new merchandise credits. The used merchandise gets cleaned and repaired and sold on their \"Worn Wear\" website.\n\nPatagonia considers itself an \"activist company.\"\n\nPatagonia commits 1% of its total sales or 10% of its profit, whichever is more, to environmental groups. Yvon Chouinard was a founding member of One Percent for the Planet, an organization that encourages other businesses to do the same.\n\nIn February 2017, Patagonia led a boycott of the Outdoor Retailer trade show, which traditionally took place in Salt Lake City, Utah, because of the Utah state legislature's introduction of legislation that would transfer federal lands to the state. Patagonia also opposed Utah Governor Gary Herbert request that the Trump administration revoke the recently designated Bears Ears National Monument in southern Utah. After several companies joined the Patagonia-led boycott, event organizer Emerald Expositions said it would not accept a proposal from Utah to continue hosting the Outdoor Retailer trade show and would instead move the event to another state.\n\nOn December 6, 2017, Patagonia sued the United States Government and President Donald Trump for his proclamations of reducing the Bears Ears National Monument by 85% and the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument by almost 50%. Patagonia is suing over the interpretation of the in which the country vests Congress with the power to manage federal lands. The company's CEO, Rose Marcario, contends that when Congress passed the Antiquities Act of 1906, it did not give any president the power to reverse a prior president's monument designations.\n\nIn 2012, UK animal activist group Four Paws said that Patagonia used live-plucked down feathers and downs of force-fed geese. In a statement on their website, Patagonia denied use of live-plucking but said it had used down procured from the foie-gras industry. As of fall 2014, Patagonia said it was using 100% traceable down to ensure that birds were not force-fed or live-plucked and that down is not blended with down from unknown sources.\n\nIn February 2005, Patagonia's sourcing of wool from Australia was criticized by PETA over the practice of mulesing. Patagonia has since moved its sourcing of wool from Australia to South America and the cooperative Ovis 21. However, in August 2015 PETA released new video footage showing how sheep were treated cruelly in Ovis 21 farms. This led Patagonia to stop sourcing wool from Ovis 21.\n\nIn June 2016, Patagonia released a set of new wool principles that guide the treatment of animals as well as land-use practices, and sustainability.\n\n"}
{"id": "5035244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5035244", "title": "Rape shield law", "text": "Rape shield law\n\nA rape shield law is a law that limits the ability to introduce evidence or cross-examine rape complainants about their past sexual behavior. The term also refers to a law that prohibits the publication of the identity of an alleged rape victim.\n\nIn Australia, all states and mainland territories have rape shield laws that limit the admission of evidence in criminal proceedings where someone is charged with a sexual offence. The principal aims of these laws are to:\n\nIn Canadian criminal proceedings in respect of a sexual assault, section 276(1) of the Criminal Code of Canada restricts the admissibility of evidence that the complainant has engaged in sexual activity, whether with the accused or with any other person. Such evidence \"is not admissible to support an inference that, by reason of the sexual nature of that activity, the complainant (a) is more likely to have consented to the sexual activity that forms the subject-matter of the charge; or (b) is less worthy of belief.\" The law sets down (in sections 276(2) and 276(3)) strict rules and procedures for determining admissibility of such evidence. \n\nIn 1992 legislation amended the Criminal Code to re-establish this rape shield provision with strict guidelines for when and how previous sexual conduct could be used by a defendant at trial. The reform was enacted by Parliament after the 1991 ruling, \"R. v. Seaboyer\" had struck down the previously existing rape shield law (enacted in 1982) as unconstitutional. Bill C-49 amended the Criminal Code provisions that govern the admissibility of evidence of sexual activity; refined the definition of consent to a sexual act; and restricted the defense that an accused had an honest but mistaken belief that the accuser had consented. The 1995 Supreme Court judgment in the case of British Columbia Bishop Hubert O'Connor (\"R. v. O'Connor\") led to Bill C-46, which limited the production of a complainant's personal counselling records to the defense in sexual offence cases. Bill C-46 was tested in \"R. v. Mills\", and upheld by the Supreme Court in 1999.\n\nIn the 2000 decision of \"R. v. Darrach\", the Supreme Court of Canada upheld the law in a case involving former Ottawa resident Andrew Scott Darrach, who was convicted of sexually assaulting his ex-girlfriend. Darrach was sentenced in 1994 to nine months in jail for the assault. By a 9–0 decision, the court found that all the rape shield provisions in the Criminal Code are constitutional. The ruling said forcing the accuser to give evidence would invade her privacy and would \"discourage the reporting of crimes of sexual violence.\" In his appeal, Darrach had argued that he had been denied a fair trial because he was unable to raise the fact that he mistakenly thought the incident was consensual. Additionally, Darrach had argued that the law unfairly required him to testify at his own trial because the trial judge had held an evidentiary hearing with the jury absent to determine whether an affidavit from Darrach describing his former relationship with the complainant was admissible. Darrach had refused to testify or be cross-examined on the affidavit and the trial judge had therefore ruled this evidence inadmissible.) The appeal upheld the trial judge's decision.\n\nSections 44 and 44A of the Evidence Act 2006 sets out rules for propensity evidence about a complainant's sexual experience and reputation in sexual cases. Prior to the 2006 Act, section 23A of the Evidence Act 1908, as amended by the Evidence Amendment Act 1977, set out these rules.\n\nSection 44 protects complainants in prosecutions for sexual offences from certain questions and evidence about their sexual experience and reputation. The starting point is to exclude evidence or questions that relate to the complainant's reputation in sexual matters or to the complainant's sexual experience with a person other than the defendant. However, the Judge may permit any evidence or a question about that experience if satisfied that it would be contrary to the interests of justice to exclude it because of its direct relevance to the facts in issue or to the question of the appropriate sentence (the \"heightened relevance\" test).\n\nSection 44A provides no evidence of a complainant's sexual experience may be offered in a criminal proceeding unless the other parties have been given notice of the proposed statement, or if every other party has waived the notice requirements, or if the Judge dispenses with those requirements. The section also sets out the notice requirements for evidence proposed to be offered in criminal proceedings.\n\nComplainants are equally bound by the law, preventing them introducing evidence about their own sexual experience contrary to sections 44 and 44A.\n\nEvidence of a complainant's sexual experience with the defendant is not subject to the heightened relevance test, although it is still subject to the general relevance test in sections 7 and 8 of the Evidence Act. This has proved to be a contentious issue, with the debate mainly centres on the perceived direct relevance of such evidence. Those in support of extending the rule to cover sexual experience with the defendant argue that evidence of previous sexual experience between the complainant and defendant should not lead to an implication that the complainant is more likely to agree to the sexual activity on another occasion. Those opposed argue that the existence of a prior sexual relationship between the complainant and the defendant will often be, or inevitably is, directly relevant.\n\nIn 2017, Law Commission began its second statutory review of the Evidence Act. In its March 2018 issues paper, it asked several questions about the operation of section 44, especially in light of two court cases:\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s, almost all jurisdictions in the United States adopted some form of rape shield statute. The laws in each state differ in the scope of sexual behavior shielded and time limits of the shield. Many states do not permit any evidence relating to the past sexual behavior of the victim. This encompasses evidence of specific instances of the victim's prior or subsequent sexual conduct including opinion evidence or reputation evidence.\n\nThe Violence Against Women Act of 1994 created a federal rape shield law. The military has incorporated the rape shield law into Military Rules of Evidence, Rule 412. The military's rape shield law also applies to Article 32, pre-trial proceedings. A recent news article, however, has accused defense attorneys of violating rape shield protections during a pre-trial proceeding.\n\nIn 1999, in the case of \"People v. Jovanovic\", the New York Court of Appeals ruled that a lower court had improperly ruled as inadmissible e-mails in which the plaintiff/witness in a rape case expressed her consent to, and later approval of, the encounter. The lower court ruled these e-mails inadmissible on the basis of rape shield laws; however, the Court of Appeals ruled that the previous court had misapplied those laws.\n\nAs a matter of courtesy, most newspapers and broadcast media in the United States do not disclose the name of an alleged rape victim during the trial, and if the alleged rapist is convicted, most will continue to not identify the victim. If the case is dropped or the alleged rapist is acquitted, most media will no longer shield the name of the alleged victim. This practice was probably related to laws in some states which made it a crime to publicly reveal the name of the victim in a rape case. When such laws were challenged in court, they were routinely struck down as unconstitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49313585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49313585", "title": "Russian playing cards", "text": "Russian playing cards\n\nRussian playing cards are cards that used predominantly in Russia and in the former Soviet Union. Unlike the internationally known standard French 52-card deck, most Russian card games employ either the 36 card (games such as Durak) or the 32 card (particularly Preferans) decks.\n\nPlaying cards were first introduced into Russia at the beginning of the 17th century from Western and Central Europe (supposedly from Germany and Poland). But they were soon banned, Sobornoye Ulozheniye of 1649 mentioned card games as one of the \"thief's crimes\" punished by lashing, however, since Peter the Great the ban was usually ignored. In spite of many attempts by the Russian government to restrict card games, many Russians, especially the Russian nobility, played cards in a significant scale during the 18th century.\n\nBefore the 19th century practically all playing cards were imported from Western and Central Europe, and since 1765 all imported cards had to be stamped and the high import duty had to be paid (that was supposed to limit card gaming). However, in 1819 the restrictions were lifted, but at the same time the import of playing cards was also forbidden and the state monopoly was created. The production of own Russian playing cards started in the Imperial Card Factory of the Imperial Paper Mill in Aleksandrovo (now a part of Saint-Petersburg).\n\nThe design of the Russian card decks were derived and influenced by the German card decks as well as the French card decks. Russian cards in the market were divided into three or four categories, depending on the quality of paper and printing: from cheapest decks for laymen through medium quality decks for the Russian middle class to high class decks for the imperial court and the higher nobility. The middle category was covered by talcum powder, its cards were smooth and easy to shuffle, hence the term satin cards (). In 1862 the renown Russian painter Adolf Charlemagne () created a new unified design. Very soon his design became the most widespread and recognizable and it is still widely produced and used in Russia. Apart from that nearly fifty card designs were devised by various Russian artists during the 18th–20th centuries.\n\nThe end of the 19th and the beginning of 20th knew the rising interest to the old pre-Petrine Russian traditions (see also Russian Revival architecture), this fashion was even more intensified due to the 300th anniversary of the house of Romanovs in 1913. As a result, in 1911 the particular card design in the \"Russian style\" () was created. The costumes of the face cards imitated the historical 17th century Russian costumes of the famous 1903 Ball in the Winter Palace.\n\nDue to the German influence the Russian standard deck contains only 36 cards from 6 to the ace. For some games, particularly Preferans, the 6s are not used, resulting in the 32 card deck. Nevertheless, the 52 card decks may also occur.\n\nThe design of the pip (numerical) cards as well as the suits (, , , ) resemble those of French playing cards. The design of the face cards is either that of Adolf Charlemagne or in the \"Russian style\". The design of the aces are variable, historically the ace of diamonds showed the coat of arms of the Russian Empire. The face cards and the aces are marked by the Russian letters that correspond to the Russian rank names:\n\nThe names for the pip cards are derived from Russian numerals: (\"shestyorka, semyorka, vos'myorka, devyatka, desyatka\") for 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 respectively.\n\nThe popularity of card games in Russia was portrayed by some famous Russian writers, particularly Alexandre Pushkin who wrote \"The Queen of Spades\".\n\nBecause the 6 is the lowest card of the Russian deck, Russian slang uses the derogatory word \"shestyorka\" meaning \"underling, lackey\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7397019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7397019", "title": "Sexual abuse", "text": "Sexual abuse\n\nSexual abuse, also referred to as molestation, is usually undesired sexual behavior by one person upon another. It is often perpetrated using force or by taking advantage of another. When force is immediate, of short duration, or infrequent, it is called sexual assault. The offender is referred to as a sexual abuser or (often pejoratively) molester. The term also covers any behavior by an adult or older adolescent towards a child to stimulate any of the involved sexually. The use of a child, or other individuals younger than the age of consent, for sexual stimulation is referred to as child sexual abuse or statutory rape.\n\nSpousal sexual abuse is a form of domestic violence. When the abuse involves threats of unwanted sexual contact or forced sex by a woman's husband or ex-husband, it may constitute rape, depending on the jurisdiction, and may also constitute an assault.\n\nChild sexual abuse is a form of child abuse in which a child is abused for the sexual gratification of an adult or older adolescent. It includes direct sexual contact, the adult or otherwise older person engaging indecent exposure (of the genitals, female nipples, etc.) to a child with intent to gratify their own sexual desires or to intimidate or groom the child, asking or pressuring a child to engage in sexual activities, displaying pornography to a child, or using a child to produce child pornography.\n\nEffects of child sexual abuse include shame and self-blame, depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, self-esteem issues, sexual dysfunction, chronic pelvic pain, addiction, self-injury, suicidal ideation, borderline personality disorder, and propensity to re-victimization in adulthood. Child sexual abuse is a risk factor for attempting suicide. Additionally, some studies have shown childhood sexual abuse to be a risk factor of the perpetration of intimate partner violence in men. Much of the harm caused to victims becomes apparent years after the abuse happens. With specific regard to addiction, a study by Reiger et al supports previous findings that adverse life events increase sensitivity to drug rewards and bolster drug reward signaling by exposing an association between heightened limbic response to cocaine cues.\n\nSexual abuse by a family member is a form of incest, and results in more serious and long-term psychological trauma, especially in the case of parental incest.\n\nGlobally, approximately 18–19% of women and 8% of men disclose being sexually abused when they were children. The gender gap may be caused by higher victimization of girls, lower willingness of men to disclose abuse, or both. Most sexual abuse offenders are acquainted with their victims; approximately 30% are relatives of the child, most often fathers, uncles or cousins; around 60% are other acquaintances such as friends of the family, babysitters, or neighbors; strangers are the offenders in approximately 10% of child sexual abuse cases. Most child sexual abuse is committed by men; women commit approximately 14% of offenses reported against boys and 6% of offenses reported against girls. Child sexual abuse offenders are not pedophiles unless they have a primary or exclusive sexual interest in prepubescent children.\n\nPeople with developmental disabilities are often victims of sexual abuse. According to research, people with disabilities are at a greater risk for victimization of sexual assault or sexual abuse because of lack of understanding (Sobsey & Varnhagen, 1989).\n\nElderly people, especially those with dementia, can be at risk of abuse. There were over 6,000 \"safeguarding concerns and alerts\" at UK care homes from 2013 to 2015. These included alleged inappropriate touching and worse allegations. Offenders were most often other residents but staff also offended. It is suspected some care homes may deliberately overlook these offenses.\n\nSometimes abuse victims are not believed because they are not seen as credible witnesses due to their dementia. Perpetrators frequently target victims who they know are unlikely to be believed. Spouses and partners sometimes continue to pursue sexual relations, without realising they no longer have this right, because the person with dementia can no longer consent. \n\nSex abuse is one of the most common forms of abuse in nursing homes. If a nursing home fails to do proper background checks on an employee who subsequently abuses residents, the home can be liable for negligence. If nursing homes fail to supervise staff or train staff to recognise signs of abuse, the home can also be liable for negligence. Sexual activity by care givers may be a crime. Victims may not report abuse or cooperate with investigations due to associated stigma and/or reluctance to mention body parts.\n\nIn the emergency department, contraceptive medications are offered to women raped by men because about 5% of such rapes result in pregnancy. Preventative medication against sexually transmitted infections are given to victims of all types of sexual abuse (especially for the most common diseases like chlamydia, gonorhea, trichomoniasis and bacterial vaginosis) and a blood serum is collected to test for STIs (such as HIV, hepatitis B and syphilis). Any survivor with abrasions are immunized for tetanus if 5 years have elapsed since the last immunization. Short-term treatment with a benzodiazepine may help with acute anxiety and antidepressants may be helpful for symptoms of PTSD, depression and panic attacks.\n\nSexual abuse has been linked to the development of psychotic symptoms in abused children. Treatment for psychotic symptoms may also be involved in sexual abuse treatment.\n\nIn regards to long term psychological treatment, prolonged exposure therapy has been tested as a method of long-term PTSD treatment for victims of sexual abuse.\n\nChild sexual abuse prevention programmes were developed in the United States of America during the 1970s and originally delivered to children. Programmes delivered to parents were developed in the 1980s and took the form of one-off meetings, two to three hours long . In the last 15 years, web-based programmes have been developed.\nThe term \"survivor\" is sometimes used for a living victim, including victims of usually non-fatal harm, to honor and empower the strength of an individual to heal, in particular a living victim of sexual abuse or assault. For example, there are the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests and The Survivors Trust.\n\nSexual misconduct can occur where one person uses a position of authority to compel another person to engage in an otherwise unwanted sexual activity. For example, sexual harassment in the workplace might involve an employee being coerced into a sexual situation out of fear of being dismissed. Sexual harassment in education might involve a student submitting to the sexual advances of a person in authority in fear of being punished, for example by being given a failing grade.\n\nSeveral sexual abuse scandals have involved abuse of religious authority and often cover-up among non-abusers, including cases in the Southern Baptist Convention, Catholic Church, Episcopalian religion, Islam, Jehovah's Witnesses, Lutheran church, Methodist Church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, Orthodox Judaism, other branches of Judaism, and various cults.\n\nSexual abuse is a problem in some minority communities. In 2007, a number of Hispanic victims were included in the settlement of a massive sexual abuse case involving the Los Angeles archdiocese of the Catholic Church. A qualitative study by Kim et al. discusses the experiences of sexual abuse in the US population of Mexican immigrant women, citing immigration, acculturation, and several other social elements as risk factors for abuse. To address the issue of sexual abuse in the African-American community, the prestigious Leeway Foundation sponsored a grant to develop www.blacksurvivors.org, a national online support group and resource center for African-American sexual abuse survivors. The non-profit group was founded in 2008 by Sylvia Coleman, an African-American sexual abuse survivor and national sexual abuse prevention expert.\n\nSexual abuse has been identified among animals as well; for example, among the Adélie penguins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45627590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45627590", "title": "Shooting of Tony Robinson", "text": "Shooting of Tony Robinson\n\nThe shooting of Tony Terrell Robinson Jr. occurred on March 6, 2015, in Madison, Wisconsin. Robinson, an unarmed 19-year-old man, was fatally shot by 45-year-old Matthew Kenny, a Wisconsin police officer, during an altercation that occurred while Kenny was responding to reports that Robinson was jumping in front of cars and had attempted to strangle someone. On May 12, 2015, the shooting was determined to be justified self-defense by the Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne. The death was protested by the Black Lives Matter movement; Robinson was African American.\n\nOn March 6, 2015, the police received reports that 19-year-old Tony Robinson was yelling and jumping in front of cars. Robinson had reportedly been running in and out of the street while shouting at bystanders. Some of the reports were from friends of the suspect, who were concerned by his erratic behavior and called for help.\n\nOfficer Matt Kenny responded to the calls at 6:30 pm. Upon arrival, Officer Kenny said he heard a loud yelling and banging from an upstairs apartment. Kenny also claimed that immediately upon reaching the top of a flight of stairs, Robinson attacked Kenny without warning, knocking his head into the wall. Kenny claimed that Robinson continued to swing at him. Kenny then fired his weapon seven times, mortally wounding Robinson. Kenny claimed that he performed CPR on Robinson, and Robinson was taken to a hospital but later died. Robinson was unarmed. Kenny suffered a concussion and a sprained knee from the assault.\nRobinson was determined post-mortem to have ingested Xanax, psilocybin mushrooms, and THC hours before the shooting. The drugs may have contributed to his erratic behavior. \n\nCourt documents show that Robinson was on probation after pleading guilty to armed robbery in 2014. This stemmed from a home-invasion robbery in which Robinson was caught by police fleeing the scene, armed with a fake, but realistic-looking gun.\n\nIn 2007, Officer Matt Kenny had shot and killed Ronald Brandon, who was standing on the porch of his own home, holding an unloaded pellet gun.\n\nThe Black Lives Matter movement has protested Robinson's death. Some 1,500 protesters, mostly high school students who had staged a walk-out, filled the state capitol on March 9 to protest Robinson's death, yelling the \"Hands up, don't shoot\" chant through the capital building.\n\nThe Wisconsin Department of Justice investigated the Robinson shooting, as required by Wisconsin law. Robinson's uncle said that the family had faith that the Division of Criminal Investigation will \"handle [the investigation] with integrity\".\n\nOn May 12, 2015, Dane County District Attorney, Ismael Ozanne, announced that Officer Matt Kenny would not face charges for the shooting of Tony Robinson. The shooting was labeled a \"lawful use of deadly police force.\"\n\nIn February, 2017, Robinson's family accepted a $3.35 million settlement from the city, to settle a civil rights lawsuit. \n\n"}
{"id": "18106245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18106245", "title": "Social networking in the Philippines", "text": "Social networking in the Philippines\n\nSocial networking is one of the most active web-based activities in the Philippines, with Filipinos being declared as the most active users on a number of web-based social network sites such as Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter. The use of social networking website has become so extensive in the Philippines that the country has been tagged as \"The Social Networking Capital of the World,\" and has also become part of Filipino cyberculture. Social networking is also used in the Philippines as a form of election campaign material, as well as tools to aid criminal investigation.\n\nFriendster is one of the first social networking websites in the World Wide Web when it was introduced in 2002. However, its popularity in the United States plummeted quickly in 2004 due to massive technical problems and server delays. But as it was losing its American audience, Friendster slowly gained users from Southeast Asia starting in the Philippines. Friendster director of engineering Chris Lunt wondered why its web traffic was spiking in the middle of the night, and noticed that the traffic was coming from the Philippines. He then traced the trail to a Filipino-American marketing consultant and hypnotist named Carmen Leilani de Jesus as the first user to have introduced Friendster to the Philippines, where a number of her friends live.\n\nA study released by Universal McCann entitled \"Power To The People - Wave3\" declared the Philippines as \"the social networking capital of the world,\" with 83 percent of Filipinos surveyed are members of a social network. They are also regarded as the top photo uploaders and web video viewers, while they are second when it comes to the number of blog readers and video uploaders.\n\nWith over 7.9 million Filipinos using the Internet, 6.9 million of them visit a social networking site at least once a month. At times, Friendster has been the most visited website in the Philippines, as well as in Indonesia, according to web tracking site Alexa. David Jones, vice president for global marketing of Friendster, said that \"the biggest percentage of (their site's) users is from the Philippines, clocking in with 39 percent of the site's traffic.\" He further added that in March 2008 alone, Friendster recorded 39 million unique visitors, with 13.2 million of whom were from the Philippines. Meanwhile, Multiply president and founder Peter Pezaris said that the Filipino users of their site comprised the largest and most active group in terms of number of subscribers and of photographs being uploaded daily. About 2.2 million out of more than nine million registered users of Multiply are Filipinos, outnumbering even nationalities with a bigger population base like the United States, Indonesia, and Brazil. Also, one million photographs are uploaded by Filipinos to Multiply every day, which is half of their total number worldwide.\n\nSixty percent of Filipino users of Multiply are female, while 70 percent are under the age of 25. In comparison, Filipino Friendster users are between the ages 16 to 30, with 55 percent of them female.\n\nThe popularity of social networking in the Philippines can be traced in the Filipinos' culture of \"friends helping friends.\" For Filipinos, their friends and who they know can become more valuable than money, especially when what they need can be achieved through nepotism, favoritism, and friendship among others.\n\nSocial networking has extensive uses in the Philippines. It was used to promote television programs like with its two profiles on Multiply. A call center company posted job openings on its Multiply community site and was able to attract recruits. The power of social networking was tested in the country's 2007 general elections when senatorial candidate Francis Escudero created his own Friendster profile to bolster support from Filipino users. He eventually won a seat in the Senate. Local celebrities and politicians have since created their own profiles on Friendster as their medium to communicate with their fans and constituents.\n\nFriendster was also used as a tool for police investigations. Local police in Cebu City were able to track down the suspects for the robbery and murder of a female nursing student on March 2008. After receiving information and tips from the public and other police operatives, the local police searched through the suspects' profiles in order to get a closer look at their faces. The police printed the pictures of the suspects and launched a series of police operations, which led to their arrest. Meanwhile, Manila Police District arrested a suspect for the murder of two guest relations officers in Tondo on January 2007 after they were able to find the suspect's whereabouts through his Friendster profile.\n\nSocial networks also became a source of high-profile cyberwars, notably between actors Ynez Veneracion and Mon Confiado against Juliana Palermo. The two accused Palermo of creating a fake Friendster profile of her ex-boyfriend Confiado, which is uploaded with photos of Confiado and his girlfriend Veneracion but laden with profanities in each caption.\n\nFor his bid for the Philippine Presidency in May 2010, then Secretary of National Defense, Gilberto Teodoro launched an aggressive campaign via the social media. He capitalized on networks such as YouTube and Facebook. He reportedly spent nearly a quarter of his campaign budget on the social media in the Philippines; in comparison to the current president’s Benigno Simeon Aquino III – 9%.\n\nFilipino-American Internet personality Christine Gambito, also known as HappySlip, criticized Friendster for displaying what she described as \"inappropriate advertisements\" that appear on her profile. She posted a message on the site's bulletin board addressing her fans that she contemplated deleting her account. Gambito had earlier deleted her MySpace account because she objected to the Google-powered online advertisements that she said \"were in direct conflict with the HappySlip brand and especially misrepresentative of Filipino women.\" She particularly criticized the posting of advertisements of international dating websites that supposedly target Filipinas.\n\nMeanwhile, Philippine National Police Director General Avelino Razon ordered the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group to find out who created a fake account on Friendster using his identity. The profile was laden with false information about him, saying that he \"wants to meet traitors, corrupts, criminals so he could crush them.\"\n\nAs of December 2008, there have been cases of spam comments in Friendster profiles, most of which are in the form of a JPEG image masquerading as an embedded YouTube video, with a thumbnail of a sexually explicit video clip, such as a girl undressing herself or something similar. Clicking on the image usually results in a redirect to a dubious or disreputable website, or worse, a drive-by download of malware, such as the Koobface worm. Because some of the users, especially teenagers, who usually log on to the site in an Internet cafe, have only limited knowledge about malware and/or computers in general, such social engineering attacks can be a significant risk. The site had received considerable criticism due to this issue.\n\nOn July 2011, GMA Network creates the new campaign \"Think Before You Click\" - a campaign by GMA News to promote responsible use of social media.\nOn August 2016, Rappler initiates the campaign \"#NoPlaceForHate\" - a campaign that encourages civility when engaging online.\n"}
{"id": "57107958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57107958", "title": "Steven Stack", "text": "Steven Stack\n\nSteven Stack is an American sociologist and professor in the Department of Criminal Justice at Wayne State University, where he is also an adjunct professor in the Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Neuroscience. He is known for his research on suicide prevention, including on the effects of media coverage of suicides on copycat suicides. He has also researched other forms of violence, including homicide and murder-suicide.\n\nIn 2003, Stack received the Louis Dublin Award from the American Association of Suicidology. Along with Auburn University's James Gundlach, Stack received the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize for medicine for a 1992 study they co-authored on the relationship between country music and suicide rates. In 2017, he became the first sociologist to receive the International Association for Suicide Prevention's Erwin Stengel Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "8414016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8414016", "title": "The Arab Mind", "text": "The Arab Mind\n\nThe Arab Mind is a non-fiction cultural psychology book by cultural anthropologist Raphael Patai, who also wrote \"The Jewish Mind\". The book advocates a tribal-group-survival explanation for the driving factors behind Arab culture. It was first published in 1973, and later revised in 1983. A 2007 reprint was further \"updated with new demographic information about the Arab world\".\n\nThe book came to public attention in 2004, after investigative journalist Seymour Hersh, writing for \"The New Yorker\" revealed that the book was \"the bible of the neocons on Arab behavior\" to the effect that it was the source of the idea held by the US military officials responsible for the torture and abuse of prisoners at Abu Ghraib scandal that \"Arabs are particularly vulnerable to sexual humiliation\".\n\nAlong with prefaces, a conclusion, and a postscript, the book contains 16 chapters, including Arab child-rearing practices, three chapters on Bedouin influences and values, Arab language, Arab art, sexual honor/repression, freedom/hospitality/outlets, Islam's impact, unity and conflict and conflict resolution, and Westernization. A four-page comparison to Spanish America is made in Appendix II.\n\nThe Foreword is by Norvell B. DeAtkine, Director of Middle East Studies at the John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School at Fort Bragg.\n\nPatai is criticized in passing at several points in Edward Said's book \"Orientalism\". Other scholars describe the book as simplistic, reductionist, stereotyping, generic, essentialist, outdated, superseded, flawed, unscientific, and even intellectually dishonest.\n\nThe Racism Watch organisation reported in June 2004 that Manning Marable, Columbia University director of African American Studies, had called for immediate action to be taken to end the U.S. military's use of the book. This was followed by a surge of media interest in the book during the summer of 2004. In an article in \"The New Yorker\", Seymour Hersh said that he was told by an academic that the book was \"the bible of the neocons on Arab behaviour\".\n\nThe book was described by \"The Guardian\" correspondent Brian Whitaker as one that presents \"an overwhelmingly negative picture of the Arabs.\" According to a 2004 \"The Boston Globe\" article by Emram Qureshi, the book's methodology is \"emblematic of a bygone era of scholarship focused on the notion of a 'national character,' or personality archetype\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39154798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39154798", "title": "To Young Men Only", "text": "To Young Men Only\n\n\"To Young Men Only\" (also known as \"Message to Young Men\") is a sermon delivered by Mormon apostle Boyd K. Packer on October 2, 1976, at the priesthood session of the 146th Semiannual General Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). The sermon is addressed to young men of the Aaronic priesthood (ages 12 to 18) and discusses issues of human sexuality, puberty, and morality. From 1980 to 2016, the sermon was published as a pamphlet by the LDS Church. It has been criticized on various grounds, such as that it encourages violence against homosexuals. In 2016, the church discontinued the pamphlet.\n\nPacker described his remarks as matters that \"fathers should discuss with their sons.\" Packer stated that \"because some young men do not have fathers and because some fathers (and some bishops) do not know how to proceed\", he would be addressing sensitive subjects. The sermon compares the male reproductive system to a \"little factory\" and teaches that masturbation, use of pornography, and homosexual activities are immoral and forbidden by God. It encourages young male Latter-day Saints to \"vigorously resist\" homosexual advances, even with violence, if necessary. Packer teaches that nocturnal emission is natural and designed by God and that young men \"should not feel guilty\" when it happens. The sermon also offers suggestions on how to control one's thoughts and resist temptation.\n\nUnlike most general conference sermons, \"Message to Young Men\" was not published in the church's official magazine, \"The Ensign.\" Instead, the sermon was published in 1980 as a 14-page pamphlet, entitled \"To Young Men Only\", that was available for church leaders to distribute to members.\n\nIn 2016, the pamphlet was discontinued and it was removed from the LDS Church's website. The video of the sermon remains available on the LDS Church's website.\n\nOne controversial part of the sermon states that some men entice others to join them in sexual behaviors and gives an example of a missionary who punched his companion to the floor for making sexual advances to which Packer responded, \"Somebody had to do it\". The audience is heard laughing after this statement in the original broadcast. \n\nIn 2001, gay Mormon historian D. Michael Quinn described the sermon as \"[t]he low point in the Mormon hierarchy's homophobia since the 1950s\"; Quinn argued that Packer's words constituted an endorsement of gay bashing and that the church itself endorsed such behavior by continuing to publish Packer's speech. \n\nIn 2000 and 2001, David E. Hardy, a Salt Lake City lawyer who is the father of a gay son, criticized the sermon for \"demoniz[ing]\" gays and implying that \"homosexuality is a matter of choice\". \n\nIn 2014, Samantha Allen, a columnist for \"The Daily Beast\", wrote that the sermon \"typifies organized religion’s approach to curtailing male masturbation\", calling it \"deeply paternalistic\" and criticizing it for employing \"a noxious mixture of condescension and euphemism\".\n\n\n"}
