{"id": "32389578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32389578", "title": "Agreements on objectives", "text": "Agreements on objectives\n\nThe agreement on objectives is an agreement concerning the goals to be achieved by the employee. It is a motivational technique and standardly used in field service and in project work, but also in other areas. Besides trade and industry, it is also increasingly used in public administration.\n\nAn Agreement on objectives is an instrument of leadership, that goes back to the teaching of Management by objectives. Management by objectives in this context means the keeping of employees by objectives. The company's philosophy gives the impetus for the formulation of strategic objectives, which in turn are translating the employee goals into operational goals. The objectives of the top level of the hierarchy are the longer-term orientation and aligning goals of a company. The lower the targets are located in the hierarchy, the more short-term and specific they are. To note here is that each target species based on the overriding objective must be to ensure the company acts as a purposeful whole.\n\nTarget agreements are an instrument of modern personnel management, in the form of a performance-based, variable compensation classified as an ongoing fee.\n\nAn agreement between employers and employee, where periodic objectives, related to the individual employee, are agreed with the compensation depending on the degree of goal attainment.\n\nEconomically, the arrangements are agreed on a target, up to a certain point in time, to be performed5, which in practice are usually taken in the context of appraisal interviews.\n\nTarget agreements are agreed between two parties, however, targets are determined unilaterally by the employer as part of its management rights.\n\nBoth, commission and agreement on objectives contain a variable performance pay, which will be paid in addition to a fixed salary. As an individual performance-related compensation from the commission ruled, however, for employees who do not or are not used primarily in sales, or in which any case is not primarily a revenue-or profit-related performance, are provided. If the employer takes a target, from whose achievement is only the commission paid, it's a question of an agreement on objectives.\n\nWith the agreement of a bonus, employees are involved with a certain percentage share of the economic success of the company. It is a success fee, which is independent of the contribution of the employee's to the company's success. In contrast, target agreements must set the goals to be reached and influenced by the employee for his assistance. Still occurs at the end of the fiscal year to assess the performance of the employee will be decided by which, whether the objectives have been met or not. If it is solely on the sales performance of the Company, which is not much influenced by the employee, it is a bonus.\n\nBasically, to be brought into line with agreed targets, the individual goals of employees with corporate goals, thereby increasing efficiency of the company takes place. Agreements on objectives can orient themselves to the performance of the individual employee or a group (individual objective) and the success of the company (corporate goals). The employer can observe the implementation of continuous feedback in the target agreement process, continuing to the performance level of the individual worker and influence through ongoing training. It is therefore the appraisal of an employee, which is also of enormous importance in the area of staff development. Agreements on objectives allow the company to continue flexible working and provide an additional incentive compensation for the extra performance of the employee. The employee is given the opportunity, however, to earn an additional payment, for example in the form of an annual premium.\n\nThe goal setting process is usually very complex and vary from company to company in practice . This can be derived the following key points:\n\nAgreements on objectives are arranged once a year, usually taken at the beginning of the business year. Clearly defined goals have to be formulated and agreed. The whole goal setting process requires that the employees understand the objectives and accept them. In general, for reasons of clarity and feasibility, no more than six goals are agreed. Often three to five business-related field goals are connected to a personal development goal (soft aim).\nS.M.A.R.T. goals should continue to be formulated.\nThey should be:\n\nSpecific = Detailed description of the desired state (and easily understandable)\n\nMeasurable = Specification of criteria by which success can be verified (qualitative, quantitative)\n\nAttractive = Active influenced and accessible. The goals take place in the area of responsibility of the employee and are not in elementary dependence on external, non-configurable criteria\n\nRelevant = Realistic in terms of corporate goals\n\nTerminated = Specifying the target date of achieving completes the objective conditions.\n\nDuring the second or third quarter, often a milestone meeting is held, at which a short feedback is given about the current level of achievement.\n\nAt the end of the agreed period the target outcome conversation occurs, in which the achievement of goals, set by an actual-theoretical comparison, is found.\n\nThe final goal statement takes place in the first quarter after the expiration of the agreed target period.\n\nFor the target assessment, various methods may be used. An effective tool is the balanced scorecard. Important in achieving objectives control is that it is transparent to the employee and is perceived as fair.\n\nFor the company, setting agreements on objectives results in time savings in the business process. Agreeing on overall and partial objectives avoids duplication and helps to coordinate the processes and tasks. Furthermore, the tuning of daily business processes can be shortened by clear rules and priorities of the latitude of the employees.\n\nThe conversations respective agreements on objectives cause an agreement that inform the employee about the reasons and backgrounds, as well as the conditions of the work task and thus counteract problems independently and purposefully. The control times of the executives are shortened. Furthermore, employees are encouraged to feel more accountable for the results of their activities. Agreements on objectives are increasing the employee's identification with the work content and the company, which also leads to improved performance of the employee and thereby increase the efficiency of the company.\n\nThe employee evaluation is simplified by the well-defined goals, which also helps the employer in the dismissal process to property, because the average performance is defined or agreed upon with the employee. The termination scale can therefore be exacerbated to the detriment of the employee. Furthermore, the personnel control is relieved by agreeing on precisely defined targets.\n\nRisks posed by the possible development of an enhanced range: Selfishness. The personal interest is often put before the general interest, so that individual employees, able to assist the group, agree to meet targets.\n\nThe increased potential for conflict in the evaluation of target achievement, in particular where the goals are unclear and complicated billing comes through the complex design of the target agreement system is reflected in the contra-side for the company.\n\nFor the employees agreements on objectives result in a clear orientation on corporate goals and their own work area and a clear orientation what kind of contribution or achievement is expected from the company. Thereby the staff is actively involved with the company's goal setting. Also, the scope for creativity and autonomy is extended to the employee.\n\nThe assessment criteria for goal achievement is more transparent and personal development goals for the employee are taken seriously within the company. The feedback from the supervisor informs the employee about his strengths and weaknesses of a reasonable basis. As part of goal setting discussions, employees can express concerns and desires and provide feedback to the supervisor. The employees get a sense of their objectives, by agreement of partnership, which in turn affects the work environment positively. Furthermore, the employee has the chance of an above-average earning.\n\nA disadvantage for the employee is the risk of losing the bonus of the agreement by objectives, if he fails to reach the goal.\n\nThe introduction and sustained implementation of a target agreement system is connected with high expenses. Framework aims have to be defined, a comprehensive company-specific approach has to be developed. Employees must be informed and involved. Even managers and the council may need to be informed and involved in the process. Moreover, the managers have to be trained in terms of their new responsibilities. It therefore requires not only a lot of capital, but also enormous time resources to establish a target agreement system and sustainable.\n\nThe introduction of a system like agreements on objectives might only be worthwhile if the expense is offset by the significant increase in performance of employees.\n"}
{"id": "42055415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42055415", "title": "Ahmet Arif Literature Museum Library", "text": "Ahmet Arif Literature Museum Library\n\nThe Ahmet Arif Literature Museum Library () is a literary museum and archive dedicated to Turkish literature and named after the poet Ahmet Arif (1927–1991). Located in Diyarbakır, Turkey, the museum was established by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and opened on June 1, 2011.\n\nThe museum is housed in a historical house of typical-Diyarbakır architecture called the Hacı Halid Konağı (literally Hajji Halid Mansion), which is more than 120 years old. It is situated in Camii Kebir neighborhood of Sur district next to the Cahit Sıtkı Tarancı Museum. The 6-room building with stoa facing the center is designed in quadratic form surrounding a large courtyard. It covers an area of including the courtyard. The building is considered to have served as home of Ahmet Arif. The restoration of the building for this purpose cost 93,000 while another 75,000 were spent for its decoration and furnishing.\n\nThe museum is dedicated to the life and works of Ahmet Arif, some of whose personal belonging are on display. In addition, photographs of notable authors from southeastern Anatolia are exhibited. The library accommodates more than 2,000 books and 60 periodicals, including books on history and literature. At the museum library, discussions on various authors, poetry performances and writing workshops are held. By nine months of the year, visitors are able to read their books under the huge walnut tree in the courtyard in the center of the building.\n\nThe museum library in Diyarbakır is part of a network of same kind of institutions, which are established across the country, and named after notable writers native to the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "36929374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36929374", "title": "Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary", "text": "Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary\n\nThe Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary or United States Penitentiary, Alcatraz Island (often just referred to as Alcatraz or The Rock) was a maximum high-security federal prison on Alcatraz Island, off the coast of San Francisco, California, which operated from August 11, 1934, until March 21, 1963.\n\nThe main prison building was built in 1910–1912 during its time as a United States Army military prison; Alcatraz had been the site of a citadel since the 1860s. The United States Disciplinary Barracks, Pacific Branch on Alcatraz had been acquired by the United States Department of Justice on October 12, 1933, and the island became a prison of the Federal Bureau of Prisons in August 1934 after the buildings were modernized to meet the requirements of a top-notch security prison. Given this high security and the location of Alcatraz in the cold waters and strong currents of San Francisco Bay, the prison operators believed Alcatraz to be escape-proof and America's strongest prison.\n\nAlcatraz was designed to hold prisoners who continuously caused trouble at other federal prisons. One of the world's most notorious and best known prisons over the years, Alcatraz housed some 1,576 of America's most ruthless criminals including Al Capone, Robert Franklin Stroud (the \"Birdman of Alcatraz\"), George \"Machine Gun\" Kelly, Bumpy Johnson, Rafael Cancel Miranda, Mickey Cohen, Arthur R. \"Doc\" Barker, Whitey Bulger, and Alvin \"Creepy\" Karpis (who served more time at Alcatraz than any other inmate). It also provided housing for the Bureau of Prisons' staff and their families. A total of 36 prisoners made 14 escape attempts during the 29 years of the prison's existence, the most notable of which were the violent escape attempt of May 1946 known as the \"Battle of Alcatraz\", and the arguably successful \"Escape from Alcatraz\" by Frank Morris, John Anglin, and Clarence Anglin in June 1962 in one of the most intricate escapes ever devised. Faced with high maintenance costs and a poor reputation, Alcatraz closed on March 21, 1963.\n\nThe three-story cellhouse included the main four blocks of the jail, A-block, B-block, C-block, and D-block, the warden's office, visitation room, the library, and the barber shop. The prison cells typically measured by and high. The cells were primitive and lacked privacy, with a bed, a desk and a washbasin and toilet on the back wall, with few furnishings except a blanket. African-Americans were segregated from the rest in cell designation due to racial abuse being prevalent. D-Block housed the worst inmates and five cells at the end of it were designated as \"The Hole\", where badly behaving prisoners would be sent for periods of punishment, often brutally so. The dining hall and kitchen lay off the main building in an extended part where both prisoners and staff would eat three meals a day together. The Alcatraz Hospital was above the dining hall.\n\nCorridors of the prison were named after major American streets such as Broadway and Michigan Avenue. Working at the prison was considered a privilege for inmates and many of the better inmates were employed in the Model Industries Building and New Industries Building during the day, actively involved in providing for the military in jobs such as sewing and woodwork and performing various maintenance and laundry chores.\n\nToday the penitentiary is a public museum and one of San Francisco's major tourist attractions, attracting some 1.5 million visitors annually. The former prison is now operated by the National Park Service's Golden Gate National Recreation Area, and the badly eroded buildings of the former prison have been subject to restoration works in recent times and maintained.\n\nThe main cellhouse was originally the location of the cellhouse for the military citadel and prison which existed on Alcatraz from the 1860s. A new cellhouse was built in 1910–1912 on a budget of $250,000 and upon completion, the long concrete building was reputedly the longest concrete building in the world at the time. In 1933–34 this building remained, but was modernized and became the main cellhouse of the federal penitentiary until it was closed in 1963. When the new concrete prison was built, many materials were reused in its construction. Iron staircases in the interior and the cellhouse door near the barber's shop at the end of A-block were retained from the old citadel and massive granite blocks originally used as gun mounts were reused as the wharf's bulkheads and retaining walls. Many of the old cell bars were used to reinforce the walls, causing structural problems later due to the fact that many placed near the edge were subject to erosion from the salt air and wind over the years.\n\nAfter the U.S. Army's use of the island for over 80 years (1850–1933), the island came under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Justice for use by the Federal Bureau of Prisons. The purpose of this transfer was to punish those involved in the rampant crime which prevailed in the country in the 1920s and 1930s. The United States Disciplinary Barracks on Alcatraz was acquired by the United States Department of Justice on October 12, 1933, and the island became a Federal Bureau of Prisons federal prison in August 1934. The $260,000 conversion to the federal prison took place from January 1934. George Hess of the United States Public Health Service was appointed the chief medical officer of the prison and Edward W. Twitchell became a consultant in psychiatry for Alcatraz in January 1934. The hospital facilities were checked by three officials from the Marine Hospital of San Francisco. The Bureau of Prisons personnel arrived on Alcatraz in early February; among them was Loring O. Mills, acting chief clerk. In April 1934, the old material was removed from the prison, holes were cut in the concrete and 269 cell fronts were installed, built using four carloads of steel ordered from the Stewart Iron Works. A legend at the works is that a shipment of cells and iron accidentally fell into San Francisco Bay during transportation from San Francisco Dock to Alcatraz and were never recovered, and thus had to be reordered. Two of four new stairways were built, as were 12 doors to the utility corridors and gratings at the top of the cells. On April 26, an accidental small fire broke out on the roof and an electrician injured his foot by dropping a manhole cover on it. Fencing around Alcatraz was added by the Anchor Post Fence Company and emergency lighting in the morgue and switchboard operations were added by the Enterprise Electric Works. In June 1934, the Teletouch Corporation of New York began the installation of an \"electro-magnetic gun or metal detecting system\" at Alcatraz; detectors were added on the wharf, at the front entrance into the cellblock, and at the rear entrance gate. The correctional officers were instructed how to operate the new locking devices on July 30, 1934, and the new radio equipment was tested by both the United States Coast Guard and the San Francisco Police Department on the same day. Final checks and assessments were made on the first two days of August.\n\nAlcatraz was designed to hold prisoners who continuously caused trouble at other federal prisons, a \"last resort prison\" to hold the worst of the worst criminals who had no hope of rehabilitation. At 9:40 a.m. on August 11, 1934, the first batch of 137 prisoners arrived at Alcatraz, arriving by railroad from the United States Penitentiary in Leavenworth, Kansas, to Santa Venetia, California. Before being escorted to Alcatraz they were handcuffed in high security coaches and guarded by some 60 FBI special agents, U.S. Marshals, and railway security officials. Some 32 detainees from the original military prison were reported to have been amongst the first inmates. Most of the prisoners were notorious bank robbers, counterfeiters, murderers, or sodomites. Amongst the first inmates were also 14 men from McNeil Island, Washington. On August 22, 43 prisoners arrived from Atlanta Penitentiary and 10 from North Eastern Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. On September 1, one prisoner arrived from Washington Asylum and Jail and seven from the District of Columbia Reformatory in Virginia, and on September 4, another batch of 103 prisoners arrived by train from Leavenworth. Prisoners continued to arrive, mainly from Leavenworth and Atlanta in 1935 and by June 30, 1935, the penitentiary had a population of 242 prisoners, although some prisoners such as Verrill Rapp had already been transferred from Alcatraz some months earlier. On the first anniversary as a federal penitentiary, on June 30, 1935, the Bureau of Prisons observed that: \"The establishment of this institution not only provided a secure place for the detention of the more difficult type of criminal but has had a good effect upon discipline in our other penitentiaries also. No serious disturbance of any kind has been reported during the year.\" The metal detectors initially caused a problem by overheating and often had to be turned off. After the failure of the Teletouch Corporation to amend the problem, in 1937 their contract was terminated and they were charged over $200 for three new detectors supplied by Federal Laboratories.\n\nOn January 10, 1935, a severe storm caused a landslide on Alcatraz, causing the Model Industries Building to slide. This marked the start of a series of changes to the structures on the island. A riprap was built around it and it was strengthened and a guard tower added to the roof in June 1936, and the same month the barracks building was remodeled into 11 new apartments and nine single rooms for bachelors; by this time there were 52 families living on Alcatraz Island, including 126 women and children. The problems with the industries building and continuing utility problems with some of the old buildings and systems led to extensive updates in 1937, including new tool-proof grills on the ventilators on the roof of the cell house, two new boilers installed in the power house and a new pump for salt water sanitation and guardrails added to stairways. In 1939–40, a $1.1 million redevelopment was under swing, including construction of the New Industries Building, a complete overhaul of the power house with a new diesel engine, the building of a new water tower to solve the water storage problem, new apartment blocks for officers, improvements to the dock, and the conversion of D-block into isolation cells. The changes were completed in July 1941. The workshops of the New Industries Building became highly productive in the making of army uniforms and cargo nets and other items which were in high demand during World War II and in June 1945 it was reported that the federal penitentiaries had made 60,000 nets.\n\nAlcatraz gained notoriety from its inception as the toughest prison in America and considered by many to be the world's most fearsome prison of the time, and former prisoners would frequently report acts of brutality and inhumane conditions which severely tested their sanity. Ed Wutke was the first prisoner to commit suicide in Alcatraz. Rufe Persful chopped off his fingers after grabbing an axe from the firetruck, begging another inmate to do the same to his other hand. One writer described Alcatraz as \"the great garbage can of San Francisco Bay, into which every federal prison dumped its most rotten apples.\" In 1939, the new U.S. Attorney General Frank Murphy attacked the penitentiary, saying \"The whole institution is conductive to psychology that builds up a sinister ambitious attitude among prisoners.\" The reputation of the prison was not helped by the arrival of more of America's most dangerous crooks including Robert Stroud, the \"Birdman of Alcatraz\", in 1942, who spent 17 years at Alcatraz. He entered the prison system at age 19, and never left. Stroud killed a guard, tangled with other inmates and spent 42 of his 54 years in prison in solitary confinement. However, somewhat contradicting its reputation and the fact that many former inmates named it \"Hellcatraz\" based on its horrors, some prisoners reported that the living conditions in Alcatraz were much better than most other prisons in the country, especially the food, and many volunteered to come to Alcatraz.\n\nOn December 3, 1940, Henri Young murdered fellow inmate Rufus McCain by running downstairs from the furniture shop to the tailor's shop where McCain worked and violently stabbing McCain in the neck; McCain died five hours later. Young had been sentenced to Alcatraz for murder in 1933, and was involved in an escape attempt at Alcatraz during which the famous gangster Doc Barker was shot to death. He spent nearly 22 months in solitary confinement as a result, but was eventually permitted to work in the furniture shop. Young went on trial in 1941, with his attorneys claiming that their client could not be held responsible for the murder, since he had allegedly been subjected to \"cruel and unusual punishment\" by prison guards prior to the act; the whole affair ended up bringing Alcatraz into further disrepute. Ultimately, Young was convicted of manslaughter and his prison sentence was only extended by a few years.\nBy the 1950s, the prison conditions had improved and prisoners were gradually permitted more privileges such as the playing of musical instruments, watching movies on weekends, painting, and radio use; the strict code of silence became more relaxed and prisoners were permitted to talk quietly. However, the prison continued to be unpopular on the mainland into the 1950s; it was by far the most expensive prison institution in the United States and continued to be perceived by many as America's most extreme jail. In his annual report for 1952, director James V. Bennett called for a more centralized institution to replace Alcatraz. A 1959 report indicated that Alcatraz was more than three times more expensive to run than the average US prison; $10 per prisoner per day compared to $3 in most other prisons. The problem of Alcatraz was exacerbated by the fact that the prison had seriously deteriorated structurally from exposure to the salt air and wind and would need $5 million to fix. Major repairs began in 1958, but by 1961 the prison was evaluated by engineers to be a lost cause and Robert F. Kennedy submitted plans for a new maximum-security institution at Marion, Illinois. After the June 1962 escape from Alcatraz, the prison was the subject of heated investigations, and with the major structural problems and ongoing expense, the prison finally closed on 21 March 1963. The final Bureau of Prisons report said of Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary: \"The institution served an important purpose in taking the strain off the older and greatly overcrowded institutions in Atlanta, Leavenworth and McNeil Island since it enabled us to move to the smaller, closely guarded institution for the escape artists, the big-time racketeers, the inveterate connivers and those who needed protection from other groups.\"\n\nToday the penitentiary is a museum and one of San Francisco's major tourist attractions, attracting some 1.5 million visitors annually. Visitors arrive by boat at the port, and are given a tour of the cellhouse and island, and a slide show and audio narration with anecdotes from former inmates, guards and rangers on Alcatraz. The atmosphere of the former penitentiary is still considered to be \"eerie\", \"ghostly\" and \"chilling\". Protected by the National Park Service and the National Register of Historic Places, the badly eroded buildings of the former prison have been subject to restoration works in recent times and maintained.\n\nAccording to the prison's correctional officers, once a convict arrived on the Alcatraz wharf, his first thoughts were on how to leave. During its 29 years of operation, the penitentiary claimed that no prisoner successfully escaped. A total of 36 prisoners made 14 escape attempts, two men trying twice; 23 were caught, six were shot and killed during their escape, two drowned, and five are listed as \"missing and presumed drowned\".\n\nThe first unsuccessful attempt to escape the prison was made on April 27, 1936, by Joseph Bowers, who was assigned the duty of burning trash at the incinerator. He tried to escape during duty hours by scaling a chain link fence at the edge of the island. When he was caught in this act and refused orders of the correctional officer located at the West Road guard tower to come down he was shot. He was seriously injured in the fall from over 15 m (50 ft) and consequently died.\n\nThe first escape attempt to shatter Alcatraz's reputation as an \"escape-proof\" prison was made on December 16, 1937, by Theodore Cole and Ralph Roe. During their work assignment in one of the workshops, they cut the flat iron bars of the window and climbed into the bay waters to escape. It was a stormy day and the bay water was highly turbulent. As the escapees were not found, they were declared drowned by the prison authorities as it was conjectured that they drowned in the bay and their bodies swept out into the sea due to the turbulent bay currents.\n\nThe most violent escape attempt occurred on May 2–4, 1946, when a failed attempt by six prisoners led to the Battle of Alcatraz, also known as the \"Alcatraz Blastout\". It was carried out by six prisoners; Bernard Coy, Joseph Cretzer, Sam Shockley, Clarence Carnes, Marvin Hubbard and Miran Thompson. They daringly took control of the cell house by overpowering correctional officers, and were able to enter the weapons room, where they then demanded keys to the outside recreation door. A quick-thinking guard, William Miller, turned over all but the key to the outer door, which he pocketed. The prisoners’ aim was to escape by boat from the dock, but when they were unable to open the outside door, they decided to battle it out. In the fight that ensued they managed to hold two correctional officers, including Miller, hostage. Prompted by Shockley and Thompson, Cretzer shot the hostages at very close range. Miller succumbed to his injuries while the second guard, Harold Stites, was also killed at the cellhouse. Although Shockley, Thompson, and Carnes returned to their cells, the other three, Coy, Cretzer and Hubbard, persisted with their fight. The U.S. Marines intervened to help the correctional officers and killed the three prisoners. In this battle, apart from the guards and prisoners killed, 17 other guards and one prisoner were also injured. Shockley, Thompson, and Carnes were tried for the killing of the correctional officers. Shockley and Thompson were sentenced to death via the gas chamber, which was carried out at San Quentin in December 1948. However, Carnes, who was only 19 years of age, was given a second life sentence.\n\nOn June 11, 1962, Frank Morris, John Anglin, and Clarence Anglin carried out one of the most intricate escapes ever devised. Behind the prisoners' cells in Cell Block B (where the escapees were interned) was an unguarded wide utility corridor. The prisoners chiselled away the moisture-damaged concrete from around an air vent leading to this corridor, using tools such as a metal spoon soldered with silver from a dime and an electric drill improvised from a stolen vacuum cleaner motor. The noise was disguised by accordions played during music hour, and the progress was concealed by false walls which, in the dark recesses of the cells, fooled the guards.\n\nThe escape route led up through a fan vent; the prisoners removed the fan and motor, replacing them with a steel grill and leaving a shaft large enough for a prisoner to enter. Stealing a carborundum abrasive cord from the prison workshop, the prisoners then removed the rivets from the grill. In their beds, they placed papier-mâché dummies made with human hair stolen from the barbershop. The escapees also constructed an inflatable raft over many weeks from over 50 stolen raincoats, which they prepared on the top of the cellblock, concealed from the guards by sheets which had been put up over the sides. They escaped through a vent in the roof and departed Alcatraz.\n\nThe official investigation by the FBI was aided by another prisoner, Allen West, who was part of the escapees' group but was left behind. West's false wall kept slipping so he held it in place with cement, which set. When Morris and the Anglins accelerated the schedule, West desperately chipped away at the wall, but by the time he got out, his companions were gone. Hundreds of leads and theories have been pursued by the FBI and local law enforcement officials in the ensuing years, but no conclusive evidence has ever surfaced favoring the success or failure of the attempt. The FBI's investigation from 1962 to December 1979 was finally treated as closed. The official report on the escape concludes that the prisoners drowned in the cold waters of the bay while trying to reach the mainland, it being unlikely that they made it the 1.25 miles to shore due to the strong ocean currents and the cold sea water temperatures ranging between 50 and 55 degrees Fahrenheit.\n\nThe U.S. Marshals Service case file remains open and active, however, Morris and the Anglin brothers remain on its wanted list. Circumstantial evidence uncovered in the early-2010s seemed to suggest that the men had survived, and that contrary to the official FBI report of the escapee's raft never being recovered and no car thefts being reported, a raft was discovered on nearby Angel Island with footprints leading away, and a car had been stolen on the night of the escape by three men, who could have been Morris and the Anglins, and that officials then engaged in a cover-up. Relatives of the Anglin brothers presented further circumstantial evidence in the mid-2010s in support of a longstanding rumor that the Anglin brothers had fled to Brazil following the escape; a facial recognition analyst concluded that the one piece of physical evidence, a 1975 photograph of two men resembling John and Clarence Anglin, did support that conclusion.\n\nThe prison initially had a staff of 155, including the first warden James A. Johnston and associate warden Cecil J. Shuttleworth, both considered to be \"iron men\". None of the staff were trained in rehabilitation but were highly trained in security. The guards and staff of Alcatraz were subject to varying salaries. A new guard arriving in December 1948 was offered $3,024.96 per year, but there was a 6% deduction for retirement taxes a year (amounting to $181.50). The guards typically worked 40-hour weeks with five 8-hour shifts. Guards who worked between 6 pm and 6 am were given a 10% increase and guards doing overtime had to be reported and authorized by the warden. Officers generally had to pay 25 cents for meals and were charged $10 to rent an apartment on the island, to include laundry service, although larger families were charged anything from $20–43 a month for larger quarters and charged additional for laundry. In 1960, a Bureau of Prisons booklet revealed that the average prison population between 1935 and 1960 was 263; the highest recorded was 302 in 1937 and the lowest recorded was 222 in 1947.\n\nThe main centre for administration was at the entrance to the prison, which included the warden's office. The office contained a desk with radio and telegraph equipment, typewriter, and a telephone. The administrative office section also had the offices of the associate warden and secretary, mail desk, captain's desk, a business office, a clerk's office, an accounting office, a control room which was added with modern technology in 1961, the officer's lounge, armory and vault, and a visitation centre and restrooms. The basement of Alcatraz prison contained dungeons and the showers. The main stairway to the dungeon lay along Sunrise Alley at the side of A-Block, but the dungeons were also accessible by a staircase in a trapdoor along the corridor of D-Block. All visits to Alcatraz required prior written approval from the warden.\n\nA hospital had originally been installed at Alcatraz during its time as a military prison in the late 19th century. During its time as a federal penitentiary, it was located above the dining hall on the second floor. Hospital staff were U.S. Public Health Service employees assigned to the Federal Prison Service at Alcatraz. Doctors often lasted fewer than several days or months at Alcatraz, because few of them could tolerate the violent inmates who would often terrify them if they failed to be given certain drugs. Prisoners in ill health were often kept in the hospital, most famously, Stroud and Al Capone, who spent years in it.\n\nWhen the Bureau of Prisons took over the area to establish the Alcatraz Island Federal Penitentiary on January 1, 1934, it marked the beginning of a series of measures to strengthen the security of the prison cells to make Alcatraz an \"escape-proof\" maximum security prison, and also improving the living conditions for the operation and maintenance staff and officers, apart from the prisoners. Modern technological innovations available at the time for enhancing security and comfort were built into the buildings. Security guard towers were built outside at four strategic locations, cells were rebuilt and fitted with \"tool-proof steel cell fronts and locking devices operated from control boxes\", and windows were made secure with iron grills. Electromagnetic metal detectors placed in the entrance of the dining hall and workshops, with remote controlled tear gas canisters at appropriate locations, remote controlled gun galleries with machine gun armed guards were installed to patrol along the corridors. Improvements were made to the toilet and electricity facilities, old tunnels were sealed up with concrete to avoid hiding and escape by prisoners, and substantial changes and improvements were made to the housing facilities of guards, wardens and Captain to live with their families, with quality relative to rank. Warden Johnston, U.S. Attorney General Homer Cummings, and Sanford Bates first Director of the Bureau of Prisons, collaborated very closely to create \"a legendary prison\" suited to the times, which resulted in the Alcatraz Island Federal Penitentiary being nicknamed \"Uncle Sam's Devil's Island.\"\n\nDespite Alcatraz being designed to house the \"worst of the worst\" of criminals who caused problems at other prisons, under the guidelines and regulations set by the strict prison administrators, courts could not direct a prisoner to be directly sent to Alcatraz, however notorious they were for misbehavior and attempted escape from other prisons. Prisoners entering Alcatraz would undergo vigorous research and assessments prior to their arrival. Security in the prison was very tight, with the constant checking of bars, doors, locks, electrical fixtures, and other areas to ensure that security hadn't been broken. During a standard day the prisoners would be counted 13 times, and the ratio of prisoners to guards was the lowest of any American prison of the time. The front door was made of solid steel, virtually impossible for any prisoners to escape through. The island had many guard towers, most of which have since been demolished, which were heavily guarded at various points in the day at times when security may have been breached; for instance, there were guard towers on each of the industry buildings to ensure that inmates didn't attempt to escape during the work day shifts. The recreation yard and other parts of the prison had a 25-foot fence around it topped with barbed wire, should any inmates attempt to escape during exercise. One former employee of the jail likened his prison job to being a zoo keeper or his old farm job, due to the fact that prisoners were treated like animals, sending them out to \"plough the fields\" when some of them worked during the day, and then counting them up and feeding them and so on. He referred to those four years of his life working in the prison as a \"total waste of his life\". The corridors were regularly patrolled by the guards, with passing gates along them; the most heavily trafficked corridor was \"Broadway\" between B and C Block, due to its being the central corridor of the prison and passed not only by guards but other prison workers.\n\nAt the end of each 20 minute meal in the dining hall, the forks, spoons and knives were laid out on the table and carefully counted to ensure that nothing had been taken as a potential weapon. In the earlier years as a prison, prisoners were forbidden from talking while eating, but this was later relaxed, provided that the prisoners communicated quietly.\nThe gun gallery was situated in the Recreation Yard and mounted on one of the dining hall's exterior walls. There was a metal detector outside of the dining hall for security purposes. The dining hall had tear-gas canisters attached to the rafters of the ceiling which could be activated by remote control, should prisoners riot or attempt to escape. The first warden, James A. Johnston, always entered the dining hall alone and unarmed, due to heavy guarding around him. Several riots did break out in the dining hall during Alcatraz's history. Those prisoners who were not involved in the fighting hid under the dining hall tables to escape possible gunfire.\n\nAn inmate register reveals that there were 1,576 prisoners in total held at Alcatraz during its time as a Federal Penitentiary, although figures reported have varied and some have stated 1557. The prison cells, purposefully designed so that none adjoined an outside wall, typically measured by and high. The cells were primitive with a bed, a desk and a washbasin and toilet on the back wall and few furnishings except a blanket. An air vent, measuring by , covered by a metal grill, lay at the back of the cells which led into the utility corridors. Prisoners had no privacy in going to the toilet and the toilets would emit a strong stench because they were flushed with salt water. Hot water faucets were not installed until the early 1960s, shortly before closure.\n\nThe penitentiary established a very strict regimen of rules and regulations under the title \"the Rules and Regulations for the Government and Discipline of the United States Penal and Correctional Institutions\" and also a \"Daily Routine of Work and Counts\" to be followed by the prisoners and also the guards; copies of these were provided to the prisoners to read and follow. Inmates were basically entitled to food, clothing, shelter, and medical attention. Anything else was seen as a privilege. Inmates were given a blue shirt, grey pants (blue and white in later years), cotton long underwear, socks and a blue handkerchief; the wearing of caps was forbidden in the cellhouse. Cells were expected to be kept tidy and in good order. Any dangerous article found in the cells or on inmates such as money, narcotics, intoxicating substances or tools which had the potential to inflict injury or assist in an escape attempt was considered contraband and made the prisoners eligible for disciplinary action. It was compulsory for prisoners to shave in their cells three times a week. Attempting to bribe, intimidate, or assault prison officers was seen as a very serious offense. African-Americans were segregated from the rest in cell designation due to racial abuse being prevalent. Toilet paper, matches, soap, and cleanser were issued to the cells on Tuesdays and Saturdays, and inmates could request hot water and a mop to clean their cells. The bars, windows and floors of the prison were cleaned on a daily basis. In earlier years there was a strict code of silence but by the 1950s this had relaxed and talking was permitted in the cellhouse and dining hall provided conversations were quiet and there was no shouting, loud talking, whistling or singing.\n\nPrisoners would be woken at 6:30 am, and sent to breakfast at 6:55 am. After returning to the cell, inmates then had to tidy their cell and place the waste basket outside. At 7:30 am, work started in the shifts for those privileged enough to do so, punctuated by a whistle, and prisoners would have to go through a metal detector during work shifts. If assigned a job, prisoners had to accept that line of work; prisoners were not permitted to have money in their possessions but earnings went into a prisoner's Trust Fund. Some of the prisoners were assigned duties with the guards and foremen in the Laundry, Tailor Shop, Cobblers Shop, Model Shop etc. and in gardening and labor. Smoking, a privilege, was permitted in the workplace providing there wasn't any hazardous condition, but inmates were not permitted to smoke between the recreation yard and work. Lunch was served at 11:20 am, followed by a 30-minute rest in the cell, before returning to work until 16:15. Dinner was served at 16:25 and the prisoners would then retire to their cells to be locked in for the night at 16:50, and lights went off at 21:30. After being locked in for the night, 6 guards usually patrolled the four cell blocks. Many prisoners have compared their duration at Alcatraz to hell and would have preferred death to continued incarceration.\n\nAlcatraz Library was located at the end of D-Block. Upon entering Alcatraz, every inmate was given a library card and a catalog of books found in the library; inmates could place orders by putting a slip with their card in a box at the entrance to the dining hall before breakfast, and the books would be delivered to and from their cell by a librarian. The library, which utilized a closed-stack paging system, had a collection of 10,000 to 15,000 books, mainly left over from the army days. Inmates were permitted a maximum of three books in addition to up to 12 text books, a Bible, and a dictionary. They were permitted to subscribe to magazines but crime-related pages were torn out and newspapers were prohibited. Sex, crime and violence were censored from all books and magazines, and the library was governed by a chaplain who regulated the censorship and the nature of the reading material to ensure that the material was wholesome. Failure to return books by the date given made the inmate liable to removal of privileges. The average prisoner read 75 to 100 books a year. Every evening, inmates would generally read books loaned from the library and usually an hour or 75 minutes was allocated to the practicing of musical instruments, from the guitar to the accordion. A prison band often practiced in the dining room or auditorium above it; Al Capone famously practiced the banjo in the shower block, although most prisoners were limited to playing in their cells alone.\n\nAlcatraz cellhouse had a corridor naming system named after major American streets and landmarks. Michigan Avenue was the corridor to the side of A-Block, and Broadway was the central corridor in which the inmates would assemble as they massed through Times Square (an area with a clock on the wall), before entering the dining hall for their meals. Broadway separated Block-B and Block-C and prisoners kept along it had the least privacy in the prison. The corridor between Block-C and the library was called Park Avenue. The corridor in D-Block was named Sunset Strip. Gun galleries lay at the end of each block, including the West and East Gun Galleries.\n\nDue to the fact that during the time as a federal penitentiary no inmates were ever permanently held here, A-Block was never modernized, so retained its \"flat strap-iron bars, key locks and spiral staircases\" from the original military prison. Several inmates, however, were held briefly in A-Block before a hearing or transfer. In the later years of the state penitentiary, the A-Block was mainly used for extra storage and a law library was installed here at one point and it was a place where inmates could type legal documents.\nA small barber's shop was located at the end of A-block where inmates would have a monthly haircut.\n\nThe majority of the new inmates in Alcatraz were assigned to the second tier of B-Block. They had \"quarantine status\" for their first three months in confinement in Alcatraz, and were not permitted visitors for a minimum of 90 days. Inmates were permitted one visitor a month, although anybody likely to cause trouble such as registered criminals were barred from visiting. Letters received by inmates were checked by prison staff first, to see if they could decipher any secret messages. Frank Morris and his fellow escapees escaped Alcatraz during the June 1962 escape from Alcatraz by entering a utility corridor behind B-Block.\n\nD-Block gained notoriety as a \"Treatment block\" for some of the worst inmates, with varying degrees of punishment, including Isolation, Solitary and Strip. Prisoners usually spent anything from 3 to 19 days in Solitary. Prisoners held here would be given their meals in their cells, were not permitted to work and could only shower twice a week. After a 1939 escape attempt in which Arthur \"Doc\" Barker was killed, the Bureau of Prisons tightened security in the D-Block. The Birdman of Alcatraz inhabited cell 42 in D-Block in solitary confinement for 6 years.\nThe worst cells for confinement as a punishment for inmates who stepped out of line were located at the end of D-Block in cells 9–14, known as \"The Hole\". The cells were devoid of light and colder than the rest of the prison, and prisoners sent here were regularly stripped, beaten, tortured, often starved, and forced to sleep on the cold concrete floor wearing nothing but light underwear. In turn, guards were abused, and often had faeces, urine or food thrown at them or were spat at. Inmates held in the hole were limited to just one 10-minute shower and an hour of exercise in the yard a week. The five cells of \"The Hole\" had nothing but a sink and toilet and the very worst cell was nicknamed \"The Oriental\" or \"Strip Cell\", the final cell of the block with nothing but a hole in the floor as a toilet, in which prisoners would often be confined naked with nothing else for two days. The guards controlled the flushing of the toilet in that cell. A hatchway in the floor on D-Block also led to the dungeon in the basement which contained several cells. The worst behaved inmates would be locked inside their cells in the dungeon, chained to the walls. They were given a meager diet of bread and water each day, and one regular meal every three days, although the quantity and duration often varied relative to the extent of the punishment. Denied of proper toilet facilities, they were given a bucket as a toilet, emptied once a week, and stripped and chained to the wall standing at nights; according to Alvin J. Esau, prisoners in solitary confinement were \"placed on a starvation diet and made to stand nine hours each day with hands tied and their feet barely touching the floor.\" After completing the punishment in the hole, the prisoner could then return to his cell but be tagged; a red tag, third grade, denoted a prisoner who was restricted from leaving his cell for perhaps 3 months. At second grade the prisoners could receive letters, and if after 30 days they remained behaved, they would then be restored full prison privileges.\n\nAlcatraz Dining Hall, often referred to as the Mess Hall, is the dining hall where the prisoners and staff ate their meals. It is a long wing on the west end of the Main Cellhouse of Alcatraz, situated in the center of the island. It is connected to the block by a corridor known as \"Times Square\", as it passes beneath a large clock approaching the entrance way to the dining hall. This wing includes the dining hall and the kitchen beyond it. On the second floor was the hospital and the auditorium, which was where movies were screened to the inmates at weekends.\n\nDining hall protocol was a scripted process, including a whistle system to indicate which block and tier of men would move into and out of the hall at any given time, who sat where, where to place hands, and when to start eating. Prisoners would be awakened at 6:30 am, and sent to breakfast at 6:55 am. A breakfast menu is still preserved on the hallway board, dated 21 March 1963. The breakfast menu included assorted dry cereals, steamed whole wheat, a scrambled egg, milk, stewed fruit, toast, bread, and butter. Lunch was served in the dining hall at 11:20 am, followed by a 30-minute rest in the cell, before returning to work until 16:15. Dinner was served at 16:25 and the prisoners would then go to their cells at 16:50 to be locked in for the night. Inmates were permitted to eat as much as they liked within 20 minutes, provided they left no waste; waste would be reported and may make the prisoner subject to removal of privileges if they made a habit of it.\n\nEach dining table had benches which held up to six men, although smaller tables and chairs later replaced these which seated four. All of the prison population, including the guards and officials would dine together, thus seating over 250 people. The food served at Alcatraz was reportedly the best in the United States prison system.\n\nThe Recreation Yard was the yard used by inmates of the prison between 1934 and 1963. It is located opposite the dining hall south of the end of D-Block, facing the mainland on a raised level surrounded by a high wall and fence above it. Guard Tower #3 lay just to the west of the yard. The gun gallery was situated in the yard, mounted on one of the dining hall's exterior walls.\n\nIn 1936, the previously dirt-covered yard was paved. The yard was part of the most violent escape attempt from Alcatraz in May 1946 when a group of inmates hatched a plot to obtain the key into the recreation yard, kill the tower guards, take hostages, and use them as shields to reach the dock.\n\nInmates were permitted out into the yard on Saturdays and Sundays and on holidays for a maximum of 5 hours. Inmates who worked seven days a week in the kitchen were rewarded with short yard breaks during the weekdays. Badly behaved prisoners were liable to having their yard access rights taken away from them on weekends. The prisoners of Alcatraz were permitted to play games such as baseball, softball and other sports at these times and intellectual games such as chess. Because of the small size of the yard and the diamond at the end of it, a section of the wall behind the first base had to be padded to cushion the impact of inmates overrunning it. Inmates were provided gloves, bats, and balls, but no sport uniforms. In 1938, there were four amateur teams, the Bees, Oaks, Oilers, and Seals, named after Minor League clubs, and four league teams named after Major League clubs, the Cardinals, Cubs, Giants, and Tigers. Many of the inmates used weekends in the yards to converse with each other and discuss crime, the only real opportunities they had during the week for a durable conversation.\n\nThe Warden's House was the home of the penitentiary's warden. It is located at the northeastern end of the Main Cellblock, next to Alcatraz Lighthouse. The 3-floor 15-room mansion was built in 1921 according to the Golden Gate National Recreational Area signpost, although some sources say it was built in 1926 or 1929 and had 17 or 18 rooms.\n\nBetween 1934 and 1963, the four wardens of Alcatraz resided here, including the first warden, James A. Johnston. A house of luxury, in stark contrast to the jail next to it, the wardens often held lavish cocktail parties here. The signpost at the spot shows a photograph of a trusted inmate doing chores at the house for the warden and that the house had a terraced garden and greenhouse. The mansion had tall windows, providing fine views of San Francisco Bay. Today, the house is a ruin, burned down by Native Americans during the Occupation of Alcatraz on June 1, 1970.\n\nBuilding 64 Residential Apartments was the first building constructed on the island of Alcatraz, intended entirely for the purpose of accommodating the military officers and their families living on the island. Located next to the dock on the southeastern side of the island, below the Warden's House, the three-story apartment block was built in 1905 on the site of a U.S. Army barracks which had been there from the 1860s. It functioned as the Military Guard Barracks from 1906 until 1933. One of its largest apartments in the southwest corner was known as the \"Cow Palace\" and a nearby alleyway was known as \"Chinatown\".\n\nThe Social Hall, also known as the Officers' Club, was a social club located on the northwestern side of the island. Located in proximity to the Power House, water tower and Former Military Chapel (Bachelor Quarters), it formerly housed the post exchange. The club was a social venue for the Federal Penitentiary workers and their families on the island to unwind after a hard week's work dealing with America's most hardened criminals after they'd been locked up at 17:30. It was burned down by Native Americans during the Occupation of Alcatraz in 1970, leaving a shell which still remains.\n\nThe club had a small bar, library, large dining and dance floor, billiards table, ping pong table and a two-lane bowling alley, and was the centre of social life on the island for the employees of the penitentiary. It regularly hosted dinners, bingo events, and from the 1940s onwards showed movies every Sunday night after they had been shown to the inmates during the day on Saturday and Sunday. The club was responsible for organizing numerous special events on the island (held either in the hall or the Parade Grounds) and the fundraising associated with it, anything from ice cream and watermelon feasts to Halloween fancy dress and Christmas parties.\n\nThe Power House is located on the northwest coast of Alcatraz Island. It was constructed in 1939 for $186,000 as part of a $1.1 million modernization scheme which also included the water tower, New Industries Building, officers quarters and remodeling of the D-block. The white powerhouse smokestack and lighthouse were said to give an \"appearance of a ship's mast on either side of the island\". A sign reading \"A Warning. Keep Off. Only Government permitted within 200 yards\" lay in front of the powerhouse to deter people landing on the island at the point.\n\nBetween 1939 and 1963, it supplied power to the Federal Penitentiary and other buildings on the island. The powerhouse had a tower duty station which was guarded with a \"30-caliber Winchester rifle with 50 rounds of ammunition, a 1911 semiautomatic pistol with three seven-round magazines, three gas grenades, and a gas mask.\"\n\nThe Water Tower is located on the northwestern side of the island, near Tower No. 3, beyond the Morgue and Recreation Yard. The water tank is situated on six cross-braced steel legs submerged in concrete foundations.\n\nAs Alcatraz had no water supply of its own, it had to import it from the mainland, brought by tug and barge. During the island's military years, there were in-ground water tanks and water tanks were situated on the roof of the citadel. The water tower was built in 1940–41 by the Federal Bureau of Prisons, after the island received a government renovations grant to supply the majority of the island's fresh water.\n\nIt is the tallest building on the island, at a height of with a volume of gallons of fresh water. It was used to store potable water for drinking, water for firefighting, and water for the island's service laundry facility.\n\nThe Model Industries Building is a three/four-story building on the northwest corner of Alcatraz Island. This building was originally built by the U.S. military and was used as a laundry building until the New Industries Building was built as part of a redevelopment program on Alcatraz in 1939 when it was a federal penitentiary. As part of the Alcatraz jail, it held workshops for inmates to work in.\n\nOn January 10, 1935, the building shifted to within 2.5 feet from the edge of the cliff following a landslide caused by a severe storm. The warden at the time, James A. Johnston, proposed extend the seawall next to it and asked the Bureau for $6500 to fund it; he would later claim to dislike the building because it was irregularly shaped. A smaller, cheaper riprap was completed by the end of 1935. A guard tower and a catwalk from Hill Tower was added to the roof of the Industries Building in June 1936 and the building was made secure with bars from old cells to bar the windows and grill the roof ventilators and to prevent inmates from escaping from the roof. It ceased use as a laundry in 1939 when it was moved to the upper floor of the New Industries Building. Today the building is heavily rusted after decades of exposure to the salt air and wind, and neither the guard tower on top of the building nor the Hill Tower still exist.\n\nThe New Industries Building was constructed in 1939 for $186,000 as part of a $1.1 million modernization scheme which also included the water tower, power house, officers' quarters and remodeling of the D-block.\n\nThe ground floor of the two-story 306 ft long building contained a clothing factory, dry cleaning plant, furniture plant, brush factory, and an office, where prisoners of the federal penitentiary could work for money. They earned a small wage for their labour which was put into an account, known as a Prisoner's Trust Fund, which would be given to them upon leaving Alcatraz. They made items such as gloves, furniture mats, and army uniforms. The laundry room occupied the entire upper floor, the largest in San Francisco at the time. Each window has 9 panes and there are 17 bays on each floor on either side.\n\nAlcatraz has been cited as one of the most \"haunted\" places in America. The Native Americans mentioned the evil spirits they purportedly encountered on the island long before it became a military prison. Mark Twain visited it, found the atmosphere of the island eerie, and described it as \"being as cold as winter, even in the summer months.\" The alleged haunting of the prison has been documented in numerous paranormal television series. Officials for Alcatraz have dismissed the reports of ghosts at Alcatraz as nonsense and deny their existence; an official for Alcatraz said in 1994, \"These ridiculous ghost stories will stop tourists from visiting. And how can these people say they heard canaries? We don't have any birds in here.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54326111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54326111", "title": "Banquet of the Amsterdam Civic Guard in Celebration of the Peace of Münster", "text": "Banquet of the Amsterdam Civic Guard in Celebration of the Peace of Münster\n\nBanquet of the Amsterdam Civic Guard in Celebration of the Peace of Münster (1648) is a group portrait oil painting by the Dutch painter Bartholomeus van der Helst. It is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is considered one of the highlights of the Amsterdam Museum, though it is generally on show in the Rijksmuseum.\n\nThe painting is one of the largest civic guard group portraits for which most of the sitters are known and most of the portrayed objects have survived.\nThe painting is about retiring from active duty, because the Peace of Münster had finally been signed after years of negotiations. The main figures are seen with the attributes of the civic guard guilds. On the right Cornelis Jan Witsen heads up the table, holding the silver drinking horn of the Voetboogdoelen, Amsterdam.\nThe art historian J.J. de Gelder mentioned the painting is dated 1648 but was probably finished at least a year later, similar to the way other group portraits by Van der Helst bear the date of the commission and not of completion. The drum explains the occasion by way of the poem attached to it by Jan Vos. The names mentioned in the poem are the handshakers, but in 1680 a name board was added that included 24 names:\n\nThe art historian Judith van Gent remarked that the first name on this list was Hendrik Caliber who was buried a month after the festivities took place, and agrees with De Gelder that the painting took quite a while to create and assumes the commission probably was granted well before the summer of 1648. In her catalog entry for this painting she lists short biographies of the traceable names.\n\n"}
{"id": "21966974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21966974", "title": "Book of Chivalry", "text": "Book of Chivalry\n\nThe Book of Chivalry (French: Livre de chevalerie) was written by the knight Geoffroi de Charny (c.1306-1356) sometime around the early 1350s. The treatise is intended to explain the appropriate qualities for a knight, reform the behavior of the fighting classes, and defend the chivalric ethos against its critics, mainly in clerical circles.\n\nGeoffroi de Charny was intensely involved in the first phase of the Anglo-French conflict known as the Hundred Years' War. The first record of his campaigns against the English appear in 1337, and despite being captured twice, Charny grew in prestige from a minor member of the nobility to one of the most respected knights in France, especially under the kingship of Jean II of France. Jean created the Company of the Star in 1352, intending the chivalric order to outshine that of his rival, Edward III of England, who had shortly before created the Order of the Garter. Charny was promptly made a member of the Company of the Star, and it is believed that he wrote his \"Book of Chivalry\" in this context. However, the Company began to lose members immediately due to losses on the battlefield, both in civil wars and against the English. In 1356, Jean II was captured during the Battle of Poitiers, leading to the complete breakdown of the order. It was in this same battle that Charny, along with many other French knights, died exemplifying the chivalric ethos that he described in his treatise.\n\nCharny’s book is unique in its focus. Unlike earlier works such as Vegetius' \"De Re Militari\", or later ones such as Christine de Pizan's \"The Book of Deeds of Arms and of Chivalry\", Charny’s \"Book of Chivalry\" is not intended as a manual for how to conduct military operations. He approaches his subject from a conceptual basis, explaining the qualities associated with worthy knights. Moreover, although he does touch upon issues of courtliness, he is more preoccupied with the maintenance of knightly hardiness and war-readiness. For Charny, the essence of knighthood is prowess, and all of his various themes solidify the importance of this concept.\n\nCharny is unwilling to dismiss even slight displays of chivalry, but does insist on prioritizing deeds of arms. The worthiness of these deeds is assessed by the degree of danger, pain, and suffering that they entail. Thus, Charny begins his work by describing feats performed in tournaments and jousts, staged conflicts that could still be quite violent. Charny notes “Indeed they are worthy of praise; nevertheless, he who does more is of greater worth.” (This is a refrain repeated in various formats throughout the book.) Charny follows this section by describing feats done in real war, then arguing that the added danger gives such feats more intrinsic worth. A similar theme emerges throughout the book: those feats that involve less danger or are performed for shallow reasons are still chivalrous and worthy of honor, but deeds involving great peril and done for pure motives bring a knight greater glory and renown.\n\nCharny is intensely concerned that the most powerful members of society set a positive example for the lower orders, and especially for young knights. After acknowledging that knights of higher social standing—the “valiant lords” of society—may receive greater renown than worthier poor knights, he defends this feature of chivalry by explaining that it is because a noble lord can patronize, inspire, and cultivate other knights in the ways of valor. Nevertheless, Charny emphasizes that such lords have greater demands upon their deportment because their fame ensures that any scandal associated with their names will produce more notoriety than with a lesser-known knight. Thus, the great lords in particular must be temperate in their eating habits, avoid gambling and greed, indulge only in honorable pastimes such as jousting and maintaining the company of ladies, keep any romantic liaisons secret, and—most importantly—only be found in the company of worthy men.\n\nIf Charny emphasizes the high moral standard expected of “great men,” his ideal monarch has an even higher caliber of morality to attain. In a section full of repetitive parallelisms, Charny argues that the ancestors of contemporary rulers were chosen from among the people, not for a life of ease and corruption, but for service, nobility, and piety.\n\nCharny's advice for rulers and great men is one facet of a wider push for knightly reform. In particular, Charny criticizes what he sees as the growth in indolence and love of luxury. Many of his passages warn against the atrophying power of a pleasurable lifestyle, as well as the spiritual and physical advantages of a more spartan regime. Thus, he advises that knights be temperate in their eating habits, seek hard lodgings rather than soft beds at night, and most importantly, avoid luxurious cloths. In fact, he spends a lengthy section mocking at nobles who all but bared their private parts by wearing tight leggings under tunics that did not fully cover the offending areas. This “shameful” dress is exacerbated in Charny's view by an excessive love of jewels and fine cloth.\n\nAlthough he shows a lack of interest when it comes to courtly love, Charny does not entirely ignore the role of women, analyzing their effect upon and reception of knightly conduct. One of the primary roles he assigns to ladies is the ability to inspire great feats of arm in the knights who have pledged themselves to their love. Charny is convinced that such great ladies share the chivalric values of their men. Thus, a lady will feel pride when her lover is showered with praise and honor by his peers, but shame if he has not performed any great deeds. In fact, Charny argues that a noble lady should abandon any lover who fails in prowess, and that the unfortunate knight has no cause to resent this treatment, since it is his own fault. Lastly, Charny emphasizes that women have no recourse to chivalry in order to achieve honor, arguing the necessity for them to adorn themselves with the jewels and fine clothes so inappropriate for men. Only by dressing beautifully and behaving gracefully can women achieve social respect comparable to that of a chivalrous knight.\n\nCharny's treatise also contains one of the most detailed and straightforward descriptions of a dubbing ceremony. The day before the ceremony, a knight should make his confession, followed by a long bath and a short repose in a bed of clean white sheets. Afterward, he is to be dressed by other knights: new, clean white linens, followed by a red tunic, black hose, white belt, and a red cloak. The knight will keep vigil until the following morning, when he hears Mass and receives Communion. He then receives two gilded spurs and a double-edged sword. Finally, the knights in charge of dubbing him receive him with a kiss and a \"collee\" (a light blow). All of these stages are imbued with religious symbolism, adding a Christianizing layer to an essentially secular ceremony.\n\nCharny also considers the role of knighthood within the larger context of society, discussing three other “orders” in Christendom: the order of marriage, monastic orders, and the priesthood. In discussing both the order of marriage and the monastic world, Charny follows his traditional formula of good-better-best when describing the relative worthiness of those entering into each state. It is good for a man to enter either order late in life, bad for him to enter the order in his middle years, but ideal for him to enter into it as a youth, since those who do so are more likely to be sincere in their commitment. One’s motives for entering each state also affect the worthiness of the calling.\n\nThe order of priesthood Charny holds in rather higher esteem than the first two, claiming that those entering this order must learn its service in detail in their youth so that they can perform it faithfully. This office is so noble that priests should be entirely exempt from other offices.\n\nDespite praising other orders of society, Charny considers knighthood to be the greatest of these orders. Drawing upon medieval ascetic ideals, Charny presents the life of the knight as a sort of passion of suffering and danger. He claims that the trials associated with the knight’s lifestyle outshine even the harshest penances imposed upon monks, thus making it of greater spiritual worth. Moreover, the knight’s life is full of peril and the possibility of dying any time, any place. Thus, Charny concludes his book by pointing out that awareness of their own mortality forced knights, more than any other sector of society, to be prepared at any moment to meet their Creator.\n\n"}
{"id": "39394673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39394673", "title": "Carmichele v Minister of Safety &amp; Security", "text": "Carmichele v Minister of Safety &amp; Security\n\nThe Constitutional Court, in Carmichele v Minister of Safety and Security and Another (Centre for Applied Legal Studies Intervening), an important case in South African criminal, delict and constitutional law, found that the State could be held delictually liable for damages arising out of the unlawful omissions of its servants. \"In casu\", the conduct of the police and a prosecutor had resulted in the release of a person, charged with rape, on his own recognisance. This person had subsequently assaulted the complainant.\n\nCR Snyman, for one, has noted the court's emphasis on section 39(2) of the Constitution, which provides that \"every court [...] must promote the spirit, purport and objects of the Bill of Rights.\" This, he argues, \"may perhaps one day open the way for holding an individual police officer liable for a crime such as culpable homicide flowing from her negligent omission to protect a person from the real possibility of harm.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39083589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39083589", "title": "Clark Thomas Rogerson", "text": "Clark Thomas Rogerson\n\nClark Thomas Rogerson, (2 October 1918 – 7 September 2001), was an American mycologist. He was known for his work in the Hypocreales (Ascomycota), particularly \"Hypomyces\", a genus of fungi that parasitize other fungi. After receiving his doctorate from Cornell University in 1950, he went on to join the faculty of Kansas State University. In 1958, he became a curator at The New York Botanical Garden, and served as editor for various academic journals published by the Garden. Rogerson was involved with the Mycological Society of America, serving in various positions, including President in 1969. He was Managing Editor (1958–89) and Editor-in-chief (1960–65) of the scientific journal \"Mycologia\".\n\nC.T. Rogerson was born on October 2, 1918, in Ogden, Utah, to parents Elijah Knapp Rogerson (1899–1956) and Mable Crissie Clarke Rogerson (1897–1987). Upon graduating from high school in 1936, he enrolled in Weber Junior College (since renamed to Weber State University) for the following two years. Rogerson then attended Utah State University, where he had hoped to work under the supervision of botanist Bassett Maguire, but settled instead for the only available studentship with plant pathologist B.L. Richards. Rogerson received his bachelor of science from Utah State University in 1940. Soon after, he was drafted into the army, and spent three years (1942–1945) in the Pacific Theater of World War II. He served as a technical sergeant in laboratory and pharmacy at an army evacuation hospital, and cared for internees released in the Philippines near the war's end. During his war years, Rogerson made collections of plants, fungi, slime molds, and butterflies that he sent to Cornell or to the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nAfter the war finished, Rogerson continued studying fungal systematics and started a doctoral program with Harry Morton Fitzpatrick at Cornell University; noted mycologist Richard Korf was another of Fitzpatrick's graduate students at the time. Under Fitzpatrick, Rogerson studied \"Hypomyces\" fungi and their anamorphs. Fitzpatrick committed suicide in 1950, and Donald S. Welch replaced him as Rogerson's advisor for the last few months of his doctoral program. Rogerson received his doctorate from Cornell in 1950. That year, he joined the faculty of Kansas State University as an assistant professor, but he would ultimately advance to associate professor. While at Kansas, he worked on the identification of fungi, and published nearly 20 papers on fungal taxonomic novelties, aeromycology (the fungal flora of air), and plant diseases caused by fungi.\n\nIn 1958, the director of The New York Botanical Garden, William Jacob Robbins, recruited Rogerson for the position of Curator of Cryptogamic Botany. Rogerson became Senior Curator in 1967 and Senior Curator Emeritus at his retirement in 1990. As curator of cryptogamic botany, Rogerson \"was directly responsible for all accessions and loans of ferns and mosses, as well as of fungi and lichens, until about 1965 when, first a bryologist and later a pteridologist were added to the cryptogamic staff.\" At the Garden, he also continued his study on the taxonomy of the Ascomycetes, especially of \"Hypomyces\", a genus of fungi that parasitize other fungi, and the fungal diversity of New York and Utah. Additionally, he served as editor of the Garden's publications: \"Memoirs of the New York Botanical Garden\" (1963–88), \"North American Flora\" (1963–88), and \"Flora Neotropica\" (1969–83). While at the Garden, Rogerson was also an adjunct professor of biology at Columbia University and at the Herbert H. Lehman College of the City University of New York.\n\nDuring his tenure at the Garden, Rogerson was also a deeply involved member of the Mycological Society of America (MSA). He served as Managing editor (1958–89) and Editor-in-chief (1960–65) of the scientific journal \"Mycologia\". He was Vice-President (1967), President Elect (1968), and President of the MSA (1969), and secretary-treasurer of the society from 1973 to 1974. He has served as historian of the Mycological Society of America from 1960 to 1990. Rogerson was a generous donor to MSA student travel awards. He died in Ogden on September 7, 2001.\n\nRogerson added many thousands of records of fungi, mainly from Utah, to the Garden herbarium, where his specimens are available for study by systematists. Rogerson assisted in the formation of the three major amateur mushroom groups in the New York City area: the New York Mycological Association, the New Jersey Mycological Association, and the Connecticut-Westchester Mycological Association (COMA). He helped amateur mycologists correctly identify fungal specimens during his weekends. \"In return, amateur mycologists provided him with many specimens of fungicolous \"Hypomyces\".\"\n\nIn 1970, Rogerson presented a detailed history of the Hypocreales and reviewed changes in the circumscription of the order up to that time. His publication included keys to the genera of both the Hypocreales and Clavicipitales, followed by a list of genera, each with the literature citation of the original descriptions and type species. He included 115 genera in the Hypocreales.\n\n\nClark T. Rogerson belongs to the Dudley mycological lineage, which can be traced back to Anton De Bary, a famous German mycologist. William Russell Dudley was Assistant Professor of Cryptogamic Botany at Cornell University from 1883 to 1892, and received mycological training from De Bary in 1887. Joseph Charles Arthur, George Francis Atkinson, and Mason B. Thomas studied under Dudley. Thomas went to Wabash College, where he would influence Harry Morton Fitzpatrick to study mycology. Fitzpatrick received his Ph.D. in 1913 at Cornell under tutelage of Atkinson. Rogerson studied under Fitzpatrick at Cornell from 1946 to 1950. Contemporary to Rogerson was fellow student Richard P. Korf, another prominent mycologist. Students of Rogerson include Robert L. Shaffer (Kansas State; M.A.), Susan Carey Canham (Columbia University; Ph.D.), Anna F. Doyle (Columbia University; Ph.D.), Gary J. Samuels (Columbia University; Ph.D.), and Rosalind Lowen (Lehman College; Ph.D.). Katia F. Rodrigues and Priscila Chaverri (Penn State; Ph.D.) studied under Samuels. The Rogerson sublineage continues to expand under Chaverri at the University of Maryland.\n\nRogerson received several awards and honors during his career:\n\nRogerson was a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Bergen Swamp Preservation Society, and the Utah Academy of Sciences.\n\n\nRogerson wrote 65 research publications and several bibliographic publications.\n"}
{"id": "16826603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16826603", "title": "Comparison of programming languages (object-oriented programming)", "text": "Comparison of programming languages (object-oriented programming)\n\nThis comparison of programming languages compares how object-oriented programming languages such as C++, Java, Smalltalk, Object Pascal, Perl, Python, and others manipulate data structures.\n\nHow to declare a property named \"Bar\"\n\nHow to access members of an object x\n"}
{"id": "47956936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47956936", "title": "David Drake bibliography", "text": "David Drake bibliography\n\nThis is list of works by American military science fiction writer David Drake.\n\n\nThree thematically linked anthologies containing SF hunting stories.\n\nWith Bill Fawcett\n\nWith Bill Fawcett\n\nWith Bill Fawcett\n\nWith Janet Morris\n\n\n\nWritten by Eric Flint. David contributed to the outlines only, but is listed as a co-author from the publisher.\n\n\n\n\n\nSword & sorcery fantasy stories set at the time of the later Roman Empire. All of these stories have been collected in \"Vettius and His Friends\" (1989) which also contains a couple more unrelated stories.\n\nWritten by S. M. Stirling. David contributed to the outlines only, but is listed as a co-author from the publisher.\n\nWorld of Bellevue:\n\n\nWorld of Visager:\n\n\nWorld of Hafardine:\n\n\nWorld of Duisenberg:\n\n\n\n\nThese time travel stories about the dinosaur-hunting Henry Vickers have been published in various places. \"Time Safari\" (1982) collects the first three stories, \"Tyrannosaur\" (1993) also collects three stories but replaces \"Calibration Run\" by \"King Tyrant Lizard\". All four stories were first published together in \"Dinosaurs & a Dirigible\" (2014) which also contains the unrelated time travel story \"Travellers\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe first three books in this series are available as ebooks via the Baen Free Library.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10028679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10028679", "title": "Declaration on the Status and Name of the Croatian Literary Language", "text": "Declaration on the Status and Name of the Croatian Literary Language\n\nThe Declaration on the Status and Name of the Croatian Literary Language () was a document brought by Croat scholars in 1967. It contributed significantly towards the conserving of the independence of the Croatian language inside the SFR Yugoslavia, because its demands were later granted by the Yugoslav authorities in 1974.\n\nThe declaration was published on March 13, 1967 in the \"Telegram\", Yugoslav newspapers for social and cultural issues, nr. 359, March 17, 1967. \n\nThis document addressed the Sabor of SR Croatia and the Assembly of SFR Yugoslavia, stating:\nThe declaration prompted Pavle Ivić to respond with his 1971 monograph \"Srpski narod i njegov jezik\" (\"The Serbian People and Their Language\"). The signers of the declaration demanded the equality of the four Yugoslav languages and the use of the Croatian literary language in schools and media. State authorities were accused of imposing of Serbian as official language. A unitarianist trend was strongest in the language area, but resistance to that policy was evident.\n\nThe demands were rejected, and the Croatian Spring (MASPOK) movement was stopped. However, the Declaration was taken into consideration in the new Yugoslav constitution of 1974. Nearly all requests were granted in the formulation, and it remained in effect until the breakup of Yugoslavia.\nIn the 21st century, evidence has come to light that long-standing State Security agents had been working on the preparation of the Declaration. On the publication's 45th anniversary in 2012, the Croatian weekly journal \"Forum\" republished the Declaration, accompanied by a critical analysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1633037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1633037", "title": "Don Markstein's Toonopedia", "text": "Don Markstein's Toonopedia\n\nDon Markstein's Toonopedia (subtitled A Vast Repository of Toonological Knowledge) is a web encyclopedia of print cartoons, comic strips and animation, initiated February 13, 2001. Donald D. Markstein, the sole writer and editor of Toonopedia, termed it \"the world's first hypertext encyclopedia of toons\" and stated, \"The basic idea is to cover the entire spectrum of American cartoonery.\"\n\nMarkstein began the project during 1999 with several earlier titles: he changed Don's Cartoon Encyberpedia (1999) to Don Markstein's Cartoonopedia (2000) after learning the word \"Encyberpedia\" had been trademarked. During 2001, he settled on his final title, noting, \"Decided (after thinking about it for several weeks) to change the name of the site to Don Markstein's Toonopedia, rather than Cartoonopedia. Better rhythm in the name, plus 'toon' is probably a more apt word, in modern parlance, than \"cartoon\", for what I'm doing.\n\nToonopedia author Donald David Markstein (March 21, 1947 – March 11, 2012) was fascinated with all forms of cartoon art since his childhood. During 1981, Markstein and his wife, GiGi Dane (August 7, 1949 - August 5, 2016), founded \"Apatoons\", an amateur press association devoted to animation. He edited \"Comics Revue\", a monthly anthology of newspaper comics, from 1984 to 1987, and 1992 to 1996. A writer for Walt Disney Comics, Markstein based Toonopedia on American and other English language cartoons with the goal of developing the largest online resource concerning American cartoons. Toonopedia accumulated over 1,800 articles since its launch on February 13, 2001.\n\nDuring 2002, Charles Bowen reviewing the site for \"Editor & Publisher\", said,\nMarkstein worked on the staff of the \"New Orleans Times-Picayune\" newspaper, writing feature stories for the Sunday magazine section. His freelance credits include weekly restaurant reviews for the \"Phoenix Business Journal\", semi-annual previews of comic book publishing projects, science fiction convention program books, scripts for relaxation tapes and computer manuals. His comic book scripts are mainly for licensed characters, including Donald Duck, Mickey Mouse, Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, and Eek! the Cat.\n\n\"Graphic Novel Review for Libraries\" was Markstein's periodical guide for librarians. For each 20-page issue of the monthly magazine, he reviewed 25–30 graphic novels.\n\nHe provided editing, design and production for numerous publications, including \"Arizona Living\", \"Arizona Women's Voice\", \"Comics Interview\", \"Comics Revue\", \"Phoenix\", \"Phoenix Resource\", \"Louisiana Weekly Employer\", \"Scottsdale\" and \"Sun Tennis\".\n\nIn February 2011, Markstein, who had a history of strokes, suffered what his daughter called \"an incident that caused him to be in and out of hospitals for several weeks\", and the following month \"suffered a massive stroke while in the hospital. This caused him to be paralyzed on his left side.\" He died of respiratory failure in March 2012. In 2012, Markstein's family announced plans to continue updating Toonopedia through new articles written by fans, but the site has yet to be updated since February 2011.\n\nThe subject matter of Toonopedia overlaps with the books Markstein wrote, edited and compiled. \"A Prince Valiant Companion\" (Manuscript Press, 1992), by Todd Goldberg and Carl J. Horak, was edited by Markstein and Rick Norwood. It includes plot summaries of the \"Prince Valiant\" comic strip from its beginning in 1937 to the 1980 retirement of the strip's creator, Hal Foster, along with additional material on the series and Foster's other work.\n\n\"Hot Tips from Top Comics Creators\" (Fictioneer Books, 1994) is a 120-page collection of more 1,000 pieces of advice on the comic-book industry from the first ten years of \"Comics Interview\", plus capsule biographies of 262 comics professionals.\n\n\"Pirates!: The CD-ROM\" (PiratePubs, 1998) is a digital compendium of stories, games, movie stills, poetry, artwork, flags and music about pirates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54673053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54673053", "title": "Ealdred v High Sheriff of Yorkshire (c.1068)", "text": "Ealdred v High Sheriff of Yorkshire (c.1068)\n\nEaldred v Malet was a court case of early English law between Ealdred, the archbishop of York and William Malet the High Sheriff of Yorkshire about 1068. Ealdred was seeking the return of lands taken by the Sherriff during the conquest. \n\nAs a Viceroy of William, Ealdred already had \"the kings ear\" so in keeping with the mille of the time, the plaint was more informal than would be expected under the Common Law that developed under Williams grandson. The goods were returned and the High Sheriff of Yorkshire chastened.\n\nThe court cases is important as it can be viewed as a part of a large collection of pleadings against a process of Nomanization that within a decade saw 64% of land in England consolidated into the hands of just 150 individuals, and many of the nobility deprived of their estates.\n"}
{"id": "5722362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5722362", "title": "Elegua", "text": "Elegua\n\nElegua (Yoruba: Èṣù-Ẹlẹ́gbára, also spelled Eleggua; known as Eleguá in Latin America) is an Orisha, a deity of roads in the religions of Santeria, Umbanda, Quimbanda, Candomblé and in Palo Mayombe. He is syncretized with either Saint Michael, Saint Anthony of Padua, or the Holy Child of Atocha.\n\nElegua is known as Èṣù-Ẹlẹ́gbára in the Yoruba religion and is closely associated with Eshu. \"Ẹlẹ́gbára\" means the \"master of force\" in the Yoruba language.\n\nEleguá is known in Cuba as the orisha and \"owner\" of \"caminos\", or roads and paths. All ceremonies and rituals in Santeria must first have the approval of Eleguá before progressing. He is the messenger of Olofi. Within the \"Regla de Ocha\"[Cuba], he slightly differs from Echu, who in this case is seen as his brother, by having less dangerous and less aggressive characteristics. Eleguá moves silently; in contrast, Echu \"breaks through\". Manifestations of Eleguá includes Akefun, Aleshujade, Arabobo, Awanjonu, Lalafán, Obasín, Oparicocha, and Osokere.\n\nThere is a \"pataki\" (story) in Santeria in which Olodumare gives Eleguá the keys to the past, present, and future; for this reason, Eleguá is often depicted holding a set of keys. A figure of Eleguá may be placed in the house behind the entrance door.\n\nIn Afro-Brazilian religion Elegbara is one of the titles of Exu.\n\n"}
{"id": "22644965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22644965", "title": "Filmpje!", "text": "Filmpje!\n\nBob de Rooy is an arrogant, egotistical man who divorces his well-meaning, but very naïve wife Annie, because she's unable to provide him the right amount of sex in their married life. After the divorce is settled, Bob goes to the red light district in Amsterdam to catch up what he has been missing all those years. There he starts an affair with a prostitute who turns out to be the daughter of gangster boss Don Gorgonzola. When the criminal boss finds out that his daughter has an affair with Bob, who arrogantly makes fun of him on the phone and hangs up before he does, Bob and his newfound love have to flee to Curaçao. Meanwhile, Annie falls in love three times, first with a notorious criminal who is later shot by one of Gorgonzola's henchmen, then with a man who dies of cancer and later one of Gorgonzola's henchmen who exploits Annie's innocence to let her smuggle drugs to Curaçao. There Annie and Bob meet again...\n\n"}
{"id": "15449008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15449008", "title": "Financial Times Global 500", "text": "Financial Times Global 500\n\nThe FT Global 500 is an annual snapshot of the world's largest companies to show how corporate fortunes have changed in the past year, highlighting relative performance of countries and sectors. The companies are ranked by market capitalisation. The greater the stock market value of a company, the higher its ranking. Market cap is the share price multiplied by the number of shares issued.\n\nFor each company the main Global 500 table shows the rank in that year and the year before, the country, market capitalisation, sector, turnover, net income, total assets and employees. The price, price earnings ratio, dividend yield and the company's year-end are included in the Global 500 on FT.com.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27408380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27408380", "title": "Gesta Pontificum Anglorum", "text": "Gesta Pontificum Anglorum\n\nThe Gesta Pontificum Anglorum (Latin for \"Deeds of the Bishops of the English\"), originally known as De Gestis Pontificum Anglorum (\"On the Deeds of the Bishops of the English\") and sometimes anglicized as or , is an ecclesiastical history of England written by William of Malmesbury in the early 12th century. It covers the period from the arrival of St Augustine in AD 597 until the time it was written. Work on it was begun before Matilda's death in 1118 and the first version of the work was completed in about 1125. William drew upon extensive research, first-hand experience and a number of sources to produce the work. It is unusual for a medieval work of history, even compared to William's other works, in that its contents are so logically structured. The \"History of the English Bishops\" is one of the most important sources regarding the ecclesiastical history of England for the period after the death of Bede.\n\nOne of William's themes in the \"Gesta Pontificum Anglorum\", as in his \"Gesta Regum Anglorum\", is that the Normans' invasion and conquest of England saved the English and rescued their civilization from the barbarities of the native English and restored England to the Latin culture of the continent. One aspect of this theme was William's reluctance to give Anglo-Saxon names in their native form, instead Latinizing them.\n\nThe \"History of the English Bishops\" enjoyed reasonable success and was known in England during the next century, although its popularity paled besides that of its companion work, the \"Chronicle of the Kings of England\", which within William's lifetime was known not only in England, but in Flanders, France and Normandy. It became the basis of a number of later works dealing with ecclesiastical history, including those written at Durham, Bury St Edmunds and Worcester.\n\nAlthough William's concurrent work, the \"Chronicle of the Kings of England\", drew heavily on the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" for both structure and content, in the \"History of the English Bishops\" the author had no ready guide and had to set up a new structure for the work. This he did by arranging his material by diocese and grouping the dioceses by the ancient Anglo-Saxon kingdoms they had belonged to. Within the description and history of each diocese, William wrote about the bishops and monasteries, plus any additional interesting information.\n\nThe Kingdom of Kent: Beginning with the primatial see of Canterbury and its first archbishop St Augustine, it then leads on to the bishopric of Rochester.\n\nThe Kingdoms of East Anglia, Essex, Sussex and Wessex: In addition to the bishoprics of London, Norwich, Winchester, Sherborne, Salisbury, Bath, Exeter and Chichester William also details twenty-three religious houses.\n\nThe Kingdom of Northumbria: Including the bishoprics of York, Lindisfarne and Durham. William admitted to not knowing a great deal about the monasteries in the north of England and only covered those at Wearmouth and Whitby. William also touches on other aspects from history such as the well preserved Roman remains at Carlisle, where he mentions a stone vaulted triclinium.\n\nThe Kingdom of Mercia: Covers the bishoprics of Worcester, Hereford, Lichfield/Coventry, Dorchester/Lincoln and Ely. More familiar territory to William than Northumbria, he describes nineteen monasteries.\n\nThe history of Malmesbury Abbey, to which William belonged, and the life of its founding Abbot, St Aldhelm.\n\nThe \"History of the English Bishops\", in the manner of many chroniclers' continuations, begins where Bede's \"Historia Ecclesiastica Gentis Anglorum\" left off. So William relied heavily on the work of Bede for the early historical information, but also used the work of other medieval historians such as Eadmer. He also used records and documents such as the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, episcopal lists and the letters and works of his predecessors and contemporaries. For example William had put together a collection of letters and texts by St Anselm. There is also evidence to suggest William travelled to many of the places he mentions and used local manuscripts and he also provides many detailed topographical observations.\n\nMagdalen College, Oxford MS lat. 172 was written around 1125 in William's own hand, making it the oldest surviving autograph manuscript from England. It takes the form of a pocket-sized book, its parchment leaves measuring 7.1 by 4.8 inches. At the head of folio 1 is the Malmesbury Abbey impressed mark, and a pagination in Arabic numerals in a 14th-century hand indicates that no pages have been lost since then. It contains his subsequent annotations which show he continued to revise the text over at least the next decade. His edits often removed comments about his contemporaries. Unfortunately, some of William's marginalia are affected by a trimming by a bookbinder in the 17th century. This is the only medieval manuscript in which Book Five survives in full although there are a handful of later copies.\n\nWilliam continued to revise the text over the next decade or so, with many of the revisions removing potentially offensive remarks about his contemporaries. Copies were made of the manuscript prior to and after the revisions and subsequently several descendants of these as well. All together there are nineteen medieval versions of the manuscript that provide us with a complex yet large record of the history of the text.\n\nThe first printed edition of the \"History of the English Bishops\" was produced by Sir Henry Savile in 1596. He used Cambridge University Library's MS Ff.1.25.1 as his source and so it contains only the first four books. The source manuscript itself was a descendant of British Library Royal 13 D V, itself a copy of Magdalen College, Oxford MS lat. 172.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31175658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31175658", "title": "Grammata Serica Recensa", "text": "Grammata Serica Recensa\n\nThe Grammata Serica Recensa is a dictionary of Middle Chinese and Old Chinese published by the Swedish sinologist Bernard Karlgren in 1957.\n\nKarlgren made fundamental contributions to the study of the phonology of Middle and Old Chinese, which he called Ancient and Archaic Chinese respectively.\nIn the course of his study of the sound system of Old Chinese, Karlgren focused on clues provided by phono-semantic compound characters.\nHis \"homorganic principle\", asserting that the initials of characters sharing a phonetic component had a common point of articulation, has been central to subsequent studies of Old Chinese.\n\nIn 1923, Karlgren published his \"Analytic dictionary\" of Middle Chinese, which grouped characters by phonetic series and drew inferences about Old Chinese sounds.\nHis \"Grammata Serica\" (1940) was an expanded dictionary that included Karlgren's Old Chinese reconstructions.\nAn extensive revision incorporating the results of Karlgren's studies of pre-Han texts, the \"Grammata Serica Recensa\", appeared in 1957. It also indicated tones, which had been omitted in the first version.\n\nAlthough Karlgren's Old Chinese reconstructions have been superseded, his comprehensive dictionary remains a valuable reference for students of Old Chinese. As late as 1998, it was described as \"the only good Chinese–English dictionary of Classical Chinese\".\nSupplements to the GSR continue to appear to remedy such defects as the limited indexing and obsolete reconstructions.\nThe Sino-Tibetan Etymological Dictionary and Thesaurus (STEDT) project uses an electronic form of the GSR and has donated a mapping to Unicode, which is now included in the Unicode dataset.\n\nEach numbered entry lists characters with a common phonetic element.\nCharacters within each entry are labelled by lowercase letters (excluding \"w\"), supplemented with prime symbols, as required. Some are ancient variant forms.\nEach distinct character is given, with its pronunciation in Old Chinese, Middle Chinese and Modern Standard Chinese as well as definitions from ancient sources.\nA sample entry is\n\nTones, omitted in the earlier \"Grammata Serica\", are indicated in the Middle Chinese form by appending \":\" (rising tone) or \"-\" (departing tone), with the level and entering tones unmarked.\nThe names of texts containing the various uses are abbreviated, here Shï for \"Shijing\", \"Lunyü\" (\"The Analects\"), Tso for \"Zuo Zhuan\", Shu for \"Shujing\" and Yi for \"I Ching\".\n\nEntries are grouped according to the rhyme groups extracted by traditional Chinese scholarship from the rhyming practice of the \"Shijing\", in accordance with the observation of Duan Yucai that characters in the same phonetic series fell in the same rhyme group.\n\nThe radical index covers only the head character in each entry.\n\n"}
{"id": "44839449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44839449", "title": "HR Top 40", "text": "HR Top 40\n\nThe HR Top 40 are the main Croatian domestic singles airplay chart, issued weekly by the Croatian Music Institute IHG (\"Institut hrvatske glazbe\"). The charts are a record of the most played domestic songs in various genres in Croatia. HR Top 40 became the official Croatian airplay chart in December 2012.\n\nCurrent recorders of the chart are Vatra with song \"Tango\", which spent 25 consecutive weeks as #1 and Psihomodo Pop with song \"Donna\", which spent maximum of 52 consecutive weeks on the chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "3173598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3173598", "title": "Heibonsha World Encyclopedia", "text": "Heibonsha World Encyclopedia\n\nThe is one of Japan's two major encyclopedias, the other being the \"Encyclopedia Nipponica\". The \"World Encyclopedia\" is widely held to be the most complete and up-to-date encyclopedia in the Japanese language. \n\nThe Heibonsha \"World Encyclopedia\" currently exists in three slightly different editions:\nThe 1984–1985 \"Heibonsha Encyclopedia\" was published in sixteen volumes, while the 1988 \"World Encyclopedia\" had thirty-five volumes. The content changed very little between these two editions, but the latter version was published on heavier paper and included several additional indexes and supplementary volumes.\n\nThe \"Heibonsha Encyclopedia\" is no longer being published in a print edition, and is instead being produced in the above-mentioned DVD and Internet formats. A reduced version of this encyclopedia is also available in numerous Japanese electronic dictionaries, and modified access to \"Netto de Hyakka\" is available using Japanese cell phones. The content differs only slightly between the various formats. \"Netto de Hyakka\" is constantly updated and therefore provides the most current information, but the majority of articles have not been significantly altered from the text edition. The Internet format is text-only and does not include the images that are present in the text and DVD version.\n\nThe current version of \"Netto de hyakka\" (ネットで百科＠Home) is called the \"Network Encyclopedia\" in English, and is provided by Hitachi Systems and Services. Heibonsha no longer provides support for electronic versions of the \"World Encyclopedia\".\n\nAll articles in the \"Heibonsha Encyclopedia\" are signed by their authors. The encyclopedia does not include a list of reference works used in each article. Articles differ widely in length based on the significance of the topic. The encyclopedia covers a wide variety of topics of both general and specific interest, with particular attention to topics relating to Japan. The 1988 edition features 90,000 entries and includes an index that lists cross-references for approximately 400,000 terms. Beginning with the 1988 edition, the encyclopedia has included an index in Western character sets for more convenient searching of foreign words.\n\n"}
{"id": "33306284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33306284", "title": "International Coalition to Stop Crimes Against Humanity in North Korea", "text": "International Coalition to Stop Crimes Against Humanity in North Korea\n\nThe International Coalition to Stop Crimes Against Humanity in North Korea (ICNK) was formed on September 8, 2011. It comprises Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the International Federation for Human Rights and has support from over 40 organizations worldwide. North Korean human rights issues with which the ICNK deals include North Korea’s political prison camp system and the repatriation and punishment of North Korean refugees.\n\nAs stated by ICNK: \nICNK was formed with the goal of establishing a UN Commission of Inquiry to investigate Crimes against Humanity in North Korea. In order to achieve this, the ICNK worked to raise public understanding and awareness of the human rights situation in North Korea.\n\nIn 2013 the UN Human Rights Council did establish the Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in the DPRK with resolution 22/13, with a landmark report published in 2014.\n\nIn January 2012 ICNK sent an open letter to Kim Jong-un. In March 2012 ICNK submitted a petition to the United Nations Human Rights Council to employ its special procedures mechanism to help shut down the North Korean political prison camps.\n\nList of member organizations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33724912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33724912", "title": "Jack Mills (classification researcher)", "text": "Jack Mills (classification researcher)\n\nJack Mills (1918 – 9 July 2010) was a British librarian and classification researcher, who worked for more than sixty years in the study, teaching, development and promotion of library classification and information retrieval, principally as a major figure in the British school of facet analysis which builds on the traditions of Henry E. Bliss and S.R. Ranganathan.\n\n\nFrom the 1960s Jack Mills was the driving force behind the revision of the Bliss bibliographic classification, chairing the Bliss Classification Association Committee, and undertaking the greater part of the work of revision as Editor of the new scheme. He was a great admirer of Bliss's classification and used most of his life to develop a revised edition (BC2), a task he did not fulfil. The BC2 preserved the general structure of BC1, but the revised edition (BC2) is to all intents and purposes a new scheme of classification, realising the hopes of the Classification Research Group for the development of a new British scheme of classification. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225815", "title": "Jewish Encyclopedia", "text": "Jewish Encyclopedia\n\nThe Jewish Encyclopedia is an English encyclopedia containing over 15,000 articles on the history, culture, and state of Judaism and the Jews up to the early 20th century. It was originally published in 12 volumes by Funk and Wagnalls of New York City between 1901 and 1906 and reprinted in the 1960s by KTAV Publishing House. The work's scholarship is still highly regarded: the American Jewish Archives has called it \"the most monumental Jewish scientific work of modern times\" and Rabbi Joshua L. Segal said that, \"For events prior to 1900, it is considered to offer a level of scholarship superior to either of the more recent Jewish Encyclopedias written in English.\" It is now in the public domain and hosted at various sites around the internet.\n\nThe encyclopedia's managing editor was Isidore Singer. The editorial board was chaired by Isaac K. Funk and Frank H. Vizetelly. The other editors participating in all twelve volumes were Cyrus Adler, Gotthard Deutsch, Richard Gottheil, Joseph Jacobs, Kaufmann Kohler, Herman Rosenthal, and Crawford Howell Toy. Morris Jastrow, Jr. and Frederick de Sola Mendes assisted with volumes I & II; Marcus Jastrow with volumes I, II, & III; Louis Ginzberg with the first four volumes; Solomon Schechter with volumes IV through VII; Emil G. Hirsch with volumes IV through XII; and Wilhelm Bacher with volumes VIII through XII. William Popper served as the assistant revision editor and chief of translation for Vols. IV through XII.\n\nSinger conceived of a Jewish encyclopedia in Europe and proposed creating an “Allgemeine Encyklopädia für Geschichte und Wissenschaft des Judenthums” in 1891. He envisioned twelve volumes, published over ten or fifteen years, and costing fifty dollars as a set. They would contain scientific and unbiased articles on ancient and modern Jewish culture. This proposal received good press coverage and interest from the Brockhaus publishing company. However, after the House of Rothschild in Paris, consulted by Zadoc Kahn, offered to back the project with only 8% of the minimum funds requested by Brockaus, the project was abandoned. Following the Dreyfus affair and associated unpleasantness Singer emigrated to New York City.\n\nInitially believing that American Jews could do little more than provide funding for his project, Singer was impressed by the level of scholarship in the United States. He wrote a new prospectus, changing the title of his planned encyclopedia to “Encyclopedia of the History and Mental Evolution of the Jewish Race”. His radical ecumenism and opposition to orthodoxy upset many of his Jewish readers; nevertheless he attracted the interest of publisher Isaac K. Funk, a Lutheran minister who also believed in integrating Judaism and Christianity. Funk agreed to publish the encyclopedia on the condition that it remain unbiased on issues which might seem unfavorable for Jews. Singer accepted and was established in an office at Funk & Wagnalls on 2 May 1898.\n\nPublication of the prospectus in 1898 created a severe backlash, including accusations of poor scholarship and of subservience to Christians. Kaufmann Kohler and Gotthard Deutsch, writing in \"American Hebrew\", highlighted Singer’s factual errors, and accused him of commercialism and irreligiosity. Now considering that the project could not succeed with Singer at the helm, Funk & Wagnalls appointed an editorial board to oversee creation of the encyclopedia.\n\nFunk & Wagnalls assembled an editorial board between October 1898 and March 1899. Singer toned down his ideological rhetoric, indicated his desire to collaborate, and changed the work’s proposed title to “Jewish Encyclopedia”. Despite their reservations about Singer, rabbi Gustav Gottheil and Cyrus Adler agreed to join the board, followed by Morris Jastrow, then Frederick de Sola Mendes and two published critics of the project: Kauffmann Kohler and Gotthard Deutsch. Theologian and Presbyterian minister George Foot Moore was added to the board for balance. (Soon after work started, Moore withdrew and was replaced by Baptist minister Crawford Toy.) Last was added the elderly Marcus Jastrow, mostly for his symbolic imprimatur as America's leading Talmudist. In March 1899 the Central Conference of American Rabbis, which had been contemplating a competing project, agreed to discuss collaborating with Funk & Wagnalls—thus securing the position of the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" as the only major project of its kind.\n\nThe editors plunged into their enormous task and soon identified and solved some inefficiencies with the project. Article assignments were shuffled around and communication practices were streamlined. Joseph Jacobs was hired as a coordinator. (He also wrote four hundred articles and procured many of the encyclopedia's illustrations.) Herman Rosenthal, an authority on Russia, was added as an editor. Louis Ginzberg joined the project and later became head of the rabbinical literature department.\n\nThe board naturally faced many difficult editorial questions and disagreements. Singer wanted specific entries for every Jewish community in the world, with detailed information about, for example, the name and dates of the first Jewish settler in Prague. Conflict also arose over what types of bible interpretation should be included, with some editors fearing that Morris Jastrow's involvement in \"higher criticism\" would lead to unfavorable treatment of scripture.\n\nThe scholarly style of the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" is very much in the mode of the Wissenschaft des Judentums (\"Jewish studies\"), an approach to Jewish scholarship and religion that flourished in 19th-century Germany; indeed, the Encyclopedia may be regarded as the culmination of this movement, which sought to modernize scholarly methods in Jewish research. In the 20th century, the movement's members dispersed to Jewish Studies departments in the United States and Israel. The scholarly authorities cited in the Encyclopedia—besides the classical and medieval exegetes—are almost uniformly Wissenschaft figures, such as Leopold Zunz, Moritz Steinschneider, Solomon Schechter, Wilhelm Bacher, J.L. Rapoport, David Zvi Hoffman, Heinrich Graetz, etc. This particular scholarly style can be seen in the \"Jewish Encyclopedia's\" almost obsessive attention to manuscript discovery, manuscript editing and publication, manuscript comparison, manuscript dating, and so on; these endeavors were among the foremost interests of Wissenschaft scholarship.\n\nThe \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" is an English-language work, but the vast majority of the encyclopedia's contemporary sources are German-language sources, since this was the mother tongue of the Wissenschaft scholars and the \"lingua franca\" of Biblical scholarship in general in that period. Of the works cited which are not German—usually the more classical works—the large part are either Hebrew or Arabic. The only heavily cited English-language source of contemporary scholarship is Solomon Schechter's publications in the \"Jewish Quarterly Review\". The significance of the work's publication in English rather than German or Hebrew is captured by Harry Wolfson writing in 1926 :\n\nThe editors and authors of the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" proved prescient in their choice of language, since within that same span of 25 years, English rose to become the dominant language of academic Jewish scholarship and among Jews worldwide. Wolfson continues that \"if a \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" in a modern language were planned for the first time [i.e., in 1926], the choice would undoubtedly have fallen upon English.\"\n\nThe \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" was heavily used as a source by the 16-volume \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" in Russian, published by Brockhaus and Efron in Saint Petersburg between 1906 and 1913.\n\nThe unedited text of the original can be found at the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" website. The site offers both JPEG facsimiles of the original articles and Unicode transcriptions of all texts.\n\nThe search capability is somewhat handicapped by the fact that the search mechanism fails to take into account the decision to maintain all diacritical marks in the transliterated Hebrew and Aramaic from the 1901–1906 text, which used a large number of diacriticals not in common use today. Thus, for example, to successfully search for \"Halizah\" (the ceremony by which the widow of a brother who has died childless released her brother-in-law from the obligation of marrying her), one would have to know that they have transliterated this as \"Ḥaliẓah\". The alphabetic index ignores diacriticals so it can be more useful when searching for an article whose title is known.\n\nThe scholarly apparatus of citation is thorough, but can be a bit daunting to contemporary users. Books that might have been widely known among scholars of Judaism at the time the encyclopedia was written (but which are quite obscure to a lay reader today) are referred to by author and title, but with no publication information and often without indication of the language in which they were written. A list of abbreviations used in the encyclopedia is provided on the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8655988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8655988", "title": "Joe Stecher", "text": "Joe Stecher\n\nJoe Stecher (April 4, 1893 – March 29, 1974), sometimes spelled Joe Stetcher, was a professional wrestler and three-time World Heavyweight Wrestling Champion.\n\nStecher is the first professional wrestler to regain the original version of the World Heavyweight Wrestling Championship.\n\nThe son of Bohemian immigrants, Joseph \"Joe\" Stecher was born on April 4, 1893 on a farm in Dodge, Nebraska. Joe was the youngest of the family’s eight children, and as a youth, he excelled in numerous sports, including swimming, golf, tennis, and baseball. While the boys were still young, Frank Stecher enrolled his three sons in a wrestling course at the local Fremont YMCA, and Joe's older brothers soon emerged as accomplished amateur grapplers. Joe's eldest brother, Lewis, would earn a commission to Annapolis, and as a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy, he was eventually recognized as the National Intercollegiate Light Heavyweight Wrestling Champion. Moreover, Anton (\"Tony\") Stecher starred as the premier wrestler at Fremont High School; and as a result, Joe was determined to follow in his brothers' large footsteps. From the moment he took the mat, it was clear that Joe was a natural wrestling talent, as he utilized his strong body and long limbs to outclass his opponents. Then in 1909, as a high school senior at just age 16, he nearly defeated \"Doc\" Benjamin Roller, one of the world's top turn-of-the-century grapplers, in a hard-fought exhibition bout while Roller was touring the Midwest.\n\nIn 1912, both Joe and Tony Stecher decided to join the professional ranks; and Joe easily defeated Bill Hokief in his first pro match. After a few months, it soon became apparent that Joe, who was taller and heavier than his older brother, was also the clearly superior grappler. However, Tony possessed greater savvy for the business; and so he subsequently became Joe's trainer and co-manager along with Joe Hetmanek (who had previously served as the Dodge postmaster). During this time, he also developed freakishly strong leg muscles as he practiced squeezing 100-pound sacks of grain on the farm until they would ultimately burst. He was also said to have practiced said squeezes on pigs and even a mule. As a result, Stecher soon became renowned for his feared leg scissors submission hold, which subsequently earned him the nickname of \"The Scissors King\". Nevertheless, Stecher would not gain national awareness until attracting the attention of the fabled \"Farmer\" Martin Burns, the former American Heavyweight Champion who was also the mentor to the now-current World Heavyweight Wrestling Champion, Frank Gotch. While touring the area, Burns planned to sucker the area gamblers by offering cash to any local wrestler who could defeat his \"strongman\", who just happened to be world-class hooker Yussiff Hussane, one of wrestling's feared \"Terrible Turks\". This was a standard con for Burns' group, and when young Stecher accepted the offer, nobody anticipated that he would pose a legitimate challenge. However, Stecher proceeded to outwrestle the great champion, and when he finally slapped on his patented scissors hold after 45 minutes, a desperate Hussane was disqualified for biting Stecher’s leg.\n\nIn the following years, Stecher continued his ascent by defeating established grapplers like Jess Westergaard, Ad Santel, Bob Managoff Sr., Marin Plestina, and Adolph Ernst, all in straight falls, and all in 15 minutes or less. Then with Gotch in attendance on July 5, 1915 in Omaha, Nebraska, Stecher defeated the reigning American Heavyweight Champion, Charles Cutler to claim professional wrestling's world heavyweight championship. At just 22 years old, Joe Stecher became the youngest world champion in history up to that point, yet he remained in the vast shadow of Gotch, who had retired a couple years earlier without ever losing the title and was thus still acknowledged by the public as professional wrestling's true champion. As a result, a Gotch vs. Stecher \"dream match\" was arranged for July 18, 1916 and was promoted as being professional wrestling's biggest matchup since Gotch's battles with George Hackenschmidt a decade earlier. Unfortunately, the bout never materialized, as Gotch broke a fibula in his leg while wrestling Managoff as part of a traveling circus, and his health deteriorated until he eventually died on December 16, 1917.\n\nDespite having never faced Gotch (though it is speculated that he had dominated the aging champion in an impromptu sparring session), Stecher reigned as the sport's elite star while also beginning a legendary rivalry with a new professional wrestling sensation named Ed \"Strangler\" Lewis. Stecher and Lewis wrestled for the first time on October 20, 1915, when a then-unknown Lewis was counted out after over two hours when he fell out of the ring and hit his head on a chair. The two then rematch on July 4, 1916, where they grappled for nearly five hours before the match was finally ruled a draw. After a third draw in 1918, Lewis had achieved notoriety by again managing to avoid being pinned by Stecher, though he was widely criticized for employing a defensive/avoiding style, while Stecher was usually the dominant aggressor. Nevertheless, it was Stecher who would win the majority of their contests over the course of the next five years.\n\nStecher retired for good in 1934, but later suffered an emotional breakdown and was institutionalized in the St. Cloud Veteran's Hospital in St. Cloud, Minnesota, where he remained for thirty years. He died on March 29, 1974 at age 80.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15946561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15946561", "title": "Les Spectacles de Paris", "text": "Les Spectacles de Paris\n\nLes Spectacles de Paris was a French theatrical almanac which appeared in Paris (from the Duchesne press) from 1751 to 1797 without break. It followed the \"Almanach des théâtres\", printed by Ballard, in 1744 and 1745.\n\nOver its 46-year life, it changed its name several times :\n\nIt was begun by abbot Joseph de La Porte, a playwright among other things. In it is to be found an annual run-down of the troupes of the Académie royale de musique, of the Comédie-Française, of the Comédie-Italienne, of the Opéra-Comique, of the Foires Saint-Germain et Saint-Laurent and of the Concert Spirituel. For each theatre, it gives the new plays put on there that year, actors' first performances, anecdotes about the theatre world, actors, plays and comic-actors, and authors' and actors' obituaries. From 1792, the almanack also kept an important slot for provincial theatres (e.g. in Bordeaux, Lyon, Marseille, Nantes, Rouen, Toulouse and Lille) and the make-up of their troupes.\n\nThe almanac was succeeded by the \"Indicateur dramatique ou Almanach des théâtres de Paris\" in 1798 and the \"Almanach des spectacles de Paris\" in 1799 and 1800, which gave way in the 19th century to the \"Annuaire dramatique\" (1805–1817), then to the \"Almanach des spectacles, par K.Y.Z.\" (1818–1824).\n\n"}
{"id": "51386599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51386599", "title": "Library linked data", "text": "Library linked data\n\nLibrary linked data (LLD) is the use of linked data standards by libraries. These standards are usually applied to bibliographic and authority data sets with the hope of decreasing redundant cataloging work; and increasing visibility of library resources and interoperability with non-library systems.\n\nIn 2010, Byrne and Goddard have written that the \"killer [library linked data] example isn't out there yet,\" and warned that implementation work will be hampered if clear use cases don't exist.\n\nMany groups have examined this issue, including the W3C Library Linked Data Incubator Group, the Bibliographic Framework Initiative, and the LD4L project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1088921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1088921", "title": "Magic circle", "text": "Magic circle\n\nA magic circle is a circle (or sphere, field) of space marked out by practitioners of many branches of ritual magic, which they generally believe will contain energy and form a sacred space, or will provide them a form of magical protection, or both. It may be marked physically, drawn in salt or chalk, for example, or merely visualised. Its spiritual significance is similar to that of mandala and yantra in some Eastern religions.\n\nTraditionally, circles were believed by ritual magicians to form a protective barrier between themselves and what they summoned. In modern times, practitioners generally cast magic circles to contain and concentrate the energy they raise during a ritual.\n\nThere are many published techniques for casting a circle, and many groups and individuals have their own unique methods. The common feature of these practices is that a boundary is traced around the working area. Some witchcraft traditions say that one must trace around the circle deosil three times. There is variation over which direction one should start in.\n\nCircles may or may not be physically marked out on the ground, and a variety of elaborate patterns for circle markings can be found in grimoires and magical manuals, often involving angelic and divine names. Such markings, or a simple unadorned circle, may be drawn in chalk or salt, or indicated by other means such as with a cord.\n\nThe four cardinal directions are often prominently marked, such as with four candles. In ceremonial magic, traditions the four directions are commonly related to the four archangels Michael, Gabriel, Raphael and Uriel (or Auriel), or to the four classical elements, and also have four associated names of God. Other ceremonial traditions have candles between the quarters, i.e. in the north-east, north-west and so on. Often, an incantation will be recited stating the purpose and nature of the circle, often repeating an assortment of divine and angelic names.\n\nIn Wicca, a magic circle is typically nine feet in diameter, though the size can vary depending on the purpose of the circle, and the preference of the caster.\n\nSome varieties of Wicca use the common ceremonial colour attributions for their \"quarter candles\": yellow for Air in the east, red for Fire in the south, blue for Water in the west and green for Earth in the north (though these attributions differ according to geographical location and individual philosophy).\n\nThe common technique for raising energy within the circle is by means of a cone of power.\n\nThe barrier is believed to be fragile, so that leaving or passing through the circle would weaken or dispel it. This is referred to as \"breaking the circle\". It is generally advised that practitioners do not leave the circle unless absolutely necessary.\n\nIn order to leave a circle and keep it intact, Wiccans believe a door must be cut in the energy of the circle, normally on the East side. Whatever was used to cast the circle is used to cut the doorway, such as a sword, staff or knife (athame), a doorway is \"cut\" in the circle, at which point anything may pass through without harming the circle. This opening must be closed afterwards by \"reconnecting\" the lines of the circle.\n\nThe circle is usually closed by the practitioner after they have finished by drawing in the energy with the athame or whatever was used to make the circle including their hand (usually in a widdershins: that is, counter-clockwise fashion). This is called \"closing the circle\" or \"releasing the circle\". The term \"opening\" is often used, representing the idea the circle has been expanded and dissipated rather than closed in on itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3375297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3375297", "title": "Museum of Modern Art Department of Film", "text": "Museum of Modern Art Department of Film\n\nThe Museum of Modern Art Department of Film, based in the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, United States, and founded in 1935, contains works of international cinema, focusing on the art and history of the film medium. The collection comprises more than 22,000 films and 4 million film stills.\n\nThe department's public film screenings are held at the Museum's 53rd Street building. The Celeste Bartos International Film Study Center, also at the 53rd Street building, maintains scholarly resources on film and has facilities for viewing films from the collection for research purposes. The film and film stills collections are stored at the Celeste Bartos Film Preservation Center in Hamlin, Pennsylvania. The department also operates a circulating film and video library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1151230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1151230", "title": "Nameprep", "text": "Nameprep\n\nNameprep is the process of case-folding to lowercase and removal of some generally invisible code points before it is suitable to represent a domain name, or other such canonical name. It is used by the Internationalizing Domain Names in Applications (IDNA) standard, using the Unicode standard for NFKC normalization.\n\nNameprep is defined in RFC 3491, \"Nameprep: A Stringprep Profile for Internationalized Domain Names (IDN)\", as a profile of Stringprep, which is described in RFC 3454, \"Preparation of Internationalized Strings (\"stringprep\").\" \n\nIt does not map lookalike characters to a single character nor prohibit the use of lookalike characters. There are good reasons for this, such as the fact that fonts differ in which characters are lookalikes, and the fact that any decision on which character to map to will obviously provide a bias towards users of one script, but it has potentially grave implications for security if not considered by the designers and administrators of systems based on nameprep (the best known example of this being VeriSign's handling of IDNA names in .com and .net).\n\n"}
{"id": "4478888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4478888", "title": "National Museum of China", "text": "National Museum of China\n\nThe National Museum of China () flanks the eastern side of Tiananmen Square in Beijing, China. The museum's mission is to educate about the arts and history of China. It is directed by the Ministry of Culture of the People's Republic of China.\n\nIt is one of the largest museums in the world, and with over eight million visitors in 2017, the National Museum of China was the second-most visited art museum in the world, just after the Louvre. \n\nThe museum was established in 2003 by the merging of the two separate museums that had occupied the same building since 1959: the Museum of the Chinese Revolution in the northern wing (originating in the Office of the National Museum of the Revolution founded in 1950 to preserve the legacy of the 1949 revolution) and the National Museum of Chinese History in the southern wing (with origins in both the Beijing National History Museum, founded in 1949, and the Preliminary Office of the National History Museum, founded in 1912, tasked to safeguard China's larger historical legacy).\n\nThe building was completed in 1959 as one of the Ten Great Buildings celebrating the ten-year anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. It complements the opposing Great Hall of the People that was built at the same time. The structure sits on and has a frontal length of , a height of four stories totaling , and a width of . The front displays ten square pillars at its center.\n\nAfter four years of renovation, the museum reopened on March 17, 2011, with 28 new exhibition halls, more than triple the previous exhibition space, and state of the art exhibition and storage facilities. It has a total floor space of nearly 200,000 m (2.2 million square feet) to display. The renovations were designed by the German firm Gerkan, Marg and Partners.\n\nThe museum, covering Chinese history from the Yuanmou Man of 1.7 million years ago to the end of the Qing Dynasty (the last imperial dynasty in Chinese history), has a permanent collection of 1,050,000 items, with many precious and rare artifacts not to be found in museums anywhere else in China or the rest of the world.\n\nAmong the most important items in the National Museum of China are the \"Simuwu Ding\" from the Shang Dynasty (the heaviest piece of ancient bronzeware in the world, at 832.84 kg), the square shaped Shang Dynasty bronze zun decorated with four sheep heads, a large and rare inscribed Western Zhou Dynasty bronze water pan, a gold-inlaid Qin Dynasty bronze tally in the shape of a tiger, Han Dynasty jade burial suits sewn with gold thread, and a comprehensive collection of Tang Dynasty tri-colored glazed sancai and Song Dynasty ceramics. The museum also has an important numismatic collection, including 15,000 coins donated by Luo Bozhao.\n\nThe museum has a permanent exhibition called \"The Road to Rejuvenation\", which details the glorious course of achieving national prosperity and fully reveals how the people chose Marxism, the Communist Party of China, socialism, and the reform policy. It attests to the Chinese priority of holding high the socialism and of remaining firmly committed to the Chinese socialist road and theory.\n\nBecause of its central location in Tiananmen Square, the front of the museum has been used since the 1990s for the display of countdown clocks relating to occasions of national importance, including the 1997 transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong, the 1999 transfer of sovereignty of Macau, the beginning of the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and the opening of the 2010 World Expo in Shanghai.\n\nA three-month exhibition of the luxury brand Louis Vuitton in 2011 led to some complaints of commercialism at the museum, with Peking University professor Xia Xueluan stating that as a state-level public museum, it \"should in fact only be dedicating itself to non-profit cultural promotion.\" However Yves Carcelle, Chairman and Chief executive officer of Louis Vuitton Malletier defended the exhibition by stating: \"What's important is what you are going to discover. I think before money, there's history: 157 years of creativity and craftsmanship.\"\n\nSome critics have also alleged the museum's modern historiography tends to focus on the triumphs of the Communist Party, while minimizing or ignoring politically sensitive subjects such as the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024409", "title": "Natural History (magazine)", "text": "Natural History (magazine)\n\nNatural History is a natural history magazine published in the United States. The stated mission of the magazine is to promote public understanding and appreciation of nature and science.\n\nFounded in 1900 by the American Museum of Natural History, \"Natural History\" was first titled \"The American Museum Journal\". In 2002, the magazine was purchased from the Museum by a new company, headed at the time by Charles Harris. As of 2013 the magazine is published in North Carolina by Howard Richman. There are 10 issues published annually.\n\nSince its founding, \"Natural History\" has chronicled the major expeditions and research findings by curators at the American Museum of Natural History and at other natural history museums and science centers. Stephen Jay Gould's column, \"This View of Life,\" was a regular feature of the magazine from 1974 until he retired the column in 2001. Other regular columnists and contributing authors include Neil deGrasse Tyson, Jared Diamond, Richard Dawkins, Norman D. Newell, and Thomas Nicholson.\n\n"}
{"id": "41761550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41761550", "title": "Peak Downs Telegram", "text": "Peak Downs Telegram\n\nThe Peak Downs Telegram (later the Clermont Telegram) was a newspaper published in Clermont, Queensland, Australia.\n\nThe \"Peak Downs Telegram\" was started by Charles Hardie Buzacott and E. J. Fried on 2 August 1864. Buzacott, however, disposed of his interests in the journal and moved to Gladstone to start the \"Gladstone Observer\" in 1869. The last issue of the \"Peak Downs Telegram\" appeared on 18 December 1943.\n\nThe \"Clermont Telegram\" commenced on 10 March 1950 and continued until 6 May 1981. It was purchased in 1980 by the Gibson family who owned the Central Queensland News published in Emerald.\n"}
{"id": "1319561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1319561", "title": "Propædia", "text": "Propædia\n\nThe one-volume Propædia is the first of three parts of the 15th edition of \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the other two being the 10-volume \"Micropædia\" and the 19-volume \"Macropædia\". The \"Propædia\" is intended as a topical organization of the \"Britannica's\" contents, complementary to the alphabetical organization of the other two parts. Introduced in 1974 with the 15th edition, the \"Propædia\" and \"Micropædia\" were intended to replace the Index of the 14th edition; however, after widespread criticism, the \"Britannica\" restored the Index as a two-volume set in 1985. The core of the \"Propædia\" is its Outline of Knowledge, which seeks to provide a logical framework for all human knowledge; however, the \"Propædia\" also has several appendices listing the staff members, advisors and contributors to all three parts of the \"Britannica\".\n\nIn March 2012, Britannica's president, Jorge Cauz, announced that it would not produce any new print editions of the encyclopaedia, with the 2010 15th edition being the last. This was announced as a move by the company to adapt to the times and focus on its future using digital distribution.\n\nAnalogous to the \"Britannica\" itself, the \"Outline\" has three types of goals: epistemological, educational, and organizational. In the epistemological arena, it seeks to provide a systematic, strictly hierarchical categorization of all possible human knowledge, a 20th-century analog of the Great Chain of Being and Francis Bacon's outline in \"Instauratio magna\". In the educational arena, the \"Propædia\" lays out a course of study for each major discipline, a \"roadmap\" for a student who wishes to learn a field in its entirety. Finally, the \"Propædia\" serves as an expanded Table of Contents for the \"Micropædia\" and \"Macropædia\"; according to its designer, Mortimer J. Adler, all the articles of the \"Britannica\" were .\n\nThe \"Outline\" has ten Parts, each with an introductory essay. The authors of these essays are listed below in the final column of Table 1. The same ten men were responsible for developing the outline for their Part, in consultation and collaboration with a handful of other scholars; in all, 86 men and one woman were involved in developing the Outline of Knowledge (see Table 2 below).\n\nEach of the ten Parts contains from 2 to 7 Divisions, which in turn contain from 2 to 11 Sections. These Sections form the basic categories of knowledge in the schema, and each one is given a special three-part numerical code to encode its place in the \"Outline's\" hierarchy. For example, the section \"Military Technology\" has the code \"736\" indicating that it is the 6th Section of the 3rd Division (\"Major Fields of Technology\") of the 7th Part (\"Technology\"). Forward slashes are used when a Part, Division or Section has more than one digit; for example, the Section \"History and Philosophy of Logic\" has the code \"10/11\" indicating that it is the 1st section of the 1st Division (\"Logic\") of the 10th Part (\"The Branches of Knowledge\").\n\nThe \"Outline\" was an eight-year project of Mortimer J. Adler, published 22 years after he published a similar effort (the \"Syntopicon\") that attempts to provide an overview of the relationships among the \"Great Ideas\" in Adler's Great Books series. (The Great Books were also published by the Encyclopædia Britannica Inc.) Adler stresses in his book, \"A Guidebook to Learning: For a Lifelong Pursuit of Wisdom\", that the ten categories should not be taken as hierarchical but as circular.\n\nOther encyclopedias have provided analogous outlines of knowledge. In the Preface to the famous \"Encyclopédie\" (published 1751-1772), d'Alembert provides a roadmap to the knowledge of his time. Inspired by that example, in a letter dated 15 November 1812, Dugald Stewart proposed to Archibald Constable, the owner and publisher of the \"Britannica\", that the supplement to its 5th edition should begin with a series of dissertations that outlined and organized the knowledge of their time.\n\n"}
{"id": "83033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83033", "title": "Psychopomp", "text": "Psychopomp\n\nPsychopomps (from the Greek word ψυχοπομπός, \"psychopompós\", literally meaning the \"guide of souls\") are creatures, spirits, angels, or deities in many religions whose responsibility is to escort newly deceased souls from Earth to the afterlife. Their role is not to judge the deceased, but simply to guide them. Appearing frequently on funerary art, psychopomps have been depicted at different times and in different cultures as anthropomorphic entities, horses, deer, dogs, whip-poor-wills, ravens, crows, owls, sparrows and cuckoos. When seen as birds, they are often seen in huge masses, waiting outside the home of the dying.\n\nClassical examples of a psychopomp are the ancient Egyptian god Anubis, the Greek ferryman Charon and deities Hermes and Hecate, the Roman god Mercury, and the Etruscan deity Vanth.\n\nThe form of Shiva as Tarakeshwara in Hinduism performs a similar role, although leading the soul to moksha rather than an afterlife. Additionally, in the Bhagavata Purana, the Visnudutas and Yamadutas are also messengers for their respective masters, Vishnu and Yama. Their role is illustrated vividly in the story of Ajamila. In many beliefs, a spirit being taken to the underworld is violently ripped from its body.\n\nIn the Persian tradition, Daena, the Zoroastrian Self-guide, appears as a beautiful young maiden to those who deserve to cross the Chinvat Bridge or a hideous old hag to those who do not.\n\nIn Judaism and Islam, Azrael plays the role of the angel of death who carries the soul up to the heavens.\n\nIn many cultures, the shaman also fulfills the role of the psychopomp. This may include not only accompanying the soul of the dead, but also to help at birth, to introduce the newborn child's soul to the world. This also accounts for the contemporary title of \"midwife to the dying\", or \"End of Life Doula\", which is another form of psychopomp work. \n\nIn Filipino culture, ancestral spirits (\"anito\") function as psychopomps. When the dying call out to specific dead persons (e.g. parents, partners), the spirits of the latter are supposedly visible to the former. The spirits, who traditionally wait at the foot of the deathbed, retrieve (Tagalog: \"sundô\") the soul soon after death and escort it into the afterlife.\n\nThe banshee of Irish and Scottish folklore fits the role of a psychopomp; she keens and laments three nights in a row to warn families of impending deaths and to guide the soul of the recently dead to the Afterlife.\n\nIn Jungian psychology, the psychopomp is a mediator between the unconscious and conscious realms. It is symbolically personified in dreams as a wise man or woman, or sometimes as a helpful animal. \n\nThe most common contemporary example of a psychopomp appearing in popular culture is the Grim Reaper, which dates from 15th-century England and has been adopted into many other cultures around the world over the years; for instance, the shinigami in Japanese culture today.\n\n"}
{"id": "51519401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51519401", "title": "Richard Brautigan bibliography", "text": "Richard Brautigan bibliography\n\nThis is a list of publications by Richard Brautigan (1935-1984), an American writer known for his poetry, novels, and short stories.\n\n\nBrautigan published ten novels, with an eleventh published after his death, and a twelfth identified but unpublished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39629054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39629054", "title": "S v Ndlovu", "text": "S v Ndlovu\n\nIn S v Ndlovu; S v Sibisi (2005), the appellants objected that further to the standard basic explanation provided them of their rights to legal representation, they had not\n\n\nThe court held that it was an essential step that an accused be promptly informed of his rights in regard to legal representation and where the failure to provide that standard basic explanation had the effect of depriving the accused of legal representation, the proceedings would be vitiated by fundamental irregularity.\n\nFurthermore, the court held that in special circumstances, it was essential that an accused be given such information further to the standard basic explanation: namely, information as to the seriousness of the charge and as to the applicable minimum sentence, if that information were reasonably required to enable the accused to make a sufficiently informed decision regarding whether to seek legal representation.\n\nSpecial circumstances existed, for example, where an accused was tried in the regional magistrate's court for an offense which carried a prospective life imprisonment.\n\nThe provision of further information would only be essential to the extent that it was reasonably required to enable the accused to make a sufficiently informed decision on legal representation. It would thus not be essential to inform the accused that he was facing the possibility of a substantial prison sentence if he could reasonably be expected to be aware of it.\n\nFurthermore, even where it was not essential to inform the accused of the prescribed sentence, it remained desirable whenever the charge was a serious one.\n\nAn accused must also be afforded a reasonable time within which to obtain legal representation and a reasonable opportunity to make up his mind whether to seek legal representation.\n\nFurthermore, if an accused persists in declining to seek legal representation, the court must ask him why.\n\nA presiding officer should, however, be careful to respect the right of an accused to choose to conduct his own defense.\n"}
{"id": "1931195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1931195", "title": "Stan Hansen", "text": "Stan Hansen\n\nJohn Stanley Hansen II (born August 29, 1949) is an American actor, author and retired professional wrestler.\n\nHansen is known for his stiff wrestling style, which he attributes to his poor eyesight. He is also known for his gimmick as a loud, violent cowboy who wanted to fight everybody, which he further emphasized by appearing in interviews with a cowboy hat, leather vest and bullrope while often chewing on tobacco. Considered the most successful and popular gaijin in professional wrestling history, he became more well-known and revered in Japan than in his native United States, where he also won championships.\n\nIn 1989, he played a small role in the movie \"No Holds Barred\". In 2012, he released his co-written biography, \"The Last Outlaw\".\n\nHansen played college football for the West Texas State Buffaloes.\n\nHansen made his professional wrestling debut in 1973. Initially a part-time job while playing football for the Detroit Wheels, he began wrestling full-time when the team folded. In 1975, Hansen first teamed with future partner Frank Goodish, who later adopted the ring name Bruiser Brody, while competing in Leroy McGuirk's Tri-State territory.\n\nIn 1976, Hansen made his debut for the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) and only two months after he began competing for the company, he began feuding with the WWF Heavyweight Champion Bruno Sammartino over the title. During a title match, Hansen broke Sammartino's neck while they were wrestling and it was from this incident that both Hansen and promoters claimed that Sammartino's injury came about from the enormous power of his lariat. However, a botched powerslam is what actually caused Sammartino's injury. After Sammartino recovered, Hansen faced him for the WWWF Heavyweight Championship once again, but was unsuccessful. He left the promotion soon after. He returned in 1980, rekindling his feud with Sammartino and facing Pedro Morales and Andre the Giant on several occasions. He also developed a heated feud with then-WWF Champion Bob Backlund which culminated in a steel cage match at Madison Square Garden.\n\nHansen first came to New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW) in May 1980 doing one off shows where usually teamed and fought Bob Backlund. From November 21 to December 13, 1980, Hansen did a tour for New Japan Pro Wrestling, where he competed in the first MSG league (later renamed the G1 Tag League). He teamed with Hulk Hogan, but they failed to win. He returned that April to wrestle Antonio Inoki in an unsuccessful match. He returned for several more one off shows until leaving the promotion in early 1981.\n\nHansen returned at NJPW's Super Fight in Tokyo Dome event in 1990, where he had an infamous interpromotional match against Vader. The match for the IWGP Heavyweight Championship saw Big Van Vader (representing New Japan, while Hansen represented All Japan) get struck in the eye during the entrances by Hansen's Bullrope. Both men were known to use a stiff style of wrestling, resulting in a nasty exchange where each man threw legitimate punches. The match ended in a draw, and Hansen never returned to New Japan.\n\nIn 1981, Hansen abruptly left NJPW to join All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW). While in AJPW, Hansen became the only man to pin Antonio Inoki and Giant Baba in championship singles matches. He continued wrestling from 1982 to 1999 in World's Strongest Tag Determination League. He wrestled primarily in tag matches, where he formed many teams with the likes of Bruiser Brody, Terry Gordy, Ted DiBiase, Genichiro Tenryu, Dan Spivey, Bobby Duncum Jr., and Big Van Vader. Hansen also engaged in a renowned brawl with André the Giant in Japan.\n\nIn addition to championship matches, Hansen also competed in other high-profile matches. At the NJPW Super Fight in Tokyo Dome show on February 2, 1990, Hansen competed in another notable match as he represented AJPW against NJPW representative Big Van Vader. This particular match became renowned for its stiffness, as Hansen and Vader repeatedly exchanged blows until Hansen unintentionally poked Vader's right eye with his thumb, which caused the eye to pop out of its socket. After removing his mask, pushing the eye back into its socket and holding it in place with his eyelid, Vader continued wrestling Hansen until the match was rendered a no contest. As a result of the injury, Vader required a metal plate to be surgically placed under his eye. On April 13, 1990, the World Wrestling Federation and AJPW held a supershow called Wrestling Summit at the Tokyo Dome in Tokyo, in which Hansen lost to Hulk Hogan in the main event. Hansen won his first Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship by defeating Terry Gordy on June 8, 1990, and wrestled a rematch in NJPW against Vader on June 12.\n\nHansen competed in the American Wrestling Association (AWA) from 1985 to 1986. He won the World Heavyweight Championship on December 29, 1985, from Rick Martel. On June 29, 1986, he no-showed a title defense against the number one contender Nick Bockwinkel due to disagreements with management, forcing the AWA to default the title to Bockwinkel. Rumors suggest that Hansen was actually in the building that evening and had been informed by AWA promoter Verne Gagne of the pending loss to Bockwinkel. Hansen allegedly called All Japan Pro Wrestling president Giant Baba to ask if losing the championship was acceptable, but Baba had already lined up challengers for Hansen and did not permit Hansen to drop the championship. In the end, Hansen refused to drop the title to Bockwinkel and was stripped of the championship; Bockwinkel was given one of the tag team belts, which was then billed as the AWA World Heavyweight Championship due to Hansen still possessing the true title belt. Hansen immediately returned to Japan and defended the AWA World Heavyweight Championship, despite being stripped of it. The AWA threatened legal action if Hansen continued to carry the belt and refer to himself as the organization's champion, so Hansen responded by running over the belt with his truck and mailing it back with the mud tracks still on it. This chain of events was reviewed in an interview with Hansen at an NWA Legends convention, in which he expressed regret over the way he handled the situation and ultimately complimented Gagne.\n\nIn late 1990, Hansen began appearing in World Championship Wrestling (WCW), feuding with Lex Luger over the NWA United States Heavyweight Championship. On October 27 at Halloween Havoc, Hansen defeated Luger to win the title, ending Luger's record-setting reign at 523 days. On December 16 at Starrcade, Hansen re-lost the title to Luger in a bullrope match. During this period, Hansen continued working tours for All Japan, teaming with Dan Spivey to finish second in the World's Strongest Tag Determination League in November and December. Hansen wrestled another rematch with Vader at the WrestleWar pay-per-view in February 1991. On April 18, Hansen and Spivey won the AJPW World Tag Team Championship from Terry Gordy and Steve Williams, and teamed occasionally upon their return to WCW. In June, Hansen left WCW and returned full-time to All Japan after a disagreement over an idea to group him with The Desperados, a trio of bumbling cowboys looking for Hansen through a series of vignettes. His last WCW match occurred on June 23 in Atlanta. As a result of his departure, The Desperados' angle was dropped and the trio was quickly dissolved.\n\nUpon his return to AJPW, Hansen began a major feud with Mitsuharu Misawa, during which time they traded the Triple Crown Championship between one another. Following Giant Baba's death, Misawa became the new booker and quickly began de-emphasizing Hansen and other foreign talent, in favor of new native recruits such as Takao Omori and Yoshihiro Takayama.\n\nIn 2000, and formed Pro Wrestling Noah (PWN), although Hansen chose to remain loyal to AJPW instead of joining the talent exodus. Despite remaining with AJPW, Hansen's ongoing lumbago at the time began to worsen, which ultimately lead him to wrestle his final singles match on October 21, 2000 as part of a tournament for the vacant Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship. Hansen lost the semi-final match to old partner Genichiro Tenryu, who went on to win the tournament and the title. His last match altogether was a six-man bout on the 28th, in which he, Steve Williams and Wolf Hawkfield lost to Johnny Smith, Yoshiaki Fujiwara and Masanobu Fuchi.\n\nHansen announced his retirement on January 28, 2001.\n\nSoon after retiring, Hansen successfully underwent surgery on his back and knees, the latter of which were both replaced. After recovering, he became the commissioner of AJPW's Pacific Wrestling Federation championship governing body, which saw him appear during Triple Crown and World Tag Team Championship matches to issue proclamations of the matches. In July 2007, Hansen voluntarily resigned from the position, with Hiroshi Hase replacing him.\n\nOn April 2, 2016, Hansen was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by his rival and friend Vader.\n\nIn 1989, Hansen had a small role in the World Wrestling Federation-produced movie \"No Holds Barred\", which starred Hulk Hogan.\n\nHansen has four children. He has an eldest son, John Stanley Hansen III and daughter, Elizabeth Paige Hardee, née Hansen, from his first marriage. He had two more children with his current wife Yumi, Shaver (born December 19, 1987), played baseball at Baylor University before being drafted by the Seattle Mariners as the second pick in the sixth round of the 2009 Major League Baseball Draft. His younger son, Samuel (born February 21, 1991), is also a baseball player and played for the University of Texas at Arlington.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12465195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12465195", "title": "Stanley Kubrick Archive", "text": "Stanley Kubrick Archive\n\nThe Stanley Kubrick Archive is held by the University of the Arts London in their Archives and Special Collection Centre at the London College of Communication. The Archive opened in October 2007 and contains material collected and owned by the film director Stanley Kubrick (1928–1999). It was transferred from his home in 2007 through a gift by his family. It contains much of Kubrick's working material that was accumulated during his lifetime.\n\nThe collection spans Kubrick’s career as a photographer for Look and as a film Director. His films are: \"Fear and Desire\", \"Killer's Kiss\", \"The Killing\", \"Paths of Glory\", \"Spartacus\", \"Lolita\", \"\", \"\", \"A Clockwork Orange\", \"Barry Lyndon\", \"The Shining\", \"Full Metal Jacket\" and \"Eyes Wide Shut\". Kubrick also planned to make a number of other films two in particular were abandoned just before production, \"Napoleon\" and \"The Aryan Papers\". He also played an important role in the conception of \"\", although it was completed after his death by Steven Spielberg.\n\nThe collection held by the University is made up of a range of material including props, scripts, research, production paperwork such as call sheets, costumes and photographs for all his films and Look, as well as material for those projects that were conceived but never visualised. By maintaining a high degree of control in the film making process, Kubrick was able to retain material generated by his pioneering techniques, research and production work: arguably making this collection one of the most complete examples of film making practice worldwide.\n\nItems from the archive are on loan for the touring Stanley Kubrick Exhibition.\n\n"}
{"id": "26382391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26382391", "title": "The True-Born Englishman", "text": "The True-Born Englishman\n\nThe True-Born Englishman is a satirical poem published in 1701 by Daniel Defoe defending the then King of England William, who was Dutch-born, against xenophobic attacks by his political enemies, and ridiculing the notion of English racial purity. It quickly became popular. \n\nAccording to a preface Defoe supplied to an edition of 1703, the poem's declared target is not Englishness as such but English cultural xenophobia, against the cultural disturbance new immigrants caused. Defoe's argument was that the English nation as it already existed in his time was a product of various incoming European ethnic groups, from Ancient Britons to Anglo-Saxons, Normans and beyond. It was therefore nonsensical to abuse newer arrivals since the English law and customs would assure their inevitable assimilation:\n\nThis extract, the poem's first stanza, was used by historian and political scientist Benedict Anderson as an epigram for his 1983 book \"Imagined Communities\" discussing the origins of nationalism.\n"}
{"id": "58200591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58200591", "title": "The Watchers (sculpture)", "text": "The Watchers (sculpture)\n\nThe Watchers is a 1960 bronze sculpture by Lynn Chadwick, installed in the San Diego Museum of Art's May S. Marcy Sculpture Garden, in the U.S. state of California.\n\n"}
{"id": "12759010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12759010", "title": "Tiyanak", "text": "Tiyanak\n\nThe Tiyanak (also Tianak or Tianac) is a vampiric creature in Philippine mythology that imitates the form of a child. It usually takes the form of a newborn baby and cries like one in the jungle to attract unwary travelers. Once it is picked up by the victim, it reverts to its true form and attacks the victim. The tiyanak is also depicted to take malevolent delight in leading travelers astray, or in abducting children.\n\nWhile various legends have slightly different versions of the tiyanak folklore, the stories all agree on its ability to mimic an infant, with its ability to imitate an infant's cries for luring victims. In some legends, the Tiyanak may take the form of a specific child.\n\n\nThere are various stories on how tiyanaks came to being. The Mandaya people of Mindanao claim that the tiyanak is the spirit of a child whose mother died before giving birth. This caused it to be \"born in the ground\", thus gaining its current state. A similar supernatural creature in Malay folklore is the Pontianak, which was a woman who died before giving birth.\n\nWith the Spanish colonization of the Philippines in the 16th century, the tiyanak myth was integrated into Christianity. The tiyanak in the Christian version were supposedly the souls of infants that died before being baptized. In modern-day Philippines, this definition has extended to that of aborted fetuses that returned from death to seek revenge on those who deprived them of life. It is also said that Tiyanak cannot go to after life because of not having a name. This causes them to be Earth-bound creatures which wander around searching for someone to give them names.\n\nIn local belief, various countermeasures are supposedly effective against the tiyanak. Those that were led astray by the creature's cries are believed to be able to break the enchantment by turning their clothes inside out. The tiyanak finds the method humorous enough to let go of the traveler and go back to the jungles. Loud noises such as a New Year's celebration are also thought to be enough to drive the tiyanak away from the vicinity. Objects believed to repel Aswang (vampiric shape-shifters), like garlic and the rosary, are also commonly believed to be effective against the tiyanak. It is also believed that giving a name to these lost souls will bring them peace, and offering a white candle will help guide its spirit to afterlife.\n\nThe tiyanak is the subject of many Philippine movies:\n\nTiyanaks appeared in the 2006 TV series, Super Inggo. Dubbed as the \"junanaks\" by Budong and Pareng Jomar.\nThey also appeared in week-32 2013 episodes of Juan dela Cruz (TV series).\n\nThe Tiyanak is also featured as a monster, along with other Philippine folklore-inspired beings, in the Port Malaya patch of Ragnarok Online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5885272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5885272", "title": "Touch Dictionary", "text": "Touch Dictionary\n\nTouch Dictionary (, \"Teochi Digsyeoneoli\") (formerly known as \"Touch Dic\") is a dictionary software title for the Nintendo DS released in 2005 exclusively to South Korea.\n\nThe dictionary offers translation to and from English, Japanese, and Korean. An advertisement for the game claims it offers 1.63 million words.\n\nOn the bottom screen, the user enters the word he or she wants to translate in the source language, using the on-screen keyboard. Above the keyboard, a list of possible source words is displayed. The user can choose between multiple words with similar spelling, such as and . The top screen displays the results of the search. The user can scroll between results using an on-screen scroll wheel on the right side of the lower screen.\n\nThe title was developed by YBM Sisa, a company that primarily creates English software for teaching people English. It was published by Daiwon C&A Holdings, now known as Daewon Media. The name was changed from \"Touch Dic\" to \"Touch Dictionary\" for release. It was released only in South Korea. A Korean video advertisement for \"Touch Dictionary\" uses the phrase \"단어를 자극한다\" (daneoleul jageukhanda) as a slogan. Roughly translated, it means \"Words stimulate.\"\n\nSony Computer Entertainment Korea produced a similar game, \"Hand Dictionary\", for release for the PlayStation Portable. Comparing it with the \"Touch Dic\", IGN jokingly called Sony's version \"Hand Dic\".\n\nThe original name of the game, \"Touch Dic\", fostered controversy after FailBlog posted the cover, noting the similarity of the word 'dic' to the word 'dick', slang for penis. Gaming blog Joystiq called the title \"potentially offensive.\". WatchMojo.com also placed it 3rd in \"Top 10 Worst Video Game Titles\".\n"}
{"id": "25882003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25882003", "title": "Victoria Cirlot", "text": "Victoria Cirlot\n\nVictoria Cirlot Valenzuela (born 1955) is a Spanish scholar of medieval culture and literature, philologist, translator and editor. She is currently a professor of medieval literature and comparative literature at the Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona, Celtic religion professor at the University of Barcelona, and professor of symbology at the Universitat Ramon Llull in the same city. The collection El Árbol del Paraíso of the Editorial Siruela (Madrid) is co-directed by her. She is also a founding member of the Institut Universitari de Cultura and coordinator of the research team of the Biblioteca Mystica et Philosophica Alois M. Haas. Cirlot is a member of the Institut Carl Gustav Jung Barcelona. Some of her influences are the study of mysticism, symbology and the history of religions on one hand, and by the aesthetics of reception on the other.\n\nCirlot was born in Barcelona to the poet Juan Eduardo Cirlot, whose book \"A Dictionary of Symbols\" she edited, and which contains an epilogue by her. Her sister is fellow professor Lourdes Cirlot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453295", "title": "Whittlesey", "text": "Whittlesey\n\nWhittlesey is a market town east of Peterborough in the Fenland district of Cambridgeshire, England. Including the neighbouring villages of Coates, Eastrea, Pondersbridge and Turves, it had a population of 16,058 at the 2011 Census.\n\nWhittlesey is between Peterborough, to the west, and March, to the east, and is bordered to the north by the River Nene and to the south by Whittlesey Dyke. Historically it was connected to Peterborough and March by the Roman road Fen Causeway constructed in the first century AD, a route approximately followed by the modern A605. \n\nWhittlesea railway station, using the town name's older spelling, is on the Ely to Peterborough Line, with direct trains to Cambridge, Birmingham, Liverpool, Leicester, Stansted Airport, Ely, Ipswich and Peterborough.\n\nWhittlesey appears in the \"Cartularium Saxonicum\" (973 A.D.) as Witlesig, in the Domesday Book as Witesie, and in the \"Inquisitio Eliensis\" (1086 A.D.) as Wittleseia. The meaning is \"Wit(t)el's island\", deriving from either Witil, \"the name of a moneyer\", or a diminutive of Witta, a personal name; + \"eg\", meaning \"'island', also used of a piece of firm land in a fen.\"\n\nBefore the draining of the fens, Whittlesey was an island of dry ground surrounded by the marshy fens. Excavations of nearby Flag Fen indicate thriving local settlements as far back as 1000 BC. At Must Farm quarry, a Bronze Age settlement is described as \"Britain's Pompeii\" due to its relatively good condition. In 2016 it was being excavated by the University of Cambridge's Cambridge Archaeological Unit. At Must Farm at least five homes of 3,000 years in age have been found, along with Britain's most complete prehistoric wooden wheel, dating back to the late Bronze Age.\n\nIn more recent times Whittlesey was linked to Peterborough in the west and March in the east by the Roman Fen Causeway, probably built in the 1st century AD. Roman artefacts have been recovered at nearby Eldernell, and a Roman skeleton was discovered in the nearby village of Eastrea during construction of its village hall in 2010.\n\nThe town's two parishes of St Mary's and St Andrew's were controlled by the abbeys in Thorney and Ely respectively until the Dissolution of the Monasteries (c. 1540). The two parishes were combined for administrative purposes by the Whittlesey Improvement Act of 1849. Despite the proximity of Peterborough, Whittlesey is in the Diocese of Ely.\n\nUntil it was drained in 1851, nearby Whittlesey Mere was a substantial lake surrounded by marsh. According to the traveller Celia Fiennes, who saw it in 1697, the mere was \"3 mile broad and six mile long. In the midst is a little island where a great store of Wildfowle breed... The ground is all wett and marshy but there are severall little Channells runs into it which by boats people go up to this place; when you enter the mouth of the Mer it looks formidable and its often very dangerous by reason of sudden winds that will rise like Hurricanes...\" The town is still accessible by water, connected to the river Nene by King's Dyke, which forms part of the Nene/Ouse Navigation link. Moorings can be found at Ashline Lock, alongside the Manor Leisure Centre's cricket and football pitches.>\n\nWhittlesey was noted for its brickyards, around which the former hamlet of King's Dyke was based for much of the 20th century, although only one now remains, following the closure of the Saxon brickworks in 2011.\n\nThe local clay soil was also used to make cob boundary walls during a period in which there was a tax on bricks. Some examples of these roofed walls still stand today and are unique in Fenland.\n\nWhittlesey was infamous for its number of public houses; folklore dictates that, at one time there were 52 of them – one for each week of the year. In 1797, a local farmer noted in his diary \"they like drinking better than fighting in Whittlesea.\"\n\nIn other history, Whittlesey was an important trade route in the late Bronze Age (about 1100–800 BC), where civilisations traded with many places, including the Balkans. Such evidence is clear at the important archaeological site of Must Farm, where log boats, roundhouses, bowls with food in them, and the most complete wooden wheel were housed.\n\nSt Mary's Church is 15th century, but the majority of the building is later. The church has one of the largest buttressed spires in Cambridgeshire. It also contains a chapel which was restored in 1862 as a memorial to Sir Harry Smith.\n\nSt Andrew's Church is a mixture of the Perpendicular and Decorated styles of Gothic, and has records back to 1635.\n\nThe Market Place is the site of the town's market, held every Friday. A right to hold a weekly market was first granted in 1715, although there have been several periods since then during which the market did not function, for example from the late 1700s until about 1850.\n\nIn the centre of the Market Place is the Buttercross, dating back to 1680. Originally a place for people to sell goods at market, the structure was considered useless in the 1800s and was only saved from demolition when a local businessman donated some slate tiles for the roof. It served as a bus shelter, until the controversial relocation of bus services from the Market Place to a purpose-built terminal in Grosvenor Road.\n\nThe Whittlesey Summer Festival, held annually in September, takes over much of the town centre. Attractions in recent years have included a large classic car display, a large Italian food stall, fairground rides, a steam engine, and in 2009, a flying display by a Hawker Hurricane of the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight. An art competition, for students of Sir Harry Smith Community College also runs with the festival, with entries displayed throughout the day in the Whittlesey Christian Church. The festival in 2009 also saw the people of Whittlesey raise £10,000 for bushfire victims in Whittlesea, Melbourne.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2015 the town was the location of a long-running planning battle between rival supermarket chains Tesco and Sainsbury's, which competed to build on neighbouring sites in Eastrea Road. Dubbed \"Supermarket Gate\" by the local press, the dispute was eventually resolved when Sainsbury's won approval for its supermarket, business park and country park development in June 2015. Plans for over 400 houses on an adjacent site, construction of which began in late 2014, also generated some controversy when approved, due to concerns about the additional traffic generated on the A605.\n\nLocated close to the King's Dyke brickworks are three 80-metre wind turbines, the largest on-shore turbines in England, which power the McCains chips plant.\n\nThe town has one secondary school, Sir Harry Smith Community College, which opened in 1953 on the site of Whittlesey Workhouse, and three primary schools. There is another primary school in the neighbouring village of Coates.\n\nWhittlesey Museum, in the Old Town Hall, has collections to do with the natural and cultural heritage of Whittlesey and the surrounding area.\n\nThe festival of the Straw Bear or \"Strawbower\" is an old custom known only from a small area of Fenland on the borders of Huntingdonshire and Cambridgeshire, including Ramsey Mereside. (Similar ritual animals have been known in other parts of Europe, and still appear in parts of Germany at Shrovetide.)\n\nOn Plough Tuesday, the day after the first Monday after Twelfth Night, a man or a boy would be covered from head to foot in straw and led from house to house where he would dance in exchange for gifts of money, food or beer. The festival was of a stature that farmers would often reserve their best straw for the making of the bear.\n\nThe custom died out in about 1909, probably because the local police regarded it as begging, but it was resurrected by the Whittlesea Society in 1980.\n\nThe festival has now expanded to cover the whole weekend when the Bear appears (not Plough Tuesday nowadays, but the second weekend in January instead). On the Saturday of the festival, the Bear processes around the streets with its attendant \"keeper\" and musicians, followed by numerous traditional dance sides (mostly visitors), including morris men and women, molly dancers, rapper and longsword dancers, clog dancers and others, who perform at various points along the route.\n\nThe Bear dances to a tune (reminiscent of the hymn \"Jesus Bids us Shine\") which featured on \"Rattlebone and Ploughjack\", a 1976 LP by Ashley Hutchings, along with a spoken description of the original custom (which partly inspired the Whittlesey revival).\n\n\"Sessions\" of traditional music take place in many of the public houses during the day and evening, and a barn dance or ceilidh and a Cajun dance round off the Saturday night. The bear \"costume\" is burned at a ceremony on Sunday lunchtime, (just as, in Germany, the Shrovetide bear costumes are also ceremonially burned after use).\n\nThe Whittlesea Straw Bear and Keeper are featured on the album art of The Young Knives' album, \"Voices of Animals and Men\".\n\nSir Harry George Waklyn Smith (1788–1860), best known for his role in the Battle of Aliwal (India), was born in Whittlesey. His military career saw him rise from a rifleman to a major general and Baronet of Aliwal. He was governor of the Cape of Good Hope from 1847 to 1852, during a period of intense unrest. Smith featured in \"Rifles\" by Mark Urban, about the 95th Rifles Napoleonic campaigns through Spain to Waterloo, during which time he was a junior officer and served with his two brothers. He is commemorated through the Whittlesey area, giving his name to the Sir Harry Smith Community College and community centre, for example. There is a bust of him in St Mary's Church. There is a pub named \"The Hero of Aliwal\" and a street named Aliwal Road in his honour. The house where he was born bears a plaque with his name. At the time of his death, the building was used as a school, but at present it is a private house. He is buried in the local cemetery.\n\nAnother famous son of Whittlesey is the renowned author L. P. Hartley.\n\nActor David Proud, who was the first disabled actor to have a regular role in \"EastEnders\", lived in Whittlesey and attended Sir Harry Smith Community College. The Supportive Skills department at the school is named The David Proud Suite in his honour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13198716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13198716", "title": "World Association of Ugly People", "text": "World Association of Ugly People\n\nThe World Association of Ugly People (in Italian Club dei Brutti) is an organization dedicated to fighting for the recognition of ugly people, in a society that places a high value on physical beauty. The group's motto is \"A person is what he is and not what he looks like\".\n\nThe club claims to have a history in Piobbico, Italy, from 1879. It was launched again in 1963 as a marriage agency for the town's single women.\n\nThe World Association of Ugly People club campaigns against discrimination in the workplace based on looks. It attempts to make society more aware of ugly people's problems. It also helps people overcome their phobias and, in some cases, to find partners.\n\nIn 2007, the group unveiled a monument dedicated to ugly people in Piobbico's town square. The monument depicts an unknown person looking at his reflection in a mirror.\n\nThe club's emblem is the head of a wild boar. The club's crest features a reclining man smoking a pipe with the slogan: \"Ugliness is a virtue, beauty is slavery\".\n\nThe club's patron is Vulcan from Roman mythology. At birth Vulcan was so ugly that his mother threw him over a cliff. He survived and became a skilled blacksmith. For providing Achilles with superior weapons, he was admitted to Mount Olympus where he married the beautiful Venus, goddess of love.\n\nThe members of the World Association of Ugly People elect their president annually during the \"Festival of the Ugly\". This event is hosted by the small town of Piobbico in the Marche region of Italy every year on the first Sunday of September.\n\nEvery year until 2007, Telesforo Iacobelli won the top prize and was president of the club, owing to his dedication to the organization. Also, he has a small nose in a culture where large noses are considered beautiful. On August 21, 2006, Iacobelli died.\n\nThe following people have been members of the association.\n\n\nIn 2010, the Association provided inspiration for the song \"Club Dei Brutti\" by the English band Idiot Savant.\n\n"}
