{"id": "36200622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36200622", "title": "Aharon Perlow of Koidanov", "text": "Aharon Perlow of Koidanov\n\nAharon Perlow (; 1839 – 1897) was the third Rebbe of the Koidanov Hasidic dynasty. He was a charismatic leader who attracted thousands of followers and effected a revival of the Koidanover dynasty founded by his grandfather, Rabbi Shlomo Chaim Perlow (1797-1862). He authored several important works that became standard texts for Koidanover Hasidim to this day, including a siddur, \"Seder Tefilot Yisrael Or Hayashar\" (\"The Direct Light: Order of Prayers of Israel\").\n\nPerlow was born in Koidanov (present-day Dzyarzhynsk, Belarus) to Rabbi Baruch Mordechai Perlow (1818–1870), the second Koidanover Rebbe. He was the great-great-grandson of both Rabbi Mordechai of Lyakhavichy (Lechovitch) (c. 1742–1810) and Rabbi Asher Perlow of Karlin. Before acceding to the leadership of the Koidanover Hasidim, he was the Rav of the Koidanover shtiebel in Lechovitch. He pioneered the opening of prayer houses in different towns that followed the teachings of the Rebbes of Lechovitch, Kobryn, Slonim, and Koidanov. He became the third Koidanover Rebbe upon the death of his father in 1870.\n\nThe new rebbe’s charismatic personality and scholarship attracted thousands of Hasidim to Koidanov. He built synagogues in many other towns to spread Koidanover influence, and strengthened the Koidanover community founded in Tiberias, Palestine, by his grandfather. While he supported settlement in the Land of Israel, he spoke strongly against the tenets of Zionism. He reportedly told his Hasidim: \"Whoever gives money to Hovevei Zion [a forerunner of Zionism which encouraged Jewish immigration to Palestine] forfeits his reward in the world to come, despite all the charitable deeds that he may have performed and may yet perform throughout his life\".\n\nIn his writings and demeanor, Rebbe Aharon embodied the \"mystical-charismatic style\" of the Rebbes of Karlin-Stolin, of which Koidanov is a branch. A scholar of Kabbalah, he published and annotated a number of classic kabbalah works, including Rabbi Moshe Cordovero's \"Or Ne'erav\", to which he appended his commentary \"Nir'eh Or\" (1899), and Rabbi Moshe Hagiz' \"Sefat Emet\", which he supplemented with teachings on the significance of the Land of Israel in kabbalistic and Hasidic works (1876). He also authored a siddur entitled \"Seder Tefilot Yisrael Or Hayashar\" (\"The Direct Light: Order of Prayers of Israel\"), in which he enumerated \"eight mystical practices for spiritual perfection\". This siddur is still used by Koidanover Hasidim today. Other works, including \"Haggadah shel Pesach Siach Avot\" (1991) and \"Zekher Tzadik\" (1905), were published posthumously. His brother, Rabbi Shalom of Koidanov-Bruhin (1850–1925), was also a prolific writer whose works expanded the literature and teachings of Koidanov.\n\nThe present-day Koidanover Rebbe, Rabbi Yaakov Tzvi Meir Ehrlich, is the great-grandson of the son-in-law of Rebbe Aharon.\n"}
{"id": "494683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=494683", "title": "Apotheosis", "text": "Apotheosis\n\nApotheosis (from Greek ἀποθέωσις from ἀποθεοῦν, \"apotheoun\" \"to deify\"; in Latin \"deificatio\" \"making divine\"; also called divinization and deification) is the glorification of a subject to divine level. The term has meanings in theology, where it refers to a belief, and in art, where it refers to a genre.\n\nIn theology, \"apotheosis\" refers to the idea that an individual has been raised to godlike stature. In art, the term refers to the treatment of any subject (a figure, group, locale, motif, convention or melody) in a particularly grand or exalted manner.\n\nBefore the Hellenistic period, imperial cults were known in Ancient Egypt (pharaohs) and Mesopotamia (since Naram-Sin). From the New Kingdom, all deceased pharaohs were deified as the god Osiris.\n\nFrom at least the Geometric period of the ninth century BC, the long-deceased heroes linked with founding myths of Greek sites were accorded chthonic rites in their \"heroon\", or \"hero-temple\".\n\nIn the Greek world, the first leader who accorded himself divine honours was Philip II of Macedon. At his wedding to his sixth wife, Philip's enthroned image was carried in procession among the Olympian gods; \"his example at Aigai became a custom, passing to the Macedonian kings who were later worshipped in Greek Asia, from them to Julius Caesar and so to the emperors of Rome\". Such Hellenistic state leaders might be raised to a status equal to the gods before death (e.g., Alexander the Great) or afterwards (e.g., members of the\nPtolemaic dynasty). A heroic cult status similar to apotheosis was also an honour given to a few revered artists of the distant past, notably Homer.\n\nArchaic and Classical Greek hero-cults became primarily civic, extended from their familial origins, in the sixth century; by the fifth century none of the worshipers based their authority by tracing descent back to the hero, with the exception of some families who inherited particular priestly cults, such as the Eumolpides (descended from Eumolpus) of the Eleusinian mysteries, and some inherited priesthoods at oracle sites. The Greek hero cults can be distinguished on the other hand from the Roman cult of dead emperors, because the hero was not thought of as having ascended to Olympus or become a god: he was beneath the earth, and his power purely local. For this reason hero cults were chthonic in nature, and their rituals more closely resembled those for Hecate and Persephone than those for Zeus and Apollo. Two exceptions were Heracles and Asclepius, who might be honoured as either gods or heroes, sometimes by chthonic night-time rites and sacrifice on the following day.\n\nUp to the end of the Republic, Romans accepted only one official apotheosis: the god Quirinus, whatever his original meaning, having been identified with Romulus. Subsequently, apotheosis in ancient Rome was a process whereby a deceased ruler was recognized as having been divine by his successor, usually also by a decree of the Senate and popular consent. In addition to showing respect, often the present ruler deified a popular predecessor to legitimize himself and gain popularity with the people. The upper-class did not always take part in the imperial cult, and some privately ridiculed the apotheosis of inept and feeble emperors, as in the satire \"The Pumpkinification of (the Divine) Claudius\", usually attributed to Seneca.\n\nAt the height of the imperial cult during the Roman Empire, sometimes the emperor's deceased loved ones—heirs, empresses, or lovers, as Hadrian's Antinous—were deified as well. Deified people were awarded posthumously the title \"Divus\" (\"Diva\" if women) to their names to signify their divinity. Traditional Roman religion distinguished between a \"deus\" (god) and a \"divus\" (a mortal who became divine or deified), though not consistently. Temples and columns were erected to provide a space for worship.\n\nThe Ming dynasty epic \"Investiture of the Gods\" deals heavily with deification legends. Numerous mortals have been deified into the Daoist pantheon, such as Guan Yu, Iron-crutch Li and Fan Kuai. Song Dynasty General Yue Fei was deified during the Ming Dynasty and is considered by some practitioners to be one of the three highest ranking heavenly generals.\n\nVarious Hindu and Buddhist rulers in the past have been represented as deities, especially after death, from Thailand to Indonesia. Even several Sultans of Yogyakarta were semi-deified, posthumously.\n\nDeceased North Korean leader Kim Il-Sung is the principal object of the North Korean cult of personality in which he is treated similarly to an explicitly apotheosized leader, with statues of and monuments dedicated to the \"Eternal President\", the annual commemoration of his birth, the paying of respects by newlyweds to his nearest statue, and the North Korean calendar being a Juche calendar based on Kim Il-sung's date of birth.\n\nInstead of the word \"apotheosis\", Christian theology uses in English the words \"deification\" or \"divinization\" or the Greek word \"theosis\". Traditional mainstream theology, both East and West, views Jesus Christ as the preexisting God who undertook mortal existence, not as a mortal being who attained divinity. It holds that he has made it possible for human beings to be raised to the level of sharing the divine nature: he became one of us to make us \"partakers of the divine nature\" \"For this is why the Word became man, and the Son of God became the Son of man: so that man, by entering into communion with the Word and thus receiving divine sonship, might become a son of God.\"\" \"For He was made man that we might be made God.\" \"The only-begotten Son of God, wanting to make us sharers in his divinity, assumed our nature, so that he, made man, might make men gods.\"\n\nThe Westminster Dictionary of Christian Theology contains the following in an article titled \"Deification\":\n\nEastern Christian theology does not use the term \"apotheosis\".\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church also does not use the term \"apotheosis\".\n\nCorresponding to the Greek word \"theosis\" are the Latin-derived words \"divinization\" and \"deification\" used in the parts of the Catholic Church that are of Latin tradition. The concept has been given less prominence in Western theology than in that of the Eastern Catholic Churches, but is present in the Latin Church's liturgical prayers, such as that of the deacon or priest when pouring wine and a little water into the chalice: \"By the mystery of this water and wine may we come to share in the divinity of Christ who humbled himself to share in our humanity.\" The Catechism of the Catholic Church quotes with approval Saint Athanasius's saying, \"The Son of God became man so that we might become God.\"\n\nCatholic theology stresses the concept of supernatural life, \"a new creation and elevation, a rebirth, it is a participation in and partaking of the divine nature\" (cf. ). In Catholic teaching there is a vital distinction between natural life and supernatural life, the latter being \"the life that God, in an act of love, freely gives to human beings to elevate them above their natural lives\" and which they receive through prayer and the sacraments; indeed the Catholic Church sees human existence as having as its whole purpose the acquisition, preservation and intensification of this supernatural life.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church or Mormons) believes in apotheosis along the lines of the Christian tradition of divinization or deification but refers to it as exaltation, or eternal life, and considers it to be accomplished by \"sanctification.\" It believes that people may live with God throughout eternity in families and eventually become gods themselves but remain subordinate to God the Father, God the Son, and the Holy Spirit. While the primary focus of the LDS Church is on Jesus of Nazareth and His atoning sacrifice for man, Mormons believe that one purpose for Christ's mission and for His atonement is the exaltation or Christian deification of man. The third Article of Faith of Mormon Christianity states that all men may be saved from sin by the atonement of Jesus Christ, and LDS Gospel Doctrine (as published) states that all men will be saved and will be resurrected from death. However, only those who are sufficiently obedient and accept the atonement and the grace and mercy of Jesus Christ before the resurrection and final judgment will be \"exalted\" and receive a literal Christian deification.\n\nOne popular Mormon quote, often attributed to the early Mormon leader Lorenzo Snow in 1837, is \"As man now is, God once was: As God now is, man may be.\" The teaching was taught first by Joseph Smith while he was pointing to in the New Testament; he said that \"God himself, the Father of us all, dwelt on an earth, the same as Jesus Christ himself did.\" Many LDS and non-LDS scholars also have discussed the correlation between Mormon belief in exaltation and the ancient Christian theosis, or deification, as set forth by early Church Fathers. Several LDS and non-LDS historians specializing in studies of the early Christian Church also claim that the Mormon belief in eternal progression is more similar to the ancient Christian deification as set forth in numerous patristic writings of the 1st to 4th centuries AD than the beliefs of any other modern faith group of the Christian tradition.\n\nMormons believe that the original Christian belief in man's divine potential gradually lost its meaning and importance in the centuries after the death of the apostles, as doctrinal changes by post-apostolic theologians caused Christians to lose sight of the true nature of God and His purpose for creating humanity. The concept of God's nature that was eventually accepted as Christian doctrine in the 4th century set divinity apart from humanity by defining the Godhead as three persons sharing a common divine substance. That classification of God in terms of a substance is not found in scripture but, in many aspects, mirrored the Greek metaphysical philosophies that are known to have influenced the thinking of Church Fathers such as Justin Martyr, Origen, and Augustine. Mormons teach that by modern revelation, God restored the knowledge that He is the literal father of our spirits (Hebrews 12:9) and that the Biblical references to God creating mankind in His image and likeness are in no way allegorical. As such, Mormons assert that as the literal offspring of God the Father (Acts 17:28-29), humans have the potential to be heirs of His glory and co-heirs with Christ (Romans 8:16-17). The glory, Mormons believe, lies not in God's substance but in His intelligence: in other words, light and truth (Doctrine and Covenants 93:36). Thus, the purpose of humans is to grow and progress to become like the Father in Heaven. Mortality is seen as a crucial step in the process in which God's spirit children gain a body, which, though formed in the image of the Father's body, is subject to pain, illness, temptation, and death. The purpose of this earth life is to learn to choose the right in the face of that opposition, thereby gaining essential experience and wisdom. The level of intelligence we attain in this life will rise in the Resurrection (Doctrine and Covenants 130:18-19). Bodies will then be immortal like those of the Father and the Son (Philippians 3:21), but the degree of glory to which each person will resurrect is contingent upon the Final Judgment (Revelation 20:13, 1 Corinthians 15:40-41). Those who are worthy to return to God's presence can continue to progress towards a fullness of God's glory, which Mormons refer to as eternal life, or exaltation (Doctrine and Covenants 76).\n\nThe LDS concept of apotheosis/exaltation is expressed in LDS scriptures (Mosiah 3:19, Alma 13:12, D&C 78:7, D&C 78:22, D&C 84:4, D&C 84:23, D&C 88:68, D&C 93:28) and is expressed by a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: \"Though stretched by our challenges, by living righteously and enduring well we can eventually become sufficiently more like Jesus in our traits and attributes, that one day we can dwell in the Father's presence forever and ever\" (Neal Maxwell, October 1997).\n\nIn early 2014, the LDS church published an essay on the official church website specifically addressing the foundations, history, and official beliefs regarding apotheosis. The essay addresses the scriptural foundations of this belief, teachings of the early Church Fathers on the subject of deificiation, and the teachings of LDS church leaders, starting with Joseph Smith.\n\nIn art the matter is practical: the elevation of a figure to divine level entails certain conventions. So it is that the apotheosis genre exists in Christian art as in other art. The features of the apotheosis genre may be seen in subjects that emphasize Christ's divinity (Transfiguration, Ascension, Christ Pantocrator) and that depict holy persons \"in glory\"—that is, in their roles as \"God revealed\" (Assumption, Ascension, etc.).\n\nLater artists have used the concept for motives ranging from genuine respect for the deceased (Constantino Brumidi's fresco \"The Apotheosis of Washington\" on the dome of the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C.), to artistic comment (Salvador Dalí's or Ingres's \"The Apotheosis of Homer\"), to mock-heroic and burlesque apotheoses for comedic effect.\n\nMany modern leaders have exploited the artistic imagery if not the theology of apotheosis. Examples include Rubens's depictions of James I of England at the Banqueting House (an expression of the Divine Right of Kings) or Henry IV of France, or Appiani's apotheosis of Napoleon. The C. H. Niehaus-designed \"Apotheosis of St. Louis\" (Louis IX of France) became a symbol for St. Louis MO. The term has come to be used figuratively to refer to the elevation of a dead leader (often one who was assassinated and/or martyred) to a kind of superhuman charismatic figure and an effective erasing of all faults and controversies which were connected with his name in life - for example, Abraham Lincoln in the US, Lenin in the USSR, Yitzchak Rabin in Israel, or Kim Jong-il in North Korea.\n\n\"Apotheosis\" in music refers to the appearance of a theme in grand or exalted form. It represents the musical equivalent of the apotheosis genre in visual art, especially where the theme is connected in some way with historical persons or dramatic characters. When crowning the end of a large-scale work the apotheosis functions as a peroration, following an analogy with the art of rhetoric.\n\nApotheosis moments abound in music, and the word itself appears in some cases. In the List of compositions by François Couperin there are 3 suites entitled \"Apotheoses\" (1724), Hector Berlioz used \"Apotheose\" as the title of the final movement of his \"Grande symphonie funèbre et triomphale\", a work composed in 1846 for the dedication of a monument to France's war dead. Two of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's ballets, \"The Sleeping Beauty\" and \"The Nutcracker\", contain apotheoses as finales; the same is true of Ludwig Minkus's \"La Bayadère\". Igor Stravinsky's composed Orpheus (ballet) and Apollo (ballet) for choreographer George Balanchine which both contain episodes entitled \"Apotheose\". The concluding tableau of Maurice Ravel's \"Ma mère l'Oye\" is also titled \"Apotheose.\" Czech composer Karel Husa, concerned in 1970 about arms proliferation and environmental deterioration, named his musical response \"Apotheosis for This Earth\". Aram Khachaturian entitled a segment of his ballet \"Spartacus\" \"Sunrise and Apotheosis.\" Richard Wagner, referring to the lively rhythms which permeate Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony No. 7, called it the \"apotheosis of the dance\". Alexander Glazunov's ballet \"The Seasons\", Op.67 has as the concluding movement:- Autumn: Scene and Apotheosis.\n\nAmerican technical death metal band The Faceless explored the idea of Apotheosis in the first three tracks of their 2012 album \"Autotheism\". The first three tracks are one song broken into three parts called \"The Autotheism Movement\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8576556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8576556", "title": "Aravidu dynasty", "text": "Aravidu dynasty\n\nThe Aravidu Dynasty was the fourth and last Hindu dynasty which ruled Vijayanagara Empire in South India. Its founder was Tirumala Deva Raya, whose brother Rama Raya had been the masterful regent of the last ruler of the previous dynasty. Rama Raya's death at the Battle of Rakasa-Tangadi (also known as the Battle of Talikota) in 1565 led to the subsequent destruction of Vijayanagar by the combined forces of the Muslim states of Bijapur. \n\nThe Aravidu family claimed to be Kshatriyas and were based in Andhra region\n\nThe main rulers of the Aravidu dynasty were: \n"}
{"id": "27626830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27626830", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Andorra", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Andorra\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Andorra begins with the first mention of Andorra in Bahá'í literature when `Abdu'l-Bahá listed it as a place to take the religion to in 1916. The first Bahá'í to pioneer to Andorra was William Danjon Dieudonne in 1953. By 1979 a Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in Andorra-la-Vella is known. In 2005 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) there were about 80 Bahá'ís in Andorra. In 2010 Wolfram Alpha estimated about 120 Bahá'ís.\n\nIn the history of the Bahá'í Faith the first mention of Andorra is in the twentieth century. `Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The seventh of the tablets was the first to mention several countries in Europe including beyond where `Abdu'l-Bahá had visited in 1911-12. Written on April 11, 1916, it was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. The seventh tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919.\n\n\"In brief, this world-consuming war has set such a conflagration to the hearts that no word can describe it. In all the countries of the world the longing for universal peace is taking possession of the consciousness of men. There is not a soul who does not yearn for concord and peace. A most wonderful state of receptivity is being realized.… Therefore, O ye believers of God! Show ye an effort and after this war spread ye the synopsis of the divine teachings in the British Isles, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Portugal, Rumania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino, Balearic Isles, Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, Malta, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Shetland Islands, Hebrides and Orkney Islands.\"\n\nStarting in 1946, following World War II, Shoghi Effendi, head of the religion after `Abdu'l-Bahá, drew up plans for the American (US and Canada) Bahá'í community to send pioneers to Europe; the Bahá'ís set up a European Teaching Committee chaired by Edna True. At a follow-up conference in Stockholm in August 1953, Hand of the Cause Dorothy Beecher Baker asked for a Bahá'í to settle in Andorra and French-born William Danjon Dieudonne volunteered. He left his home in Denmark and arrived in on 7 October 1953 and so was listed as a Knight of Bahá'u'lláh thereafter. In 1954, two residents of Andorra, Carmen Tost Xifre de Mingorance and her husband, Jose Mingorance Fernandez, joined the religion.\n\nAccording to the biography at Radio Andorra, in July 1955 Danjon was hired by Radio Andorra, where he worked under a pseudonym on air: Michel Avril. Michael is his middle name and Avril is the month of birth (April). He did not hide that he had come to promote the religion. In May 1963 Danjon left Radio Andorra and became Assistant Secretary of the Syndicat d'Initiatives Valleys of Andorra in Andorra la Vella, then in 1966 became director of the House of Andorra in Paris. Then from 1975 to 1981, he worked at Sud Radio and then joined the Andorran Ministry of Education and Culture until 1989.\n\nIn 1963 statistics on the community listed a registered \"group\" (less than 9 Bahá'ís) in Andorra-la-Vella. A Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly is noted in 1979 - as well as Bahá'ís living in a total of 3 locations in Andorra.\n\nBy 1978 European countries other than Soviet and Microstates of Europe had their own Bahá'í National Assembly. In the case of the microstates, most had one local assembly per state (an assembly requires at least 9 adult members of the religion in good standing in a civic boundary.) Some Andorran Bahá'ís went on pilgrimage in 1992.\n\nIn 2003 the Andorran government co-sponsored a resolution passed by the third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly which expressed \"serious concern\" over continuing violations of human rights in Iran—and mentions specifically \"continuing discrimination\" against Baha'is and other religious minorities. See Persecution of Bahá'ís.\n\nSecond generation Bahá'í Jose Mingorance Tost was chairman of the Local Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Andorra in 2004 and the secretary is Badi Daemi. Marc Forné Molné, then Head of Government of Andorra, attended a reception before the ceremony for the 50th anniversary of the establishment of a community of the religion in 1954.\nRegional conferences were called for by the Universal House of Justice, current head of the religion, in October 2008 and one was held for the Iberian peninsula 24–25 January 2009 to celebrate recent achievements in grassroots community-building and to plan their next steps in organizing in their home areas. Among the 1400 attendees were two Baha’is who came from Andorra.\n\nIn 2005 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) the Bahá'ís amounted to 0.1% or about 80 Bahá'ís. In 2010 Wolfram Alpha lists 0.1459% or about 120 Bahá'ís.\n\n"}
{"id": "8287083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8287083", "title": "Bala Krishna", "text": "Bala Krishna\n\nBala Krishna ( \"\", literally \"child Krishna\") sometimes translated to \"Divine Child Krishna\", is historically one of the early forms of worship in Krishnaism and an element of the history of Krishna worship in antiquity. This tradition is considered as a part of the number of other traditions that led to amalgamation in a later stage of the historical development and culminate in worship of Radha Krishna as Svayam bhagavan. Other monotheist traditions are Bhagavatism and Cult of Gopala, that along with Cult of Krishna-Vasudeva form the basis of the current tradition of the monotheistic Krishna religion. The worship of Balakrishna, the divine child, while a significant feature of the Krishna religion, often receives less attention, however it is one of the most popular deities of Krishna in many parts of India today. Early evidence of such worship can be found or as early as the 4th century BC according to evidence in Megasthenes and in the Arthashastra of Kautilya, when \"Vāsudeva\" (as the son of Vasudeva was worshiped as supreme Deity in a strongly monotheistic format, where the supreme Being was perfect, eternal and full of grace.\n\nSome of the miraculous acts of the form are notable. It is believed that Putana, a huge monster, was killed when the baby Krishna sucked her life from her by taking the poisoned breast she offered him.\n\nBala-Krishna is often depicted as a small child crawling on his hands, and knees or dancing with a piece of butter in his hand.\n\nIn the Bhagavad Gita, it appears Krishna is teaching a universal monotheistic religion of personal God and reveals himself to be all-God, svayam bhagavan. The childhood episodes of Krishna's legend became the focus of the medieval devotional cults that started to develop in a number of movements in medieval India.\n\nThe prominent historical Site is the Balakrishna temple in Hampi built by the ruler Krishnadevaraya in 1513. Main altar of the temple is \ndedicated to Bala Krishna and it is one of the few temples where stories of Puranas were carved on the walls of the temple and its main tower. Other notable image is murti of Bala Krishna worshiped by Madhvacharya in his Sri Krishna Matha of Udupi. It is believed the form was transported by sea from Dwarka. Legend has it that this was the very same murti which wife of Krishna, Rukmini, had worshipped. Liberation from the world of matter required grace and dependence on God and active devotion, such as worshipping the Lord in the form of an icon (murti). Madhva placed such an icon of Bala Krishna in his monastery in Udipi where it remains to be seen by pilgrims to this day. Ever since the image was installed, Udupi has been steadily gaining in importance as a centre of pilgrimage. It is believed Madhvacharya saved drifting ship, from which he received in gratitude two large balls of chandan clay used as a ballast. To the amazement of all in each there was confined a deity form, one of Krishna and one of Balarama, the deity of Krishna with a churner in his hand was called \"Bala Krishna\" and was installed in the main Udupi shrine. The sacred lamps at this statue of Bala Krishna recovered from the sea in the 14th century were lit by Madhvacharya himself and are being kept burning as a part of the ritual continuously, and that is for the last 700 years.\n\nAt the very beginning of his work to establish Hindu Krishna temples in the Western World Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada wanted to establish a prominent temple in New York City dedicated to Bala Krishna, even before starting ISKCON he wrote to one of his supporters in India:\n\nCurrently it is a popular deity among many Hindu followers of various traditions in the West, including International Society for Krishna Consciousness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51005155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51005155", "title": "Bryan Houghton", "text": "Bryan Houghton\n\nBryan Houghton (1911-1992) was an English Catholic priest.\n\nBryan Houghton was born into a wealthy British Anglican family. When he was very young he was sent to a boarding school in France. At the age of nine he had a Catholic friend who became an influence on his life.\n\nHoughton said that in Protestant churches they talk about Jesus and his friend replied: \"That's it, it talks about Jesus. They were surely very beautiful. But this is not the Mass. Mass is Jesus\". This prospect branded Houghton's life and leaded years later to convert to Roman Catholicism. Two years later, he went to Rome to become a priest.\n\nHoughton was ordained on 30 March 1940 and will be for 29 years pastor of two parishes near London: first appointed to Slough in a popular neighborhood, he created the Saint Anthony Parish, and organized a prayerful and fervent community.\n\nIn September 1954, he was sent to Bury St Edmunds and as priest takes charge of the parish. There he faced, from the early 1960s, to the action of some Catholic \"reformers\" whose objectived to empty the Catholic religion of its substance, claiming the will of the council. On 29 November 1969, Advent Sunday, he resigned from his pastor charge, refusing to be incorrect to impose liturgical practices. With a personal fortune through inheritance, he decided to settle in the south of France, whose place he knew since his youth. The south beginning where there are olive trees, he settled in the region of Viviers. Houghton purchased a property and a chapel (Our Lady of the Rose) in which, with the permission of the bishop, he will continue to celebrate the Tridentine form of the Roman rite until his death on 19 November 1992. He rests in the cemetery of Viviers (Ardèche).\n\nBy the 1960s, he speaks regularly at conferences and in journals by incisive interventions, to give evidence of \"conversion by the Mass.\"\n\nRooted in fidelity to the Pope and the Old Mass, Father Hougthon was far from following Monsignor Marcel Lefebvre and his first book, The Peace of Monsignor Forester in 1982, marked his distance from the founder of Society of Saint Pius X. This novel contained \"liturgical peace proposals,\" which, if they were not followed by immediate effect, are quite similar to the situation in late 2006. He became a good friend of the Barroux Monastery.\n\nIn one of his articles he devoted a book of Cardinal Ratzinger, and Houghton wrote to the cardinal in 1986, saying: \"There is no doubt that he has the makings of a great man.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291915", "title": "Buddhism in Thailand", "text": "Buddhism in Thailand\n\nBuddhism in Thailand is largely of the Theravada school, which is followed by 94.6 percent of the population. Buddhism in Thailand has also become integrated with folk religion as well as Chinese religions from the large Thai Chinese population. Buddhist temples in Thailand are characterized by tall golden stupas, and the Buddhist architecture of Thailand is similar to that in other Southeast Asian countries, particularly Cambodia and Laos, with which Thailand shares cultural and historical heritage.\n\nBuddhism is believed to have come to what is now Thailand as early as 250 BCE, in the time of Indian Emperor Ashoka. Since then, Buddhism has played a significant role in Thai culture and society. Buddhism and the Thai monarchy has often been intertwined, with Thai kings historically seen as the main patrons of Buddhism in Thailand. Although politics and religion were generally separated for most of Thai history, Buddhism's connection to the Thai state would increase in the middle of the 19th century following the reforms of King Mongkut, that would lead to the development of a royally backed sect of Buddhism and increased centralization of the Thai Sangha under the state, with state control over Buddhism increasing further after the 2014 coup d'etat. \n\nThai Buddhism is distinguished for its emphasis on short term ordination for every Thai man and its close interconnection with the Thai state and Thai culture. The two official branches, or Nikayas, of Thai Buddhism are the royally backed Dhammayuttika Nikaya and the larger Maha Nikaya.\n\nSome scholars believe that Buddhism must have been flowing into Thailand from India at the time of the Indian emperor Ashoka of the Maurya Empire and into the first millennium after Christ. During the 5th to 13th centuries, Southeast Asian empires were influenced directly from India and followed Mahayana Buddhism. The Chinese pilgrim Yijing noted in his travels that in these areas, all major sects of Indian Buddhism flourished. Srivijaya to the south and the Khmer Empire to the north competed for influence and their art expressed the rich Mahāyāna pantheon of bodhisattvas. From the 9th to the 13th centuries, the Mahāyāna and Hindu Khmer Empire dominated much of the Southeast Asian peninsula. Under the Khmer Empire, more than 900 temples were built in Cambodia and in neighboring Thailand.\n\nAfter the decline of Buddhism in India, missions of Sinhalese monks gradually converted the Mon people and the Pyu city-states from Ari Buddhism to Theravāda and over the next two centuries also brought Theravāda Buddhism to the Bamar people, Thailand, Laos and Cambodia, where it supplanted previous forms of Buddhism. Theravada Buddhism was made the state religion only with the establishment of the Sukhothai Kingdom in the 13th century.\n\nThe details of the history of Buddhism in Thailand from the 13th to the 19th century are obscure, in part because few historical records or religious texts survived the Burmese destruction of Ayutthaya, the capital city of the kingdom, in 1767. The anthropologist-historian S. J. Tambiah, however, has suggested a general pattern for that era, at least with respect to the relations between Buddhism and the sangha on the one hand and the king on the other hand. In Thailand, as in other Theravada Buddhist kingdoms, the king was in principle thought of as patron and protector of the religion (sasana) and the sangha, while sasana and the sangha were considered in turn the treasures of the polity and the signs of its legitimacy. Religion and polity, however, remained separate domains, and in ordinary times the organizational links between the sangha and the king were not close.\n\nAmong the chief characteristics of Thai kingdoms and principalities in the centuries before 1800 were the tendency to expand and contract, problems of succession, and the changing scope of the king's authority. In effect, some Thai kings had greater power over larger territories, others less, and almost invariably a king who sought successfully to expand his power also exercised greater control over the sangha. That control was coupled with greater support and patronage of the ecclesiastical hierarchy. When a king was weak, however, protection and supervision of the sangha also weakened, and the sangha declined. This fluctuating pattern appears to have continued until the emergence of the Chakri Dynasty in the last quarter of the 18th century.\n\nBy the 19th century, and especially with the coming to power in 1851 of King Mongkut, who had been a monk himself for twenty-seven years, the sangha, like the kingdom, became steadily more centralized and hierarchical in nature and its links to the state more institutionalized. As a monk, Mongkut was a distinguished scholar of Pali Buddhist scripture. Moreover, at that time the immigration of numbers of monks from Burma was introducing the more rigorous discipline characteristic of the Mon sangha. Influenced by the Mon and guided by his own understanding of the Tipitaka, Mongkut began a reform movement that later became the basis for the Dhammayuttika order of monks. Under the reform, all practices having no authority other than custom were to be abandoned, canonical regulations were to be followed not mechanically but in spirit, and acts intended to improve an individual's standing on the road to nirvana but having no social value were rejected. This more rigorous discipline was adopted in its entirety by only a small minority of monasteries and monks. The Mahanikaya order, perhaps somewhat influenced by Mongkut's reforms but with a less exacting discipline than the Dhammayuttika order, comprised about 95 percent of all monks in 1970 and probably about the same percentage in the late 1980s. In any case, Mongkut was in a position to regularize and tighten the relations between monarchy and sangha at a time when the monarchy was expanding its control over the country in general and developing the kind of bureaucracy necessary to such control. The administrative and sangha reforms that Mongkut started were continued by his successor. In 1902 King Chulalongkorn (Rama V, 1868–1910) made the new sangha hierarchy formal and permanent through the Sangha Law of 1902, which remained the foundation of sangha administration in modern Thailand. While Buddhism in Thailand remained under state centralization in the modern era, Buddhism experienced periods of tight state control and periods of liberalization depending on the government at the time.\n\nApproximately 94 percent of Thailand's population is Buddhist (five percent Muslim). Thailand had 39,883 \"wats\" (temples). Three hundred-ten are royal wats, the remainder are private (public). There were 298,580 Buddhist monks, 264,442 of the Maha Nikaya order and 34,138 of the Dhammayuttika Nikaya order. There were 59,587 Buddhist novice monks.\n\nThree major forces have influenced the development of Buddhism in Thailand. The most visible influence is that of the Theravada school of Buddhism, imported from Sri Lanka. While there are significant local and regional variations, the Theravada school provides most of the major themes of Thai Buddhism. By tradition, Pāli is the language of religion in Thailand. Scriptures are recorded in Pāli, using either the modern Thai script or the older Khom and Tham scripts. Pāli is also used in religious liturgy, despite the fact that most Thais understand very little of this ancient language. The Pāli Tipiṭaka is the primary religious text of Thailand, though many local texts have been composed in order to summarise the vast number of teachings found in the Tipiṭaka. The monastic code (Pātimokkha) followed by Thai monks is taken from the Pāli Theravada Canon.\n\nThe second major influence on Thai Buddhism is Hindu beliefs received from Cambodia, particularly during the Sukhothai Kingdom. Hinduism played a strong role in the early Thai institution of kingship, just as it did in Cambodia, and exerted influence in the creation of laws and order for Thai society as well as Thai religion. Certain rituals practiced in modern Thailand, either by monks or by Hindu ritual specialists, are either explicitly identified as Hindu in origin, or are easily seen to be derived from Hindu practices. While the visibility of Hinduism in Thai society has been diminished substantially during the Chakri Dynasty, Hindu influences, particularly shrines to the god Brahma, continue to be seen in and around Buddhist institutions and ceremonies.\n\nFolk religion—attempts to propitiate and attract the favor of local spirits known as \"phi\"—forms the third major influence on Thai Buddhism. While Western observers (as well as Western-educated Thais) have often drawn a clear line between Thai Buddhism and folk religious practices, this distinction is rarely observed in more rural locales. Spiritual power derived from the observance of Buddhist precepts and rituals is employed in attempting to appease local nature spirits. Many restrictions observed by rural Buddhist monks are derived not from the orthodox Vinaya, but from taboos derived from the practice of folk magic. Astrology, numerology, and the creation of talismans and charms also play a prominent role in Buddhism as practiced by the average Thai—practices that are censured by the Buddha in Buddhist texts (see Digha Nikaya 2, ff).\n\nAdditionally, more minor influences can be observed stemming from contact with Mahayana Buddhism. Early Buddhism in Thailand is thought to have been derived from an unknown Mahayana tradition. While Mahayana Buddhism was gradually eclipsed in Thailand, certain features of Thai Buddhism—such as the appearance of the bodhisattva Lokeśvara in some Thai religious architecture, and the belief that the king of Thailand is a bodhisattva himself—reveal the influence of Mahayana concepts.\n\nIn modern times, additional Mahayana influence has stemmed from the presence of Overseas Chinese in Thai society. While some Chinese have \"converted\" to Thai-style Theravada Buddhism, many others maintain their own separate temples in the East Asian Mahayana tradition. The growing popularity of Guanyin, a form of Avalokiteśvara, may be attributed to the Chinese presence in Thailand.\n\nWhile Thailand is a constitutional monarchy, it inherited a strong Southeast Asian tradition of Buddhist kingship that tied the legitimacy of the state to its protection and support for Buddhist institutions. This connection has been maintained into the modern era, with Buddhist institutions and clergy being granted special benefits by the government, as well as being subjected to a certain amount of governmental oversight. Part of the coronation of the Thai monarch includes the king proceeding to the chapel royal (the Wat Phra Kaew) to vow to be a \"defender of the faith\" in front of a chapter of monks including the Supreme Patriarch of Thailand.\n\nIn addition to the ecclesiastical leadership of the \"sangha\", a secular government ministry supervises Buddhist temples and monks. The legal status of Buddhist sects and reform movements has been an issue of contention in some cases, particularly in the case of Santi Asoke, which was legally forbidden from calling itself a Buddhist denomination, and in the case of the ordination of women attempting to revive the Theravada bhikkhuni lineage have been prosecuted for attempting to impersonate members of the clergy.\n\nTo obtain a passport for travel abroad, a monk must have an official letter from Sangha Supreme Council granting the applicant permission to travel abroad; Buddhist monk identification card; a copy of house or temple registration; and submit any previous Thai passport or a certified copy.\n\nIn addition to state support and recognition—in the form of formal gifts to monasteries made by government officials and the royal family (for example, Kathin)—-a number of special rights are conferred upon Buddhist monks. They are granted free passage on public transportation, and most train stations and airports have special seating sections reserved for members of the clergy. Conversely, ordained monastics are forbidden from standing for office or voting in elections.\n\nIn 2007, calls were made by some Buddhist groups for Buddhism to be recognized in the new national constitution as the state religion. This suggestion was initially rejected by the committee charged with drafting the new constitution. This move prompted protests from supporters of the initiative, including a number of marches on the capital and a hunger strike by twelve Buddhist monks. Some critics of the plan, including scholar and social critic Sulak Sivaraksa, claimed that the movement to declare Buddhism the national religion is motivated by political gain, manipulated by supporters of ousted Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.\nThe Constitution Drafting Committee later voted against the special status of Buddhism, provoking religious groups. They condemned the committee and the draft constitution. On 11 August 2007, Sirikit, the Queen of Thailand, expressed her concern over the issue. She said, in her birthday speech, that Buddhism is beyond politics. Some Buddhist organizations halted their campaigns the next day.\n\nNo law directly prohibits a member of the Buddhist institutions, such as a monk, a novice and a nun, from being a candidate in an examination for recruitment of government officers. Though both the Council of Ministers and the Sangha Supreme Council, the supervising body of the Thai Buddhist communities, have ordered such prohibition on grounds of appropriateness, according to the Memorandum of the Cabinet's Administrative Department No. NW98/2501 dated 27 June 1958 and the Order of the Sangha Supreme Council dated 17 March 1995.\n\nThe members of the Buddhist community and the communities of other religions are not entitled to elect or be elected as a holder of any government post. For instance, the 2007 constitution of Thailand disfranchises \"a Buddhist monk, a Buddhist novice, a priest or a clergy member\" ().\n\nThe Sangha Supreme Council also declared the same prohibition, pursuant to its Order dated 17 March 1995. At the end of the Order was a statement of grounds given by Nyanasamvara, the Supreme Patriarch. The statement said:\n\nBuddhism in Thailand came under greater state control following the 2014 coup d'état. After seizing power the military junta, the National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO), set up a National Reform Council with a religious committee led by former Thai senator Paiboon Nititawan and former monk Mano Laohavanich. Calls for reform were spearheaded by right-wing activist monk Phra Buddha Issara, who had close ties with junta leader Prayut Chan-o-cha, and was known for leading the protests in Bangkok that led to the coup.\n\nState influence over several aspects of Thai Buddhism increased under the NCPO, with the junta's new constitution stating that the Thai government is to directly support Theravada Buddhism specifically. In 2015, the junta's National Reform Council made several proposals to give the state greater control of Buddhism, including requiring temples to open their finances to the public, ending short-term ordinations, requiring monks to carry smart cards to identify their legal and religious backgrounds, increased control of the bank accounts of temples, increased control of monastic disciplinarians, changing the abbots of all temples every five years, putting the Ministry of Culture in charge of controlling all temple assets, controlling monastic education, and taxing monks.\n\nIn 2016, Phra Buddha Issara requested that the Department of Special Investigation (DSI) investigate the assets of Thailand's leading monks, the Sangha Supreme Council. This resulted in an alleged tax evasion scandal against Somdet Chuang, the most senior member of the council who was next in line to become supreme patriarch. Although prosecutors did not charge Somdet, the incident postponed his appointment and led to a change in the law that allowed the Thai government to bypass the Sangha Supreme Council and appoint the supreme patriarch directly. This allowed the ruling junta to effectively handpick Thailand's supreme patriarch. In 2017, Somdet Chuang's appointment was withdrawn, with a monk from the Dhammayuttika Nikaya appointed instead. The appointment was made by King Rama X, who chose the name from five given to him by NCPO leader Prayut Chan-o-cha.\n\nIn February 2017, the junta used Article 44, a controversial section in the interim constitution, to replace the head of the National Office of Buddhism with a DSI official. The DSI official was removed from office a few months later after religious groups called on the government to fire him because of his reform plans, but was reinstated after a few months.\n\nIn May 2018, the NCPO launched simultaneous raids of four different temples to arrest several monks shortly after a crackdown on protesters on the anniversary of the coup. To the surprise of many officials, one of the monks arrested was Phra Buddha Issara. The right-wing monk was arrested for charges brought against him in 2014, including alleged robbery and detaining officials, however, his most serious charge was a charge of unauthorized use of the royal seal filed in 2017. Police did not state why he was then being arrested for charges filed as far back as four years. One observer described the arrest of Buddha Issara as trying to cover up the true motives or because Buddha Issara knew too much about the rulers and was seen as a threat. Another said that the junta may regard him as a loose canon politically and that the junta is virtue signaling—deserving continued political power—to the new Thai monarch, King Maha Vajiralongkorn. All the monks arrested in the May raids were defrocked shortly after being taken into custody, and detained before trial. \n\nAnthropologist Jim Taylor argues that the arrests were the \"ruling palace regime\" trying to consolidate royalist power by eliminating non-royalist high-ranking monks. Taylor pointed out that the suspects of the investigations were innocent until proven guilty, yet were all defrocked before trial and stripped of decades of monastic seniority only for being accused of the crimes. The only royalist monk arrested was Buddha Issara. In July 2018, the junta passed a law giving the Thai king the ability to select members of the Sangha Supreme Council, the governing body of Thai monks, instead of the monks themselves. The alleged scandals of the 2017–18 Thai temple fraud investigations and the resulting arrests were cited as the reason for the change.\n\nAs in most other Theravada nations, Buddhism in Thailand is represented primarily by the presence of Buddhist monks, who serve as officiants on ceremonial occasions, as well as being responsible for preserving and conveying the teachings of the Buddha.\n\nDuring the latter half of the 20th century, most monks in Thailand began their careers by serving as temple boys ( \"dek wat\", \"children of the wat\"). Temple boys are traditionally no younger than eight and do minor housework. The primary reason for becoming a temple boy is to gain a basic education, particularly in basic reading and writing and the memorization of the scriptures chanted on ritual occasions. Prior to the creation of state-run primary schools in Thailand, village temples served as the primary form of education for most Thai boys. Service in a temple as a temple boy was a necessary prerequisite for attaining any higher education, and was the only learning available to most Thai peasants. Since the creation of a government-run educational apparatus in Thailand, the number of children living as temple boys has declined significantly. However, many government-run schools continue to operate on the premises of the local village temple.\n\nBoys now typically ordain as a sāmaṇera or novitiate monks ( \"samanen\", often shortened to \"nen\" ). In some localities, girls may become sāmaṇerī. Novices live according to the Ten Precepts but are not required to follow the full range of monastic rules found in the Pātimokkha. There are a few other significant differences between novices and bhikkhus. Novices often are in closer contact with their families, spending more time in the homes of their parents than monks. Novices do not participate in the recitation of the monastic code (and the confessions of violations) that take place on the uposatha days. Novices technically do not eat with the monks in their temple, but this typically only amounts to a gap in seating, rather than the separation observed between monks and the laity. Novices usually ordain during a break from secular schooling, but those intending on a religious life, may receive secular schooling at the wat.\n\nYoung men typically do not live as a novice for longer than one or two years. At the age of 20, they become eligible to receive upasampada, the higher ordination that establishes them as a full bhikkhu. A novice is technically sponsored by his parents in his ordination, but in practice in rural villages the entire village participates by providing the robes, alms bowl, and other requisites that will be required by the monk in his monastic life.\n\nTemporary ordination is the norm among Thai Buddhists. Most young men traditionally ordain for the term of a single vassa or rainy season (Thai \"phansa\"). Those who remain monks beyond their first vassa typically remain monks for between one and three years, officiating at religious ceremonies in surrounding villages and possibly receiving further education in reading and writing (possibly including the Khom or Tai Tham alphabets traditionally used in recording religious texts). After this period of one to three years, most young monks return to secular life, going on to marry and start a family. Young men in Thailand who have undergone ordination are seen as being more suitable partners for marriage; unordained men are euphemistically called \"unripe\", while those who have been ordained are said to be \"ripe\". A period as a monk is a prerequisite for many positions of leadership within the village hierarchy. Most village elders or headmen were once monks, as were most traditional doctors, spirit priests, and some astrologists and fortune tellers.\n\nIn a country where most males can be ordained as monks for even short periods of time, the experience can be profitable. The Thai musician, Pisitakun Kuantalaeng, became a monk for a short period following the death of his father in order to make merit. He observed that, \"Being a monk is good money...When you go and pray you get 300 baht [about £7] even though you have no living expenses, and you can go four times a day. Too many monks in Thailand do it to get rich. If you become a monk for three months you have enough money for a scooter.\"\n\nMonks who do not return to secular life typically specialize in either scholarship or meditation. Those who specialize in scholarship typically travel to regional education centers to begin further instruction in the Pāli language and the scriptures, and may then continue on to the major monastic universities in Bangkok. The scholarship route is also followed by monks who desire to rise in the ecclesiastic hierarchy, as promotions within the government-run system are contingent on passing examinations in Pāli and Dhamma studies.\n\nThe Thai tradition supports laymen to go into a monastery, dress and act as monks, and study while there. The time line is based on threes, staying as a monk for three days, or three weeks, or three months or three years, or three weeks and three days. This retreat is expected of all Thai males, rich or poor, and often is scheduled after high school. Such retreats bring honor to the family and blessings (merit) to the young man. Thais make allowances for men who follow this practice, such as holding open a job.\n\nRising obesity among monks and concerns for their well-being has become an issue in Thailand. A study by the Health Ministry in 2017 of 200 Bangkok temples found that 60 percent of monks suffer from high cholesterol and 50 percent from high blood sugar. Public health experts attribute this to two factors. First, monks are required to accept and eat whatever is given to them on their daily alms rounds. Second, monks are not permitted to engage in cardiovascular exercise as it is undignified. Monks eat only two meals per day, breakfast and lunch. But the remainder of the day they are allowed to drink \"nam pana\", which includes the juice of fruit less than fist-sized, often high in sugar. To combat the high rate of non-communicable diseases among monks, the National Health Commission Office (NHCO) issued a pamphlet, \"National Health Charter for Monks\", designed to educate monks and laypeople alike as to healthy eating habits.\n\nThe Thai media often reports on Buddhist monks behaving in ways that are considered inappropriate. There have been reports of sexual assault, embezzlement, drug-taking, extravagant lifestyles, even murder. Thailand's 38,000 temples, populated by 300,000 monks, are easy targets for corruption, handling between US$3 to 3.6 billion yearly in donations, mostly untraceable cash. In a case that received much media attention, Luang Pu Nen Kham Chattiko was photographed in July 2013 wearing Ray-Ban sunglasses, holding a Louis Vuitton bag full of US dollars, and \"...was later found to be a trafficker of methamphetamines, an abuser of women and the lover of a pregnant fourteen-year-old.\"\n\nThere have been cases of influential monks persecuted and jailed by the Thai government, through verdicts later declared moot or controversial. A well-known case in Thailand is that of Phra Phimontham, then abbot of Wat Mahadhatu, known in Thailand for having introduced the Burmese Satipatthana meditation method to Thailand. In 1962, during the Cold War, he was accused of collaboration with communist rebels and being a threat to national security, and was fully defrocked and jailed. In fact, the government persecuted him because of his political views and promotion of changes in the Sangha. Phra Phimontham had strong pro-democratic leanings, which did not comport well with the regime of the day nor the palace. Furthermore, Phra Phimontham was part of the Maha Nikaya fraternity, rather than the Dhammayuttika fraternity, which the government and monarchy historically have preferred. Phra Phimontham was likely to become the next supreme patriarch. For this reason, his treatment has been described by Thai scholars as a \"struggle between patriarchs\" (), referring to the political objective of disabling him as a candidate. After four years, when the country changed its government, Phra Phimontham was released from prison when a military court decided he had not collaborated with communists after all. Afterwards, he ordained again and eventually regained his former status, though he continued to be discredited.\n\nBuddhadasa Bhikkhu was subject to similar allegations from the Thai government, and so was Luang Por Phothirak, the founder of Santi Asoke. Luang Por Pothirak was eventually charged of altering the Vinaya and defrocked. A recent example is Phra Prajak Kuttajitto, an environmentalist monk critical of government policies, who was arrested and defrocked.\n\nIn 1999 and again in 2002, Luang Por Dhammajayo, the then abbot of Wat Phra Dhammakaya, was accused of charges of fraud and embezzlement by the Thai media and later some government agencies when donations of land were found in his name. Wat Phra Dhammakaya denied this, stating that it was the intention of the donors to give the land to the abbot and not the temple, and that owning personal property is common and legal in the Thai Sangha. Widespread negative media coverage at this time was symptomatic of the temple being made the scapegoat for commercial malpractice in the Thai Buddhist temple community in the wake of the 1997 Asian financial crisis. The Sangha Supreme Council declared that Luang Por Dhammajayo had not broken any serious offenses against monastic discipline (Vinaya). In 2006, the Thai National Office for Buddhism cleared the Dhammakaya Foundation and Luang Por Dhammajayo of all accusations when Luang Por Dhammajayo agreed offer all of the disputed land to the name of his temple.\n\nIn March 2016, Thai police formally summoned then Acting Supreme Patriarch Somdet Chuang Varapunno, after he refused to answer direct questions about his vintage car, one of only 65 made. The car was part of a museum kept at Wat Paknam Bhasicharoen in Bangkok, but has now been seized by police investigating possible tax evasion. Somdet reportedly transferred ownership of the vehicle to another monk after the scandal broke. He refused to answer police questions directly, insisting that written questions be sent to his lawyer. He did say that the car was a gift from a follower.\n\nAnalysts from different news outlets have pointed out that the actions of the Thai government towards Wat Paknam Bhasicharoen may have reflected a political need to control who should be selected as the next Supreme Patriarch, since Somdet had already been proposed as a candidate by the Sangha Supreme Council. Selecting him would mean a Supreme Patriarch from the Maha Nikaya fraternity, rather than the Dhammayuttika fraternity, which historically has always been the preferred choice of the Thai government and the monarchy. In fact, Somdet Chuang's nomination was postponed and eventually withdrawn after the Thai government changed the law in December 2016 to allow King Vajiralongkorn to appoint the Supreme Patriarch directly, with Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha countersigning, leading to the appointment of a monk from the Dhammayuttika fraternity instead. The Thai government cited several reasons for this, including the car. At the end of the same year, however, prosecutors decided not to charge Somdet Chuang, but to charge his assistant abbot instead, and another six people who had part in importing the vintage car. In February 2016, in a protest organized by the National Centre for the Protection of Thai Buddhism, a Red Shirt-oriented network, the example of Phra Phimontham was also cited as demands were made for the Thai government to no longer involve itself with the selection of the next leader of the Sangha.\n\n\n\n\n\nUnlike in Burma and Sri Lanka, the bhikkhuni lineage of women monastics was never established in Thailand. Women primarily participate in religious life either as lay participants in collective merit-making rituals or by doing domestic work around temples. A small number of women choose to become maechi, non-ordained religious specialists who permanently observe either the Eight or Ten Precepts. Maechi do not receive the level of support given to bhikkhu and their position in Thai society is the subject of some discussion.\n\nThere have been efforts to attempt to introduce a bhikkhuni lineage in Thailand as a step towards improving the position of women in Thai Buddhism. The main proponent of this movement has been Dhammananda Bhikkhuni. Unlike similar efforts in Sri Lanka, these efforts have been extremely controversial in Thailand. Women attempting to ordain have been accused of attempting to impersonate monks (a civil offense in Thailand), and their actions have been denounced by many members of the ecclesiastic hierarchy.\n\nIn 1928 a secular law was passed in Thailand banning women's full ordination in Buddhism. Varanggana Vanavichayen became the first female monk to be ordained in Thailand in 2002. Some time after this, the secular law was revoked. On , Dhammananda Bhikkhuni received full monastic ordination as a bhikkhuni of the Theravada tradition in Sri Lanka, making her the first modern Thai woman to receive full ordination as a Theravada bhikkhuni. She is Abbess of Songdhammakalyani Monastery, the only temple in Thailand where there are bhikkhunis. It was founded by her mother, Voramai, a Mahayana bhikkhuni, in the 1960s.\n\nNo one denies that men and women have an equal chance to attain enlightenment. In Mahayana Buddhism, practised in Taiwan, mainland China, Hong Kong, and Tibet, female ordinations are common, but in countries that adhere to the Theravada branch of the religion, such as Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Myanmar, women were banned from becoming ordained about eight centuries ago, \"for fear that women entering monastic life instead of bearing children would be a disruption of social order\", according to Kittipong Narit, a Buddhist scholar at Bangkok's Thammasat University.\n\nMost objections to the reintroduction of a female monastic role hinge on the fact that the monastic rules require that both five ordained monks and five ordained bhikkhunis be present for any new bhikkhuni ordination. Without such a quorum, critics say that it is not possible to ordain any new Theravada bhikkhuni. The Thai hierarchy refuses to recognize ordinations in the Dharmaguptaka tradition (the only currently existing bhikkhuni ordination lineage) as valid Theravada ordinations, citing differences in philosophical teachings and, more critically, monastic discipline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "480205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=480205", "title": "Catherine Booth", "text": "Catherine Booth\n\nCatherine Booth (17 January 1829 – 4 October 1890) was co-founder of The Salvation Army, along with her husband William Booth. Because of her influence in the formation of The Salvation Army she was known as the 'Mother of The Salvation Army'.\n\nShe was born as Catherine Mumford in Ashbourne, Derbyshire, England, in 1829 to Methodist parents, John Mumford and Sarah Milward. Her father was an occasional lay preacher and carriage maker. Her family later moved to Boston, Lincolnshire, and later lived in Brixton, London. From an early age, Catherine was a serious and sensitive girl. She had a strong Christian upbringing and was said to have read the Bible through eight times before the age of 12.\n\nDuring Catherine’s adolescence a spinal curvature led to years of enforced idleness. She kept herself busy, however, and was especially concerned about the problems of alcoholism. Even as a young girl she had served as secretary of a Juvenile Temperance Society writing articles for a temperance magazine. Catherine was a member of the local Band of Hope and a supporter of the national Temperance Society.\n\nWhen Catherine refused to condemn Methodist Reformers in 1850, the Wesleyans expelled her. For the Reformers she led a girls’ Sunday school class in Clapham. At the home of Edward Rabbits, in 1851, she met William Booth, who also had been expelled by the Wesleyans for reform sympathies. William was reciting a temperance poem, “The Grog-seller’s Dream,” which appealed to Catherine, who had embraced the new Methodist passion for abstinence.\n\nThey soon fell in love and became engaged. During their three-year engagement, Catherine constantly wrote letters of encouragement to William as he performed the tiring work of a preacher. They were married on 16 July 1855 at Stockwell Green Congregational Church in London. Their wedding was very simple, as they wanted to use their time and money for his ministry. Even on their honeymoon, William was asked to speak at meetings.\n\nThe Booths had eight children: Bramwell Booth, Ballington Booth, Kate Booth, Emma Booth, Herbert Booth, Marie Booth, Evangeline Booth and Lucy Booth, and were dedicated to giving them a firm Christian knowledge. Two of their offspring, Bramwell and Evangeline, later became Generals of The Salvation Army.\n\nCatherine began to be more active in the work of the church at Brighouse. Though she was extremely nervous, she enjoyed working with young people and found the courage to speak in children's meetings. During this period she discovered a model, American Wesleyan revivalist Phoebe Palmer. With William’s encouragement, Catherine wrote a pamphlet, \"Female Ministry: Woman’s Right to Preach the Gospel\" (1859), in defense of American preacher Mrs. Phoebe Palmer’s preaching, whose preaching had caused a great stir in the area where the Booths lived. \"Female Ministry\" was a short, powerful apology for women’s rights to preach the gospel. The pamphlet identifies three major principles on which her convictions rested. First, Catherine saw that women are neither naturally nor morally inferior to men. Second, she believed there was no scriptural reason to deny them a public ministry. Third, she maintained that what the Bible urged, the Holy Spirit had ordained and blessed and so must be justified. She complained that the “unjustifiable application” of Paul’s advice, “ ‘Let your women keep silence in the Churches,’ has resulted in more loss to the Church, evil to the world, and dishonor to God, than any of [its] errors.”\n\nAt that time, it was unheard of for women to speak in adult meetings. She was convinced that women had an equal right to speak. In January 1860, following the birth of their fourth child, at Gateshead, during William's sermon, she asked to \"say a word\". She witnessed to her timidity about claiming her calling, yet William announced that she would speak that night. It was the beginning of a tremendous ministry, as people were greatly challenged by her preaching.\n\nShe became a partner in her husband’s work and soon found her own sphere as a powerful preacher. She also spoke to people in their homes, especially to alcoholics, whom she helped to make a new start in life. Often she held cottage meetings for converts. She eventually began to hold her own campaigns. Many agree that no man of her era, including her husband, exceeded her in popularity or spiritual results. Her first written article, the phamphlet \"Female Teaching\" was published in December 1859.\n\nCatherine Booth was eloquent and compelling in speech, articulate and devastatingly logical in writing, she had for over twenty years defended the right of women to preach the gospel on the same terms as men. At first, Catherine and her husband had shared a ministry as traveling evangelists, but then she came into great demand as a preacher in her own right, especially among the well-to-do. A woman preacher was a rare phenomenon in a world where women had few civil rights, and no place in the professions. Catherine Booth was both a woman and a fine preacher, a magnetic combination that attracted large numbers to hear her and made its own statement about the validity of women’s ministry.\n\nAmongst other activities, Catherine lobbied Queen Victoria to seek legislation for safeguarding females, in the form of the \"Parliamentary Bill for the protection of girls\"\n\nThey began the work of The Christian Mission in 1865 in London's East End. William preached to the poor and ragged and Catherine spoke to the wealthy, gaining support for their financially demanding ministry. The textile industry employed as many women as men and contributed a substantial number of female officers. In addition, domestic indoor servants flocked to the Army, and many became officers.\n\nThe \"Appointments of Officers, 1883\" lists 127 married men. This number is important, because wives were expected to help run the corps. Since wives were not compelled to attend the officers’ course at the Training Home, they were not given a commission and, therefore, did not appear in the list. General Booth had an active policy of encouraging officers to intermarry. The \"Appointments of Officers, 1883\" lists thirty-six couples who had done so, the women resigning their own rights of officership to become joint officers with their husbands. The loss of the women officers’ rights when marrying contradicts the constant statement regarding equality. The Army leaders were clearly not so radical as to lose the concept of man’s conjugal superiority. This social policy carried into pay; the husband, as head of the household, received the pay for the couple. The idea that single female officers could manage on less money than their male counterparts was abolished before the Second World War. Until that time, male officers received a third more pay than their female counterparts.\n\nCatherine Booth organized Food for the Million shops where the poor could buy a cheap meal and at Christmas, hundreds of meals were distributed to the needy.\n\nWhen the name was changed in 1878 to The Salvation Army and William Booth became known as the General, Catherine became known as the 'Mother of The Salvation Army.' She was behind many of the changes in the new organization, designing the flag and bonnets for the ladies, and contributed to the Army's ideas on many important issues and matters of belief.\n\nThe Booths rented a small villa, Crossley House, in Clacton-on-Sea, which had a sea view that she loved.\n\nCatherine Booth died of breast cancer at age 61 at Crossley House. She is interred with her husband in Abney Park Cemetery, London.\n\nSubsequently, Crossley House was donated to people with learning disabilities and provided many summer holidays until it was sold to property developers in 2005.\n\nPractical Religion (1878)\n\nGodliness (1881)\n\nAggressive Christianity (1883)\n\nLife and Death (1883)\n\nHighway of our God (1886)\n\nPopular Christianity (1887)\n\nLife of Catherine Booth: The Mother of the Salvation Army (1892)\n\nFemale Teaching\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43590762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43590762", "title": "Christian interpretations of Virgil's Eclogue 4", "text": "Christian interpretations of Virgil's Eclogue 4\n\n\"Eclogue\" 4, also known as the Fourth \"Eclogue\" is the name of a Latin poem by the Roman poet Virgil. Part of his first major work, the \"Eclogues\", the piece was written around 40 BC, during a time of temporary stability following the Treaty of Brundisium; it was later published in and around the years 39–38 BC. The work describes the birth of a boy, a supposed savior, who once of age will become divine and eventually rule over the world. During late antiquity and the Middle Ages, a desire emerged to view Virgil as a virtuous pagan, and as such, early Christians, such as Roman Emperor Constantine, early Christian theologian Lactantius, and St. Augustineto varying degreesreinterpreted the poem to be about the birth of Jesus Christ.\n\nThis belief persisted into the Medieval era, with many scholars arguing that Virgil not only prophesied Christ prior to his birth but also that he was a pre-Christian prophet. Dante Alighieri included Virgil as a main character in his \"Divine Comedy\", and Michelangelo included the Cumaean Sibyl on the ceiling painting of the Sistine Chapel (a reference to the widespread belief that the Sibyl herself prophesied the birth of Christ, and Virgil used her prophecies to craft his poem). Modern scholars, such as Robin Nisbet, tend to eschew this interpretation, arguing that seemingly Judeo-Christian elements of the poem can be explained through means other than divine prophecy.\n\nThe scholarly consensus is that Virgil began the hexameter \"Eclogues\" (or \"Bucolics\") in 42 BC and it is thought that the collection was published around 39–8 BC (although this assertion is not without its detractors). The \"Eclogues\" (from the Greek word for \"selections\") are a group of ten poems roughly modeled on the bucolic hexameter poetry (\"pastoral poetry\") of the Hellenistic poet Theocritus. The fourth of these \"Eclogues\" can be dated to around 40 BC, during a time when the Roman Civil war seemed to be coming to an end. ‘’Eclogue’’ 4 largely concerns the birth of a child (\"puer\") who will become divine and eventually rule over the world. Classicist H. J. Rose notes that the poem “is in a sense Messianic, since it contains a prophecy (whether meant seriously or not) of the birth of a wonder-child of more than mortal virtue and power, who shall restore the Golden Age.”\n\nBy the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries AD, Virgil had gained a reputation as a virtuous pagan, a term referring to pagans who were never evangelized and consequently during their lifetime had no opportunity to recognize Christ, but nevertheless led virtuous lives, so that it seemed objectionable to consider them damned. Eventually, some Christians sought to reconcile Virgil's works with the supposed Christianity present in them. Consequently, during the Late Antiquity and beyond, many assumed that the \"puer\" referenced in the Fourth \"Eclogue\" was actually Jesus Christ.\n\nAccording to Classicist Domenico Comparetti, in the early Christian era, \"A certain theological doctrine, supported by various passages of [Judeo-Christian] scripture, induced men to look for prophets of Christ among the Gentiles\". This inevitably resulted in early Christians looking to the works of Virgil—a famed poet who, even in late antiquity had immense clout in Roman society—for any sign of prophecy. Eventually, there arose a belief that Virgil’s Fourth \"Eclogue\" foretold the birth of Jesus, which seems to have first emerged during the 4th century. The scholar Steven Benko proposes that this interpretation became so popular around this time (and not earlier) because it \"provided [Constantinian Christians] a way to connect to non-Christian society and to give Christianity respectability.\"\n\nThe first major proponent that the poem was prophetic was likely the early Christian writer Lactantius, who served as Constantine the Great's religious advisor. In a chapter of his book, \"Divinae Institutiones\" (\"The Divine Institutes\"), entitled \"Of the Renewed World\", Lactantius quotes the Eclogue and argues that it refers to Jesus's awaited return at the end of the millennium. He further claims that \"the poet [i.e. Virgil] foretold [the future coming Christ] according to the verses of the Cumaean Sibyl\" (that is, the priestess presiding over the Apollonian oracle at Cumae). According to Sabine G. MacCormack, this quote seems to suggest that while Lactantius believed the poem was a prophecy, he did not necessarily believe that Virgil himself was a prophet, as the poet was merely \"reflect[ing] what the Sybil of Cumae and the Erythraean Sibyl had said long before [he] wrote.\"\n\nConstantine himself also believed the poem could be interpreted as a prophecy about Christ. Many copies of the Roman historian Eusebius's \"Vita Constantini\" (\"The Life of Constantine\") also contain a transcript of a speech made by the emperor at a Good Friday sermon during the First Council of Nicaea (AD 325), in which the emperor re-imagines almost the entire poem line-by-line as a Christian portent (although a few are omitted because they overtly reference pagan characters and concepts). Some of Constantine’s interpretations are obvious: he argues that the \"virgo\" in line 6 is a reference to the Blessed Virgin Mary, the \"puer\" in lines 8, 18, 60, and 62 to Christ, and the serpent in line 24 to the Serpent of Evil. Others are more subjective: For instance, the lions in line 22 represent, to the emperor, those who persecuted Christians, and the Assyrian flower in line 25 represents the race of people, i.e. the Assyrians, who were \"leader[s] in the faith of Christ\". The emperor also interpreted the reference to Achilles fighting against Troy in lines 34-36 as an allegory for Christ (the \"new\" Achilles) battling evil (the \"new\" Troy). Finally, Constantine proposed that lines 37-59 do not refer the birth of a normal, mortal child, but rather to a being who \"mortal parents have not smiled upon\": in other words, Jesus Christ, who, according to Christian scripture, \"had no parents in the usual sense\". However, Constantine differed from Lactantius in his opinion of Virgil, arguing that, given all the supposed allusions in this poem, Virgil surely \"wrote with full knowledge that he was foretelling Christ\", but he \"expressed himself darkly and introduced the mention of [Roman] deities to avoid affronting the pagans and provoking the anger of the authorities.\"\n\nSeveral decades later, Church Father Augustine of Hippo expressed his belief that Virgil was one of many \"Gentile ... prophets\" who by divine grace had prophesied Christ's birth. Echoing the sentiment of Lactantius, he wrote that the mention of Cumae in line 4 was a likely reference to the supposed Sibylline prophecy concerning Christ. However, Augustine, reasoned that while Virgil may have prophesied the birth and coming of Christ, it was likely that he did not understand the true meaning of what he himself was writing.\n\nThe opinion that \"Eclogue\" 4 was a reference to the coming of Jesus was not universally held by early members of the early Church, however. St. Jerome, an early Church Father now remembered best for translating the Bible into Latin, specifically wrote that Virgil could not have been a Christian prophet because he never had the chance to accept Christ. Jerome further derided anyone who held Virgil as a pre-Christian prophet, calling such a belief childish and claiming that it was just as ridiculous as Christian \"cento\" poems. But regardless of his exact feelings, the classicist Ella Bourne notes that the mere fact Jerome responded to the belief is a testament to its pervasiveness and popularity during that time.\n\nIn the early part of the sixth century, Latin grammarian Fabius Planciades Fulgentius made a passing reference to the supposed prophetic nature of the Fourth \"Eclogue\", noting: \"In quarta vaticinii artem adsumit\" (\"In the Fourth [\"Eclogue\"], [Virgil] takes up the art of prophecy\"). However, his view seems to have been a bit nuanced, and in one of his books, he wrote that \"no one is permitted to know all the truth except ... Christians, on whom shines the sun of truth. But [Virgil did] not come as an expositor well-versed in [the] books of Scripture.\" Craig Kallendorf writes that this indicated Fulgentius's belief that \"there [were] limits to what ... Virgil knew about Christianity.\"\n\nAccording to legend, Donatus, a bishop of Fiesole in the ninth century, quoted the seventh line of the poem as part of a confession of his faith prior to his death. During the same century, Agnellus, the archbishop of Ravenna, referenced the poem, noting that it was evidence that the Holy Spirit had spoken through both Virgil and the Sybil. The monk Christian Druthmar also makes use of the seventh line in his commentary on Matthew 20:30.\n\nIn the eleventh century, Virgil began appearing in plays, such as one particular Christmas work wherein the poet is the last \"prophet\" called on to give testimony concerning Christ. According to Bourne, the play was particularly popular, and philologist Du Cange gives mention of similar play performed at Rouen. Virgil and his purported prophecy even found itself in the Wakefield Mystery Plays. Around this time, \"Eclogue\" 4 and Virgil's supposed prophetic nature had saturated the Christian world; references to the poem are made by Abelard, the Bohemian historian Cosmos, and Pope Innocent III in a sermon. The \"Gesta Romanorum\", a Latin collection of anecdotes and tales that was probably compiled about the end of the 13th century or the beginning of the 14th, confirms that the eclogue was pervasively associated with Christianity.\n\nVirgil eventually became a fixture of Medieval ecclesiastic art, appearing in churches, chapels, and even cathedrals, sometimes depicted holding a scroll with a select passage from the Fourth \"Eclogue\" on it. At other times, he \"figured in sacred pictures ... in the company of David, Isaiah and other [Judeo-Christian] prophets\". Virgil's popularity in Medieval art is likely why Michelangelo included the Cumaean Sibyl on the ceiling painting of the Sistine Chapel, for, according to Paul Barolsky, the Sibyl's presence \"evokes her song in Virgil [i.e. the Fourth \"Eclogue\"], prophesying spiritual renewal through the coming of Christthe very theme of the ceiling.\" Barolsky also points out that Michelangelo painted the Sibyl in close proximity to the prophet Isaiah; thus, the painter drew a visual comparison between the similar nature of their prophecies.\n\nThis association between Virgil and Christianity reached a fever pitch in the fourteenth century, when the \"Divine Comedy\" was published; the work, by Dante Alighieri, prominently features Virgil as the main character's guide through Hell. Notably, in the second book \"Purgatorio\", Dante and Virgil meet the poet Statius, who, having \"read a hidden meaning in lines of Virgil's own\" (that is, \"Eclogue\" 4.57), was allowed passage into Purgatory, and eventually Heaven. (This legend had developed earlier in the Middle Ages, but Dante's reference popularized it). Bourne argues that Dante's inclusion of Statius's conversion through Virgil's poem is proof enough that Dante, like those before him, believed Virgil to have been an unknowing Christian prophet. Kallendorf notes that because writing the lines did not save Virgil, but reading them saved Statius, \"Dante ... must have located the Christinization of \"Eclogue\" 4 in the reader rather than the writer.\"\n\nIn the fifteenth century, a popular story concerning Secundian, Marcellian and Verianwho started out as persecutors of Christians during the reign of the Roman emperor Deciusemerged. The story claims that the trio were alarmed by the calm manner in which their Christian victims died, and so they turned to literature and chanced upon \"Eclogue\" 4, which eventually caused their conversions and martyrdom. Around this time, the famed astrologer and humanist philsopher Marsilio Ficino seems to have accepted that the poem was a prophecy, too.\n\nThe French writer René Rapin (1621–1687) was fascinated with the potential connection between Virgil and Christianity, and used the Fourth \"Eclogue\" as an artistic influence, basing many of his lines in his own Sixth \"Eclogue\" on Virgil's work. One of the more overt modern references to the Fourth \"Eclogue\", Virgil, and Christianity, appears in Alexander Pope's 1712 poem, \"Messiah\". Bourne wrote that the work \"shows clearly that [Pope] believed that Virgil's poem was based on a Sibylline prophecy\". Robert Lowth seems also to have held this opinion, noting, by way of Plato, that the poem contains references made \"not by men in their sober senses, but [by] the God himself\". In the mid-19th century, Oxford scholar John Keble claimed: \"Taceo si quid divinius ac sanctius (quod credo equidem) adhaeret istis auguriis\" (\"I am silent about whether something more divine and sacredwhich is what I, in fact, believeclings to these prophecies\").\n\nBy the turn of the 20th century, most scholars had abandoned the idea that the Fourth \"Eclogue\" was prophetic, although \"there [were] still some to be found who\", in the words of Comparetti, \"[took] this ancient farce seriously.\" Scholars today by and large see the supposed Christian nature of the poem as a by-product of Virgil's creative references to disparate religious texts. This line of thought was notably advanced by Robin Nisbet, who, after carefully analyzing the work, concluded that Virgil probably appropriated some elements used in the poem from Jewish mythology by means of Eastern oracles. In doing so, he adapted these ideas to Western (which is to say, Roman) modes of thought.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14950749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14950749", "title": "Datuk Keramat", "text": "Datuk Keramat\n\nThe religious belief of the Datuk Keramat worship can be found in Malaysia, Singapore and along the Strait of Malacca. It is a fusion of Malaysian folk religion, Sufism, and Chinese folk religion.\n\nIn Malay, \"datuk\" means a village chief, a grandfather, or person in a high position and \"keramat\" is an Arabic loanword associated with Sufism that means \"sacred, holy, blessed, mystical, supernatural, highly respected\".\n\nAccording to local legends, all datuks were once humans who had a standing in society either for their position or special attributes. They could have been an important leader, a renowned healer, a silat warrior, a pious man or even a shaman. Upon their death, locals and their followers would sometimes offer prayers at their gravestones, in line with the concept of \"keramat\". With the arrival of Chinese immigrants who carried along with them the Confucian belief of ancestor worship, both practices converged and formed a new micro-culture as observed today. Datuks, referred to in Chinese as Na Tuk Kong, is considered a localised form in worship of the spirit of the land, along with Tu Di Gong (earth spirits).\n\nAround the Malaysian countryside some small, yellow-coloured painted shrines called \"keramat\" can be found by the roadside or under a tree. These shrines are usually worshipped by the residents living around the neighbourhood. The shrines are normally of a fusion Chinese-Malay design, with Islamic elements such as the crescent moon decorations. Inside the simple room, a small, decorated statue is venerated, depicting the datuk. Around the statue offerings are brought, sometimes on a small altar in front of the datuk statue.\n\nOne belief is that there are a total of nine types of datuks, and that each of them were once great warriors and expert in Malay local martial arts, the \"Silat\" except for the last datuk. They were also known to possess great magical powers. Worshippers usually pray to datuks for protection, good health, and good luck, and sometimes seek divine help to overcome their problems.\n\nBelow are the nine datuks named according to their seniority from the eldest to the youngest:\n\n1. \"Datuk Panglima Ali\" (Ali)<br>\n2. \"Datuk Panglima Hitam\" (Black)<br>\n3. \"Datuk Panglima Harimau\" (Tiger)<br>\n4. \"Datuk Panglima Hijau\" (Green)<br>\n5. \"Datuk Panglima Kuning\" (Yellow)<br>\n6. \"Datuk Panglima Putih\" (White)<br>\n7. \"Datuk Panglima Bisu\" (Mute)<br>\n8. \"Datuk Panglima Merah\" (Red)<br>\n9. \"Datuk Panglima Bongsu\" (Youngest)\n\nThe structure of datuk worship is diversified according to localities. For example, in the old quarters of Georgetown, the presence of The Seven Brothers or \"Tujuh Beradik \"is common while in the royal town of Klang in Selangor, most of the spirits worshipped are believed to be members of the royal court (Sultans, officers, warriors etc.), each with their own unique identity.\n\nWorshippers usually offer fresh flowers, \"sireh\" (betelnuts), \"rokok daun\" (local hand rolled cigarettes), sliced \"pinang\" (areca nuts) and local fruits. An important part of the praying ritual is also to burn some \"kemenyan\" (benzoin - made of a local gum tree, when burnt will emit a smoky fragrant smell).\n\nIf their prayers are answered, the worshippers usually return to the shrine and make offerings or hold a \"kenduri\" (feast). Another common practise is for individuals to renovate the shrines to create a better looking shrine for the Datuk. In most places where there is a heavy presence of datuk spirits, it is common to see shrines becoming larger over time, especially if individuals consider the datuk to be 'powerful'.\n\nThe kenduri items usually consist of yellow saffron rice, lamb or chicken curries, vegetables, \"pisang rastali\" (bananas), young coconuts, rose syrup, \"cherrot\"s (local cigars) and local fruits.\n\nPork items are considered impure and are therefore totally forbidden in a shrine; visitors are also asked to not show disrespect when inside or around a shrine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4674887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4674887", "title": "Divided City", "text": "Divided City\n\nDivided City is a novel written by Theresa Breslin and published in 2005 by Doubleday. The novel is written for teenagers and adults concerning the problems of sectarianism in Glasgow and racism against asylum seekers.\n\nThe main characters are young boys called Graham, a Protestant supporting Rangers. Joe, a Catholic supporting Celtic, and a young asylum seeker named Kyoul.\n\nA dark stain, spreading. A young man lies bleeding in the street. It's Glasgow. And it's May - the marching season. The Orange Walks have begun. Graham doesn't want to be involved. He just wants to play football with his new mate, Joe. But then he witnesses a shocking moment of violence. A gripping tale about two boys who must find their own answers - and their own way forward - in a world divided by differences.\n"}
{"id": "4548822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4548822", "title": "Druhyus", "text": "Druhyus\n\nDruhyus () were a tribe of Vedic Aryans in Ancient India. They are mentioned in the Rigveda, often together with the Anu tribe. Some early scholars have placed them in the northwestern region.\n\nThe Indian epics and Puranas locate Druhyus in the North western part of the Indian subcontinent. Puranic lore contain accounts of a large scale migration of Drhyus from Punjab into central Asia. Druhyu king Angara is said to have been driven out of Punjab by King Mandhatri of the Ikshvaku dynasty. F. E. Pargiter theorises that the next Druhyu king Gandhara named the north-western state Gandhāra after himself. Puranas do not refer to Druhyus after the King Pracetas whose 100 sons settled in the region north of Afghanistan (udīcya) and became \"Mlecchas\".(Bhagavata 9.23.15–16; Visnu 4.17.5; Vayu 99.11–12; Brahmanda 3.74.11–12 and Matsya 48.9.). Vishnu Purana also lists Aratta and Setu as areas where Druhyus settled.(Vishnu Purana IV.17)\n\n"}
{"id": "40026705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40026705", "title": "Etzalcualiztli", "text": "Etzalcualiztli\n\nEtzalcualiztli is the name of the sixth month of the Aztec calendar. It is also a festival in the Aztec religion dedicated to Tlaloc and Chalchihuitlicue.\n"}
{"id": "105796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105796", "title": "Evangelism", "text": "Evangelism\n\nIn Christianity, Evangelism is the commitment to or act of publicly preaching of the Gospel with the intention of spreading the message and teachings of Jesus Christ.\n\nChristians who specialize in evangelism are often known as evangelists, whether they are in their home communities or living as missionaries in the field, although some Christian traditions refer to such people as \"missionaries\" in either case. Some Christian traditions consider evangelists to be in a leadership position; they may be found preaching to large meetings or in governance roles.\n\nChristian groups who encourage evangelism are sometimes known as evangelistic or \"evangelist\". The scriptures do not use the word \"evangelism\", but \"evangelist\" is used in (the translations of) , , and .\n\nThe word \"evangelist\" comes from the Koine Greek word (transliterated as \"euangelion\") via Latinised \"evangelium\" as used in the canonical titles of the Four Gospels, authored by (or attributed to) Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John (also known as the Four Evangelists). The Greek word originally meant a reward given to the messenger for good news ( = \"good\", = \"I bring a message\"; the word \"angel\" comes from the same root) and later \"good news\" itself.\n\nThe verb form of \"euangelion\", (translated as \"evangelism\"), occurs rarely in older Greek literature outside the New Testament, making its meaning more difficult to ascertain. Parallel texts of the Gospels of Luke and Mark reveal a synonymous relationship between the verb \"euangelizo\" () and a Greek verb \"kerusso\" (), which means \"to proclaim\".\n\nSome Christians distinguish between evangelism and proselytism, the latter viewed as unethical because it is taken to involve the abuse of people’s freedom and the distortion of the gospel of grace by means of coercion, deception, manipulation, and exploitation. The term ‘proselytize’ might be used when one group does not approve of the missional activities of another, particularly when one group is losing members to another group.\n\nDifferent denominations follow different theological interpretations which reflect upon the point of who is doing the actual conversion, whether the evangelist or the Holy Spirit or both. Calvinists, for example, believe the soul is converted only if the Holy Spirit is effective in the act.\n\nCatholic missionary work in Russia is commonly seen as evangelism, not proselytism. Archbishop Kondrusiewicz openly stated, \"that proselytism is absolutely unacceptable and cannot constitute a strategy for the development of our structures either in Russia or in any other country in the world\".\nEspecially regarding claims by the Orthodox church that spreading the faith and receiving converts amounts to proselytism, the Catholic Church's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith issued a document called \"Doctrinal Note on some Aspects of Evangelization\" which states that evangelism is \"an inalienable right and duty, an expression of religious liberty ...\", and added, \"The incorporation of new members into the Church is not the expansion of a power group, but rather entrance into the network of friendship with Christ which connects heaven and earth, different continents and age. It is entrance into the gift of communion with Christ...\"\n\nIn recent history, certain Bible passages have been used to promote evangelism. William Carey, in a book entitled, 'An Enquiry into the Obligations of Christians to Use Means for the Conversion of the Heathens' popularised a quotation, where, according to the Bible, during his last days on earth Jesus commanded his eleven disciples (the apostles) as follows:\n\nHowever, recent scholarship by Chris Wright and others has suggested that such activity is promoted by the entire Bible, or at least the wider term 'mission', although the meaning of the word 'mission' and its relationship to 'evangelism' is disputed amongst Christians.\n\nBreaking from tradition and going beyond television and radio a wide range of methods have been developed to reach people not inclined to attend traditional events in churches or revival meetings.\n\nDramas such as \"Heaven's Gates, Hell's Flames\" have gained enormous popularity since the 1980s. These dramas typically depict fictional characters who die and learn whether they will go to heaven or hell.\n\nThe child evangelism movement is a Christian evangelism movement that originated in the 20th century. It focuses on the 4/14 Window which centers on evangelizing children between the ages of 4 and 14 years old.\n\nBeginning in the 1970s, a group of Christian athletes known as The Power Team spawned an entire genre of Christian entertainment based on strong-man exploits mixed with a Christian message and usually accompanied by an opportunity to respond with a prayer for salvation.\n\nOther entertainment-based Christian evangelism events include comedy, live theater and music.\n\nThe Christian music industry has also played a significant role in modern evangelism. Rock (and other genres) concerts in which the artist(s) exhort non-believing attendees to pray a prayer for salvation have become common, and just as common are concerts that are focused on activity not necessarily on prayer and conversion, thus forming an environment that is not driven by conversion, but instead relaying of a message.\n\nEvangelists such as Reinhard Bonnke conduct mass evangelistic crusades around the world. Hundreds of church denominations and organizations participate in an evangelism movement known as the Billion Soul Harvest, which is a comprehensive initiative to convert a billion people to Christianity.\n\nNew opportunities for evangelization have been provided in recent decades by increased travel opportunities and by instant communications over the internet.\n\nSome churches use the title \"evangelist\" of a minister who travels from town to town and from church to church, spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ. In this sense the person is differentiated from a local pastor, with a ministry grounded in a specific community.\n\nSome denominations have a formally recognised office of evangelist as part of their ministry, such as the commissioned evangelists of the Church of England and some other Anglican churches.\n\nMany Christians of various theological perspectives would call themselves evangelists because they are spreaders of the gospel. Many churches believe one of their major functions is to function as evangelists to spread the evangelist belief that Jesus is savior of humanity.\n\nThe title of evangelist is often associated with those who lead large meetings like those of Billy Graham, Luis Palau and J.A. Pérez, possibly in tents or existing church buildings, or those who address the public in street corner preaching, which targets listeners who happen to pass nearby. It can also be done in small groups or even on a one-to-one basis, but actually it is simply one who spreads the gospel. Increasingly, the internet enables anyone to become an Internet evangelist.\n\nThe New Testament urges believers to speak the gospel clearly, fearlessly, graciously, and respectfully whenever an opportunity presents itself, incumbent upon a commitment to hold and revere God as the core/center of their lives (see , , and ).\n\nThroughout most of its history, Christianity has been spread evangelistically, though the extent of evangelism has varied significantly between Christian communities, and denominations. Evangelism, apologetics and apostolic ministry often go hand in hand. An ἀπόστολος (\"apostolos\") is literally \"one who is ordered forth\" and refers to the missionary calling of being ordered forth into the world by the initiation of God. An example of an interplay between Evangelism and Apologetics can be seen in the USA when upon door to door Evangelism the prospect is an unbeliever and challenges the Evangelist wherein the Evangelist then follows into the role of the Apologist in defense of their faith with the hope that Evangelism may be restarted. Since missionaries often travel to areas or people groups where Jesus is not yet known, they frequently take on an evangelistic role. But the apostolic or missionary calling is not necessarily the same (and it is a misnomer and misinterpretation to equate them), as there are many who serve in missionary, church planting, and ministry development roles who have an apostolic calling or serve in an apostolic role but whose primary duty is not evangelism.\n\nIn the very first sentence of its Constitution on the Church, Lumen gentium, the Vatican II Council affirmed that Christ had sent the Church to preach the gospel to every creature (LG 1; cf. Mk 16:15). Evangelism is a theme in multiple Vatican II documents. These documents mentioned “gospel” 157 times, “evangelize” 18 times, and “evangelization” 31 times.\n\nFor several decades, the magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church has been promoting a theme of New Evangelization. This includes re-evangelism of Christian people as well as mission Ad gentes to reach new regions and cultures.\n\n"}
{"id": "34735462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34735462", "title": "Gozinesh", "text": "Gozinesh\n\nIn Iran, the Gozinesh Law (passed in 1985) has the effect of prohibiting a number of religious and ethnic minorities from fully participating in civil life. This law and other \"gozinesh\" provisions make access to employment, education, and a range of other areas conditional upon a rigorous ideological screening, the principal prerequisite for which is devotion to the tenets of Islam. \n\nThese laws are regularly applied to discriminate against religious and ethnic groups that are not officially recognized, such as the Mandaeans, Ahl-e Haq, and Baha'i. The United Nations has repeatedly expressed concern over this practice in the reports of UN Secretary-General, in the reports of ILO, and so on. Some recent examples of such concerns are given below:\n\n28. The Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, after considering the combined eighteenth and nineteenth periodic reports of the Islamic Republic of Iran in August 2010, expressed concern at the limited enjoyment of political, economic, social and cultural rights by, \"inter alia\", Arab, Azeri, Baloch and Kurdish communities and some communities of non-citizens, in particular with regard to housing, education, freedom of expression and religion, health and employment, despite the economic growth in the country. \n\nThe Committee drew particular attention to reports regarding the application of the “gozinesh” criterion, a selection procedure requiring prospective State officials and employees to demonstrate allegiance to the Islamic Republic of Iran and the State religion, and expressed concern that it might limit employment opportunities and political participation for members of Arab, Azeri, Baloch, Jewish, Armenian and Kurdish communities (see CERD/C/IRN/CO/18-19).\n\nRegarding the current position of the Iran's Government concerning the law of \"gozinesh\", ILO notes the following:\n\nDiscrimination on the basis of religion and ethnicity\n\nThe Committee notes that this Committee and the Conference Committee have on a number of occasions highlighted the seriousness of the situation of unrecognized religious minorities, in particular the Baha’i, and the urgency of taking decisive action to combat discrimination against them. <...> The Committee also notes that EI has expressed concern regarding the religious-based discrimination against the Baha’i in terms of access to education, universities, and to particular occupations in the public sector.\n\nWith respect to the practice of \"gozinesh\", a selection procedure requiring prospective state officials and employees to demonstrate allegiance to the state religion, the Government states that two positions have been put forward regarding the Selection Law based on Religious and Ethical Standards, 1995: one group proposed that it be abolished, with selection decisions being solely based on qualifications; the second group proposed the amendment of some of the provisions of the Law. Both proposals were rejected, the first by a majority of members of Parliament, and the second by the Guardian Council. \n\nThe Government states that the Law recognizes not only Islam but also the religions officially recognized in the Constitution. The Committee notes, however, that unrecognized religious minorities remain subject to the practice of \"gozinesh\".<ref name=\"ILC.100/III/1A\">International Labour Conference, 100th Session, 2011. Report of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations. ILC.100/III/1A.</ref>\n"}
{"id": "37477644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37477644", "title": "Gurbachan Singh", "text": "Gurbachan Singh\n\nGurbachan Singh was born to Avtar Singh and his wife Budhwanti. He completed his middle school education in Peshawar, and then matriculated from the Khalsa School in Rawalpindi. He had to abandon his higher studies due to the violence during the partition of India in 1947. He married Kulwant Kaur, the daughter of Bhai Manna Singh, 22 April 1947.\n\nIn 1947, the Singh family migrated from the present-day Pakistan to present-day India. Gurbachan Singh established an auto parts business, first in Jalandhar and then in Delhi. Later, he started taking interest in the congregations of his father.\n\nGurbachan Singh was declared as the \"Satguru\" (\"True Master\") by his father on 3 December 1962 at Paharganj in Delhi. At the two conferences of the mission in Mussoorie (1965 and 1973), he made important changes to the organisation and established a code of conduct.\n\nIn 1978, the Nirankari mission from Delhi and other parts of the Indian sub-continent gathered a congregation at Amritsar. A few orthodox Sikhs of Akhand Kirtani Jatha and Damdami Taksal marched from the Darbar Sahib to protest the Nirankari congregation, whom they considered heterodox. In the resulting violence, 15 individuals including thirteen Khalsa Sikhs and two Sant Nirankaris were killed. The Jatha leader Bhai Fauja Singh was one among the killed.\n\nSixty-four followers of the Nirankari mission were arrested for the killings. On 13 April 1978 the detained members of the Nirankari sect were released, after formal charges against them were rejected by the session-Judge of Karnal, who stated in his judgement \"The case of the prosecution was intrinsically wrong. It was all frame-up and after thought.\" \n\nOn 25 September 1978, Gurbachan Singh arrived in Kanpur. A group of protesters arrived at the Nirankari Bhawan to protest against his presence. On 28 September 1978, anticipating fresh trouble, the Punjab Government barred Nirankari Chief Gurbachan Singh from entering Punjab for six months. The Supreme Court later rescinded the ban.\n\nOn 6 October 1978, a Hukumnama by the Jathedar of Akal Takht was issued, calling upon Sikhs to socially boycott the Nirankaris.\n\nIn 1980, Ranjit Singh, a member of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha, managed to obtain employment at the Nirankari headquarters in Delhi as a carpenter. On the evening of 24 April 1980, he waited with an automatic rifle in a room of the guest house. Ranjit Singh shot Gurbachan Singh through a window when he returned from a public function at about 11pm. Ranjit Singh managed to escape. The First Information Report named twenty people for the murder, including several known associates of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, who was also charged with conspiracy to murder. Ranjit Singh surrendered in 1983, and was in jail for 13 years. In 1990, while still in Tihar Jail, he was named the Akal Takht Jathedar, and took over the post when he was released in 1996. According to a \"Hindustan Times\" report, Ranjit Singh said about the murder: \"I have no regrets. I did it for the Panth (Nation).\" In 1997, the Delhi High Court upheld his conviction and cancelled the bail. Ranjit Singh refused to surrender. The government quickly ordered a remission of the remaining part of his sentence to avoid a confrontation.\n\nGurbachan Singh was succeeded by Hardev Singh.\n"}
{"id": "1113291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1113291", "title": "Haman (Islam)", "text": "Haman (Islam)\n\nIn the primary scripture of Islam, the Quran, Haman was the grand vizier and high priest of the pharaoh, and associated with him in his court at the time of prophet, Moses. The name Haman appears six times throughout the Qur'an, four times with Pharaoh and twice by himself, where God (Allah) sent Moses to invite Pharaoh, Haman, and their people to monotheism, and to seek protection of the Israelites Haman and Pharaoh were tormenting. Referring to Moses as a sorcerer and a liar the Pharaoh rejected Moses' call to worship the God of Moses and refused to set the children of Israel free. The Pharaoh commissioned Haman to build a tall tower using burnt bricks so that the Pharaoh could climb far up and see the God of Moses. The Pharaoh, Haman, and their army in chariots pursuing the fleeing children of Israel drowned in the Red Sea as the parted water closed up on them. The Pharaoh's submission to God at the moment of death and total destruction was rejected but his dead body was saved as a lesson for posterity and he was mummified. The dead bodies of Haman and some soldiers have been also mummified.\n"}
{"id": "12790523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12790523", "title": "Hemadpanti architecture", "text": "Hemadpanti architecture\n\nHemadpanti Sculpture (Many times spelled as Hemadpanthi) is an architectural style, named after its founder, the prime minister Hemadpant (1259-1274 CE) from the court of Seuna Yadavas of Devagiri.\n\nThis building style was formed during the 13th Century in Maharashtra, and incorporated black stone and lime, which were readily available.\n\nBhimashankar Mandir . The famous Jyotirlinga \n\n"}
{"id": "40026129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40026129", "title": "Huey Tozoztli", "text": "Huey Tozoztli\n\nHuey Tozoztli also known as Huey Tocoztli is the name of the fourth month of the Aztec calendar. It is also a festival in the Aztec religion dedicated to Tlaloc and other deities. It is called the great or long vigil.\n"}
{"id": "50290056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50290056", "title": "Idacansás", "text": "Idacansás\n\nIdacansás, Idacansas, Idacanzas or Iduakanzas was a mythical \"cacique\" who was said to have been the first priest of the sacred city of Sugamuxi, present-day Sogamoso, Colombia, then part of the territories of the Muisca. He is characterized by his great magical powers as he could make rain and hail and transmit diseases and warmth.\n\nIn the centuries before the arrival of the Spanish conquistadors, the central highlands of Colombia consisted of the Muisca Confederation, ruled by \"zaques\" from Hunza and \"zipas\" from Bacatá. Other areas, such as the territories surrounding Sogamoso were ruled by \"caciques\"; respected religious nobility. Before the time of the first confirmed human rulers Hunzahúa, who is considered an heir of Idacansás, and Meicuchuca, inaugurated in 1450, the chronicles are based on mythology.\n\n\"Cacique\" Idacansás was together with Bochica the priest of the Sun, with his Sun Temple located in Sugamuxi. Allegedly the only \"cacicazgo\" (reign of a \"cacique\") where a system of democracy existed was the \"cacicazgo\" of Sugamuxi in the Iraka Valley. 17th century Spanish chronicler Lucas Fernández de Piedrahita wrote that the \"cacique\" of Sugamuxi was chosen by the natives of Firavitoba and Tobasía, an election organized by the \"caciques\" of Gámeza, Busbanzá, Pesca and Toca. In case of conflicts, the \"cacique\" of Tundama (present-day Duitama) would intervene.\n\nThe \"cacique\" of Sugamuxi always had a double role as political and religious leader, as High Priest of the Sun. Under his rule was the Sun Temple where Muisca pilgrims from far away gathered. The reign of Idacansás made Sugamuxi a religious centre; the Rome or Mecca of the Muisca. The myth of Idacansás explains the origin of the \"cacicazgo\" and the sacred character around the Sun as unique on the Altiplano Cundiboyacense that was ruled by often brutal (Nemequene) dictatorial rulers.\n\nTo maintain the support of the people, Idacansás used lies and deceit; he pretended he was angry with the people and threatened them with death, diseases or other methods. In other occasions he would climb a mountain dressed in coloured mantles and accompanied by some of his nobles and to let the people know there was an epidemic of disentery coming, he would sprinkle orange or ochre-red dust in the air. Sometimes he would dress in white and throw ash in the air announcing that ice and aridity would come over the fertile lands of the Muisca, destroying their crops. To enhance the character of his foretellings he would react irritated to the people who came to see him as priest.\n\nThe rule of Idacansás was so widely respected and feared because he was able to change the chronological order of things happening.\n\nSome Muisca chroniclers equate Idacansás with Bochica.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35551135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35551135", "title": "Invincible ignorance (Catholic theology)", "text": "Invincible ignorance (Catholic theology)\n\nThe term \"invincible ignorance\" has its roots in Catholic theology, where — as the opposite of the term vincible ignorance — it is used to refer to the state of persons (such as pagans and infants) who are ignorant of the Christian message because they have not yet had an opportunity to hear it. The first Pope to use the term officially seems to have been Pope Pius IX in the allocution \"Singulari Quadam\" (9 December 1854) and the encyclicals \"Singulari Quidem\" (17 March 1856) and \"Quanto Conficiamur Moerore\" (10 August 1863). The term, however, is far older than that. Aquinas, for instance, uses it in his \"Summa Theologica\" (written 1265–1274), and discussion of the concept can be found as far back as Origen (3rd century). \n\nWhen and how the term was taken by logicians to refer to the very different state of persons who pigheadedly refuse to attend to evidence (see Invincible ignorance fallacy) remains unclear, but one of its first uses was in the 1959 book \"Fallacy: The Counterfeit of Argument \" by W. Ward Fearnside and William B. Holther.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1274140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1274140", "title": "Islam in Azerbaijan", "text": "Islam in Azerbaijan\n\nOver 96.9% of the population of Azerbaijan is nominally Muslim. (Estimates include 96.9% Muslim (Shia), 93.4% (Berkley Center, 2012), 99.2% (Pew Research Center, 2009).) The rest of the population adheres to other faiths or are non-religious, although they are not officially represented. Among the Muslim majority, religious observance varies and Muslim identity tends to be based more on culture and ethnicity rather than religion. The Muslim population is approximately 85% Shi'a and 15% Sunni; differences traditionally have not been defined sharply. The Republic of Azerbaijan has the second highest Shia population percentage in the world after Iran.\n\nMost Shias are adherents of orthodox Ithna Ashari school of Shi'a Islam. Other traditional religions or beliefs that are followed by many in the country are the orthodox Hanafi school of Sunni Islam. Traditionally villages around Baku and Lenkoran region are considered stronghold of Shi'ism. In some northern regions, populated by Sunni Dagestani (Lezghian) people, the Salafi movement gained some following. Folk Islam is widely practiced.\n\nAccording to a 2010 Gallup Poll found 49% of Azerbaijanis answering no to the question \"Is religion an important part of your daily life?\", one of the highest rates among any Muslim-majority country. A 1998 poll estimated the proportion of ardent believers in Azerbaijan at only 7 percent.\n\nIslam arrived in Azerbaijan with Arabs in the seventh century, gradually supplanting Christianity and pagan cults.\n\nIn the sixteenth century, the first shah of the Safavid Dynasty, Ismail I (r. 1486-1524), established Shi'a Islam as the state religion, although a portion of people remained Sunni. The population of what is nowadays Iran and what is nowadays Azerbaijan were converted to Shia Islam at the same moment in history.\nAs elsewhere in the Muslim world, the two branches of Islam came into conflict in Azerbaijan. Enforcement of Shi'a Islam as the state religion brought contention between the Safavid rulers and the ruling Sunnis of the neighboring Ottoman Empire.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, many Sunni Muslims emigrated from Russian-controlled Azerbaijan because of Russia's series of wars with their coreligionists in the Ottoman Empire. Thus, by the late nineteenth century, the Shi'a population was in the majority in Russian Azerbaijan. Antagonism between the Sunnis and the Shi'a diminished in the late nineteenth century as Azerbaijani nationalism began to emphasize a common Turkic heritage and opposition to Iranian religious influences.\n\nIn 1806, what is now Azerbaijan became occupied by the Russian Empire as the latter invaded Qajar Iran during the Russo-Persian War (1804-1813). In the aftermath, Iran was forced to cede therefore almost all of what is nowadays Azerbaijan according to the Treaty of Gulistan of 1813 to Russia. However, all this only came to be confirmed in the aftermath of the next and last war between Russia and Iran, the Russo-Persian War (1826-1828) and the resulting Treaty of Turkmenchay of 1828. In 1918, what is now Azerbaijan declared independence from Russia and established the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic under its leading Musavat party, but was incorporated into the Soviet Union in 1920.\n\nBefore Soviet power was established, about 2,000 mosques were active in Azerbaijan. Most mosques were closed in the 1930s, then some were allowed to reopen during World War II. The Soviet rule promoted an Azerbaijani national consciousness as a substitute for identification with the world Islamic community.\n\nDuring World War II, Soviet authorities established the Muslim Spiritual Board of Transcaucasia in Baku as the governing body of Islam in the Caucasus, in effect reviving the nineteenth-century tsarist Muslim Ecclesiastical Board. During the tenures of Leonid Brezhnev and Mikhail Gorbachev, Moscow encouraged Muslim religious leaders in Azerbaijan to visit and host foreign Muslim leaders, with the goal of advertising the freedom of religion and superior living conditions reportedly enjoyed by Muslims under Soviet communism.\n\nDuring the Azerbaijani SSR, there were 17 mosques functioning in the country. In the 1980s only two large and five smaller mosques held services in Baku, and only eleven others were operating in the rest of the country. Supplementing the officially sanctioned mosques were thousands of private houses of prayer and many secret Islamic sects.\n\nThe lone center of conservative Shia Islam, was the town of Nardaran, 25 kilometers northeast of central Baku, and was renowned for its thirteenth-century Shia shrine. Unlike the rest of the country which was staunchly secular and which can be considered religiously progressive, Nardaran was the only place in the whole of Azerbaijan where its inhabitants are devoutly religious and fundamentalist, where its streets display religious banners and where most women wear chadors in public. The now banned Islamic Party of Azerbaijan was founded in this town and its base was centered there.\n\nThere is some evidence of Sufism in Azerbaijan.\n\nGradually, during the Soviet imperial twilight, signs of religious reawakening not only multiplied but surfaced into the open. According to Soviet sources, during the late 1970s around 1,000 clandestine houses of prayer were in use, and some 300 places of pilgrimage were identifiable. This growth proved the prelude to the public openings of hundreds of mosques in the following decade.\n\nBeginning in the late Gorbachev period, and especially after independence, the number of mosques rose dramatically. Many were built with the support of other Islamic countries, such as Iran, Oman, and Saudi Arabia, which also contributed Qur'ans and religious instructors to the new Muslim states. A Muslim seminary has also been established since 1991. The growing number of religious Muslims resulted in the establishment of more than 2,000 mosques by 2014.\n\nAfter independence, the laws regarding religion are quite clear. In Article 7 of the constitution, Azerbaijan is declared a secular state. This point is driven home in Article 19 with the statement of the separation of religion and state and the equality of all religions before the law as well as the secular character of the state educational system.\n\nAzerbaijan has been a secular country. A 1998 survey estimated the proportion of ardent believers in Azerbaijan at close to 7 percent, slightly more than the number of declared atheists — almost 4 percent — with the largest numbers falling into the category of those who consider Islam above all as a way of life, without strict observance of prohibitions and requirements, or as a fundamental part of national identity. In a 2010 survey only half of Azerbaijanis answering yes to the question, \"Is religion an important part of your daily life?\"\n\nSecular politicians in Azerbaijan have raised concerns about the rise of political Islam, but others argue that Islam in Azerbaijan is a multifaceted phenomenon. Islam plays only a very limited role in the political sphere and only a small part of the population supports the idea of establishing an \"Islamic order\". This is due to the long tradition of secularism in Azerbaijan and to the fact that the nationalistic opposition movement is secular in character. Yet, according to some analysts, on the longer run, if the politicians do not manage to improve the conditions of life of the vast majority of the people, the population may express its discontent through political Islam.\n\nThere is a certain rise of religious extremism across the Azerbaijan as a result of continued problems such as corruption, poverty, and government rule, combined with disillusionment with the West and support of religious sects from different countries. However it works against a headwind of traditional secularism. According to Svante Cornell:\n\nAzerbaijan can rightly claim to be among the most progressive and secular Islamic societies. Aside from having been the first Muslim country to have operas, theater plays, and a democratic republic, Azerbaijan today is among the Muslim countries where support for secularism is the highest, and where radical ideologies have met only very limited interest.\n\nSvante Cornell believes that the radical groups remain weak, but have a potential to grow under the current domestic and international circumstances. To confront this, the Azerbaijani state needs to address the diarchy in terms of supervision of religious structures. He writes, that the Government policies toward Islam in general and Islamic radicalism in particular have been inadequate.\n\nAccording to researchers Emil Souleimanov and Maya Ehrmann, there is \"a trend among Dagestani minorities in the north of Azerbaijan to engage in insurgent activities\". The Salafi movement has been \"spurred by missionary activities using external funds and the establishment of mosques\", and found support from those who the desire a return to more traditionalist values. As authorities have repressed Salafis in the north they have become more radical.\n\nCitizens of Azerbaijan have joined terrorist organizations in Syria.\n\nIn Nardaran, a deadly incident broke out between Azerbaijan security forces and religious Shia residents in which two policemen and four suspected Shia Muslim militants were killed.\n\nAs a result of this incident, the Azerbaijani parliament passed laws prohibiting people with religious education received abroad to implement Islamic rites and ceremonies in Azerbaijan, as well as to preach in mosques and occupy leading positions in the country; as well as prohibiting the display of religious paraphernalia, flags and slogans, except in places of worship, religious centers and offices. Ashura commemorations in public have also been banned. The Azerbaijani government also passed a law to remove the citizenship of Azerbaijani citizens who fight abroad.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5839590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5839590", "title": "Islam in Madagascar", "text": "Islam in Madagascar\n\nIslam has been well established in what is now known as Madagascar for centuries and today Muslims represent 7% of the population. Vast majority of Muslims in Madagascar practice Sunni Islam of the Shafi school of jurisprudence, with a smaller population of Ahmadis who first established themselves in the country in the 1980s, and the increasingly harassed, by Sunni fundamentalists and Shia Muslims.\n\nBeginning in the 10th or 11th century, Arab and Zanzibari ivory merchants working their way down the east coast of Africa in their dhows and established settlements on the west coast of Madagascar. The most noteworthy of these were the Zafiraminia, traditional ancestors of the Antemoro, Antanosy and other east coast ethnicities. The last wave of Arab immigrants would be the Antalaotra who immigrated from eastern African colonies. They settled the north-west of the island (Majunga area) and were the first to actually bring Islam to the island.\n\nArab immigrants were few in total number compared to the Indonesians and Bantus, but they left a lasting impression. The Malagasy names for seasons, months, days, and coins are Arabic in origin, as is the practice of circumcision, the communal grain pool, and different forms of salutation. The Arab magicians, known as the \"ombiasy,\" established themselves in the courts of many Malagasy tribal kingdoms. Arab immigrants brought their patriarchal system of family and clan of non Islamic civilization rule to Madagascar, which differed from the Polynesian matriarchal system whereby rights of privilege and property are conferred equally on men and women. Sorabe is an alphabet based on Arabic used to transcribe the Malagasy language and the Antemoro dialect in particular. The Arabs were also the first to correctly identify the origin of most Malagasy by suggesting that the island was colonized by the Indonesians.\n\nUpon independence from France in 1960, Madagascar began developing close ties with staunchly secular power the Soviet Union. This stifled the development of all religion in Madagascar. However, in the 1980s, Madagascar drifted away from the Soviet Union and back towards France.\n\nFollowers constitute approximately 7% of the population, according to the US Department of State in 2011, (Down from their earlier estimate of 10 to 15% in 2009), or 3% according to the Pew Research Center in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "37932095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37932095", "title": "Jainism in Africa", "text": "Jainism in Africa\n\nThe history of Jainism in Africa is relatively short when compared with the histories of Judaism, Christianity and Islam on the same continent. There are about 20,000 Jains and around 10 Jain organizations in Africa.\n\nJainism entered Africa during the late 19th century, when Jains first emigrated from India to Kenya, and then to Uganda, Sudan and Tanzania.\n\nAn exodus of Asians from Uganda in 1972 due to Idi Amin's policies forced some Jains to migrate elsewhere, like Australia, North America and Europe.\n\nJainism in Kenya has been present for about 100 years. It is practiced by a small community that actively organizes Jain conventions, film festivals and other community programs.\n\nThere are Jain temples in Nairobi and Mombasa. Jains are among the most successful and prosperous businessmen in Nairobi and other bigger towns.\n\nJains emigrated to South Africa under British colonial rule in India and South Africa, and exceeded in trade and business. Due to the high number of Jain tourists, in addition to the resident Jain community, many South African restaurants offer Jain food.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47097140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47097140", "title": "Jamia-tul-Madina", "text": "Jamia-tul-Madina\n\nJamia-tul-Madina (Urdu: ) is a chain of Islamic universities in India, Pakistan and in European and other countries established by Dawat-e-Islami. The Jamia-tul-Madina are also known as Faizan-e-Madina. Dawat-e-Islami has grown its network of Madaris from Pakistan to Europe.\n\nJamia-tul-Madina has 200+ branches in Pakistan, 11 in India and 18 in Other countries. \nAlso in Bangladesh, Jamia-tul- Madina has produced scholars who are serving in United Kingdom.\n\nWeekly religious congregations are held regularly on weekends in every Jamia-tul-Madina.\n\nThe number of students are 11719 in Jamia-tul-Madina, Karachi, Pakistan .\n\nFaizan-e-Madina institutes of Islamic education are spread in various countries around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "1198839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1198839", "title": "Jewish Telegraph", "text": "Jewish Telegraph\n\nThe Jewish Telegraph is a British Jewish newspaper. It was founded in December 1950 by Frank and Vivienne Harris, the parents of the current Editor, Paul Harris. \n\nFrank and Vivienne Harris founded the newspaper in the dining room of their home in the City of Salford in December 1950.\n\nFrank Harris was a London freelance journalist who, on his arrival in Manchester, noticed the fact that the city’s only Jewish newspaper was a freesheet. He determined, against all advice, to establish a Jewish weekly. \n\nVivienne Harris oversaw the newspaper's expansion from 1950 to 2011. Under her guidance, the \"Jewish Telegraph\" established editions in four major British cities - Manchester, Leeds, Liverpool and Glasgow.\n\nIn 1976, the \"Jewish Telegraph\" decided to widen its field of coverage and established a separate Leeds edition with its own editorial and advertising staff and office in that city. A staff of nine is maintained there.\n\nIn 1981, the \"Jewish Telegraph\" expanded further, acquiring the title of the monthly \"Liverpool Jewish Gazette\", immediately giving Merseyside, for the first time, its own Jewish weekly. The \"Jewish Telegraph\" has its own editorial staff in Liverpool, based in offices at Harold House, the Liverpool Jewish Community Centre. These offices moved into the new King David Campus in September 2011.\n\nIn June 1992, on the demise of the \"Glasgow Jewish Echo\", the \"Jewish Telegraph\" moved into Scotland within a week and began to produce a weekly edition. A staff of four works from office accommodations at the Glasgow Maccabi complex.\n\nThe latest addition to the \"Jewish Telegraph\" was in December 1999 with the introduction of a website, which is entirely updated in the early hours of every Friday morning. The paper is currently headquartered in Park Hill, Bury Old Road in Prestwich.\n\n"}
{"id": "23714702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23714702", "title": "Jewish views on love", "text": "Jewish views on love\n\nJudaism offers a variety of views regarding the love of God, love among human beings, and love for non-human animals. Love is a central value in Jewish ethics and Jewish theology.\n\nOne of the core commandments of Judaism is \"Love your neighbor as yourself\" (Leviticus 19:18), sometimes called the Great Commandment. This commandment stands at the center of the central book in the Torah. The Talmudic sages Hillel and Rabbi Akiva indicated that this is the central commandment of the Torah. The commandment emboldens individuals to treat each other as equals which requires first valuing oneself in order to be able to mirror that love onto others. Similarly, another significant commandment is to “not stand idly by the blood of your neighbor” (Leviticus 19:16), which can be exhibited in many forms. Some Jewish sources have emphasized the importance of self-sacrifice in regards to putting our needs second to another's, but Rabbi Akiva's teaching of \"Your own life takes precedence to that of another,\" contradicts his own principle of loving thy neighbor as thyself.\n\nThis commandment of love, with the preceding sentence, \"Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people,\" may originally have referred, and has by some scholars (Stade, \"Gesch. des Volkes Israel,\" i. 510a) been exclusively referred, to the Israelitish neighbor; but in verse 34 of the same chapter it is extended to \"the stranger that dwelleth with you . . . and thou shalt love him as thyself.\" In Job xxxi. 13–15 it is declared unjust to wrong the servant in his cause: \"Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not one fashion us in the womb?\"\n\nRomantic love is included in the command to love one's neighbor, but romantic love \"per se\" is not a central topic in classical Jewish literature. Some medieval rabbinic authorities such as Judah Halevi wrote romantic poetry in Arabic, though some say that Halevi regretted his romantic poetry, which he wrote in his younger years.\n\nCommenting upon the command to love the neighbor (Lev. l.c.) is a discussion recorded (Sifra, Ḳedoshim, iv.; compare Gen. R. xxiv. 5) between Rabbi Akiva, who declared this verse in Leviticus to contain the great principle of the Law (\"Kelal gadol ba-Torah\"), and Ben Azzai, who pointed to Gen. v. 1 (\"This is the book of the generations of Adam; in the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him\"), as the verse expressing the leading principle of the Law, obviously because the first verse gives to the term \"neighbor\" its unmistakable meaning as including all men as being sons of Adam, made in the image of God. Tanḥuma, in Genesis Rabbah l.c., explains it thus: \"If thou despisest any man, thou despisest God who made man in His image.\"\n\nHillel also took the Biblical command in this universal spirit when he responded to the heathen who requested him to tell the Law while standing before him on one foot: \"What is hateful to thee, thou shalt not do unto thy neighbor. This is the whole of the Law, the rest is only commentary\" (Shab. 31a). The negative form was the accepted Targum interpretation of Lev. xix. 18, known alike to the author of Tobit iv. 15 and to Philo, in the fragment preserved by Eusebius, \"Preparatio Evangelica,\" viii. 7 (Bernays' \"Gesammelte Abhandlungen,\" 1885, i. 274 et seq.); to the Didache, i. 1; Didascalia or Apostolic Constitutions, i. 1, iii. 15; Clementine Homilies, ii. 6; and other ancient patristic writings (Resch, \"Agrapha,\" pp. 95, 135, 272). To include all men, Hillel used the term \"beriot\" (creatures [compare κτίσις]; Mark xvi. 15; Rom. viii. 19) when inculcating the teaching of love: \"Love the fellow-creatures\" (Abot i. 12). Hatred of fellow-creatures (\"sinat ha-beriyot\") is similarly declared by R. Joshua b. Hananiah to be one of the threethings that drive man out of the world (Abot ii. 11; compare I John iii. 15).\n\nThe Talmud insists, with reference to Lev. xix. 18, that even the criminal at the time of execution should be treated with tender love (Sanh. 45a). As Schechter in \"J. Q. R.\" x. 11, shows, the expression \"Ye have heard . . .\" is an inexact translation of the rabbinical formula, which is only a formal logical interrogation introducing the opposite view as the only correct one: \"Ye might deduce from this verse that thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy, but I say to you the only correct interpretation is, Love all men, even thine enemies.\" According to Ahad Ha-am, the Torah's phrasing of \"thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself\" is negative because it creates a \"perfect equilibirum, with no leaning either to your side or to your neighbour's.\"\n\nIn Tanna debe Eliyahu R. xv. it is said: \"Blessed be the Lord who is impartial toward all. He says: 'Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbor. Thy neighbor is like thy brother, and thy brother is like thy neighbor.'\" Likewise in xxviii.: \"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God\"; that is, thou shalt make the name of God beloved to the creatures by a righteous conduct toward Gentiles as well as Jews (compare Sifre, Deut. 32).\n\nḤayyim Vital, the kabbalist, in his \"Sha'are Ḳedushah,\" i. 5 teaches that the law of love of the neighbor includes the non-Israelite as well as the Israelite. A similar view was taught by Aaron b. Abraham ibn Ḥayyim of the sixteenth century, in his commentary to Sifre and by Moses Ḥagis of the eighteenth century, in his work on the 613 commandments, while commenting on Deut. xxiii. 7.\n\nOne of the main tenets of Hassidut is that all that everything in the universe exists only because the Creator wills it to exist. Therefore, the existence of even the most vile and wicked human beings are a manifestation of Hashem's will, and ultimately, their physical survival is due to that same divine energy that allows the entire creation to survive. And even though it is indeed a positive commandment to despise evil, the true tzaddik understands that the existence of even the most wicked human beings are in accordance with the Creator's will. This understanding is tantamount to love, as it stems from a love of Hashem and his ways. According to R' Nachman, this is the \"sod\" of \"Ad delo yada bein arur Haman le'varuch Mordechai\".\n\nSome Jews, however, have criticized Kabbalistic and Hasidic views of love.\n\nOne of the leaders of the Musar movement, Rabbi Simcha Zissel Ziv, put much emphasis on love.\n\nA later Musar movement leader, the 20th-century rabbi Eliyahu Eliezer Dessler is frequently quoted as defining love from the Jewish point-of-view as \"giving without expecting to take\" (\"Kuntres ha-Chesed\", Heb. קונטרס החסד Pamphlet [on the topic] of Lovingkindness from his \"Michtav me-Eliyahu\", vol. I).\n\nThe synod at Leipsic in 1869, and the German-Israelitish Union of Congregations in 1885, stood on old historical ground when declaring that \"'Love thy neighbor as thyself' is a command of all-embracing love, and is a fundamental principle of the Jewish religion.\"\n\nThe 20th-century Jewish theologian Will Herberg argued that \"justice\" is at the heart of the Jewish notion of love, and the foundation for Jewish law: \n\nThe Jewish tradition often encourages the elimination of “otherness” instead for all to see each other as moral counterparts and emphasizes the obligation to render aid and intervene autonomously, doing the right thing because it’s right, not in a heteronomous way, doing the right thing because we feel we must. The tradition teaches not to simply love, but to tolerate in order to be able to achieve justice.\n\nContemporary rabbi Jill Jacobs has emphasized that the limits of love as a motivation for giving to others. As a way to extend one's hand to the community, one can give Tzedakah, or charity, which comes from the word Tzedek meaning justice, compassion and mercy. As an obligation, one must give to the poor “as a means of restoring justice to the world…not as an altruistic or voluntary gesture.” A way to outwardly and tangibly exhibit love is by giving. For example, giving money out of “passion for causes, out of love or concern for others, out of gratitude for our own good fortune, and out of desire to create a better world for ourselves and our children.” By giving to the community, one can demonstrate love outwardly while also embracing it inwardly.\n\nLove has also been expressed as being the selflessness of mankind (Louis Jacobs, Greater Love Hath No Man). Humans have the capacity to self-sacrifice in the interest of others, as every life is valuable and unique. When one risks his or her own life to save another, it is seen as an act of piety and an act of love and justice which “advocates the most excessive altruism…” (Greater Love Hath No Man). In order to be selfless then, one must be able to “attach moral value to the individual as such, without any distinction between the self and the other.”\n\nThe Jewish tradition finds validity to the idea of love as well as the acts that supplement it. These acts are centered on ideas widely associated with love in many different traditions such as kindness, respect, compassion, and empathy. There is inherent value to every soul because they are human. Rabbi Laurie Zoloth-Dorfman states, “The conscience can be said, then, not to be the speaking of the voice within but rather the hearing of the quiet voice of the other, this voice, just as clearly as one’s “own,” must remind us to see each child as our own, each journey and each need as fundamentally shared.” Rather than finding compassion within oneself, we are obligated to find compassion from our empathy and natural connectedness to others. This love for one’s neighbor because they are ones neighbor is an important theme seen in modern views of love in Jewish ethics.\n\nLove can be expressed in a myriad of ways in the Jewish tradition. One way is putting others before oneself. There are several arguments to do this, but one of the most compelling is because one does not know the value of their life. Rabbi Louis Jacobs states, “But no human being can know which life is of greater value. Hence, it is forbidden to save one’s life by committing murder.” Some interpretations state that each person is of different value based on a set of variables that are difficult to quantify. There is love to be found in sacrificing oneself because of an understanding that someone else’s life could be more valuable to the world or to God. Rabbi David Novak states “Rather, many a Jewish source maintains that God affords every human being the opportunity to choose his or her moral fate, and will then judge him or her, and choose whether to love him or her, on the basis of that decision.” In this way, God can decide whether to love a person based on their decisions in the same way a person can choose to love another person. This idea of God with holding love is not necessarily the predominant one in the modern Jewish tradition, but it is an important concept in the discussion of love and Jewish ethics.\n\nSome Jewish sources also highlight the importance of love and compassion for non-human animals. Thus, for example, the Jewish philosopher Lenn Goodman speaks of how laws regarding the suffering of animals ideally \"create a sensibility of love and kindness.\" Hava Tirosh-Samuelson, a Jewish historian believed that at the core of Judaism the covenantal model between the Jewish people, God, and the Land of Israel, explains our “obligation to respond to the needs of the other.\" Tirosh-Samuelson thought about the possible meanings when this model was expanded to include the earth as a whole, showing the importance of treating all living creatures with respect. There is a story in the Talmud on how Judah HaNasi was struck with pain because he did not show mercy to a calf being led to slaughter, and only after saving a mouse's nest he was forgiven.\n\nDeuteronomy 6: 4–5 commands: \"Hear O Israel, the Lord is our God; the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might.\"\n\nThe commandment to love God in Deut. 6 is taken by the Mishnah (a central text of the Jewish oral law) to refer to good deeds, willingness to sacrifice one's life rather than commit certain serious transgressions, willingness to sacrifice all one's possessions and being grateful to the Lord despite adversity (tractate Berachoth 9:5, tractate Sanhedrin 74a). Rabbinic literature differs how this love can be developed.\n\nThe love of God means the surrounding of life with his commandments (Men. 43b) and is conditioned by the love of the Torah (R. H. 4a). Israel is said to love him, giving their very lives for the observance of his commandments (Mek., Yitro, 6, to Ex. xx. 6). Indeed, love of God is voluntary surrender of life and all one has for God's honor (Sifre, Deut. 32; Ber. 54a). It is unselfish service of God (Abot i. 3; 'Ab Zarah 19a). There are chastisements of love for the righteous to test their piety (Ber. 5a; comp. Rom. v. 3). It is this unequaled love, braving suffering and martyrdom, which established the unique relation between God and Israel, so that \"none of the nations can quench this love\" (Cant. R. viii. 7). This unique love is echoed also in the liturgy (see Ahabah Rabbah). To be a true \"lover of God,\" however, means \"to receive offense, and resent not; to hear words of contumely, and answer not; to act merely from love, and rejoice even in trials as tests of pure love\" (Shab. 88b; Soṭah 31a; comp. Rom. viii. 28).\n\nLove of God is accentuated as the highest incentive of action by Baḥya ibn Paḳuda, in \"Ḥobot ha-Lebabot\" (see Jew. Encyc. ii. 454). In \"Duties of the Heart\", the Jewish philosopher maintained that love of God is the ultimate goal and must be the aim of all virtues. Bahya defined this love as the soul's longing for the creator and this is also made possible through the fear of God, which allows people to abstain from worldly desires. It appears that fear is linked to love in the sense that it stems from the contemplation of God's power and greatness, which could result to emotional attachment seen in parts of the Psalm and elsewhere in the Bible. Once a religious person empties himself of the love for material things, he then opens himself up to be filled with the love of God. These arguments led some observers to describe Bahya's concept of love towards the creator as more focused on the emotion instead of putting emphasis on the rational or mystical aspects. Love towards other people and even animals could fall within Bahya's framework when approached from his view that we cannot know God as He is in Himself and that it is only through his creatures that we can gain an apprehension of the Divine.\n\nMaimonides, in his Mishneh Torah, devotes the whole tenth chapter of Hilkot Teshubah, with reference to Abot i. 3, to love of God as the motive which gives all human action its true ethical and religious value. Maimonides wrote that it should only be out of love for God, rather than fear of punishment or hope for reward, that Jews should obey the law: \"When man loves God with a love that is fitting he automatically carries out all the precepts of love\". Maimonides thinks that love of God can be developed by contemplating Divine deeds or witnessing the marvels of nature (Maimonides, \"Mishneh Torah\", Hilchot Yesoday HaTorah, Chapter 2).\n\nNaḥmanides in his commentary to Deut. vi. 4, with reference to Sifre, l.c., declares that love of God involves the study and observance of the Law without regard to gain or expectation of reward; so also Baḥya ben Asher, in his \"Kad ha-Ḳemaḥ,\" under \"Ahabah.\"\n\nR. Eleazar of Worms, in his ethical work \"Roḳeaḥ,\" begins with the chapter on love, referring to Sifre, Deut. 32, 41, 48; Ber. 54a; Yoma 86a; Ned. 62a; Soṭah 31a; Tanna debe Eliyahu xxvi.; Midr. Teh. to Ps. xiii. 2 (\"I love Thee; that is, 'I love Thy creatures'\"); and Midr. Tadshe xii., and stating that he who truly loves God subordinates all other desires and cares to the one great object of life—the fulfilment of God's will in joy.\n\nStill more extensively does Elijah de Vidas, in his ethical work \"Reshit Ḥokmah\" (part 2), dwell on love of God as the highest aim and motive of life. He also quotes the Zohar (i. 11b; ii. 114, 116a; iii. 68a, 264b, 267a; and other passages), where it is frequently stated that pure love is suppression of all care for self, and through such love true union of the soul with God is effected. This union is said by the Kabbalists to take place in the celestial \"palace of love\" (Zohar i. 44b, ii. 97a).\n\nStill greater importance was attached to love when it was rendered a cosmic principle in the philosophical systems of Hasdai Crescas and, through him, of Spinoza. Instead of rendering the creative intellect the essence of the Deity, as did Maimonides and all the Aristotelians, Crescas, like Philo, makes love the essential quality of God. Love is divine bliss, and hence love of God is the source of eternal bliss for mortal man.\n\nBut, more than Crescas, it was probably Judah Leon Abravanel from whom Spinoza borrowed the idea of \"intellectual love\" as a cosmic principle, and who, following the Platonic and pantheistic tendency of the period of the Italian Renaissance, made (in his \"Dialoghi di Amore\") the \"amore intellectivo\" and \"amore mentale\" or \"rationale\" the essence of God and the central force and end of the world. \"Love links all things together in the cosmos, but while love in the natural world is sensual and selfish, divine love is unselfish and uplifting. God's love created the world and brings about the perfection of all things, especially of man, who, when good, is God-loving as well as God-beloved, and whose love of God leads him to eternal bliss, which is identical with divine love.\" This intellectual love is identical with the Biblical \"to him [God] shalt thou cleave\" (Deut. x. 20, xi. 22, xiii. 5; Sifre, Deut. 49; Soṭah 14a) and gives rise to the \"imitatio Dei.\" It is highest perfection and supreme joy Abravanel's view of love as the principle of the world appears to have exerted some influence also upon Schiller in his \"Philosophische Briefe\" (1838, x. 289)\n\nThe 20th-century Jewish philosopher Franz Rosenzweig described divine love as cleansing:\n\nRosenzweig described the Hebrew Bible as a \"grammar of love\" in which God can communicate \"I love you\" only by demanding \"You must love me,\" and Israel can communicate \"I love you\" only by confessing \"I have sinned.\" Therefore, this confession does not lead God to offer an unnecessary absolution; it merely expresses Israel's love for God. \"What then is God's answer to this 'I am thine' by which the beloved soul acknowledges him\" if it is not \"absolution?\" Rosenzweig's answer is: revelation: \"He cannot make himself known to the soul before the soul has acknowledged him. But now he must do so. For this it is by which revelation first reaches completion. In its groundless presentness, revelation must now permanently touch the ground.\" Revelation, epitomized by Sinai, is God's response to Israel's love. Contrary to Paul, who argued that \"through the law comes knowledge of sin\", Rosenzweig argues that it is because of and after a confession of sin that God reveals to Israel knowledge of the law.\n\nRosenzweig believes that for the rabbis, Song of Songs provides a paradigm for understanding the love between God and Israel, a love that \"is strong as death\". God's love is as strong as death because it is love for the People Israel, and it is as a collective that Israel returns God's love. Thus, although one may die, God and Israel, and the love between them, lives on. In other words, Song of Songs is \"the focal book of revelation\" where the \"grammar of love\" is most clearly expressed. But this love that is as strong as death ultimately transcends itself, as it takes the form of God's law — for it is the law that binds Israel as a people, and through observance of the law that each Jew relives the moment of revelation at Mt. Sinai. Ultimately, Song of Songs points back to Leviticus's command to love one's neighbor as oneself and to the rest of the Torah.\n\nThrough the revelation of God's commandments, in Rosenzweig's view, the love portrayed in Song of Songs becomes the love commanded in Leviticus. Just as love for the Children of Israel is one of the ways that God is present in the world, the necessary response by the Jews — the \"way\" to love God in return — is to extend their own love out towards their fellow human beings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18654526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18654526", "title": "Justus Doolittle", "text": "Justus Doolittle\n\nJustus Doolittle (; Pinyin: \"Lú Gōngmíng\"; Foochow Romanized: \"Lù Gŭng-mìng\"; June 23, 1824, Rutland, New York - June 15, 1880, Clinton, New York) was an American Board missionary to China.\n\nJustus Doolittle was born in Rutland, New York on June 23, 1824. In 1846 he graduated from Hamilton College, and in 1849 from Auburn Theological Seminary. Having deliberately chosen China as his field of labor, he sailed for Fuzhou with his wife soon after graduation, and arrived there on May 31. In February, 1864, he left China for a visit to the United States on account of his health. In 1872 he entered the service of the Presbyterian Board at Shanghai, but was soon compelled to return home disabled. On June 15, 1880, he died in Clinton, New York. He is buried in Sunset Hill Cemetery, Clinton, NY.\n\nDoolittle was most famous for his Social Life of the Chinese (Volume 1 and 2), a thorough and valuable work on the details of Chinese life. He also had a significant collection of Chinese coins, which was sold in June 1881.\n\nIn 1870-71 he accompanied the photographer John Thomson. Thomson's photographs of this journey were published as \"Foochow and the River Min\" (1873), a total of 46 copies.\n\nDoolittle published prolifically in a wide range of journals, including \"Chinese Recorder and Missionary Journal\", of which he was briefly an editor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15309207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15309207", "title": "Júlia Lemmertz", "text": "Júlia Lemmertz\n\nJúlia Lemmertz Dias (born March 18, 1963) is a Brazilian television, film and stage actress. \n\nJúlia was born in Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, to actors Lineu Dias and Lílian Lemmertz. Her career started when she was a child, and since then, Lemmertz has starred in over 40 soap operas.\n\nLemmertz was married to Álvaro Osório, a Rede Globo executive, from 1986 to 1990, with whom she had a daughter, Luiza (born 1987).\nWhile filming \"Guerra Sem Fim\" (1993), Lemmertz began a relationship with actor Alexandre Borges. The couple were married in 1993 and have a son, Miguel (born 2000). They divorced in 2015.\n\nLemmertz has practiced Transcendental Meditation since 1983 and says, \"Meditation generates enormous well-being.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1018399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018399", "title": "Kaharingan", "text": "Kaharingan\n\nKaharingan is a folk religion professed by many Dayaks in Kalimantan, Indonesia; particularly Central Kalimantan, although many have converted to Christianity or Islam. The word means life, and this belief system includes a concept of a supreme deity—although this may be the result of the need to conform to the idea of \"One Supreme God\" (\"Ketuhanan yang Maha Esa\"), which is the first principle of the Indonesian state ideology Pancasila. Hindu-Javanese influence can be seen in this religion, and the Indonesian government views it as a form of Hinduism because the Indonesian government recognizes only six official religions, and Kaharingan is not one of them. The main festival of Kaharingan is the \"Tiwah\" festival, which lasts for thirty days, and involves the sacrifice of many animals like buffaloes, cows, pigs and chickens, as offerings to the Supreme God.\n\nThe supreme God in Kaharingan is called Ranying. In addition, the religion has ritual offerings called Yadnya, places of worship called Balai Basarah or Balai Kaharingan and a holy book called Panaturan, Talatah Basarah (group of prayers) and Tawar (a guide to seek God's help by giving rice).\n\nThe term Kaharingan comes from the Old Dayak word \"Haring\" meaning \"Life\" or \"Alive\". This concept is expressed in the symbol of the faith depicting the Tree of Life. This Tree of Life resembles a spear that has three branches on eitherside, some facing up and some down. At the bottom of the symbol are two receptacles, while at the very top are a hornbill and the sun. The hornbill bird and the sun represent Ranying Mahalala meaning God Almighty, Source of all life on earth.\n\nThe spear and its branches denote the upper world and the afterlife, while the lower part where are the receptacles convey the idea of man’s earthly life. Although both the spiritual world and the earthly world are different, but they are closely connected to one another and are inseparable since they are both interdependent.\n\nThe branches where some face up while others face down mean that there is an eternal balance between the earthly and the afterlife. That life on earth is temporary, and that human life is designed for the hereafter.\n\nAltogether the Tree of Life expresses the core of the Kaharingan faith, which is that Human Life must be a balance and kept in harmony between man and his fellow humans, between man and his natural environment, and between man and the Almighty. This is also the basic concept of the Balinese Hindu religion, where in Bali it is known as the Tri Hita Karana.\n\nIn practice the Ngaju Dayaks focus on the supernatural world of spirits, including ancestral spirit. For them, the secondary funeral is most important, usually held after several months or even years after burial. During the second funeral rites (known as \"tiwah\") the bones are exhumed and cleansed then placed in a special mausoleum, called sandung. The spirit of the deceased is then believed to watch over the village. The mausoleums are often beautifully decorated showing scenes of the upper world. An ornate ship of the dead made of rubber is usually placed next to the remains depiciting his entourage that accompany the soul to paradise.\n\nOne of the most outstanding features of the Dayak faith is their Local Wisdom and innate concern to preserve the forest and the natural environment. There are strict rules and directives on how to treat the rainforests, what may be done or taken from the forests and what are taboo. The Dayaks’ local wisdom directs that trespassing these rules will destroy the balance of the forest and animals living in the forest, and so directly or indirectly will adversely damage communities living from the forest bounty.\n\nAmong the many tribes of Dayaks in Borneo, those living in the upper reaches of the rivers in the province of Central Kalimantan are the Dayak Ngaju, the Lawangan, the Ma'anyan and the Ot Danum, known as the Barito Dayaks, named after the large Barito river. The Ngaju, who inhabit the Kahayan river basin by the present city of Palangkaraya, are involved in agricultural commerce, planting rice, cloves, coffee, palm oil, pepper and cocoa, whilst, the other tribes still mostly practice subsistence farming through the slash and burn lifestyle. The Dayak Ngaju were more open to technological and cultural influences from outside than most other Dayak, even during precolonial times. With the arrival of the Dutch and - in 1835 - the missionary Rheinische Mission (later followed up by the Basler Mission, many converted to Christianity. The missionaries founded schools and increased the literacy rate. Education stimulated a 'national awakening' among the Ngaju and Ma'anyan Dayak.\n\nAlready long before the Second World War, the Dayak founded nationalistic political parties. During the Indonesian battle for independence against the Dutch, the Dayak from the Kalimantan region fought under Major Tjilik Riwut, a parachutist from the Ngaju Dayak who practiced the traditional religion. After the proclamation of independence, Jakarta decided that the Islamic Banjarmasin and mostly Dayak area west of it, should be one province. The plan got resistance from the Dayak - the Ngaju in front - which demanded a sole province. Under Riwut, which had become big during the revolution, the Dayak began a small guerrilla. The Indonesian army limited escalation of the conflict, probably because Riwut had been a loyal soldier. In 1957, the province of Kalimantan Tengah (\"Central Kalimantan\") or 'KalTeng' was officially formed by Presidential Law. The government was led by the Ngaju, and Rawit became governor. The 'battle' was about a sole province, together with a revaluation of the traditional Dayak culture, especially the religious part - a reaction on the worsening missionaries. The traditional religions of the Ngaju, Ot Danum, Ma'anyan and other Dayak was named Kaharingan ('power of life').\n\nAfter the Communist Party of Indonesia was declared illegal in the 1960s, the subject 'religion' became very sensitive. The state ideology saw religion as the belief in one God and the membership ow a 'acknowledged' world religion with a holy book. The Dayak were seen as 'atheists', which were highly associated with the communist ideology, and had to pick between two options: conversion to a world religion or being pressured by local authorities to do so. With this in mind; it is fairly clear why the missions with their schools, hospitals and minimal pressure, had much more success after the 1960s. Compared to the environments in the 17th and 18th century, Christianity offered more possibilities for social progress than Islam. Over time the ban on local religions was abandoned. In 1980, Kaharingan was officially recognised as religion, but only as a part of the Hindu Dharma, so in fact it was placed under Hinduism. In Central Kalimantan, a small minority does practice this religion.\n\nIn the religion of the Ngaju, the supernatural world is important, in which also the souls of ancestors have their place. Just like among other Dayak, the Ngaju known ritual re-burial, which usually takes place several months (sometimes several years) after the initial burial. This re-burial is very important for the soul of the deceased, so it can reach the highest point in heaven. With practicing the rytes, they protect themselves against bad supernatural powers. The first funeral takes place just after someone has died. During this ceremony, masked dancers protect the deceased against the bad spirits. Guided by drums, the kaharingan-priests start singing, which will send the soul to heaven. On its journey in the traditional ship of souls it is accompanied by spirits. Once in heaven, which consists of several 'layers', the soul has to wait in the lowest layer until the re-burial takes place.\n\nPicture: Sandung\n\nDuring this second ritual (tiwah), the remainders of the deceased are excavated, cleaned and put in a special grave. These woodcarved and decorated graves often have the shape of a bird or watersnake and are decorated with images of the hereafter. Too bad sandung from the factory replace the traditional tombes. The tiwah is a big, complex and long lasting event. The cost vary between US$6,000 and US$12,000. It's common that several families hold a tiwah together, so they can spread the cost of sacrificed animals like a big number of waterbuffalo's and pigs. Once there were more than 200 souls brought to a higher level in one ceremony. But a tiwah also is a happy event. In the open air, foodstalls and shops are put up, and at some distance, there is also some gambling. The tiwah is the carnival of the jungle.\n\nSandung made of concrete are not the only changes in the Kaharingan religion. To make the religion acceptable for the government a council was set up, which had to control the theological and ritual activities of the about 330,000 supporters. None of the about 78 basir upu (top specialists about rites) are part of the council and also the about three hundred kaharingan priests are not in there as well. The council reflects aspects of the religion which are also known in other big religions. It also organises weekly meetings in specially built kaharingan-communal rooms, complete with speeches, prayers and psalms. Furthermore, the council registers and coordinates all tiwah (there are two to ten every year), before asking the police for a permit.\n\nFrom early times the Iban believed that fighting cocks used by the supernatural, turned into human warriors and the cock fight is then closely tied with \"intangible qualities of human nature, spiritual fulfillment and religious refinement\"\n\nShamanic curing or \"balian\" is one of the core features of Kaharingan ritual practices. Because this healing practice often occurs as a result of the loss of a soul resulting in some kind of illness, the focus of this practice is thus on the body. Sickness comes by offending one of the many spirits inhabiting the earth and fields, usually from a failure to sacrifice to them. The goal of the balian is to call back the wayward soul and restore the health of the community through trance, dance, and possession.\n\n"}
{"id": "25779246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25779246", "title": "Kleshas (Hinduism)", "text": "Kleshas (Hinduism)\n\nKleśa (sanskrit क्लेश, also \"klesha\" ) is a term from Indian philosophy and yoga, meaning a \"poison\". The third \"śloka\" of the second chapter of Patañjali's \"Yogasūtra\" explicitly identifies Five Poisons (Sanskrit: \"pañcakleśā\"):\n\nTranslated into English, these five (pañca) Kleśa-s or Afflictions () are:\n\n\nInternational Nath Order (INO) perspectives:\n"}
{"id": "33013530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33013530", "title": "List of Buddhist universities and colleges", "text": "List of Buddhist universities and colleges\n\nBelow are links to the list of Buddhist universities and colleges in the world.\nPantapwinttaung Buddhist Missionary University (PBMU), Taikkyi, Yangon, Myanmar\nPantapwintbmu@gmail.com\n"}
{"id": "27386931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27386931", "title": "List of Christian denominations in Northeast India", "text": "List of Christian denominations in Northeast India\n\nThe following shows the Christian denominations present in North East India, along with number of churches and approximate number of Church members.\n\n\n\"Note: Most of the Baptist Church memberships include only adult baptised church members, it does not include children and other non-baptised family members in the Church/Denomination membership figures.\"\n\n\nThe total number of Catholics in north east India as of 2015 stands at 1,711,495 adherents with 485 parishes with more than 3000 chapels/mission/ churches/congregations as per the statistics mentioned below.\n\n\"Note: The brackets denote the number of Catholic Church parishes\"\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Presbyterian Church of India consists of the following synods with 4,616 churches and 14,67,529 members as of 2018: \n\n\n\n *GCatholic.org\n\n"}
{"id": "37691739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37691739", "title": "List of Methodist churches", "text": "List of Methodist churches\n\nThis is a list of Methodist churches and campgrounds, either of notable congregations or of notable buildings or campgrounds or others places of worship. This very limited list reflects historically interesting sites, and omits most of the very largest Methodist congregations. Since the founding of Methodism in the mid-18th century, the movement has spread throughout the world, and remains a presence in many countries today.\n\nMany church buildings are notable for their historical or architectural significance. Many of the historic churches can be found in the United Kingdom and the United States, but some are also located in Canada, China, Korea and other in countries where there has been a Methodist presence. In some cases the congregation which established the church has since disbanded but the building remains. This list is intended to comprehensively index notable Methodist churches world-wide.\n\nTwo British Methodist Episcopal Church churches have been designated National Historic Sites of Canada due to their roles in welcoming Underground Railroad refugees to Canada and their historic importance to the Black community in the Niagara region:\n\nThe first Methodist churches were in Norwich (1757), in Rotherham (1761), in Whitby (1762), and in Heptonstall (1764).\n\nAbout 700 Methodist chapels in the United Kingdom have been identified as significant buildings for their architecture or history by author Ian Serjeant, who has served as Conservation Officer for the Methodist church since 1996.\n\nA list of Methodist churches that are listed buildings was prepared by the U.K. Methodist church's division of property in 1976. A standing committee of the Methodist Church of Britain is charged with having \"knowledge of the history, development and use of Methodist chapels, of Methodist liturgy and worship, or archaeology, of the history and the development of architecture and the visual arts, and the experience of the care of historic buildings and their contents\", and to advise on about 250 renovation projects per year to the Methodist listed buildings.\n\nJohn Wesley, the founder of Methodism, is said to have had a preference for octagonal buildings, as exemplified by the Heptonstall Methodist Church in West Yorkshire, England.\n\nAppropriate style for Methodist church buildings was debated during the mid-1800s. Architect-trained Reverend Frederick Jobson argued for \"beauty and perfection in design and execution without unnecessary adornment\"; the governing body of Methodism adopted his works and Gothic architecture \"became the predominant style, particularly within Wesleyan Methodism.\"\n\n\"(by city or town)\n\nIn the United States, numerous Methodist churches are listed on the National Register of Historic Places and on state and local historic registers, many of which reflect the values of plainness, of Gothic architecture, of simple adornment. The Greek Revival style is also simple and came to be adopted for numerous American Methodist churches.\n\nSeveral, selected significant Methodist churches in the U.S. are:\n\nFor a more complete list, see List of Methodist churches in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "43010684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43010684", "title": "List of Russian saints (until 15th century)", "text": "List of Russian saints (until 15th century)\n\nSaints in the Russian Orthodox Church are confirmed by canonization which lists the decedent into the Community of Saints. After canonization, the saint is usually listed in the Menologium. The saint is honoured by illustrating him on icons, mentioning him in kondaks or troparions, narrating his achievements in the Lives of Saints, confirming a celebration date in the Orthodox calendar and building churches and monasteries holding his name. The office of canonization is usually the last prayer to the departed (parastasa, pannychis, lity) and first prayer to the saint (all-night vigil, moleben, megalynarion).\n\nCanonization is usually divided into two categories: local and church-wide. The church-wide canonization is always performed by the highest church organ, that is the Metropolitan or Patriarch above the Council of Eparchs, the chief member above the Most Holy Synod in the synodal period, or the Patriarch of Moscow and all of Russia above the Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church in contemporary Russia. The local canonization is performed in either one church or monastery, or in one eparchy, by the local episcope with the approval of the Metropolitan or Patriarch and the highest church organ, to honour one person or people who are better known in a particular region. In cases when the local canonization was performed without the blessing of the highest church organ, the previous canonization process won't be annulled but will be performed again as it should be. Sometimes the Head of the Church himself or the metropolitanate accomplishes the local canonization. Both local and church-wide canonizations are honoured the same way; they should not be expressed as higher and lower canonizations. A saint can be both local and church-wide, and in very rare cases he or she can be de-canonized. Canonization takes place under different time and reason; for example in the same day when the translation of the relics is accompanied by a wonder, or only several centuries later.\n\nChurch historians name either five or seven periods of canonization in Russia; those who state there were five periods typically merge the Nicholas II-period with the Synodal-period and the post-revolutionary with the post-Soviet era. However, the seven period-system is used here for a better understanding of the Russian canonization history. Those are the following: 1) 9th century – 1547, 2) 1547 and 1549 (Macarius Councils), 3) 1550–1721 (pre-Petrine period), 4) 1721–1894 (Synodal-period), 5) 1894–1917 (Nicholas II-period), 6) 1917–1987 (post-revolutionary period), 7) from 1988 (post-Soviet period).\n\nChristianity came to the Slavs already in the 1st century. According to early church historians, Apostle Andrew preached Christianity to Slavs and Scythians, in the area between Eastern Europe in the west, and Caucasus and at the Black Sea coast in the south and east, particularly in Scythia within the autocephalous Scythian eparchy. Other active eparchies included the Gothian, Sourozhian, Fullian and the Bosporian. In this period Christianity began to rise within this area. Christianity was spread in the 9th century by crucial happenings that are often characterized as baptisms; if excluding the first baptism of the Rus under Apostle Andrew, those are the preachings and enlightenings of Slavs by Cyril and Method, the baptism of and by Askold and Dir, the baptism of and by Olga and finally the actual baptism under Vladimir I in 988.\n\nThe hagiology in the first period was particularly influenced by the Greek tradition. The Russian Church was one of several metropolitanates of the Constantinople Orthodox Church (i.e. the Greek Church), and almost all of the Metropolitans were of Greek origin (exceptions include Hilarion and Kliment). Following several Mongol-Tatar raids on Kiev in the mid-13th century, the cathedra was eventually moved to Vladimir in 1283 and to Moscow in 1325.\n\nThe Russian Church became less depended by the Constantinople Orthodox Church over the years. After the Fall of Constantinople in 1453 the wish for autonomity gradually increased. For example, under Jonah the Russian Church factually became autocephalous. The formation of the Russian Tsardom under Ivan IV in 1547 and Metropolitan Macarius' Menologion made way for two so-called Macarius Councils in 1547 and 1549. The first one began on 1 February 1547 and includes both local and church-wide canonizations. Information about the following 1549 Council is less detailed – it is basically based on two sources; a mention of it by Ivan IV on the Stoglavy Council and the list of canonized people from the Lives of Saints of Metropolitan Jonah. Whether those were local or church-wide canonizations is not exactly known. Altogether 39 saints were canonized on those Councils. They were ideal models for the upcoming canonizations, and had a positive influence on the church and civic society.\n\nThe majority of saints were canonized in the period between 1550 and 1721, including around 123 local and 23 church-wide saints. Some were included in Synaxes (\"собор\"), groupings of saints of a region, such as Synaxis of All Saints of Novgorod or Synaxis of All Saints of Moscow. That period was marked by the happenings of the Schism of the Russian Church, caused by Patriarch Nikon's reforms, which resulted to de-canonizations (and later re-canonizations) of some saints, such as of Anna of Kashin and Maxim the Greek.\n\nFollowing Peter I's western-influenced church reforms and centralization of the state in 1721 the Russian Church partially lost its independence from the state. The highest church organ was now the Most Holy Synod, a type of Council of Church Affairs, featuring non-clergical officials. In that period, from 1721 to 1894, the local canonization was completely removed as the tradition of honouring relics of local saints was seen as superstitious according to the Spiritual Regulation of 1721, and the church-wide canonizations greatly decreased. On the other hand, some of the most important saints were canonized in that period, such as the vast majority of Kiev Caves monks or Metropolitan Michael I.\n\nA separate period within the Synodal period were the last years of the Russian Empire, ruled by Emperor Nicholas II (1894–1917). Nicholas II re-established the local canonization, and tried to recover the pre-Petrine format. For the first time since the last local canonization two centuries ago, the tradition has been reawaken in 1900, when 222 Orthodox believers led by St. Metrophanes were martyred during the anti-Christian Boxer Rebellion by the Yihetuan. A high point was the ceremonial canonization of Seraphim of Sarov, where the Emperor personally carried the coffin and thousands of people came to that celebration from all of over Russia. Another factor in the rapid growth of canonizations was the progressed hagiological and hagiographical researches between the 2nd half of the 19th century and the early 20th century in Russia. Furthermore, a future Council was expected to address questions regarding the gradual change to the traditional pre-Petrine system, but the date was always postponed until the revolutions. The church life flourished and reached records; for example, around 95,000 monks lived in Russia in 1914, while before that the number lied between 44,554 in 1894 and 25,207 in 1724.\n\nThe Council from 1917 to 1918 also reviewed the practique of canonization, and can be viewed as a continuation of de-bureaucratization of the Synod. On the other side, the post-revolutionary years saw a radical secularization of the state. The new Soviet regime was even more hostile towards the Church and religion than the Russian Provisional Government. In the 1960s, when the Church strengthened inter-religious affairs, it canonized saints of other local churches, such as John the Russian and Herman of Alaska. Logically, the Russian Church overlept the myriad of martyrs died during severe Christian persecutions. Instead of local canonizations, the saints were often grouped into synaxes, to avoid conflicts with the atheist government. Between 1978 and 1979, the second and third volumes of the Reference Book of the Clergy allowed researching the pre-revolutionary hagiography.\n\nA new era in church life started from 1988, during the Millennium of the Baptism of the Rus', when another Council was opened. In the following years canonizations that were previously unimaginable in the Communist regime were now performed, most notably of New Martyrs. Important canonizations include that of Dmitry Donskoy and Patriarch Tikhon.\n\nA traditionally practique in the Orthodox canonization is to add saint titles before the name of the saint. In the first Christian years, those were mainly martyrs. In the late 10th century, before the Great Schism, canonization of hierarchs became possible, which made way to new saint titles, such as Enlightener and Equal-to-apostles. In the course of the years more titles were added, sometimes special titles were created after influential events (e.g. New Martyr).\n\nThe following list of saints include the saint title in italics. Saint titles including Wondermaker and Holy Unmercenaries are commonly not included next to the name of the saint as such qualities are obvious for the most saints. The following titles are listed here and in the sister page:\n\nThe following list includes saints from the early years until the 15th century, most of which are Russians in the most different sense, while others are essential and important people in the Russian history. The period in which the saint was canonized is listed in the Number (#) column. The Portrait column typically illustrates the saint on icons or frescos, next to it are the name of the saint and his title, repeated just below in Russian. The following column describes in abbreviated form the saint's life and legacy. Name dates are listed both in old and new style dates, following a more precise date description. The Canonization column may list both local and church-wide canonizations; the question mark means the unknown date, but definite canonization, and a simple date without the type of canonization in brackets means the doubtful type of canonization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4460287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4460287", "title": "Mirogoj Cemetery", "text": "Mirogoj Cemetery\n\nThe Mirogoj Cemetery () is a cemetery park that is considered to be among the more noteworthy landmarks in the City of Zagreb. The cemetery inters members of all religious groups: Catholic, Orthodox, Muslim, Jewish, Protestant, Latter Day Saints; irreligious graves can all be found. In the arcades are the last resting places of many famous Croatians.\n\nThe Mirogoj Cemetery was built on a plot of land owned by the linguist Ljudevit Gaj, purchased by the city in 1872, after his death. Architect Hermann Bollé designed the main building. The new cemetery was inaugurated on 6 November 1876.\n\nThe construction of the arcades, the cupolas, and the church in the entryway was begun in 1879. Due to lack of funding, work was finished only in 1929.\n\nUnlike the older cemeteries, which were church-owned, Mirogoj was owned by the city, and accepted burials from all religious backgrounds.\n\n\n\nIt is located today in the Gornji Grad - Medveščak city district, on Mirogojska Road and Hermann Bollé Street.\n\nZET bus line 106 runs between the cemetery and the Kaptol bus terminal in the heart of Zagreb every 20 minutes during the cemetery's opening hours.\nA less frequent line, 226 (every 35–40 minutes), also starts from Kaptol by the same route, but continues farther east to Svetice terminal, directly connecting to the Maksimir Park.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12501966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12501966", "title": "Molly Mormon", "text": "Molly Mormon\n\nMolly Mormon (sometimes abbreviated MoMo) is a term for the popular stereotype of a female member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). A Molly Mormon is thought to be the \"perfect Mormon woman\"—an attractive and chaste woman whose life revolves around the family and marriage and the social demands of Mormonism, like loving multiple children, and who embodies the cheery, chipper, and domesticated female in Latter-day Saint culture. Typically, a Molly Mormon would not dissent against her husband or the priesthood and supports Mormon social and political views per own request. Peter Priesthood is the male version of the same term, though used somewhat less frequently. Many \"Molly Mormons\" are stereotyped as being consumed by their life within the church, and own testifying examples, will support the church.\n\nThese terms are occasionally used in an inner-circle way by members of the LDS church to refer to other Mormons who display or promote a righteous interpretation of their understanding of the church's teachings. An example of a person that may be labeled this way is one who abstains from drinking caffeinated cola drinks (based on a scientific interpretation of a stimulant to the central nervous system Word of Wisdom), will not watch television on Sundays to preserve the Day of Rest. Abstinence from these behaviors is not required by the church to remain as a member in good standing, but is often preached unofficially as interpretations of church teachings in lessons taught by members of the church's local leadership.\n\nThe term \"Molly Mormon\" can take on both positive and negative connotations, depending on who is using it, and toward whom. When used by or toward teens, it can refer to prudish behavior. When it refers to an adult LDS woman, it often refers to a stereotype which may or may not be welcome.\n\nThe term is used openly in the LDS Church, and has even appeared in magazines published by the LDS church, as in the phrase \"they had taunted her and called her a 'Molly Mormon' because she would not participate in their questionable activities\", which appeared in a 1989 edition of \"Ensign\".\n\nThe term is often simply abbreviated to \"Molly\" (or sometimes to \"Momo\") or used as an adjective: \"She's gotten so molly lately—all she could say about these new shorts is that they were too short.\"\n\nA company calling itself \"Shameless Humor\" sells a line of clothing, including T-shirts and underwear, bearing the name \"Molly Mormon\".\n\nA series of paperback romance novels written by LDS fiction author Tamra Norton has also appropriated the term into the series' title. Books in the series include \"Molly Mormon?\", \"Molly Married?\", and \"Molly Mommy?\", and follow a Mormon girl named Molly through her teens on to married student life at BYU Idaho and then on to parenthood.\n\n"}
{"id": "9132033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9132033", "title": "Our Lady of Confidence", "text": "Our Lady of Confidence\n\nOur Lady of Confidence, also known as La Madonna della Fiducia or Our Lady of Trust, is a venerated image depicting the Blessed Virgin Mary enshrined at the Lateran Basilica. The feast of Our Lady of Confidence falls on the last Saturday prior to Lent. \n\nPope Gregory XVI granted a Canonical Coronation to the image on 14 October 1838, via Cardinal Carlo Odescalchi, at the requested petition of the Roman seminarians. In addition, Pope Pius X was particularly devoted to Mary under this title.\n\nThere are two different traditions associated with the painting. One holds that it was painted by a religious sister in the eighteenth century. The other states that it was painted by Carlo Maratta, who gave it to a young noblewoman who later became Abbess of the Convent of the Poor Clares in Todi, Italy.\n\nDevotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary under the title \"Our Lady of Confidence\" can be traced back to Sr. Chiara Isabella Fornari, who was a Poor Clare in Todi, Italy. The image is especially noteworthy in that Christ points to his mother, and Mary's intercession is typically invoked through the short prayer \"Mater Mea, Fiducia Mea\" (My Mother, My Confidence).\n\nOriginally, this Madonna was located at the Jesuit \"Collegio Romano\", where it is believed she protected the seminarians from the Asiatic flu epidemic of 1837, which claimed many lives in Rome. To repay her, the seminarians crowned both Mother and Child with golden bejeweled diadems. A later story relates that, when over one hundred seminarians were conscripted during World War I and forced into the armed services of Italy, they placed themselves under her special care, and all returned home safely. \nThe Patroness of Rome's Major Seminary is the Blessed Virgin Mary under the title \"Madonna della Fiducia\". A miraculous copy of Our Lady of Confidence now resides at the Roman Major Seminary located in the Basilica of Saint John Lateran complex. Pope John Paul II started the papal tradition of venerating this miraculous image each year; subsequently, Pope Benedict XVI carried on the tradition. During his visit on the feast day of Our Lady of Confidence on 9 February 2002, Pope John Paul II ended his time at the seminary commenting on the devotion his predecessors had to Mary as \"Madonna della Fiducia\", saying, \nWe heard how Our Lady of Confidence guided the steps of Pope John XXIII on a path that brought him from this Seminary to the Second Vatican Council, which was also a great seminary, the seminary of the bishops of the world. Let us thank Our Lady of Confidence for all that she did to assist Pope John XXIII in the preparation for and in the adventure of the Second Vatican Council. I wish all of you the grace to find her guidance in your lives: from the image of Our Lady of Confidence to the goals that Providence foresees for you and even asks of you to be accomplished through you. Once again, thank you for this wonderful evening. Many thanks.\n"}
{"id": "1614889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1614889", "title": "Philae", "text": "Philae\n\nPhilae (; ,  , Egyptian: \"p3-jw-rķ' or 'pA-jw-rq\"; Coptic: ) is an island in the reservoir of the Aswan Low Dam, downstream of the Aswan Dam and Lake Nasser, Egypt. Philae was originally located near the expansive First Cataract of the Nile in Upper Egypt and was the site of an Egyptian temple complex. These rapids and the surrounding area have been variously flooded since the initial construction of the Aswan Low Dam in 1902. The temple complex was dismantled and moved to nearby Agilkia Island as part of the UNESCO Nubia Campaign project, protecting this and other complexes before the 1970 completion of the Aswan High Dam.\n\nPhilae is mentioned by numerous ancient writers, including Strabo, Diodorus Siculus, Ptolemy, Seneca, Pliny the Elder. It was, as the plural name indicates, the appellation of two small islands situated in latitude 24° north, just above the First Cataract near Aswan (Egyptian \"Swenet\" \"Trade;\" ). Groskurd computes the distance between these islands and Aswan at about .\n\nDespite being the smaller island, Philae proper was, from the numerous and picturesque ruins formerly there, the more interesting of the two. Prior to the inundation, it was not more than long and about broad. It is composed of syenite: its sides are steep and on their summits a lofty wall was built encompassing the island.\n\nSince Philae was said to be one of the burying-places of Osiris, it was held in high reverence both by the Egyptians to the north and the Nubians (often referred to as \"Ethiopians\" in Greek) to the south. It was deemed profane for any but priests to dwell there and was accordingly sequestered and denominated \"the Unapproachable\" (). It was reported too that neither birds flew over it nor fish approached its shores. These indeed were the traditions of a remote period; since in the time of the Ptolemaic Kingdom, Philae was so much resorted to, partly by pilgrims to the tomb of Osiris, partly by persons on secular errands, that the priests petitioned Ptolemy VIII Physcon (170-117 BC) to prohibit public functionaries at least from coming there and living at their expense.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, William John Bankes took the Philae obelisk on which this petition was engraved to England. When its Egyptian hieroglyphs were compared with those of the Rosetta Stone, it threw great light upon the Egyptian consonantal alphabet.\n\nThe islands of Philae were not, however, merely sacerdotal abodes; they were the centres of commerce also between Meroë and Memphis. For the rapids of the cataracts were at most seasons impracticable, and the commodities exchanged between Egypt and Nubia were reciprocally landed and re-embarked at Syene and Philae.\n\nThe neighbouring granite quarries also attracted a numerous population of miners and stonemasons; and, for the convenience of this traffic, a gallery or road was formed in the rocks along the east bank of the Nile, portions of which are still extant.\n\nPhilae also was remarkable for the singular effects of light and shade resulting from its position near the Tropic of Cancer. As the sun approached its northern limit the shadows from the projecting cornices and moldings of the temples sink lower and lower down the plain surfaces of the walls, until, the sun having reached its highest altitude, the vertical walls are overspread with dark shadows, forming a striking contrast with the fierce light which illuminates all surrounding objects. \n\nThe most conspicuous feature of both islands was their architectural wealth. Monuments of various eras, extending from the Pharaohs to the Caesars, occupy nearly their whole area. The principal structures, however, lay at the south end of the smaller island.\n\nThe most ancient was a temple for Isis, built in the reign of Nectanebo I during 380-362 BC, which was approached from the river through a double colonnade. Nekhtnebef was his ancient Egyptian royal titulary and he became the founding pharaoh of the Thirtieth and last native dynasty when he deposed and killed Nepherites II.\n\nFor the most part, the other ruins date from the Ptolemaic Kingdom, more especially with the reigns of Ptolemy II Philadelphus, Ptolemy V Epiphanes, and Ptolemy VI Philometor (282-145 BC), with many traces of Roman work in Philae dedicated to Ammon-Osiris.\n\nIn front of the propyla were two colossal lions in granite, behind which stood a pair of obelisks, each high. The propyla were pyramidal in form and colossal in dimensions. One stood between the dromos and pronaos, another between the pronaos and the portico, while a smaller one led into the sekos or adyton. At each corner of the adytum stood a monolithic shrine, the cage of a sacred hawk. Of these shrines one is now in the Louvre, the other in the Museum at Florence.\n\nBeyond the entrance into the principal court are small temples, one of which, dedicated to Isis, Hathor, and a wide range of deities related to midwifery, is covered with sculptures representing the birth of Ptolemy Philometor, under the figure of the god Horus. The story of Osiris is everywhere represented on the walls of this temple, and two of its inner chambers are particularly rich in symbolic imagery. Upon the two great propyla are Greek inscriptions intersected and partially destroyed by Egyptian figures cut across them.\n\nThe monuments in both islands indeed attested, beyond any others in the Nile valley, the survival of pure Egyptian art centuries after the last of the Pharaohs had ceased to reign. Great pains have been taken to mutilate the sculptures of this temple. The work of demolition is attributable, in the first instance, to the zeal of the early Christians, and afterward, to the policy of the Iconoclasts, who curried favour for themselves with the Byzantine court by the destruction of images as well as Christian ones. It's notable that images/icons of Horus are often less mutilated than the other carvings. In some wall scenes, every figure and hieroglyphic text \"except\" that of Horus and his winged solar-disk representation have been meticulously scratched out by early Christians. This is presumably because the early Christians had some degree of respect for Horus or the legend of Horus - it may be because they saw parallels between the stories of Jesus and Horus (see Jesus in comparative mythology#Ancient Egypt).\n\nThe soil of Philae had been prepared carefully for the reception of its buildings–being leveled where it was uneven, and supported by masonry where it was crumbling or insecure. For example, the western wall of the Great Temple, and the corresponding wall of the dromos, were supported by very strong foundations, built below the pre-inundation level of the water, and rested on the granite which in this region forms the bed of the Nile. Here and there steps were hewn out from the wall to facilitate the communication between the temple and the river.\n\nAt the southern extremity of the dromos of the Great Temple was a smaller temple, apparently dedicated to Hathor; at least the few columns that remained of it are surmounted with the head of that goddess. Its portico consisted of twelve columns, four in front and three deep. Their capitals represented various forms and combinations of the palm branch, the doum palm branch, and the lotus flower. These, as well as the sculptures on the columns, the ceilings, and the walls were painted with the most vivid colors, which, owing to the dryness of the climate, have lost little of their original brilliance.\n\nThe ancient Egyptian name of the smaller island meant \"boundary\". As their southern frontier, the pharaohs of Egypt kept there a strong garrison, and it was also a barracks for Greek and Roman soldiers in their turn. The first temple structure, which was built by native pharaohs of the 30th dynasty, was the one for Hathor.\n\nThe island temple was built during the Ptolemaic Kingdom. The principal deity of the temple complex was Isis, but other temples and shrines were dedicated to other deities such as Hathor. Egyptologists believe that Philae was the last active site of the native ancient Egyptian religion, and that the last Egyptian hieroglyph was written there in the late fourth century.\n\nThe temple was closed down officially in AD 537 by the local commander Narses the Persarmenian in accordance with an order of Byzantine emperor Justinian I. It then became a church of Saint Stephen. Ruins of a church have been discovered and more than one adyton bore traces of having been made to serve at different eras the purposes of a chapel of Osiris and of Jesus.\n\nThe island of Philae attracted much attention in the 19th century. In the 1820s, Joseph Bonomi the Younger, a British Egyptologist and museum curator visited the island. So did Amelia Edwards, a British novelist in 1873–1874.\nThese visits are only a small sample of the great interest that Victorian-era Britain had for Egypt. Soon, tourism to Philae became common.\n\nIn 1902, the Aswan Low Dam was completed on the Nile River by the British. This threatened many ancient landmarks, including the temple complex of Philae, with being submerged. The height of the dam was raised twice, from 1907–1912 and from 1929–1934, and the island of Philae was nearly always flooded. In fact, the only times that the complex was not underwater was when the dam's sluices were open from July to October.\n\nIt was proposed that the temples be relocated, piece by piece, to nearby islands, such as Bigeh or Elephantine. However, the temples' foundations and other architectural supporting structures were strengthened instead. Although the buildings were physically secure, the island's attractive vegetation and the colors of the temples' reliefs were washed away. Also, the bricks of the Philae temples soon became encrusted with silt and other debris carried by the Nile.\n\nThe temples had been practically intact since the ancient days, but with each inundation the situation worsened and in the 1960s the island was submerged up to a third of the buildings all year round.\n\nIn 1960 UNESCO started a project to try to save the buildings on the island from the destructive effect of the ever-increasing waters of the Nile. First, building three dams and creating a separate lake with lower water levels was considered.\n\nFirst of all, a large coffer dam was built, constructed of two rows of steel plates between which a of sand was tipped. Any water that seeped through was pumped away.\nNext the monuments were cleaned and measured, by using photogrammetry, a method that enables the exact reconstruction of the original size of the building blocks that were used by the ancients. Then every building was dismantled into about 40,000 units, and then transported to the nearby Island of Agilkia, situated on higher ground some away.\n\nPrior to the inundation, a little west of Philae lay a larger island, anciently called Snem or Senmut, but now Bigeh. It is very steep, and from its most elevated peak affords a fine view of the Nile, from its smooth surface south of the islands to its plunge over the shelves of rock that form the First Cataract. Philae, Bigeh and another lesser island divided the river into four principal streams, and north of them it took a rapid turn to the west and then to the north, where the cataract begins.\n\nBigeh, like Philae, was a holy island; its ruins and rocks are inscribed with the names and titles of Amenhotep III, Ramesses II, Psamtik II, Apries, and Amasis II, together with memorials of the later Macedonian and Roman rulers of Egypt. Its principal ruins consisted of the propylon and two columns of a temple, which was apparently of small dimensions, but of elegant proportions. Near them were the fragments of two colossal granite statues and also an excellent piece of masonry of much later date, having the aspect of an arch belonging to a church or mosque.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8498658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8498658", "title": "Sokho", "text": "Sokho\n\nSokho, alternate spellings: Sokhoh, Sochoh, Soco, Sokoh, Hebrew: שוכה ,שוכו ,שכה, is the name given to two ancient towns in the territorial domain of Judah, the remains of both having been identified. \n\nBoth towns were given the name \"Shuweikah\" in Arabic, a diminutive of the Arabic \"shawk\", \"thorn.\" One is located to the south of Hebron and has been identified with the twin ruins known as \"Khirbet Shuwaikah Fauka\" and \"Tahta\" (Upper and Lower Shuwaikah), 6 km southwest of Eshtamoa in the Hebron Hills district (). The other ruin is the more popular of the two, situated on a hilltop overlooking the Elah Valley between Adullam and Azekah (), in the lower stratum of the Judaean hills. The site, occupied as early as the Iron Age, was visited by Claude Conder in 1881, who writes that it was already a ruin in his days, with two wells in the valley towards the west. A third town by this name, Shuwaykah, was located in the Hefer region (), north of Tulkarm.\n\nAlthough listed in Joshua 15:35 as being a city in the plain, it is actually partly in the hill country, partly in the plain. The Philistines encamped between Sokho and Azekah in the Elah Valley before Goliath's historic encounter with David, the son of Jesse (). David slew the Philistine giant with a stone slung from a shepherd's sling. Rehoboam fortified the place (), but it is not clear which of the two sites is referred to. Socho was one of the cities occupied temporarily by the Philistines in the time of Ahaz ().\n\nThe word \"Sokho\" appears on certain LMLK seals during the Judean monarchy, believed by many scholars to be one of four cities that acted in some administrative capacity.\n\nThe Mishnaic Rabbi Antigonus of Sokho, mentioned in \"Ethics of the Fathers\" (Pirkei Avot 1:3), likely came from the Hebron-region town. Rabbi Levi Sukia, of the first generation of Amoraim, also came from Sokho (Jerusalem Talmud, Eruvim).\n\nIn Byzantine times, Eusebius described Sokho (Σοκχωθ) as a double village at the ninth milestone between Eleutheropolis (Bet Guvrin) and Jerusalem (Eusebius, Onom. 156:18 ff.), which would correspond to the Elah Valley location. The 6th-century Madaba Map also depicts Sokho (Σωκω).\n\nThe hill of Tel Sokho is now known as \"\"Givat HaTurmosim\",\" or \"Hill of the Lupines.\" In late March, the entire hill is covered with wild blue Mountain lupines (\"Lupinus pilosus\") and becomes a popular outing destination for Israeli families. \nThe hill is surrounded by precipitous slopes on its north side, making it almost impassable. Trails ascend the mountain on its northwestern side and southeastern sides. The Elah Valley runs in a westerly-easterly direction on its north side, the hilltop affording a good view of the valley below. \nOn the elevated plateau, one can see the foundations of ancient dwellings carved into the bedrock with individual chambers divided by broken stone protuberances. Caves and grottos dot the landscape, and cisterns are carved deep into the rock. Oak trees, fig trees and terebinths grow on the mountainside and piles of large ashlar boulders, covered with lichen, attest to the presence of a defensive wall around the city in antiquity. According to the biblical narrative, when Joshua captured the city from the Canaanites, the city and environs became the inheritance of Judah.\nExcavations at the foot of the northern slope exposed a Byzantine building from the fifth–sixth centuries. Remains from Iron Age II were uncovered in another dig at the foot of the northern slope, and walls dating to the Middle Bronze Age were discovered in probe trenches. Potsherds dating to the Late Bronze Age and later periods were gathered, along with a terracotta figurine of reddish brown clay depicting a naked woman. The discovery of a preëxilic stamp with the imprint \"La-melekh\" (למלך) and where Sokho is named with another three cities has led archaeologists to conclude that Sokho may have served as an administrative or storage center. One of the wells to the west in the valley, mentioned by Claude Conder, was destroyed with explosives by Arab infiltrators (\"mistanenim\") in 1956, never being rebuilt. An intensive survey conducted in 2010 included an examination of Middle Bronze and Iron Age burial caves, as well as slag from a pottery workshop (which probably dates to the Crusader/Mamluk period).\n\n"}
{"id": "2046575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2046575", "title": "Star Prophecy", "text": "Star Prophecy\n\nThe \"Star Prophecy\" (or Star and Scepter prophecy) is a Messianic reading applied by Jewish Zealots and early Christians to :\n\nThe prophecy was often employed during the troubled years that led up to the Jewish Revolt, the destruction of the Second Temple in Jerusalem (70 CE) and the suicidal last stand of the Sicarii at Masada in 73 CE. The Star Prophecy appears in the Qumran texts called the Dead Sea scrolls. \"This was the prophecy that was of such importance to all resistance groups in this period, including those responsible for the documents at Qumran and the revolutionaries who triggered the war against Rome, not to mention the early Christians\"\n\nThe Star Prophecy was applied to the coming Messiah himself in contemporary radical Jewish documents, such as the apocalyptic \"War Scroll\" found at Qumran. In a \"pesher\" applied to the text from \"Numbers\", the War Scroll's writer gives the following exegesis:\n…by the hand of the Poor whom you have redeemed by Your Power and the peace of Your Mighty Wonders… by the hand of the Poor and those bent in the dust, You will deliver the enemies of all the lands and humble the mighty of the peoples to bring upon their heads the reward of the Wicked and justify the Judgement of Your Truth on all the sons of men.\n\nSome have speculated that the Romanized Jewish historian Josephus, applied the prophecy to Vespasian, who was campaigning against the Jewish Zealots in Palestine, and \"who was to come out of Palestine and rule the world.\" According to Robert Karl Gnuse, it is not certain that Josephus was referring to the Star Prophecy:\nThe star has been externalized as an actual star in the sky, the Star of Bethlehem, in the narration of the Gospel of Matthew. The fulfilled Star Prophecy is one of numerous instances of the asserted fulfillment of prophecies that are a main theme of this text.\n\nThe prophecy was also applied to Simon bar Kokhba, messianic leader of the Second Jewish Revolt of 132, whose adopted name \"bar Kokhba\" means \"Son of a Star\" in Aramaic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19117873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19117873", "title": "Swedenborg Rite", "text": "Swedenborg Rite\n\nThe Swedenborg Rite or Rite of Swedenborg was a fraternal order modeled on Freemasonry and based upon the teachings of Emanuel Swedenborg. It comprised six Degrees: Apprentice, Fellow Craft, Master Neophyte, Illuminated Theosophite, Blue Brother, and Red Brother. \n\nIt was created in Avignon in 1773 by the Marquis de Thorn. It was initially a political organization, whose aims might bring freemasonry into disrepute, although the political ideology was eventually discarded from the rite. This version of the Swedenborg Rite died out within a decade of its founding.\n\nStarting in the 1870s, the Rite was resurrected as an hermetic organization. This version faded out sometime around 1908. \nIn 1982 a patent of the Swedenborg Rite was transmitted by the English Freemason Desmond Bourke, in his office at the British Museum, to Masonic author Michele Moramarco, who after revising the rituals by Bourke's permission revived that tradition in Italy under the title of \"Antico Rito Noachita\" (\"Ancient Noachide Rite\")\n\n"}
{"id": "34308061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34308061", "title": "Tara Singh Wan", "text": "Tara Singh Wan\n\nBhai Tara Singh Wan was an eighteenth-century Sikh martyr. He was from the village of Wan, also known as \"Wan Tara Singh\" and \"Dall-Wan\" now in Amritsar district of the Eastern Punjab.\n\nHis father, \"S. Gurdas Singh\", had received the rites of the Khalsa in the time of Guru Gobind Singh Sahib, and had taken part in the Battle of Amritsar (6 April 1709), in which Bhai Mani Singh led the Sikhs and in which Har Sahai, a revenue official of Patti, was killed at his (Gurdas Singh's) hands. \"Baba Gurdas Singh\" took martyrdom in Bajwara (Hoshiarpur) when he went along with \"Baba Banda Singh\" to fight for Sirhind. Baba Gurdas Singh was married in next village of Rajoke.\n\n\"Bhai Tara Singh\", the eldest of the five sons of \"Gurdas Singh\", was born around 1687. He took Amrit from Bhai Mani Singh. Receiving the rites of initiation, he grew up to be a devout Sikh, skilled in the martial arts.\n\nAs persistent persecution drove the Sikhs out of their homes to seek shelter in hills and forests, Tara Singh collected around him a band of desperadoes and lived defiantly at Wan, where he, according to Ratan Singh Bhangu's Pracheen Panth Prakash, possessed ajag'Iror landgrant. In his vaar or enclosure made with thick piles of dried branches of thorny trees, he gave refuge to any Sikh who came to him to escape persecution. The faujdar sent a contingent of 25 horse and 80 foot to Wan but Tara Singh's colleague Sardar met them in the fields, fought back and routed the invaders with several dead, including their commander, nephew of the faujdar and got martyrdom himself. \"Ja'far Begh\" reported the matter to Zakariya Khan, who sent a punitive expedition consisting of 2,000 horse, 5 elephants, 40 light guns and 4 cannononwheels under his deputy, Momin Khan. Tara Singh had barely 22 men with him at that time. They kept the Lahore force at bay through the night but were killed to a man in the handtohand fight on the following day 1726. Their heads were taken back to Lahore and thrown in blind well where \"Gurudwara Shaheed Singhania\" now stands in Landa Bazar. A Gurudwara Sahib now marks the site where the dead bodies of \"Bhai Tara Singh\" and his 20 companions were cremated.\n"}
{"id": "2497322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497322", "title": "Twelve Tribes communities", "text": "Twelve Tribes communities\n\nThe Twelve Tribes, formerly known as the Vine Christian Community Church, Northeast Kingdom Community Church, the Messianic Communities, and the Community Apostolic Order is an international confederation of religious communities founded by Gene Spriggs (now known as Yoneq) that sprang out of the Jesus movement in 1972 in Chattanooga, Tennessee.\nThe group is an attempt to recreate the 1st-century church in the Book of Acts; the name \"Twelve Tribes\" is also derived from a quote of the Apostle Paul in Acts 26:7. The group has also been referred to as \"The Yellow Deli People\" and informally as \"The Community\".\n\nThe origins of the Twelve Tribes movement can be traced to a ministry for teenagers called the \"Light Brigade\" in 1972. The ministry operated out of a small coffee shop called \"The Lighthouse\" in the home of Gene Spriggs and his wife Marsha. The Light Brigade began living communally and opened a restaurant called \"The Yellow Deli\" while attending several churches, before deciding on the First Presbyterian Church. The Light Brigade, while at First Presbyterian, caused friction with the establishment by bringing in anyone who was willing to come with them, including members of different social classes and racial groups, a practice not engaged in at that time. On January 12, 1975, the group arrived at First Presbyterian only to find out that the service had been cancelled for the Super Bowl, this led the group to form The Vine Christian Community Church. During this time, the church \"planted\" churches, each with its own Yellow Deli, in Dalton and Trenton, Georgia; Mentone, Alabama; and Dayton, Tennessee.\nTheir withdrawal from the religious mainstream turned what had been a friction-filled relationship into an outcry against them. They began holding their own services, which they called \"Critical Mass\" in Warner Park, appointing elders and baptizing people outside any denominational authority. The deteriorating relationship between the group and the religious and secular Chattanooga community attracted the attention of The Parents' Committee to Free Our Children from the Children of God and the Citizen's Freedom Foundation who labeled the church a \"cult\" and heavily attacked Spriggs as a cult leader. This led to what the group refers to today as the \"Cult Scare\" in the late seventies. A series of deprogrammings starting in the summer of 1976 that were carried out by Ted Patrick. The group nevertheless largely ignored the negative press and the wider world in general, and continued to operate its businesses opening the Areopagus and a second local Yellow Deli in downtown Chattanooga. In 1978 an invitation was received from a small church in Island Pond, Vermont for Spriggs to minister there; the offer was declined but the group began moving in stages to the rural town, naming the church there The Northeast Kingdom Community Church. One of Patrick's last deprogramming cases in Chattanooga occurred in 1980; it involved a police detective who, according to Swantko, had his 27-year-old daughter arrested on a falsified warrant in order to facilitate her deprogramming, with the support of local judges. The group continued moving, closing down all of its Yellow Delis and associated churches except for the one in Dalton. At one point, a leader conceded that the group was deeply in debt before closing the Dalton church down and moving the last members to Vermont.\n\nThe move to Vermont, combined with an initial period of economic hardship, caused some members to leave. The Citizen's Freedom Foundation conducted several meetings in Barton to draw attention to the group. The Citizen's Freedom Foundation had made allegations of mind control in Chattanooga, but now it made accusations of child abuse. In 1983, charges were brought against Charles \"Eddie\" Wiseman (an elder in the group) for misdemeanor simple assault; this, combined with multiple child custody cases, formed the basis for a search warrant. On June 22, 1984 Vermont State Police and Vermont Social Rehabilitation Services seized 112 children; all were released the same day because the raid was ruled unconstitutional. Due to what the group perceived were a massive misunderstanding of the events and concerns leading up to and surrounding the raid, its members began formal relationships with their neighbors. Two months after the raid, the case against Wiseman fell apart after the main witness recanted, saying he was under duress from the anticult movement. The case was later dropped in 1985 after a judge ruled that Wiseman had been denied his right to a speedy trial. Eddie Wiseman's public defender, Jean Swantko, who had been present during the raid, later joined and married Wiseman.\n\nBy 1989, the church had become widely accepted in Island Pond and grew substantially during the 1980s and 1990s, opening branches in several different countries, including Canada, Australia, Brazil, Spain, Germany, Argentina, and the United Kingdom. During this expansion phase, the group used the name Messianic Communities, before deciding to rename itself The Twelve Tribes. Through the mid-2000s (decade), the group remained controversial, with accusations of child labor, custodial interference, and illegal homeschooling. In 2006 the group held a reunion for members and friends of the Vine Christian Community Church and the former Yellow Deli in Warner Park, announcing a new community in Chattanooga. The movement proceeded to open a new Yellow Deli in 2008, nearly 30 years after leaving Chattanooga.\n\nThe Twelve Tribes' beliefs resemble those of Christian fundamentalism, the Hebrew Roots movement, Messianic Judaism and the Sacred Name Movement; however the group believes that all other denominations are fallen, and it therefore refuses to align itself with any denomination or movement. They believe that in order for the messiah to return, the Church needs to be restored to its original form seen in Acts 2:38–42 and Acts 4:32–37. This restoration is not merely the restoration of the 1st-century church, but the creation of a new Israel consisting of Twelve Tribes in twelve geographic regions. Part of this restoration is the return to observing the sabbath, maintaining some of the Mosaic law including dietary laws, and the festivals. This interpretation of the prophesied restoration of Israel, combined with the perceived immorality in the world leads the group to believe that the end times has arrived, though no date has been set.\n\nOne noted aspect of the group is its insistence on using the name \"Yahshua\", as opposed to Jesus. Because the name \"Yahshua\" represents the nature of Jesus, the group similarly bestows upon each member a Hebrew name that is meant to reflect the personality of the individual.\n\nThe group believes there are \"Three Eternal Destinies\". It believes that after the Fall of Man every person is given a conscience; and that after dying every person goes to a state of being called death (in Hebrew Sheol and Greek Hades) regardless of faith. Upon the second coming, believers will be brought back for the thousand years to reign with \"Yahshua\" before the last judgment. At the end of this millennium, all of the nonbelievers will be judged according to their deeds and put into one of two groups: the righteous and the filthy/unjust. The filthy and the unjust will be sent to the Lake of Fire while the righteous will go on into eternity and fill the universe.\nThe leadership within is structured as a series of Councils which consists of local councils, regional councils, and a global Apostolic Council; the group is also overseen within these councils by a fluid number of teachers, deacons, deaconesses, elders and apostles. Gene Spriggs is highly regarded as the first person to open up his home to brothers and sisters, but members state that he is not regarded as a spiritual figurehead.\n\nThe group operates as a 501 (d) – \"for-profit organization with a religious purpose and a common treasury.\" The community pays property taxes, but the 501d structure tends to result in no income tax liability.\n\nCourtship within the Community involves a \"waiting period\" in which the man or woman expresses their desire to get to know the other person. The couple then receives input from the community while spending time together. The couple is betrothed (engaged) if their parents (or the entire community, if they are adults) confirm their love and compatibility; the couple is then permitted to hold hands. Weddings are dramatized pre-enactments of what the group believes will happen at the end of time when \"Yahshua\" returns to earth for his bride.\n\nChildren have been noted to play a central role in the group's eschatological beliefs, because future generations of the group will be the \"144,000\" of Revelation 7. Children are homeschooled. Within the group, teenagers may take on apprenticeships in the group's cottage industries to be taught trades complementing their education. The group utilizes corporal punishment with a \"reed-like rod\" like a balloon stick (a minimum) across the child's bottom.\n\nSince its inception, the group has ignited controversy and garnered unfavorable attention from the media, the anti-cult movement and governments.\n\nNew England Institute of Religious Research's Executive Director the Rev. Bob Pardon warns in his report that \"Messianic Communities, under the leadership of Spriggs, has tended towards an extreme authoritarianism and a \"Galatian heresy.\" The Tribes have responded with a line-by-line response to the report and they continue to contend its large \"errors, distortions, misunderstandings, and misjudgments\", while criticizing the heavy use of apostates in his report. In France, the group was listed on the 1995 Governmental Report by the Parliamentary Commission on Cults in France under the name \"Ordre apostolique – Therapeutic healing environment.\"\n\nTwelve Tribes members Jean Swantko and husband Ed Wiseman have made efforts to combat social stigma and the anti-cult movement by engaging in dialogue with hostile ex-members, the media and government authorities. Swantko has presented at scholarly conferences including CESNUR Communal Studies Association and Society for the Scientific Study of Religion as well as a chapter in James T. Richardson's \"\".\n\nThe Twelve Tribes has been cited by Stuart A. Wright as a group suffering from \"Front-End/Back-End Disproportionality\" in media coverage. According to Wright, the media often focuses on unsubstantiated charges against the group, but as charges are investigated and as cases fall apart, the media covers them significantly less at the end than it does at the beginning. Wright then asserts that this leaves the public with the impression that the group was guilty of the disproven charges.\n\nThe Island Pond raid has remained prominent in Vermont legal history; it was the subject of a Vermont Bar Association seminar in 2006. The group held anniversary events in both 1994 and 2000; and produced a 75-minute documentary. The Vermont Chapter of the ACLU also criticized the raid, calling it \"frightening\" and \"the greatest deprivation of civil liberties to have occurred in recent Vermont history.\" The then-Governor of Vermont, Richard Snelling, who had authorized the raid, reportedly drew the \"hottest political fire of his career\" in the weeks after Vermont Attorney General John J. Easton, Jr. attributed the raid to assisting his campaign for governorship. In 1992, John Burchard, who had been the State Commissioner of Social and Rehabilitation Services, and Vanessa L. Malcarne, published an article in \"Behavioral Sciences and the Law\", encouraging changes in the law that would have allowed the raid to succeed.\n\nIt teaches that the Jews were guilty of the blood of Christ, quoting Matthew 27:25. Although often labelled antisemitic, the group repeatedly denies this accusation. Its members keep the Sabbath and the Jewish festivals of Pesach, Yom Kippur, and Sukkot. Youth have Bar Mitzvah and Bat Mitzvah celebrations, and they regularly perform Israeli folk dances.\n\nIn 2001, \"The New York Post\" ran an article accusing the group of child labor violations; and later attributed itself as having prompted the investigation. The Twelve Tribes responded with a press conference at the \"Commonsense Farm\" where the alleged child labor had taken place. The Twelve Tribes reported that during a random inspection by Estée Lauder Companies, the company discovered that several 14-year-olds had been found assisting their fathers in their cottage industry; this report was later confirmed by Estée Lauder who terminated their contract with Common Sense products. The group's official statement at the press conference stated that they believed that it was a family-owned business, and children ought to be able to help their parents in the business while making \"no apology\" for it. The New York State Department of Labor stated that they intended to visit all five of the Twelve Tribes' businesses. State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer asserted that apprenticeships amounted to indentured servitude and were illegal. Robert Redford's Sundance Catalog, who had contracted with Common Wealth Woodworks (another of the group's cottage industries that made furniture), also terminated their contract as a response to the allegations. The Labor Department found no violations at Common Sense Farm or Commonwealth Woodworks. They did fine two other industries $2,000 for a 15-year-old pushing a wheelbarrow and another 15-year-old changing a lightbulb.\n\nIn Germany and France, the controversies centered on the issues of homeschooling, health, child abuse, and religious freedom. The group has several times been in conflict with authorities in Germany and France over homeschooling their children, with a particularly long and protracted dispute between the community in Klosterzimmern, in the municipality of Deiningen, Bavaria, and Bavarian education authorities. Homeschooling is illegal in Germany, with rare exceptions. When fines and arrests failed to have an effect on the community, authorities granted the group the right to operate a private school on the commune's premises, under state supervision. The agreement entailed that the school would not teach sex education and evolution.\n\nOn September 5, 2013, German police raided two communities belonging to the Twelve Tribes \nand removed 40 children to protect them from alleged continued abuse. The group admits that they use a \"reed-like rod\" for discipline, but denies abusing their children.\nThe religion sociologist Susan Palmer pointed out that the doctors found no evidence of mistreatment in September 2013 following the police raids.\n\nThe Twelve Tribes utilizes mobile operations and vehicles to evangelize at various events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1769702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1769702", "title": "Umay", "text": "Umay\n\nUmay (also known as Umai; in Old Turkic: ; , \"Umay ana\"; , \"Umáj / Ymaj\") is the goddess of fertility in Turkic mythology and Tengriism and as such related to women, mothers and children. Umay resembles earth-mother goddesses found in various other world religions.\n\nIn Mongolian, \"Umai\" means 'womb' or 'uterus'. The earth was considered a \"mother\" symbolically. The Turkic root \"umāy\" originally meant 'placenta, afterbirth', and this word was used as the name for the goddess whose function was to look after women and children, possibly because the placenta was thought to have magic qualities. Literally in the Mongolian language, \"eje\" or \"eej\" means \"mother,\" and in Old Turkic, the word \"eçe\" also means 'mother'.\n\nThe name appeared in the 8th-century inscription of Kul Tigin in the phrase \"Umay teg ögüm katun kutıŋa\" 'under the auspices of my mother who is like the goddess Umay'.\n\nUmay is a protector of women and children. The oldest evidence is seen in the Orkhon script monuments. From these it is understood that Umay was accepted as a mother and a guide. Also, khagans were thought to represent Kök Tengri. Khagan wives, \"katun\"s or \"hatun\"s, were considered Umays, too. With the help of 'Umay, \"katun\"s had babies, and these babies were the guarantee of the empire. According to \"Divanü Lügat’it-Türk\", when women worship Umay, they have male babies. Turkic women tie strings attached with small cradles to will a baby from Umay. This belief can be seen with the Tungusic peoples in Southern Siberia and the Altay people. Umay is always depicted together with a child. There are only rare exceptions to this. It is believed that when Umay leaves a child for a long time, the child gets ill and shamans are involved to call Umay back. The smiling of a sleeping baby shows Umay is near it and crying means that Umay has left.\n\nIn the view of the Kyrgyz people, Umay not only protects children, but also Turkic communities around the world. At the same time Umay helps people to obtain more food and goods and gives them luck.\n\nAs Umay is associated with the sun, she is called \"Sarı Kız\" 'Yellow Maiden', and yellow is her colour and symbol. She is depicted as having sixty golden tresses that look like the rays of the sun. She is thought to have once been identical with Ot Ene of the Mongols and Altay. \"Umay\" and \"Ece\" are also used as female given names in the Republic of Turkey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37490589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37490589", "title": "Yammoune", "text": "Yammoune\n\nYammoune is a lake, nature reserve, village and municipality situated northwest of Baalbek in Baalbek District, Baalbek-Hermel Governorate, Lebanon. The village has a few hundred inhabitants.\n\nThere are the ruins of a Phoenico-Greco-Roman temple in the village that are included in a grouping of Temples of the Beqaa Valley. It is said to be dedicated to Astarte or Venus. Part of two enclosure walls and the temple foundations remain intact. Inscriptions, written in Latin were found at the temple site. Ancient Greek inscriptions were also found. It is considered likely to be of Phoenician origin. Ernest Renan visited the site and discovered sections of a frieze and parts of pediment attributed to the temple. A partly broken cockle shell with a figure of a goddess with outstretched arms was also found recently during ploughing by a tractor. The ancient name of Yammoune is not known however some have suggested that it was once the location of a Festival of Adonis.\n\nThe temple is situated on a hill, approximately from the main spring in the area, the Naba al-Arbain. It lies next to the lake where it is considered ancient worshippers took pilgrimage from the temple at Afqa to purify themselves in the temple waters. Michael Alouf found a statue of Adonis in the temple, carrying an ear of corn in one hand and a quivver and a lamb in the other. He stored the statue at a museum he founded in the ruins of Baalbek. Alouf also found a Roman road measuring , located southeast of the lake. He also found another square building measuring approximately next to this road. The building was constructed of large stones and an Ancient Greek inscription was found inside. He considered it an ancient guardhouse or watchtower for protection of travellers. He suggested that oracles were consulted at the temple in connection with Queen Zenobia, who legend tells, sent offerings to the goddess by placing them on the lake. If the offerings sunk to the floor of the lake, then the goddess had accepted them. If the offerings floated, then they had been rejected and gave a bad omen to Palmyra and the surrounding lands.\n\nThe village lies on the Yammoune Fault line, a geological fault responsible for several historical earthquakes in the area. A new section of the fault was discovered in 2010 by Ata Elias of the American University of Beirut. They studied samples from a trench in Marjahine that will allow them to improve dating on historical earthquakes and better predict future ones.\n\nLake Yammoune is home to Lebanon's only endemic fish, \"Pseudophoxinus libani\". In Phoenician Mythology, the goddess Astarte turned herself into a golden fish in Yammoune lake to escape from the vengeance of Adonis's wrathful brother Typhon.\n\nThe lake is filled from a water cavern to the west of the temple has only one outflow, through a big hole and Robert Boulanger suggested that it might dry up entirely at the end of summer. The valley of Ouyoun Ergush leads from Yammoune towards Marjhine.\n\nA network of rock-cut irrigation channels and watercourses lead from Lake Yammoune to provide irrigation for the region of the Beqaa Valley around Baalbek.\n\nMarvin H. Pope (Yale University) identified the home of El in the Ugaritic texts of ca. 1200 BCE, described as \"at the source[s] of the [two] rivers, in the midst of the fountains of the [two] deeps\", with this famous lake and Afqa, source of the river Adonis on the other side of the mountain, which Pope asserted was closely associated with it in legend.\n\nThe area has been classed as a scientific and cultural nature reserve since 1998 and is known for distinguishing juniper trees. The area is popular as a hiking trail.\n\n"}
