{"id": "2107400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107400", "title": "Adda (South Asian)", "text": "Adda (South Asian)\n\nAn adda () is a form of intellectual exchange among members, who were originally of the same socio-economic strata, but the process has democratized in modern times. It is most popular among the youths belonging to the so-called \"middle-class intelligentsia\". Although many Kolkatans boast of the city being the birthplace of adda culture, Satyajit Ray (in his film Agantuk) traces back the origin of the tradition to regular intellectual dialogues prevalent in Ancient Greece at the time of Socrates or Plato. Adda is a prominent leisurely activity in India and Bangladesh.\n\n\"Adda\" was incorporated into the Oxford English Dictionary in 2004.\n\nThe Indian adda has shades of meaning attached to different languages:\n\n\nIn 2011, filmmakers Surjo Deb and Ranjan Palit made a documentary on the subject. The film, \"\" has been screened at several festivals around the globe and won the Golden Palm Award at the Mexico International Film Festival 2012. The film drew parallels with the French salon culture at the turn of the 20th century and used the phenomenon of adda to create a city symphony film on Calcutta, exploring various subcultures of the bustling yet laid-back metropolis.\n"}
{"id": "48823717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48823717", "title": "Aide et Action International South Asia", "text": "Aide et Action International South Asia\n\nAide et Action International South Asia provides support to local actors for the implementation of their projects on diverse programmes related to education, early childhood care and education, Livelihood Education for excluded youth from poor and marginalized sections, health, environment, social cohesion, inclusion of the girl child, etc. The Aide et Action Network ensures perfect and total transparency about the use of funds received to its sponsors, donors and partners, by publishing its financial statements each year, accessible to all on the Internet.\n\nAide et Action was established in France in the year 1981 by Pierre-Bernard Le Bas. India was its first country program.In the year 2007, the Aide et Action transformed into Aide et Action International. In 2010, Aide et Action South Asia evolved along with Aide et Action Africa (2010) followed by Aide et Action South East Asia and Latin America-Caribbean (2011). The Aide et Action South Asia operates in India, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bhutan with its Head Office located in Chennai and supported by 9 sub-regional offices in Bhopal, Chennai, Delhi, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Patna, Katmandu and Colombo. Aide et Action South Asia implements 39 projects, along with support of institutions, government and individual sponsors. Through its 39 projects, Aide et Action South Asia, contributes to the improvement of the access and quality of education for nearly 7,31,000 children and adults. 72 employees and 250 project staff across the South Asia region take part in implementing its educational mission.\n\n\nThe education for Tribal Girls in Odisha, an initiative of Aide et Action has been selected as one of the best practices by United Nations Girl Education Initiative in 2014. The project has been selected for the best practices adopted to arrest school drop outs rates in the area.\n\nAide et Action played an active role in developing customized social protection products and services for Internal migrants in India.\n\niLEAD (Initiative for Livelihood Education and Development) is a flagship programme of Aide et Action which has provided livelihood education to 1, 33, 487 youth out of which 75% of whom have been placed.\n"}
{"id": "2611789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2611789", "title": "American Musicological Society", "text": "American Musicological Society\n\nThe American Musicological Society is a membership-based musicological organization founded in 1934 to advance scholarly research in the various fields of music as a branch of learning and scholarship. It grew out of a small contingent of the Music Teachers National Association and, more directly, the New York Musicological Society (1930–1934). Its founders were George S. Dickinson, Carl Engel, Gustave Reese, Helen Heffron Roberts, Joseph Schillinger, Charles Seeger, Harold Spivacke, Oliver Strunk, and Joseph Yasser. Its first president was Otto Kinkeldey, the first American to receive an appointment as professor of musicology (Cornell University, 1930).\n\nThe society consists of individual members divided among fifteen regional chapters across the United States, Canada, and elsewhere, as well as subscribing institutions. It was admitted to the American Council of Learned Societies in 1951, and participates in the Répertoire International des Sources Musicales and the Répertoire International de Littérature Musicale.\n\nThe society's annual meetings consist of presentations, symposia, and concerts, as well as more-or-less informal meetings of numerous related musical societies. Many of the society's awards, prizes and fellowships are announced at these meetings.\n\nMost of the society's resources are dedicated to musicological publications: the triannual \"Journal of the American Musicological Society\" (1948-present) published by the University of California Press. The journal was preceded by the annual \"Bulletin\" (1936–1947) and the annual \"Papers\" (1936–1941). Online versions of these publications are available at JSTOR and the University of California Press.\n\nOther studies and documents published by the society include the complete works of William Billings, edited by Karl Kroeger et al. (4 vols, 1977–1990), the series \"Music of the United States of America\" (1993–present), Johannes Ockeghem's collected works edited by Dragan Plamenac and Richard Wexler (3 vols., 1966, 1992), John Dunstaple's complete works edited by Manfred Bukofzer, published jointly with Musica Britannica (1970), Joseph Kerman's \"The Elizabethan Madrigal\" (1962), E. R. Reilly's \"Quantz and his Versuch\" (1971), E. H. Sparks's \"The Music of Noel Bauldeweyn\" (1972), \"Essays in Musicology: a Tribute to Alvin H. Johnson\" edited by Lewis Lockwood and Edward Roesner (1990), and, in conjunction with the International Musicological Society, \"Doctoral Dissertations in Musicology\" edited by C. D. Adkins and A. Dickinson in succession to Helen Hewitt (1952, 1957, 1961, 1965, 1971, 1977, 1984 [first cumulative edition], 1990, 1996 [second series, second cumulative edition]).(Brunswick, 2011)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43250285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43250285", "title": "Ann Swidler", "text": "Ann Swidler\n\nAnn Swidler (born December 11, 1944) is an American sociologist and Professor of Sociology at University of California-Berkeley. Swidler is most commonly known as a cultural sociologist and authored one of the most-cited articles in sociology, \"Culture in action: Symbols and strategies\".\n\nSwidler graduated from Harvard University with a BA in 1966 and received her MA in 1971 and PhD in 1975 from the University of California-Berkeley. Her dissertation was titled \"Organization without Authority: A Study of Two Alternative Schools,\" it was published as a book in 1979 as \"Organization without authority: Dilemmas of social control in free schools\". Her advisor was Arlie Hochschild, and was also mentored by Robert Bellah, Reinhard Bendix, and Neil Smelser.\n\nIn 1982 she was a recipient of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship. With sociologists John W. Meyer and W. Richard Scott, Swidler received funding from the Russell Sage Foundation for \"Due Process in Organizations,\" and in 2009-10 she was a Russell Sage Foundation Visiting Scholar. In 2013 she was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\n\"Habits of the Heart\" (1985), co-authored with Robert Bellah, Richard Madsen, William M. Sullivan, and Steven M. Tipton, was finalist for a Pulitzer Prize in 1986, won the Los Angeles Times Book Award in 1985 and received Highest Honors for a Book in Education from the American Educational Studies Association. \"Habits of the Heart\" sold over 500,000 copies which, according to sociologist Edward Tiryakian, places the work among \"that rare breed of sociological works: a literary event, with sales figures beyond the total number of practicing sociologists in the world, past and present.\"\n\n\"Culture in Action: Symbols and Strategies\" (1986), argues that rather than just a form of internalized norms controlling behavior - argued by, for instance, Talcott Parsons - culture is a collection or \"tool-kit\" that people draw on to accomplish particular strategies of action. This is one of the most widely cited articles in sociology and informs the contemporary view in cultural sociology that culture is both constraining and enabling.\n\n\"\" (1996), is a well-known reply to \"The Bell Curve\" by Charles Murray and Richard Hernstein and attempts to show that the arguments in \"The Bell Curve\" are flawed.\n\n\"Talk of Love: How Culture Matters\" (2001) attempts to describe the reality of love in relationships amid the idealized and romanticized \"talk of love\" within American culture. In a review in the American Journal of Sociology, sociologist Michele Lamont describes the book as \"theoretically ambitious\" as it \"propose[s] nothing less than the reconceptualization of the role that culture plays in organizing social action.\"\n"}
{"id": "49048118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49048118", "title": "Anthelioi", "text": "Anthelioi\n\nAnthelioi () or Antelii or Anthelii were certain divinities whose images stood before the doors of houses, and were exposed to the sun, from which they derived their name, which is literally \"gods that face the sun\". The sun conceptually was to animate the statues with its pneuma.\n\nThese deities were similar in character to a number of other gateway-gods, including Cardea, and Apollo under the epithet Apollo Thyraeus, protector of doorways.\n"}
{"id": "1849914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849914", "title": "Anything That Moves", "text": "Anything That Moves\n\nAnything That Moves was a literary, journalistic, and topical magazine published in the United States from 1990 to 2002. It was created as an expansion of the San Francisco Bay Area Bisexual Network (BABN) newsletter by BABN member, Karla Rossi, in collaboration with bisexual and bi-friendly editors, writers, and artists to become a full 64-page magazine with an international subscriber base. The complete title of the magazine, \"Anything That Moves: Beyond the Myths of Bisexuality\", was purposely chosen for its controversial nature, while its tag line indicated a clear intent to challenge stereotypes of bisexual identities and behaviors. The magazine took its name from the stereotype depicting bisexuals as willing to have sex with \"anything that moves\".\n\nThe magazine's mission was to confront and redefine concepts of sexuality and gender, to defy stereotypes and broad definitions of bisexuals and to combat biphobia.\n\nMost of the issues were theme-based, designed to cohesively present the vast array of diverse bisexual voices and experiences across the lines of gender, class, race, ethnicity, spirituality, lifestyle, age, politics, culture, and sexual behaviors, desires, and preferences. Special care was taken to include a wide variety of perspectives, from straight-identified to queer-identified bisexuals, while inclusion did not require the declaration of an identity or label to indicate where one fell along the spectrum of ways to be bisexual.\nChanges in managing editors at the helm precipitated changes in the magazine’s tag line that were made to reflect the evolving, exploratory, and creative nature of its subject matter and content. \n"}
{"id": "752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752", "title": "Art", "text": "Art\n\nArt is a diverse range of human activities in creating visual, auditory or performing artifacts (artworks), expressing the author's imaginative, conceptual idea, or technical skill, intended to be appreciated for their beauty or emotional power. In their most general form these activities include the production of works of art, the criticism of art, the study of the history of art, and the aesthetic dissemination of art. \n\nThe three classical branches of art are painting, sculpture and architecture. Music, theatre, film, dance, and other performing arts, as well as literature and other media such as interactive media, are included in a broader definition of the arts. Until the 17th century, \"art\" referred to any skill or mastery and was not differentiated from crafts or sciences. In modern usage after the 17th century, where aesthetic considerations are paramount, the fine arts are separated and distinguished from acquired skills in general, such as the decorative or applied arts.\n\nThough the definition of what constitutes art is disputed and has changed over time, general descriptions mention an idea of imaginative or technical skill stemming from human agency and creation. The nature of art and related concepts, such as creativity and interpretation, are explored in a branch of philosophy known as aesthetics.\n\nIn the perspective of the history of art, artistic works have existed for almost as long as humankind: from early pre-historic art to contemporary art; however, some theories restrict the concept of \"artistic works\" to modern Western societies. One early sense of the definition of \"art\" is closely related to the older Latin meaning, which roughly translates to \"skill\" or \"craft,\" as associated with words such as \"artisan.\" English words derived from this meaning include \"artifact\", \"artificial\", \"artifice\", \"medical arts\", and \"military arts\". However, there are many other colloquial uses of the word, all with some relation to its etymology.\nOver time, philosophers like Plato, Aristotle, Socrates and Kant, among others, questioned the meaning of art. Several dialogues in Plato tackle questions about art: Socrates says that poetry is inspired by the muses, and is not rational. He speaks approvingly of this, and other forms of divine madness (drunkenness, eroticism, and dreaming) in the \"Phaedrus \"(265a–c), and yet in the \"\"Republic\"\" wants to outlaw Homer's great poetic art, and laughter as well. In \"Ion\", Socrates gives no hint of the disapproval of Homer that he expresses in the \"Republic\". The dialogue \"Ion\" suggests that Homer's \"Iliad\" functioned in the ancient Greek world as the Bible does today in the modern Christian world: as divinely inspired literary art that can provide moral guidance, if only it can be properly interpreted.\n\nWith regards to the literary art and the musical arts, Aristotle considered epic poetry, tragedy, comedy, dithyrambic poetry and music to be mimetic or imitative art, each varying in imitation by medium, object, and manner. For example, music imitates with the media of rhythm and harmony, whereas dance imitates with rhythm alone, and poetry with language. The forms also differ in their object of imitation. Comedy, for instance, is a dramatic imitation of men worse than average; whereas tragedy imitates men slightly better than average. Lastly, the forms differ in their manner of imitation—through narrative or character, through change or no change, and through drama or no drama. Aristotle believed that imitation is natural to mankind and constitutes one of mankind's advantages over animals.\n\nThe second, and more recent, sense of the word \"art\" as an abbreviation for \"creative art\" or \"fine art\" emerged in the early 17th century. Fine art refers to a skill used to express the artist's creativity, or to engage the audience's aesthetic sensibilities, or to draw the audience towards consideration of more refined or \"finer\" work of art.\n\nWithin this latter sense, the word \"art\" may refer to several things: (i) a study of a creative skill, (ii) a process of using the creative skill, (iii) a product of the creative skill, or (iv) the audience's experience with the creative skill. The creative arts (\"art\" as discipline) are a collection of disciplines which produce \"artworks\" (\"art\" as objects) that are compelled by a personal drive (art as activity) and convey a message, mood, or symbolism for the perceiver to interpret (art as experience). Art is something that stimulates an individual's thoughts, emotions, beliefs, or ideas through the senses. Works of art can be explicitly made for this purpose or interpreted on the basis of images or objects. For some scholars, such as Kant, the sciences and the arts could be distinguished by taking science as representing the domain of knowledge and the arts as representing the domain of the freedom of artistic expression.\n\nOften, if the skill is being used in a common or practical way, people will consider it a craft instead of art. Likewise, if the skill is being used in a commercial or industrial way, it may be considered commercial art instead of fine art. On the other hand, crafts and design are sometimes considered applied art. Some art followers have argued that the difference between fine art and applied art has more to do with value judgments made about the art than any clear definitional difference. However, even fine art often has goals beyond pure creativity and self-expression. The purpose of works of art may be to communicate ideas, such as in politically, spiritually, or philosophically motivated art; to create a sense of beauty (see aesthetics); to explore the nature of perception; for pleasure; or to generate strong emotions. The purpose may also be seemingly nonexistent.\n\nThe nature of art has been described by philosopher Richard Wollheim as \"one of the most elusive of the traditional problems of human culture\". Art has been defined as a vehicle for the expression or communication of emotions and ideas, a means for exploring and appreciating formal elements for their own sake, and as \"mimesis\" or representation. Art as mimesis has deep roots in the philosophy of Aristotle. Leo Tolstoy identified art as a use of indirect means to communicate from one person to another. Benedetto Croce and R.G. Collingwood advanced the idealist view that art expresses emotions, and that the work of art therefore essentially exists in the mind of the creator. The theory of art as form has its roots in the philosophy of Kant, and was developed in the early twentieth century by Roger Fry and Clive Bell. More recently, thinkers influenced by Martin Heidegger have interpreted art as the means by which a community develops for itself a medium for self-expression and interpretation. George Dickie has offered an institutional theory of art that defines a work of art as any artifact upon which a qualified person or persons acting on behalf of the social institution commonly referred to as \"the art world\" has conferred \"the status of candidate for appreciation\". Larry Shiner has described fine art as \"not an essence or a fate but something we have made. Art as we have generally understood it is a European invention barely two hundred years old.\"\n\nArt may be characterized in terms of mimesis (its representation of reality), narrative (storytelling), expression, communication of emotion, or other qualities. During the Romantic period, art came to be seen as \"a special faculty of the human mind to be classified with religion and science\".\n\nThe oldest documented forms of art are visual arts, which include creation of images or objects in fields including today painting, sculpture, printmaking, photography, and other visual media. Sculptures, cave paintings, rock paintings and petroglyphs from the Upper Paleolithic dating to roughly 40,000 years ago have been found, but the precise meaning of such art is often disputed because so little is known about the cultures that produced them. The oldest art objects in the world—a series of tiny, drilled snail shells about 75,000 years old—were discovered in a South African cave. Containers that may have been used to hold paints have been found dating as far back as 100,000 years. Etched shells by \"Homo erectus\" from 430,000 and 540,000 years ago were discovered in 2014.\n\nMany great traditions in art have a foundation in the art of one of the great ancient civilizations: Ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, Persia, India, China, Ancient Greece, Rome, as well as Inca, Maya, and Olmec. Each of these centers of early civilization developed a unique and characteristic style in its art. Because of the size and duration of these civilizations, more of their art works have survived and more of their influence has been transmitted to other cultures and later times. Some also have provided the first records of how artists worked. For example, this period of Greek art saw a veneration of the human physical form and the development of equivalent skills to show musculature, poise, beauty, and anatomically correct proportions.\n\nIn Byzantine and Medieval art of the Western Middle Ages, much art focused on the expression of subjects about Biblical and religious culture, and used styles that showed the higher glory of a heavenly world, such as the use of gold in the background of paintings, or glass in mosaics or windows, which also presented figures in idealized, patterned (flat) forms. Nevertheless, a classical realist tradition persisted in small Byzantine works, and realism steadily grew in the art of Catholic Europe.\n\nRenaissance art had a greatly increased emphasis on the realistic depiction of the material world, and the place of humans in it, reflected in the corporeality of the human body, and development of a systematic method of graphical perspective to depict recession in a three-dimensional picture space.\n\nIn the east, Islamic art's rejection of iconography led to emphasis on geometric patterns, calligraphy, and architecture. Further east, religion dominated artistic styles and forms too. India and Tibet saw emphasis on painted sculptures and dance, while religious painting borrowed many conventions from sculpture and tended to bright contrasting colors with emphasis on outlines. China saw the flourishing of many art forms: jade carving, bronzework, pottery (including the stunning terracotta army of Emperor Qin), poetry, calligraphy, music, painting, drama, fiction, etc. Chinese styles vary greatly from era to era and each one is traditionally named after the ruling dynasty. So, for example, Tang dynasty paintings are monochromatic and sparse, emphasizing idealized landscapes, but Ming dynasty paintings are busy and colorful, and focus on telling stories via setting and composition. Japan names its styles after imperial dynasties too, and also saw much interplay between the styles of calligraphy and painting. Woodblock printing became important in Japan after the 17th century.\n\nThe western Age of Enlightenment in the 18th century saw artistic depictions of physical and rational certainties of the clockwork universe, as well as politically revolutionary visions of a post-monarchist world, such as Blake's portrayal of Newton as a divine geometer, or David's propagandistic paintings. This led to Romantic rejections of this in favor of pictures of the emotional side and individuality of humans, exemplified in the novels of Goethe. The late 19th century then saw a host of artistic movements, such as academic art, Symbolism, impressionism and fauvism among others.\n\nThe history of twentieth-century art is a narrative of endless possibilities and the search for new standards, each being torn down in succession by the next. Thus the parameters of impressionism, Expressionism, Fauvism, Cubism, Dadaism, Surrealism, etc. cannot be maintained very much beyond the time of their invention. Increasing global interaction during this time saw an equivalent influence of other cultures into Western art. Thus, Japanese woodblock prints (themselves influenced by Western Renaissance draftsmanship) had an immense influence on impressionism and subsequent development. Later, African sculptures were taken up by Picasso and to some extent by Matisse. Similarly, in the 19th and 20th centuries the West has had huge impacts on Eastern art with originally western ideas like Communism and Post-Modernism exerting a powerful influence.\n\nModernism, the idealistic search for truth, gave way in the latter half of the 20th century to a realization of its unattainability. Theodor W. Adorno said in 1970, \"It is now taken for granted that nothing which concerns art can be taken for granted any more: neither art itself, nor art in relationship to the whole, nor even the right of art to exist.\" Relativism was accepted as an unavoidable truth, which led to the period of contemporary art and postmodern criticism, where cultures of the world and of history are seen as changing forms, which can be appreciated and drawn from only with skepticism and irony. Furthermore, the separation of cultures is increasingly blurred and some argue it is now more appropriate to think in terms of a global culture, rather than of regional ones.\n\nIn \"The Origin of the Work of Art\", Martin Heidegger, a German philosopher and a seminal thinker, describes the essence of art in terms of the concepts of being and truth. He argues that art is not only a way of expressing the element of truth in a culture, but the means of creating it and providing a springboard from which \"that which is\" can be revealed. Works of art are not merely representations of the way things are, but actually produce a community's shared understanding. Each time a new artwork is added to any culture, the meaning of what it is to exist is inherently changed.\n\nThe creative arts are often divided into more specific categories, typically along perceptually distinguishable categories such as media, genre, styles, and form. Art form refers to the elements of art that are independent of its interpretation or significance. It covers the methods adopted by the artist and the physical composition of the artwork, primarily non-semantic aspects of the work (i.e., figurae), such as color, contour, dimension, medium, melody, space, texture, and value. Form may also include visual design principles, such as arrangement, balance, contrast, emphasis, harmony, proportion, proximity, and rhythm.\n\nIn general there are three schools of philosophy regarding art, focusing respectively on form, content, and context. Extreme Formalism is the view that all aesthetic properties of art are formal (that is, part of the art form). Philosophers almost universally reject this view and hold that the properties and aesthetics of art extend beyond materials, techniques, and form. Unfortunately, there is little consensus on terminology for these informal properties. Some authors refer to subject matter and content – i.e., denotations and connotations – while others prefer terms like meaning and significance.\n\nExtreme Intentionalism holds that authorial intent plays a decisive role in the meaning of a work of art, conveying the content or essential main idea, while all other interpretations can be discarded. It defines the subject as the persons or idea represented, and the content as the artist's experience of that subject. For example, the composition of Napoleon I on his Imperial Throne is partly borrowed from the Statue of Zeus at Olympia. As evidenced by the title, the subject is Napoleon, and the content is Ingres's representation of Napoleon as \"Emperor-God beyond time and space\". Similarly to extreme formalism, philosophers typically reject extreme intentionalism, because art may have multiple ambiguous meanings and authorial intent may be unknowable and thus irrelevant. Its restrictive interpretation is \"socially unhealthy, philosophically unreal, and politically unwise\".\n\nFinally, the developing theory of post-structuralism studies art's significance in a cultural context, such as the ideas, emotions, and reactions prompted by a work. The cultural context often reduces to the artist's techniques and intentions, in which case analysis proceeds along lines similar to formalism and intentionalism. However, in other cases historical and material conditions may predominate, such as religious and philosophical convictions, sociopolitical and economic structures, or even climate and geography. Art criticism continues to grow and develop alongside art.\n\nArt can connote a sense of trained ability or mastery of a medium. Art can also simply refer to the developed and efficient use of a language to convey meaning with immediacy and or depth. Art can be defined as an act of expressing feelings, thoughts, and observations.\n\nThere is an understanding that is reached with the material as a result of handling it, which facilitates one's thought processes.\nA common view is that the \"art\", particular in its elevated sense, requires a certain level of creative expertise by the artist, whether this be a demonstration of technical ability, an originality in stylistic approach, or a combination of these two. Traditionally skill of execution was viewed as a quality inseparable from art and thus necessary for its success; for Leonardo da Vinci, art, neither more nor less than his other endeavors, was a manifestation of skill. Rembrandt's work, now praised for its ephemeral virtues, was most admired by his contemporaries for its virtuosity. At the turn of the 20th century, the adroit performances of John Singer Sargent were alternately admired and viewed with skepticism for their manual fluency, yet at nearly the same time the artist who would become the era's most recognized and peripatetic iconoclast, Pablo Picasso, was completing a traditional academic training at which he excelled.\nA common contemporary criticism of some modern art occurs along the lines of objecting to the apparent lack of skill or ability required in the production of the artistic object. In conceptual art, Marcel Duchamp's \"Fountain\" is among the first examples of pieces wherein the artist used found objects (\"ready-made\") and exercised no traditionally recognised set of skills. Tracey Emin's \"My Bed\", or Damien Hirst's \"The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living\" follow this example and also manipulate the mass media. Emin slept (and engaged in other activities) in her bed before placing the result in a gallery as work of art. Hirst came up with the conceptual design for the artwork but has left most of the eventual creation of many works to employed artisans. Hirst's celebrity is founded entirely on his ability to produce shocking concepts. The actual production in many conceptual and contemporary works of art is a matter of assembly of found objects. However, there are many modernist and contemporary artists who continue to excel in the skills of drawing and painting and in creating \"hands-on\" works of art.\n\nArt has had a great number of different functions throughout its history, making its purpose difficult to abstract or quantify to any single concept. This does not imply that the purpose of Art is \"vague\", but that it has had many unique, different reasons for being created. Some of these functions of Art are provided in the following outline. The different purposes of art may be grouped according to those that are non-motivated, and those that are motivated (Lévi-Strauss).\n\nThe non-motivated purposes of art are those that are integral to being human, transcend the individual, or do not fulfill a specific external purpose. In this sense, Art, as creativity, is something humans must do by their very nature (i.e., no other species creates art), and is therefore beyond utility.\nMotivated purposes of art refer to intentional, conscious actions on the part of the artists or creator. These may be to bring about political change, to comment on an aspect of society, to convey a specific emotion or mood, to address personal psychology, to illustrate another discipline, to (with commercial arts) sell a product, or simply as a form of communication.\n\nThe functions of art described above are not mutually exclusive, as many of them may overlap. For example, art for the purpose of entertainment may also seek to sell a product, i.e. the movie or video game.\n\nSince ancient times, much of the finest art has represented a deliberate display of wealth or power, often achieved by using massive scale and expensive materials. Much art has been commissioned by political rulers or religious establishments, with more modest versions only available to the most wealthy in society.\n\nNevertheless, there have been many periods where art of very high quality was available, in terms of ownership, across large parts of society, above all in cheap media such as pottery, which persists in the ground, and perishable media such as textiles and wood. In many different cultures, the ceramics of indigenous peoples of the Americas are found in such a wide range of graves that they were clearly not restricted to a social elite, though other forms of art may have been. Reproductive methods such as moulds made mass-production easier, and were used to bring high-quality Ancient Roman pottery and Greek Tanagra figurines to a very wide market. Cylinder seals were both artistic and practical, and very widely used by what can be loosely called the middle class in the Ancient Near East. Once coins were widely used, these also became an art form that reached the widest range of society.\n\nAnother important innovation came in the 15th century in Europe, when printmaking began with small woodcuts, mostly religious, that were often very small and hand-colored, and affordable even by peasants who glued them to the walls of their homes. Printed books were initially very expensive, but fell steadily in price until by the 19th century even the poorest could afford some with printed illustrations. Popular prints of many different sorts have decorated homes and other places for centuries.\n\nPublic buildings and monuments, secular and religious, by their nature normally address the whole of society, and visitors as viewers, and display to the general public has long been an important factor in their design. Egyptian temples are typical in that the most largest and most lavish decoration was placed on the parts that could be seen by the general public, rather than the areas seen only by the priests. Many areas of royal palaces, castles and the houses of the social elite were often generally accessible, and large parts of the art collections of such people could often be seen, either by anybody, or by those able to pay a small price, or those wearing the correct clothes, regardless of who they were, as at the Palace of Versailles, where the appropriate extra accessories (silver shoe buckles and a sword) could be hired from shops outside.\n\nSpecial arrangements were made to allow the public to see many royal or private collections placed in galleries, as with the Orleans Collection mostly housed in a wing of the Palais Royal in Paris, which could be visited for most of the 18th century. In Italy the art tourism of the Grand Tour became a major industry from the Renaissance onwards, and governments and cities made efforts to make their key works accessible. The British Royal Collection remains distinct, but large donations such as the Old Royal Library were made from it to the British Museum, established in 1753. The Uffizi in Florence opened entirely as a gallery in 1765, though this function had been gradually taking the building over from the original civil servants' offices for a long time before. The building now occupied by the Prado in Madrid was built before the French Revolution for the public display of parts of the royal art collection, and similar royal galleries open to the public existed in Vienna, Munich and other capitals. The opening of the Musée du Louvre during the French Revolution (in 1793) as a public museum for much of the former French royal collection certainly marked an important stage in the development of public access to art, transferring ownership to a republican state, but was a continuation of trends already well established.\n\nMost modern public museums and art education programs for children in schools can be traced back to this impulse to have art available to everyone. Museums in the United States tend to be gifts from the very rich to the masses. (The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, for example, was created by John Taylor Johnston, a railroad executive whose personal art collection seeded the museum.) But despite all this, at least one of the important functions of art in the 21st century remains as a marker of wealth and social status.\n\nThere have been attempts by artists to create art that can not be bought by the wealthy as a status object. One of the prime original motivators of much of the art of the late 1960s and 1970s was to create art that could not be bought and sold. It is \"necessary to present something more than mere objects\" said the major post war German artist Joseph Beuys. This time period saw the rise of such things as performance art, video art, and conceptual art. The idea was that if the artwork was a performance that would leave nothing behind, or was simply an idea, it could not be bought and sold. \"Democratic precepts revolving around the idea that a work of art is a commodity impelled the aesthetic innovation which germinated in the mid-1960s and was reaped throughout the 1970s. Artists broadly identified under the heading of Conceptual art ... substituting performance and publishing activities for engagement with both the material and materialistic concerns of painted or sculptural form ... [have] endeavored to undermine the art object qua object.\"\n\nIn the decades since, these ideas have been somewhat lost as the art market has learned to sell limited edition DVDs of video works, invitations to exclusive performance art pieces, and the objects left over from conceptual pieces. Many of these performances create works that are only understood by the elite who have been educated as to why an idea or video or piece of apparent garbage may be considered art. The marker of status becomes understanding the work instead of necessarily owning it, and the artwork remains an upper-class activity. \"With the widespread use of DVD recording technology in the early 2000s, artists, and the gallery system that derives its profits from the sale of artworks, gained an important means of controlling the sale of video and computer artworks in limited editions to collectors.\"\n\nArt has long been controversial, that is to say disliked by some viewers, for a wide variety of reasons, though most pre-modern controversies are dimly recorded, or completely lost to a modern view. Iconoclasm is the destruction of art that is disliked for a variety of reasons, including religious ones. Aniconism is a general dislike of either all figurative images, or often just religious ones, and has been a thread in many major religions. It has been a crucial factor in the history of Islamic art, where depictions of Muhammad remain especially controversial. Much art has been disliked purely because it depicted or otherwise stood for unpopular rulers, parties or other groups. Artistic conventions have often been conservative and taken very seriously by art critics, though often much less so by a wider public. The iconographic content of art could cause controversy, as with late medieval depictions of the new motif of the Swoon of the Virgin in scenes of the Crucifixion of Jesus. The \"Last Judgment\" by Michelangelo was controversial for various reasons, including breaches of decorum through nudity and the Apollo-like pose of Christ.\n\nThe content of much formal art through history was dictated by the patron or commissioner rather than just the artist, but with the advent of Romanticism, and economic changes in the production of art, the artists' vision became the usual determinant of the content of his art, increasing the incidence of controversies, though often reducing their significance. Strong incentives for perceived originality and publicity also encouraged artists to court controversy. Théodore Géricault's \"Raft of the Medusa\" (c. 1820), was in part a political commentary on a recent event. Édouard Manet's \"Le Déjeuner sur l'Herbe\" (1863), was considered scandalous not because of the nude woman, but because she is seated next to men fully dressed in the clothing of the time, rather than in robes of the antique world. John Singer Sargent's \"Madame Pierre Gautreau (Madam X)\" (1884), caused a controversy over the reddish pink used to color the woman's ear lobe, considered far too suggestive and supposedly ruining the high-society model's reputation.\nThe gradual abandonment of naturalism and the depiction of realistic representations of the visual appearance of subjects in the 19th and 20th centuries led to a rolling controversy lasting for over a century. In the twentieth century, Pablo Picasso's \"Guernica\" (1937) used arresting cubist techniques and stark monochromatic oils, to depict the harrowing consequences of a contemporary bombing of a small, ancient Basque town. Leon Golub's \"Interrogation III\" (1981), depicts a female nude, hooded detainee strapped to a chair, her legs open to reveal her sexual organs, surrounded by two tormentors dressed in everyday clothing. Andres Serrano's \"Piss Christ\" (1989) is a photograph of a crucifix, sacred to the Christian religion and representing Christ's sacrifice and final suffering, submerged in a glass of the artist's own urine. The resulting uproar led to comments in the United States Senate about public funding of the arts.\n\nBefore Modernism, aesthetics in Western art was greatly concerned with achieving the appropriate balance between different aspects of realism or truth to nature and the ideal; ideas as to what the appropriate balance is have shifted to and fro over the centuries. This concern is largely absent in other traditions of art. The aesthetic theorist John Ruskin, who championed what he saw as the naturalism of J. M. W. Turner, saw art's role as the communication by artifice of an essential truth that could only be found in nature.\n\nThe definition and evaluation of art has become especially problematic since the 20th century. Richard Wollheim distinguishes three approaches to assessing the aesthetic value of art: the Realist, whereby aesthetic quality is an absolute value independent of any human view; the Objectivist, whereby it is also an absolute value, but is dependent on general human experience; and the Relativist position, whereby it is not an absolute value, but depends on, and varies with, the human experience of different humans.\n\nThe arrival of Modernism in the late nineteenth century lead to a radical break in the conception of the function of art, and then again in the late twentieth century with the advent of postmodernism. Clement Greenberg's 1960 article \"Modernist Painting\" defines modern art as \"the use of characteristic methods of a discipline to criticize the discipline itself\". Greenberg originally applied this idea to the Abstract Expressionist movement and used it as a way to understand and justify flat (non-illusionistic) abstract painting:\n\nPop artists like Andy Warhol became both noteworthy and influential through work including and possibly critiquing popular culture, as well as the art world. Artists of the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s expanded this technique of self-criticism beyond \"high art\" to all cultural image-making, including fashion images, comics, billboards and pornography.\n\nDuchamp once proposed that art is any activity of any kind- everything. However, the way that only certain activities are classified today as art is a social construction. There is evidence that there may be an element of truth to this. \"\" is an art history book which examines the construction of the modern system of the arts i.e. Fine Art. Shiner finds evidence that the older system of the arts before our modern system (fine art) held art to be any skilled human activity i.e. Ancient Greek society did not possess the term art but techne. Techne can be understood neither as art or craft, the reason being that the distinctions of art and craft are historical products that came later on in human history. Techne included painting, sculpting and music but also; cooking, medicine, horsemanship, geometry, carpentry, prophecy, and farming etc.\n\nFollowing Duchamp during the first half of the twentieth century, a significant shift to general aesthetic theory took place which attempted to apply aesthetic theory between various forms of art, including the literary arts and the visual arts, to each other. This resulted in the rise of the New Criticism school and debate concerning \"the intentional fallacy\". At issue was the question of whether the aesthetic intentions of the artist in creating the work of art, whatever its specific form, should be associated with the criticism and evaluation of the final product of the work of art, or, if the work of art should be evaluated on its own merits independent of the intentions of the artist.\n\nIn 1946, William K. Wimsatt and Monroe Beardsley published a classic and controversial New Critical essay entitled \"The Intentional Fallacy\", in which they argued strongly against the relevance of an author's intention, or \"intended meaning\" in the analysis of a literary work. For Wimsatt and Beardsley, the words on the page were all that mattered; importation of meanings from outside the text was considered irrelevant, and potentially distracting.\n\nIn another essay, \"The Affective Fallacy,\" which served as a kind of sister essay to \"The Intentional Fallacy\" Wimsatt and Beardsley also discounted the reader's personal/emotional reaction to a literary work as a valid means of analyzing a text. This fallacy would later be repudiated by theorists from the reader-response school of literary theory. Ironically, one of the leading theorists from this school, Stanley Fish, was himself trained by New Critics. Fish criticizes Wimsatt and Beardsley in his essay \"Literature in the Reader\" (1970).\n\nAs summarized by Gaut and Livingston in their essay \"The Creation of Art\": \"Structuralist and post-structuralists theorists and critics were sharply critical of many aspects of New Criticism, beginning with the emphasis on aesthetic appreciation and the so-called autonomy of art, but they reiterated the attack on biographical criticisms's assumption that the artist's activities and experience were a privileged critical topic.\" These authors contend that: \"Anti-intentionalists, such as formalists, hold that the intentions involved in the making of art are irrelevant or peripheral to correctly interpreting art. So details of the act of creating a work, though possibly of interest in themselves, have no bearing on the correct interpretation of the work.\"\n\nGaut and Livingston define the intentionalists as distinct from formalists stating that: \"Intentionalists, unlike formalists, hold that reference to intentions is essential in fixing the correct interpretation of works.\" They quote Richard Wollheim as stating that, \"The task of criticism is the reconstruction of the creative process, where the creative process must in turn be thought of as something not stopping short of, but terminating on, the work of art itself.\"\n\nThe end of the 20th century fostered an extensive debate known as the linguistic turn controversy, or the \"innocent eye debate\", and generally referred to as the structuralism-poststructuralism debate in the philosophy of art. This debate discussed the encounter of the work of art as being determined by the relative extent to which the conceptual encounter with the work of art dominates over the perceptual encounter with the work of art.\n\nDecisive for the linguistic turn debate in art history and the humanities were the works of yet another tradition, namely the structuralism of Ferdinand de Saussure and the ensuing movement of poststructuralism. In 1981, the artist Mark Tansey created a work of art titled \"The Innocent Eye\" as a criticism of the prevailing climate of disagreement in the philosophy of art during the closing decades of the 20th century. Influential theorists include Judith Butler, Luce Irigaray, Julia Kristeva, Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida. The power of language, more specifically of certain rhetorical tropes, in art history and historical discourse was explored by Hayden White. The fact that language is \"not\" a transparent medium of thought had been stressed by a very different form of philosophy of language which originated in the works of Johann Georg Hamann and Wilhelm von Humboldt. Ernst Gombrich and Nelson Goodman in his book \"Languages of Art: An Approach to a Theory of Symbols\" came to hold that the conceptual encounter with the work of art predominated exclusively over the perceptual and visual encounter with the work of art during the 1960s and 1970s. He was challenged on the basis of research done by the Nobel prize winning psychologist Roger Sperry who maintained that the human visual encounter was not limited to concepts represented in language alone (the linguistic turn) and that other forms of psychological representations of the work of art were equally defensible and demonstrable. Sperry's view eventually prevailed by the end of the 20th century with aesthetic philosophers such as Nick Zangwill strongly defending a return to moderate aesthetic formalism among other alternatives.\n\n Disputes as to whether or not to classify something as a work of art are referred to as classificatory disputes about art. Classificatory disputes in the 20th century have included cubist and impressionist paintings, Duchamp's \"Fountain\", the movies, superlative imitations of banknotes, conceptual art, and video games. Philosopher David Novitz has argued that disagreement about the definition of art are rarely the heart of the problem. Rather, \"the passionate concerns and interests that humans vest in their social life\" are \"so much a part of all classificatory disputes about art\" (Novitz, 1996). According to Novitz, classificatory disputes are more often disputes about societal values and where society is trying to go than they are about theory proper. For example, when the \"Daily Mail\" criticized Hirst's and Emin's work by arguing \"For 1,000 years art has been one of our great civilising forces. Today, pickled sheep and soiled beds threaten to make barbarians of us all\" they are not advancing a definition or theory about art, but questioning the value of Hirst's and Emin's work. In 1998, Arthur Danto, suggested a thought experiment showing that \"the status of an artifact as work of art results from the ideas a culture applies to it, rather than its inherent physical or perceptible qualities. Cultural interpretation (an art theory of some kind) is therefore constitutive of an object's arthood.\"\n\nAnti-art is a label for art that intentionally challenges the established parameters and values of art; it is term associated with Dadaism and attributed to Marcel Duchamp just before World War I, when he was making art from found objects. One of these, \"Fountain\" (1917), an ordinary urinal, has achieved considerable prominence and influence on art. Anti-art is a feature of work by Situationist International, the lo-fi Mail art movement, and the Young British Artists, though it is a form still rejected by the Stuckists, who describe themselves as anti-anti-art.\n\nArchitecture is often included as one of the visual arts; however, like the decorative arts, or advertising, it involves the creation of objects where the practical considerations of use are essential in a way that they usually are not in a painting, for example.\n\nSomewhat in relation to the above, the word \"art\" is also used to apply judgments of value, as in such expressions as \"that meal was a work of art\" (the cook is an artist), or \"the art of deception\", (the highly attained level of skill of the deceiver is praised). It is this use of the word as a measure of high quality and high value that gives the term its flavor of subjectivity. Making judgments of value requires a basis for criticism. At the simplest level, a way to determine whether the impact of the object on the senses meets the criteria to be considered \"art\" is whether it is perceived to be attractive or repulsive. Though perception is always colored by experience, and is necessarily subjective, it is commonly understood that what is not somehow aesthetically satisfying cannot be art. However, \"good\" art is not always or even regularly aesthetically appealing to a majority of viewers. In other words, an artist's prime motivation need not be the pursuit of the aesthetic. Also, art often depicts terrible images made for social, moral, or thought-provoking reasons. For example, Francisco Goya's painting depicting the Spanish shootings of 3rd of May 1808 is a graphic depiction of a firing squad executing several pleading civilians. Yet at the same time, the horrific imagery demonstrates Goya's keen artistic ability in composition and execution and produces fitting social and political outrage. Thus, the debate continues as to what mode of aesthetic satisfaction, if any, is required to define 'art'.\n\nThe assumption of new values or the rebellion against accepted notions of what is aesthetically superior need not occur concurrently with a complete abandonment of the pursuit of what is aesthetically appealing. Indeed, the reverse is often true, that the revision of what is popularly conceived of as being aesthetically appealing allows for a re-invigoration of aesthetic sensibility, and a new appreciation for the standards of art itself. Countless schools have proposed their own ways to define quality, yet they all seem to agree in at least one point: once their aesthetic choices are accepted, the value of the work of art is determined by its capacity to transcend the limits of its chosen medium to strike some universal chord by the rarity of the skill of the artist or in its accurate reflection in what is termed the \"zeitgeist\". Art is often intended to appeal to and connect with human emotion. It can arouse aesthetic or moral feelings, and can be understood as a way of communicating these feelings. Artists express something so that their audience is aroused to some extent, but they do not have to do so consciously. Art may be considered an exploration of the human condition; that is, what it is to be human.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6342354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6342354", "title": "Balikbayan box", "text": "Balikbayan box\n\nA balikbayan box (literally \"repatriate box\") is a corrugated box containing items sent by overseas Filipinos (known as \"balikbayans\"). Though often shipped by freight forwarders specializing in balikbayan boxes by sea, such boxes can be brought by Filipinos returning to the Philippines by air.\n\nThe balikbayan box arose around the 1980s in the United States brought about by the influx of overseas Filipino workers in the country. The first freight forwarder to offer balikbayan box services was Rico Nunga who started REN International in Los Angeles, California in 1981. The following year, Ramon Ungco, a Filipino residing in New York City, founded Port Jersey Shipping International. These two companies are considered the pioneers of door-to-door delivery of balikbayan boxes, which back then were charged import duties upon arrival in the Philippines. \n\nOn 30 June 1987, then Philippine President Corazon Aquino enacted Executive Order No. 206. This order amended Section 105 (f) and added a new subsection (f-1) to Republic Act No. 1937, also known as the Tariff and Customs Code of the Philippines, which was signed into law on 22 July 1957 by former president Carlos P. Garcia.\n\nThe amended Section 105 of the Tariff and Customs Code of the Philippines provides duty- and tax-free privileges to balikbayan boxes sent to the Philippines by overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) as recognition of the magnitude of their contribution and sacrifices in foreign lands as well as bringing of a considerable amounts of foreign exchange annually that contributed to the national recovery effort at that time. This allowed tax-free entry of personal goods in the country from Filipinos overseas. People then began sending balikbayan boxes through friends and co-workers who were returning to the Philippines.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks in the US and the passage of the Patriot Act by the US Congress, balikbayan boxes have been subjected to rigorous inspections by the United States Department of Homeland Security's Out-Bound Exam Team that caused massive delays of up to three weeks at the US Customs inspection facility. This extended shipping time from 21 days to 30 plus days. The inspections also resulted in opened balikbayan boxes and complaints of pilferage and mishandling. The Bureau of Customs also conducts 100% inspections that added to the burden of delayed shipments. The inspections are the result of some unscrupulous individuals who use balikbayan boxes to smuggle commercial items without paying taxes or smuggle contraband. Since balikbayan box shipping is a consolidated shipment, even one illegal item will affect all 400 or so packages inside the container. The inspection process has been modernized with the installation of high performance X-ray machines.\n\nIn 2012, these delays were further aggravated by the decision of the City of Manila to impose a truck ban along the route to and from the Port of Manila, causing backlogs in releasing and transporting not only balikbayan boxes but all cargoes, domestic and international. Most balikbayan box companies, which are based in Parañaque City near the airport, were heavily affected by the truck ban until it was resolved.\n\nThe industry was scrutinized by the Philippine Senate in 2015 after mounting complaints were brought to the attention of the public through social media after the Philippine Customs Commissioner Albert Lina announced the opening of balikbayan boxes for inspection and additional taxes to be imposed. The inquiry brought the passage of the Customs Modernization Act, which had been pending for years, and the inclusion of the Balikbayan Box Law in the act, increasing the tax-exemption ceiling from PHP 500 to PHP 150,000. This included items being brought home by Filipino tourists from trips abroad, pasalubong or gifts, and returning resident shipments.\n\nTo protect consumers, the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), through its Philippine Shipper's Bureau, conducts regular accreditation of international freight forwarders and discourages consumers from patronizing unaccredited and incredibly cheap shipping companies.\n\nAccording to the Door to Door Consolidated Association of the Philippines, there are 400,000 balikbayan boxes that arrive in the Philippines every month.\n\nBalikbayan boxes may contain items the sender thinks the recipient would like, regardless of whether those items can be bought cheaply in the Philippines, such as non-perishable food, toiletries, household items, electronics, toys, designer clothing, or items difficult to find in the Philippines. A balikbayan box intended for air travel is designed to conform to airline luggage restrictions and many Filipino stores sell them. Some boxes come with a cloth cover and side handles. Others are tightly secured with tape or rope, and thus not confused with an ordinary moving box that is lightly wrapped.\n\nThe balikbayan boxes come in three standard sizes: \n\nShipped boxes are delivered directly to the recipient, usually the family of the overseas Filipino.\n\nPart of the attraction of the balikbayan box is its economic value, as it allows cheaper bulk shipment of items versus sending each individually or in smaller boxes through postal services. The tradeoff though is longer transit time by container ship, which typically requires several weeks, along with the lack of a firm delivery date. The balikbayan box is a modern manifestation of the general Philippine practice of \"pasalubong\", where travellers within or outside the country are culturally expected to bring home gifts to family, friends and colleagues. the balikbayan box provides connections between family within the Philippines and those who are abroad, and provide goods for the family within the Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "50345437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50345437", "title": "Binayo", "text": "Binayo\n\nBinayo (Nepali बिनायो बाजा) is a kind of traditional Kiranti musical instrument made of piece of iron. It is played by plucking its metal wire reed with fore finger being gripped between the teeth. Binayo is popular in the Eastern Himalayan Region of Sikkim, Darjeeling Nepal, Bhutan. It is basically a wind instruments played by blowing the air without tuning the node with fingers. The Binayo is being played by from the air deposited in the lungs of the player and blown with balance, this instrument is 6 inch long and 1inch in width.\n"}
{"id": "40239450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40239450", "title": "Cairo Higher Institute of Cinema", "text": "Cairo Higher Institute of Cinema\n\nCairo Higher Institute of Cinema (Arabic:المعهد العالي للسينما) was founded in 1957 as the first of its kind in the Middle East and Africa, and is affiliated to the ministry of culture. The institute is a member of the International Organisation For cinema colleges and institutes.Over years the institute participated in many international festivals and gained many awards and honour certificates. Beside the bachelor's degree, the institute grants master and PhD degrees in the art and science of cinema.\n\n"}
{"id": "19181776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19181776", "title": "Confidence tricks in literature", "text": "Confidence tricks in literature\n\nThis is a list of notable literary works involving confidence tricks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15534690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15534690", "title": "Cultural relationship between the Welsh and the English", "text": "Cultural relationship between the Welsh and the English\n\nThe relationship between the Welsh and English is characterised largely by tolerance of people and cultures. Historically this has not always been the case, and elements of mutual mistrust or dislike and overt racism or xenophobia persist. Hatred or fear of the Welsh by the English has been termed \"Cymrophobia\", and similar attitudes towards the English by the Welsh, or others, are termed \"Anglophobia\". However, these expressions are not in general use, and expressions of anti-Welsh or anti-English sentiment tend to be more in jest than in earnest.\n\nThe relationship has developed historically from the origins of the two nations, and been shaped by the military, political, economic and cultural power exercised by the much more populous English over the Welsh for many centuries; the marked differences between the English and Welsh languages, both spoken and written; and the high degree of cultural importance attached by many in Wales to signifiers of national identity such as the language, literature, history, traditions, and the national sport of rugby union.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon invasions of Britain led to the formation of Wales as a separate nation between the 5th and 7th centuries. The Anglo-Norman kings of England had conquered Wales militarily by the 13th century, and under Henry VIII the country was incorporated into the Kingdom of England by the Laws in Wales Acts in the 16th century. Many elements of the Welsh economy and society since then have been shaped by demands from England, and Wales has been described as \"England's first colony\". However, Welsh identity remained strong, and recently there has been an increasing awareness and acknowledgement of Wales' cultural and historical separateness from England, which has latterly been reflected politically.\n\nThe Welsh language is in the Celtic language group, whereas English is in the West Germanic group; consequently the English language is further from the Welsh language in both vocabulary and grammar than from a number of European languages, such as Dutch, for example. Comparatively few English people can understand or speak Welsh. Conversely, virtually all Welsh speakers can speak English.\n\nThe native inhabitants of Roman Britain were regarded as Britons (\"Britanni\"), and spoke the Common Brittonic language, one of the Insular Celtic languages which evolved into Welsh, Cornish, Cumbric and Breton. By the time the Roman legions left in the early 5th century, the Britons (Brythons) had started to come under attack and mass migrations of Angles, Jutes, Saxons and other Germanic peoples from the European mainland, who set up their own kingdoms and settled in what became England.\n\nThe native Britons established independent kingdoms such as Gwynedd, Powys, Gwent, and (under Irish influence) Dyfed in the more mountainous and remote west. The Battle of Chester in 616, won by the Angles of Northumbria, contributed to the isolation of what became Wales. Around 730, the English historian Bede described the Britons as \"for the most part, through innate hatred... adverse to the English nation.\" By that time, the Saxons had full control of Wessex and Mercia. Mercia, in particular, came into conflict with Powys, and Offa's Dyke was built around 790 by the Mercian king Offa to create an effective barrier against incursions from the neighbouring Welsh kingdoms.\n\nBy the 11th century, if not earlier, Wales – with its own distinct legal system, though only intermittently unified as a political entity – had developed a national identity as \"Cymru\", or \"Land of the compatriots\" (\"Cymry\"), in contrast to the \"Saeson\" or Saxons. In England, the Anglo-Saxon language had long supplanted the old Brythonic languages, and the English words \"Wales\" and \"Welsh\", meaning \"foreigners\", came to be used to describe the unconquered land to the west.\n\nAfter William of Normandy's conquest of England in 1066, responsibility for keeping the Welsh under control was in the hands of Marcher Lords in the border areas. Gwynedd and Powys initially remained independent, but were gradually forced to recognise the technical overlordship of the kings of England. The writings of Giraldus Cambrensis, setting out both positive and negative aspects of what he saw as the Welsh character, date from around this time. Llywelyn ap Gruffudd, building on the policy of his grandfather Llywelyn the Great, had his title of Prince of Wales accepted by the English crown in 1267. Following Edward I's invasion in 1282, the Statute of Rhuddlan legally annexed Llywelyn's Principality of Wales – but not the whole country – to the kingdom of England, and Welsh longbowmen became one of the numerous groups of foreign mercenaries serving with the English army. English settlers were sent to live in the newly created borough towns which developed in the shadow of Edward I's castles, particularly in the south and east. Over the next few centuries, the English dominated these garrison towns, from which the native Welsh were officially excluded. The settlers called themselves \"the English burgesses of the English boroughs of Wales\" and proclaimed that the new towns had been raised \"for the habitation of Englishmen\", excluding \"mere Welshmen\" from their privileges on the grounds that they were \"foreigners\" in the implanted boroughs. As historian R. R. Davies notes:\n\"Nowhere was the spirit of conquest and of racial superiority so vigorously and selfishly kept alive as in the English boroughs. It was little wonder that they were the most consistent target of Welsh resentment throughout the fourteenth century\".\n\nThey imposed an English legal system, and the Welsh were not allowed to hold office in the government or church. Owain Glyndŵr's rebellion in the early 15th century was the last armed rebellion of the Welsh against the English. Anti-Welsh riots were reported in Oxford and London, and Parliament imposed more repressive measures on Wales.\n\nIn 1485, Henry Tudor, who was of Welsh descent, gained the English throne as King Henry VII, thanks largely to the support of the Welsh who hoped he was the Mab Darogan who would restore Britain to the Brythons. However, this led to the cementing of Wales into the English administrative and legal system under his son, Henry VIII. The Laws in Wales Acts of 1535–1542 annexed Wales to England, abolished the Welsh legal system, and banned the Welsh language from any official role and status. It also allowed members representing Wales to be elected to Parliament for the first time, although these were often not Welsh. The second of the Acts of Union (1542) established the Court of Great Sessions to deal with major misdemeanours in Wales: of the 217 judges who sat on its benches in its 288 years of existence, only 30 were Welshmen and it is unlikely that more than a handful of the latter – members of the higher gentry – actually spoke Welsh.\n\nGradually, the Welsh language – which remained the language of the overwhelming majority of the Welsh – regained some of the ground it had lost. There were translations of the full Bible into Welsh by 1600, and over the next two centuries there was a steady growth of education in the Welsh language, and the revival of traditions such as the eisteddfod. The attitude towards the Welsh language in England was generally hostile, however. A flood of anti-Welsh pamphlets were printed in the 17th century, such as \"Wallography\" by William Richards (1682), which wishes the speedy demise of the Welsh language:\n\nThe native gibberish is usually prattled throughout the whole of Taphydom except in their market towns, whose inhabitants being a little raised do begin to despise it. 'Tis usually cashiered out of gentlemen's houses ... so that (if the stars prove lucky) there may be some glimmering hopes that the British language may be quite extinct and may be Englished out of Wales.\n\nDistinct democratic and religious movements also began to develop in Wales. However, legislation in 1746 introduced the legislative notion that, in all future laws, references to \"England\" would by default include Wales.\n\nThe racist rhyme \"Taffy was a Welshman\" was first published around 1780, and seems to have been particularly popular in the English counties that bordered Wales. The name \"Taffy\" for any Welshman may derive either from the name Dafydd, or from the River Taff which flows through Cardiff.\n\nAround the same time, English and Scottish industrialists began establishing iron works and other heavy industry in the coalfield of south Wales. By attracting labour from the rural areas, this produced new urban concentrations of Welsh speakers, and helped build the culture of the South Wales Valleys communities. The Merthyr Rising of 1831 was a protest against exploitation by the mine owners which began a period of unrest, including the \"Rebecca Riots\" and the Chartist movement, and a process of radical thinking. In Parliament, Lord Melbourne declared that south Wales was \"the worst and most formidable district in the kingdom.\" The concerns of the English political establishment were shown in the 1847 Royal Commission on Welsh education, which reported that \"The Welsh language is a vast drawback to Wales and a manifold barrier to the moral progress and commercial prosperity of the people. It is not easy to over-estimate its evil effects.\" As a result, English-only schools were set up in much of Wales, and children speaking Welsh were punished with the \"Welsh Not\".\n\nAlthough 18th and 19th century English writers increasingly recognised the beauty and grandeur of the Welsh landscape, many contrasted this with a negative view of the Welsh people themselves. For example, \"The Times\" newspaper wrote in 1866: \"Wales... is a small country, unfavourably situated for commercial purposes, with an indifferent soil, and inhabited by an unenterprising people. It is true it possesses valuable minerals but these have chiefly been developed by English energy and for the supply of English wants.\" At the same time, rural areas close to England became more depopulated and anglicised, as many people moved to the growing English cities in the north west and Midlands. Welsh culture was important in these areas; for example, the National Eisteddfod of Wales was held in either Liverpool or Birkenhead six times between 1884 and 1929.\n\nChanges to the electoral system meant that, by the end of the 19th century, a Welsh presence began to be felt in British politics. In 1881, the Sunday Closing Act was the first piece of parliamentary legislation that granted Wales the status of a distinct national unit. Around the turn of the 20th century there was considerable anti-Welsh feeling in the English establishment. Prime Minister of the United Kingdom H. H. Asquith said in 1905 \"I would sooner go to hell than to Wales.\" One of Evelyn Waugh's characters in the novel \"Decline and Fall\" (1928) was made to say: \"From the earliest times the Welsh have been looked upon as an unclean people. It is thus that they have preserved their racial integrity. Their sons and daughters rarely mate with human-kind except their own blood relations... I often think that we can trace almost all the disasters of English history to the influence of Wales\"\n\nIn the early 20th century, Welsh politicians such as David Lloyd George (prime minister from 1916 to 1922), and later Aneurin Bevan (architect of the NHS) rose to UK-wide prominence.\n\nThe apparent powerlessness of Welsh politicians in influencing their own affairs, in the face of the English numerical superiority in Parliament, was highlighted in the mid-20th century. Liverpool City Council had decided to expand the industry of Liverpool and The Wirral. Believing that they would need access to an increased water supply, they chose the Tryweryn Valley, near Bala, even though the development would require flooding the village of Capel Celyn. In 1956, a private bill sponsored by Liverpool City Council was brought before Parliament to create Llyn Celyn reservoir, thus circumventing planning consent from the relevant Welsh local authorities, by obtaining authority via a parliamentary Act.\n\nDespite 35 of the 36 Welsh Members of Parliament (MPs) voting against the bill, with the other abstaining, Parliament – with 630 MPs, the majority of members represented constituencies in England – still passed the bill. Years of democratic, non-violent Welsh protest were in vain, Capel Celyn was drowned, and a new wave of Welsh nationalism, including the \"Mudiad Amddiffyn Cymru\" () and the Free Wales Army, were born.\n\nThe Welsh Language Acts of 1967 and 1993 gave the language equal status in Wales, and in 1997 the Welsh electorate voted to establish a Welsh Assembly.\n\nRecent examples of anti-Welsh sentiment in the media include the journalist A. A. Gill (born in Scotland to English parents) who in the \"Sunday Times\" in 1997 described the Welsh as \"loquacious, dissemblers, immoral liars, stunted, bigoted, dark, ugly, pugnacious little trolls.\" The English writer A. N. Wilson said: \"The Welsh have never made any significant contribution to any branch of knowledge, culture or entertainment. They have no architecture, no gastronomic tradition, no literature worthy of the name.\" (Evening Standard, 1993)\n\nIn 2000, a cross-party group of Members of the National Assembly of Wales, representing all four political parties in the Assembly, called for an end to what they termed \"persistent anti-Welsh racism\" in the UK media.\n\nTelevision personality Anne Robinson (born in England of Irish origin) appeared on the comedy show \"Room 101\" in 2001 and made derisive comments about Welsh people, such as \"what are they for?\" and \"I never did like them\". The show is designed to draw extreme views from interview subjects in order to generate controversy and humour. The people she was thinking about were supposedly those who spoke Welsh around the market stall operated by her mother in Liverpool during her childhood. Her comments upset some who accused her of racism. North Wales Police spent 96 hours investigating the issue, and concluded that no crime had been committed. She was cleared of racism by the Broadcasting Standards Commission, who nevertheless stated that her comments \"came close to bordering on racism\" \n\nWriter Neal Ascherson commented that: \"Southern views of the Scots over the last hundred years have been faintly sceptical – \"chippy, lacking in humour, slow to unbend\" – but on the whole affectionate. (Contrast English attitudes to Welshness, which, for reasons I am not sure of, are often genuinely hostile).\"\n\nBBC presenter Jeremy Clarkson is well known for his comments about other countries, which sometimes take an anti-Welsh direction, e.g. \"It's entirely unfair that some people are born fat or ugly or dyslexic or disabled or ginger or small or Welsh. Life, I'm afraid, is tragic.\" Another example, in the context of Wales's 2008 Grand Slam victory: \"You can never rely on the French. All they had to do was go to Cardiff last weekend with a bit of fire in their bellies and they'd have denied Wales the Six Nations Grand Slam. But no. They turned up instead with cheese in their bellies and mooched about for 80 minutes, seemingly not at all bothered that we've got to spend the next 12 months listening to the sheepsters droning on about their natural superiority and brilliance. Or worse. Give them a Grand Slam and the next thing you know, all our holiday cottages are on fire. There are, of course, other reasons I hoped the French would win. I’d rather live in France than Wales; I’d rather eat a snail than a daffodil; I’d certainly rather drink French fizzy wine; and I’d much rather sleep with Carole Bouquet than Charlotte Church.\"\nOn his BBC2 show he placed a plastic map of Wales in a microwave and burned it to audience applause. On 4 September 2011, writing in his weekend column for \"The Sun\" newspaper, he said \"I think we are fast approaching the time when the United Nations should start to think seriously about abolishing other languages. What’s the point of Welsh for example? All it does is provide a silly maypole around which a bunch of hotheads can get all nationalistic.\"\n\nIn October 2010, Rod Liddle, an associate editor of \"The Spectator\" magazine, described Welsh nationalists as \"miserable, seaweed munching, sheep-bothering pinch-faced hill-tribes\" in a short post calling for the closure of S4C as a result of the 2010 Comprehensive Spending Review.\n\nOn 12 August 2011, Roger Lewis, a columnist for the \"Daily Mail\" born in Wales said of the Welsh language \"I abhor the appalling and moribund monkey language myself, which hasn't had a new noun since the Middle Ages...\" whilst reviewing a book by Jasper Rees, \"Bred of Heaven\".\n\nConcerns over the decline of the Welsh language and its historical proscription have contributed to anti-English sentiment in Wales. Other factors include sporting rivalry, particularly over rugby; religious differences concerning nonconformism and English episcopacy; industrial disputes which usually involved English capital and Welsh labour; resentment over England's historical conquest and subjection of Wales; and perception that England was unfairly benefiting from Wales' natural resources such as coal and water. In 1977, Welsh rugby player Phil Bennett is reputed to have inspired his teammates for the Wales v England game with a pre-match speech: \"Look what these bastards have done to Wales. They've taken our coal, our water, our steel. They buy our homes and only live in them for a fortnight every year. What have they given us? Absolutely nothing. We've been exploited, raped, controlled and punished by the English – and that's who you are playing this afternoon.\"\n\nLlew Smith then Labour MP for Blaenau Gwent, gave a Commons speech critical of Welsh nationalism claiming (for example) that Nationalists resisted evacuation of children from English cities during WWII. HM Prison Parc reported problems with anti-English racism, as well as racism towards other ethnic groups. In 2000, The Chairman of Swansea Bay Race Equality Council said that 'Devolution has brought a definite increase in anti-English behaviour'.\n\nEnglish immigration to Wales has frequently been a point of contention. From 1979 to 1994, the Welsh militant group Meibion Glyndŵr () firebombed 300 English-owned homes in Wales. In 1989, the group attempted arson against several estate agents in Wales and England, and against the offices of the Conservative Party in London. A Welsh businessman, and former chair of the Welsh Language Board, John Elfed Jones, characterised English migration as the human version of foot-and-mouth disease. Author Simon Brooks recommended that English-owned homes in Wales be 'peacefully occupied'. The vice-president of Plaid Cymru, Gwilym ab Ioan, was forced to resign when he said that Wales had become a \"dumping ground for oddballs, social misfits and society drop-outs\" from England. Both comments were reported to the Commission for Racial Equality although the cases were dropped after an apology by John Elfed Jones, but not Gwilym ab Ioan - who never offered any apology and maintains to the present that his comments were factually true and irrefutable. A Plaid Cymru county councillor, Seimon Glyn was criticised as anti-English when he said that English migration to Wales ought to be controlled, and that English incomers ought to be required to learn and speak Welsh. BNP leader Nick Griffin was accused of playing on concerns over the decline of Welsh when his party aired a Welsh-language broadcast which tied racism towards ethnic minority immigrants to Wales with racism towards English-speaking incomers to Wales. In response to this Dafydd Elis-Thomas, a former leader of Plaid Cymru, said that there was an anti-English strand to Welsh nationalism. His remarks were condemned by the Welsh Language Society and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56483438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56483438", "title": "Cyrillization of Japanese", "text": "Cyrillization of Japanese\n\nThe cyrillization of Japanese is the process of transliterating or transcribing the Japanese language into Cyrillic script, either to represent Japanese proper names or terms in Cyrillic script (and various languages based on Cyrillic), or as an aid to Japanese language learning in those languages. This can be done in an ad hoc fashion (e.g. when \"sushi\" is transliterated as \"суши\" in Russian Cyrillic or as \"суші\" in Ukrainian Cyrillic) or using one of a number of systems. \n\nThere are a number of cyrillization systems used by different Cyrillic alphabet-based languages, such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "35149051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35149051", "title": "DAS Collection", "text": "DAS Collection\n\nDAS Collection is a Dubai-based fashion label founded by Emirati fashion designers Reem and Hind Beljafla.\n\nIn 2008 the first DAS Collection store was opened in Dubai offering modern abayas corresponding to western fashion trends. DAS became the first abaya brand to be stocked at Harrods in London, where a large interest in the Middle Eastern fashion was reported by Bloomberg and the brand is also stocked online at harrods.com.\n\nDAS made its debut at London Fashion Week presenting its first Ready to Wear collection in September 2011, as seen on the website of British Vogue.\nCelebrity fans and wearers of DAS include Olivia Palermo and Amber Le Bon.\n\n"}
{"id": "45718525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45718525", "title": "Dent (conference)", "text": "Dent (conference)\n\nDent (known previously as Dent the Future) is an annual conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, founded by Jason Preston and Steve Broback. Participants gather in March to \"explore the magic and science of visionary leadership and groundbreaking success.\" Dent 2016 will be held on March 20–23, 2016.\n\nPresenters at Dent have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19918654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19918654", "title": "Education economics", "text": "Education economics\n\nEducation economics or the economics of education is the study of economic issues relating to education, including the demand for education, the financing and provision of education, and the comparative efficiency of various educational programs and policies. From early works on the relationship between schooling and labor market outcomes for individuals, the field of the economics of education has grown rapidly to cover virtually all areas with linkages to education.\n\nEconomics distinguishes in addition to physical capital another form of capital that is no less critical as a means of production – human capital. With investments in human capital, such as education, three major economic effects can be expected:\n\nInvestments in human capital entail an investment cost, just as any investment does. Typically in European countries most education expenditure takes the form of government consumption, although some costs are also borne by individuals. These investments can be rather costly. EU governments spent between 3% and 8% of GDP on education in 2005, the average being 5%. However, measuring the spending this way alone greatly underestimates the costs because a more subtle form of costs is completely overlooked: the opportunity cost of forgone wages as students cannot work while they study. It has been estimated that the total costs, including opportunity costs, of education are as much as double the direct costs.\nIncluding opportunity costs investments in education can be estimated to have been around 10% of GDP in the EU countries in 2005. In comparison investments in physical capital were 20% of GDP. Thus the two are of similar magnitude.\nHuman capital in the form of education shares many characteristics with physical capital. Both require an investment to create and, once created, both have economic value. Physical capital earns a return because people are willing to pay to use a piece of physical capital in work as it allows them to produce more output. To measure the productive value of physical capital, we can simply measure how much of a return it commands in the market. In the case of human capital calculating returns is more complicated – after all, we cannot separate education from the person to see how much it rents for.\nTo get around this problem, the returns to human capital are generally inferred from differences in wages among people with different levels of education. Hall and Jones have calculated from international data that on average that the returns on education are 13.4% per year for first four years of schooling (grades 1–4), 10.1% per year for the next four years (grades 5–8) and 6.8% for each year beyond eight years. Thus someone with 12 years of schooling can be expected to earn, on average, 1.134 × 1.101 × 1.068 = 3.161 times as much as someone with no schooling at all.\nEconomy-wide, the effect of human capital on incomes has been estimated to be rather significant: 65% of wages paid in developed countries is payments to human capital and only 35% to raw labor. The higher productivity of well-educated workers is one of the factors that explain higher GDPs and, therefore, higher incomes in developed countries. A strong correlation between GDP and education is clearly visible among the countries of the world, as is shown by the upper left figure. It is less clear, however, how much of a high GDP is explained by education. After all, it is also possible that rich countries can simply afford more education.\n\nTo distinguish the part of GDP explained with education from other causes, Weil has calculated how much one would expect each country’s GDP to be higher based on the data on average schooling. This was based on the above-mentioned calculations of Hall and Jones on the returns on education. GDPs predicted by Weil’s calculations can be plotted against actual GDPs, as is done in the figure on the left, demonstrating that the variation in education explains some, but not all, of the variation in GDP.\n\nFinally, the matter of externalities should be considered. Usually when speaking of externalities one thinks of the negative effects of economic activities that are not included in market prices, such as pollution. These are negative externalities. However, there are also positive externalities – that is, positive effects of which someone can benefit without having to pay for it.\nEducation bears with it major positive externalities: giving one person more education raises not only his or her output but also the output of those around him or her. Educated workers can bring new technologies, methods and information to the consideration of others. They can teach things to others and act as an example. The positive externalities of education include the effects of personal networks and the roles educated workers play in them.\n\nPositive externalities from human capital are one explanation for why governments are involved in education. If people were left on their own, they would not take into account the full social benefit of education – in other words the rise in the output and wages of others – so the amount they would choose to obtain would be lower than the social optimum.\n\nA 2013 study assesses demand- and supply-side factors that affect educational access and attainment in development countries, and it shows that addressing demand-side factors, such as geographic gaps between rural and urban areas, higher levels of population growth (which place constant pressure on new enrolments) and child labour, can often have greater impact on increasing levels of education in developing countries than supply-side factors, such as constructing additional\nschool facilities, hiring more teachers etc.\n\nThe dominant model of the demand for education is based on human capital theory. The central idea is that undertaking education is investment in the acquisition of skills and knowledge which will increase earnings, or provide long-term benefits such as an appreciation of literature (sometimes referred to as cultural capital). An increase in human capital can follow technological progress as knowledgeable employees are in demand due to the need for their skills, whether it be in understanding the production process or in operating machines. Studies from 1958 attempted to calculate the returns from additional schooling (the percent increase in income acquired through an additional year of schooling). Later results attempted to allow for different returns across persons or by level of education.\n\nStatistics have shown that countries with high enrollment/graduation rates have grown faster than countries without. The United States has been the world leader in educational advances, beginning with the high school movement (1910–1950). There also seems to be a correlation between gender differences in education with the level of growth; more development is observed in countries which have an equal distribution of the percentage of women versus men who graduated from high school. When looking at correlations in the data, education seems to generate economic growth; however, it could be that we have this causality relationship backwards. For example, if education is seen as a luxury good, it may be that richer households are seeking out educational attainment as a symbol of status, rather than the relationship of education leading to wealth.\n\nEducational advance is not the only variable for economic growth, though, as it only explains about 14% of the average annual increase in labor productivity over the period 1915-2005. From lack of a more significant correlation between formal educational achievement and productivity growth, some economists see reason to believe that in today’s world many skills and capabilities come by way of learning outside of traditional education, or outside of schooling altogether.\n\nAn alternative model of the demand for education, commonly referred to as screening, is based on the economic theory of signalling. The central idea is that the successful completion of education is a signal of ability.\n\nAlthough Marx and Engels did not write widely about the social functions of education, their concepts and methods are theorized and criticized by the influence of Marx as education being used in reproduction of capitalist societies. Marx and Engels approached scholarship as \"revolutionary scholarship\" where education should serve as a propaganda for the struggle of the working class. The classical Marxian paradigm sees education as serving the interest of capital and is seeking alternative modes of education that would prepare students and citizens for more progressive socialist mode of social organizations. Marx and Engels understood education and free time as essential to developing free individuals and creating many-sided human beings, thus for them education should become a more essential part of the life of people unlike capitalist society which is organized mainly around work and the production of commodities.\n\nIn most countries school education is predominantly financed and provided by governments. Public funding and provision also plays a major role in higher education. Although there is wide agreement on the principle that education, at least at school level, should be financed mainly by governments, there is considerable debate over the desirable extent of public provision of education. Supporters of public education argue that universal public provision promotes equality of opportunity and social cohesion. Opponents of public provision advocate alternatives such as vouchers.\n\nCompared to other areas of basic education, globally comparable data on pre-primary education financing remain scarce. While much of existing non-formal and private programmes may not be fully accounted for, it can be deduced from the level of provision that pre-primary financing remains inadequate, especially when considered against expected benefits. Globally, pre-primary education accounts for the lowest proportion of the total public expenditure on education, in spite of the much-documented positive impact of quality early childhood care and education on later learning and other social outcomes.\n\nAn \"education production function\" is an application of the economic concept of a production function to the field of education. It relates various inputs affecting a student’s learning (schools, families, peers, neighborhoods, etc.) to measured outputs including subsequent labor market success, college attendance, graduation rates, and, most frequently, standardized test scores. The original study that eventually prompted interest in the idea of education production functions was by a sociologist, James S. Coleman. The Coleman Report, published in 1966, concluded that the marginal effect of various school inputs on student achievement was small compared to the impact of families and friends. Later work, by Eric A. Hanushek, Richard Murnane, and other economists introduced the structure of \"production\" to the consideration of student learning outcomes. Hanushek at al. (2008, 2015) reported a very high correlation between \"adjusted growth rate\" and \"adjusted test scores\". \n\nA large number of successive studies, increasingly involving economists, produced inconsistent results about the impact of school resources on student performance, leading to considerable controversy in policy discussions. The interpretation of the various studies has been very controversial, in part because the findings have directly influenced policy debates. Two separate lines of study have been particularly widely debated. The overall question of whether added funds to schools are likely to produce higher achievement (the “money doesn’t matter” debate) has entered into legislative debates and court consideration of school finance systems. Additionally, policy discussions about class size reduction heightened academic study of the relationship of class size and achievement.\n\n\n\nSelected entries on education from \"The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics\", 2008), 2nd Edition:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1957258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957258", "title": "Electronic media", "text": "Electronic media\n\nElectronic media are media that use electronics or electromechanical audience to access the content. This is in contrast to static media (mainly print media), which today are most often created electronically, but do not require electronics to be accessed by the end user in the printed form. The primary electronic media sources familiar to the general public are video recordings, audio recordings, multimedia presentations, slide presentations, CD-ROM and online content. Most new media are in the form of digital media. However, electronic media may be in either analogue electronics data or digital electronic data format.\n\nAlthough the term is usually associated with content recorded on a storage medium, recordings are not required for live broadcasting and online networking.\n\nAny equipment used in the electronic communication process (e.g. television, radio, telephone, desktop computer, game console, handheld device) may also be considered electronic media.\n\nElectronic media are ubiquitous in most of the developed world. Electronic media devices have found their way into all parts of modern life. The term is relevant to media ecology for studying its impact compared to printed media and broadening the scope of understanding media beyond a simplistic aspect of media such as one delivery platform (e.g. the World Wide Web) aside from many other options. The term is also relevant to professional career development regarding related skill set.\n"}
{"id": "455561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455561", "title": "Emblem of Algeria", "text": "Emblem of Algeria\n\nThe national emblem of Algeria () is the seal used by the government, as other states use coats of arms. \n\nThe current form of the emblem with Arabic writing was adopted on 1 November 1976, but was only differentiated from previous one by the changing of the motto from French to Arabic. Contained on the emblem is the crescent that is also found on the flag of Algeria, and is a symbol of Islam. The text that encircles the emblem says in Arabic: (\"The People's Democratic Republic of Algeria\", the country's official name).\n\nThe hand of Fatima, a traditional symbol of the region, appears in front of the Atlas Mountains, below a rising sun representing a new era. Buildings stand for industry and plants for agriculture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8128722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8128722", "title": "Eye movement in music reading", "text": "Eye movement in music reading\n\nEye movement in music reading is the scanning of a musical score by a musician's eyes. This usually occurs as the music is read during performance, although musicians sometimes scan music silently to study it. The phenomenon has been studied by researchers from a range of backgrounds, including cognitive psychology and music education. These studies have typically reflected a curiosity among performing musicians about a central process in their craft, and a hope that investigating eye movement might help in the development of more effective methods of training musicians' sight reading skills.\n\nA central aspect of music reading is the sequence of alternating saccades and fixations, as it is for most oculomotor tasks. Saccades are the rapid ‘flicks’ that move the eyes from location to location over a music score. Saccades are separated from each other by fixations, during which the eyes are relatively stationary on the page. It is well established that the perception of visual information occurs almost entirely during fixations and that little if any information is picked up during saccades. Fixations comprise about 90% of music reading time, typically averaging 250–400 ms in duration.\n\nEye movement in music reading is an extremely complex phenomenon that involves a number of unresolved issues in psychology, and which requires intricate experimental conditions to produce meaningful data. Despite some 30 studies in this area over the past 70 years, little is known about the underlying patterns of eye movement in music reading.\n\nEye movement in music reading may at first appear to be similar to that in language reading, since in both activities the eyes move over the page in fixations and saccades, picking up and processing coded meanings. However, it is here that the obvious similarities end. Not only is the coding system of music nonlinguistic; it involves what is apparently a unique combination of features among human activities: a strict and continuous time constraint on an output that is generated by a continuous stream of coded instructions. Even the reading of language aloud, which, like musical performance involves turning coded information into a musculoskeletal response, is relatively free of temporal constraint—the pulse in reading aloud is a fluid, improvised affair compared with its rigid presence in most Western music. It is this uniquely strict temporal requirement in musical performance that has made the observation of eye movement in music reading fraught with more difficulty than that in language reading.\n\nAnother critical difference between reading music and reading language is the role of skill. Most people become reasonably efficient at language reading by adulthood, even though almost all language reading is sight reading. By contrast, some musicians regard themselves as poor sight readers of music even after years of study. Thus, the improvement of music sight reading and the differences between skilled and unskilled readers have always been of prime importance to research into eye movement in music reading, whereas research into eye movement in language reading has been more concerned with the development of a unified psychological model of the reading process. It is therefore unsurprising that most research into eye movement in music reading has aimed to compare the eye movement patterns of the skilled and the unskilled.\n\nFrom the start, there were basic problems with eye-tracking equipment. The five earliest studies used photographic techniques. These methods involved either training a continuous beam of visible light onto the eye to produce an unbroken line on photographic paper, or a flashing light to produce a series of white spots on photographic paper at sampling intervals around 25 ms (i.e., 40 samples a second). Because the film rolled through the device vertically, the vertical movement of the eyes in their journey across the page was either unrecorded or was recorded using a second camera and subsequently combined to provide data on both dimensions, a cumbersome and inaccurate solution.\n\nThese systems were sensitive to even small movement of the head or body, which appear to have significantly contaminated the data. Some studies used devices such as a headrest and bite-plate to minimise this contamination, with limited success, and in one case a camera affixed to a motorcycle helmet—weighing nearly 3 kg—which was supported by a system of counterbalancing weights and pulleys attached to the ceiling. In addition to extraneous head movement, researchers faced other physical, bodily problems. The musculoskeletal response required to play a musical instrument involves substantial body movement, usually of the hands, arms and torso. This can upset the delicate balance of tracking equipment and confound the registration of data. Another issue that affects almost all unskilled keyboardists and a considerable proportion of skilled keyboardists is the common tendency to frequently glance down at the hands and back to the score during performance. The disadvantage of this behaviour is that it causes signal dropout in the data every time it occurs, which is sometimes up to several times per bar. When participants are prevented from looking down at their hands, typically the quality of their performance is degraded. Rayner & Pollatsek (1997:49) wrote that:\n\nSince Lang (1961), all reported studies into eye movement in music reading, aside from Smith (1988), appear to have used infrared tracking technology. However, research into the field has mostly been conducted using less than optimal equipment. This has had a pervasive negative impact on almost all research up until a few recent studies. In summary, the four main equipment problems have been that tracking devices:\n\nNot until recently has eye movement in music reading been investigated with more satisfactory equipment. Kinsler and Carpenter (1995) were able to identify eye position to within 0.25º, that is, the size of the individual musical notes, at intervals of 1 ms. Truitt et al. (1997) used a similarly accurate infrared system capable of displaying a movement window and integrated into a computer-monitored musical keyboard. Waters & Underwood (1998) used a machine with an accuracy of plus or minus one character space and a sampling interval of only 4 ms.\n\nMost research into eye movement in music reading has primarily aimed to compare the eye movement patterns of skilled and unskilled performers. The implicit presumption appears to have been that this might lay the foundation for developing better ways of training musicians. However, there are significant methodological problems in attempting this comparison. Skilled and unskilled performers typically sight read the same passage at different tempos and/or levels of accuracy. At a sufficiently slow tempo, players over a large range of skill-levels are capable of accurate performance, but the skilled will have excess capacity in their perception and processing of the information on the page. There is evidence that excess capacity contaminates eye-movement data with a ‘wandering’ effect, in which the eyes tend to stray from the course of the music. Weaver (1943:15) implied the existence of the wandering effect and its confounding influence, as did Truitt et al. (1997:51), who suspected that at slow tempo their participants' eyes were \"hanging around rather than extracting information\". The wandering effect is undesirable, because it is an unquantifiable and possibly random distortion of normal eye movement patterns.\n\nSouter (2001:81) claimed that the ideal tempo for observing eye movement is a range lying between one that is so fast as to produce a significant level of action slips, and one that is so slow as to produce a significant wandering effect. The skilled and the unskilled have quite different ranges for sight reading the same music. On the other hand, a faster tempo may minimise excess capacity in the skilled, but will tend to induce inaccurate performance in the unskilled; inaccuracies rob us of the only evidence that a performer has processed the information on the page, and the danger cannot be discounted that feedback from action-slips contaminates eye movement data.\n\nAlmost all studies have compared temporal variables among participants, chiefly the durations of their fixations and saccades. In these cases, it is self-evident that useful comparisons require consistency in performance tempo and accuracy within and between performances. However, most studies have accommodated their participants’ varied performance ability in the reading of the same stimulus, by allowing them to choose their own tempo or by not strictly controlling that tempo. Theoretically, there is a relatively narrow range, referred to here as the ‘optimal range’, in which capacity matches the task at hand; on either side of this range lie the two problematic tempo ranges within which a performer’s capacity is excessive or insufficient, respectively. The location of the boundaries of the optimal range depends on the skill-level of an individual performer and the relative difficulty of reading/performing the stimulus.\n\nThus, unless participants are drawn from a narrow range of skill-levels, their optimal ranges will be mutually exclusive, and observations at a single, controlled tempo will be likely to result in significant contamination of eye movement data. Most studies \"have\" sought to compare the skilled and the unskilled in the hope of generating pedagogically useful data; aside from Smith (1988), in which tempo itself was an independent variable, Polanka (1995), who analysed only data from silent preparatory readings, and Souter (2001), who observed only the highly skilled, none has set out to control tempo strictly. Investigators have apparently attempted to overcome the consequences of the fallacy by making compromises, such as (1) exercising little or no control over the tempos at which participants performed in trials, and/or (2) tolerating significant disparity in the level of action slips between skilled and unskilled groups.\n\nThis issue is part of the broader tempo/skill/action-slip fallacy, which concerns the relationship between tempo, skill and the level of action slips (performance errors). The fallacy is that it is possible to reliably compare the eye movement patterns of skilled and unskilled performers under the same conditions.\n\nMany researchers have been interested in learning whether fixation durations are influenced by the complexity of the music. At least three types of complexity need to be accounted for in music reading: the visual complexity of the musical notation; the complexity of processing visual input into musculoskeletal commands; and the complexity of executing those commands. For example, visual complexity might be in the form of the density of the notational symbols on the page, or of the presence of accidentals, triplet signs, slurs and other expression markings. The complexity of processing visual input into musculoskeletal commands might involve a lack of 'chunkability' or predictability in the music. The complexity of executing musculoskeletal commands might be seen in terms of the demands of fingering and hand position. It is in isolating and accounting for the interplay between these types that the difficulty lies in making sense of musical complexity. For this reason, little useful information has emerged from investigating the relationship between musical complexity and eye movement.\n\nJacobsen (1941:213) concluded that \"the complexity of the reading material influenced the number and the duration of [fixations]\"; where the texture, rhythm, key and accidentals were \"more difficult\", there was, on average, a slowing of tempo and an increase in both the duration and the number of fixations in his participants. However, performance tempos were uncontrolled in this study, so the data on which this conclusion was based are likely to have been contaminated by the slower tempos that were reported for the reading of the more difficult stimuli. Weaver (1943) claimed that fixation durations—which ranged from 270–530 ms—lengthened when the notation was more compact and/or complex, as Jacobsen had found, but did not disclose whether slower tempos were used. Halverson (1974), who controlled tempo more closely, observed a mild opposite effect. Schmidt's (1981) participants used longer fixation durations in reading easier melodies (consistent with Halverson); Goolsby's (1987) data mildly supported Halverson's finding, but only for skilled readers. He wrote \"both Jacobsen and Weaver ... in letting participants select their own tempo found the opposite effect of notational complexity\".\n\nOn balance, it appears likely that under controlled temporal conditions, denser and more complex music is associated with a higher number of fixations, of shorter mean duration. This might be explained as an attempt by the music-reading process to provide more frequent 'refreshment' of the material being held in working memory, and may compensate for the need to hold more information in working memory.\n\nThere is no disagreement among the major studies, from Jacobsen (1941) to Smith (1988), that skilled readers appear to use more and shorter fixations across all conditions than do the unskilled. Goolsby (1987) found that mean 'progressive' (forward-moving) fixation duration was significantly longer (474 versus 377 ms) and mean saccade length significantly greater for the less skilled. Although Goolsby did not report the total reading durations of his trials, they can be derived from the mean tempos of his 12 skilled and 12 unskilled participants for each of the four stimuli. His data appear to show that the unskilled played at 93.6% of the tempo of the skilled, and that their mean fixation durations were 25.6% longer.\n\nThis raises the question as to why skilled readers should distribute more numerous and shorter fixations over a score than the unskilled. Only one plausible explanation appears in the literature. Kinsler & Carpenter (1995) proposed a model for the processing of music notation, based on their data from the reading of rhythm patterns, in which an iconic representation of each fixated image is scanned by a 'processor' and interpreted to a given level of accuracy. The scan ends when this level cannot be reached, its end-point determining the position of the upcoming fixation. The time taken before this decision depends on the complexity of a note, and is presumably shorter for skilled readers, thus promoting more numerous fixations of shorter duration. This model has not been further investigated, and does not explain what \"advantage\" there is to using short, numerous fixations. Another possible explanation is that skilled readers maintain a larger eye–hand span and therefore hold a larger amount of information in their working memory; thus, they need to refresh that information more frequently from the music score, and may do so by refixating more frequently.\n\nThe more familiar readers become with a musical excerpt, the less their reliance on visual input from the score and the correspondingly greater reliance on their stored memory of the music. On logical grounds, it would be expected that this shift would result in fewer and longer fixations. The data from all three studies into eye movement in the reading of increasingly familiar music support this reasoning. York's (1952) participants read each stimulus twice, with each reading preceded by a 28-second silent preview. On average, both skilled and unskilled readers used fewer and longer fixations during the second reading. Goolsby's (1987) participants were observed during three immediately successive readings of the same musical stimulus. Familiarity in these trials appeared to increase fixation duration, but not nearly as much as might have been expected. The second reading produced no significant difference in mean fixation duration (from 422 to 418 ms). On the third encounter, mean fixation duration was higher for both groups (437 ms) but by a barely significant amount, thus mildly supporting York's earlier finding. The smallness of these changes might be explained by the unchallenging reading conditions in the trials. The tempo of MM120 suggested at the start of each of Goolsby's trials appears to be slow for tackling the given melodies, which contained many semibreves and minims, and there may have simply been insufficient pressure to produce significant results. A more likely explanation is that the participants played the stimuli at faster tempos as they grew more familiar with them through the three readings. (The metronome was initially sounded, but was silent during the performances, allowing readers to vary their pace at will.) Thus, it is possible that two influences were at odds with each other: growing familiarity may have promoted low numbers of fixations, and long fixation durations, while faster tempo may have promoted low numbers and short durations. This might explain why mean fixation duration fell in the opposite direction to the prediction for the second encounter, and by the third encounter had risen by only 3.55% across both groups. (Smith's (1988) results, reinforced by those of Kinsler & Carpenter (1995), suggest that faster tempos are likely to reduce both the number and duration of fixations in the reading of a single-line melody. If this hypothesis is correct, it may be connected with the possibility that the more familiar a stimulus, the less the workload on the reader's memory.)\n\nThere was considerable debate from the 1950s to 1970s as to whether eye movement in language reading is solely or mainly influenced by (1) the pre-existing (top–down) behavioural patterns of an individual's reading technique, (2) the nature of the stimulus (bottom–up), or (3) both factors. Rayner et al. (1971) provides a review of the relevant studies.\n\nDecades before this debate, Weaver (1943) had set out to determine the (bottom–up) effects of musical texture on eye movement. He hypothesised that vertical compositional patterns in a two-stave keyboard score would promote vertical saccades, and horizontal compositional patterns horizontal saccades. Weaver's participants read a two-part polyphonic stimulus in which the musical patterns were strongly horizontal, and a four-part homophonic stimulus comprising plain, hymn-like chords, in which the compositional patterns were strongly vertical. Weaver was apparently unaware of the difficulty of proving this hypothesis in the light of the continual need to scan up and down between the staves and move forward along the score. Thus, it is unsurprising that the hypothesis was not confirmed.\n\nFour decades later, when evidence was being revealed of the bottom–up influence on eye movement in language reading, Sloboda (1985) was interested in the possibility that there might be an equivalent influence on eye movement in music reading, and appeared to assume that Weaver's hypothesis had been confirmed. \"Weaver found that [the vertical] pattern was indeed used when the music was homophonic and chordal in nature. When the music was contrapuntal, however, he found fixation sequences which were grouped in horizontal sweeps along a single line, with a return to another line afterwards.\" To support this assertion, Sloboda quoted two one-bar fragments taken from Weaver's illustrations that do not appear to be representative of the overall examples.\n\nAlthough Sloboda's claim may be questionable, and despite Weaver's failure to find dimensional links between eye movement and stimulus, eye movement in music reading shows clear evidence in most studies—in particular, Truit et al. (1997) and Goolsby (1987)—of the influence of bottom–up graphical features \"and\" top–down global factors related to the meaning of the symbols.\n\nThe role of peripheral visual input in language reading remains the subject of much research. Peripheral input in music reading was a particular focus of Truitt et al. (1997). They used the gaze-contingency paradigm to measure the extent of peripheral perception to the right of a fixation. This paradigm involves the spontaneous manipulation of a display in direct response to where the eyes are gazing at any one point of time. Performance was degraded only slightly when four crotchets to the right were presented as the ongoing preview, but significantly when only two crotchets were presented. Under these conditions, peripheral input extended over a little more than a four-beat measure, on average. For the less skilled, useful peripheral perception extended from half a beat up to between two and four beats. For the more skilled, useful peripheral perception extended up to five beats.\n\nPeripheral visual input in music reading is clearly in need of more investigation, particularly now that the paradigm has become more accessible to researchers. A case could be made that Western music notation has developed in such a way as to optimise the use of peripheral input in the reading process. Noteheads, stems, beams, barlines and other notational symbols are all sufficiently bold and distinctive to be useful when picked up peripherally, even when at some distance from the fovea. The upcoming pitch contour and prevailing rhythmic values of a musical line can typically be ascertained ahead of foveal perception. For example, a run of continuous semiquavers beamed together by two thick, roughly horizontal beams, will convey potentially valuable information about rhythm and texture, whether to the right on the currently fixated stave, or above, or above or below in a neighbouring stave. This is reason enough to suspect that the peripheral preprocessing of notational information is a factor in fluent music reading, just as it has been found to be the case for language reading. This would be consistent with the findings of Smith (1988) and Kinsler & Carpenter (1995), who reported that the eyes do not fixate on every note in the reading of melodies.\n\nA refixation is a fixation on information that has already been fixated on during the same reading. In the reading of two-stave keyboard music, there are two forms of refixation: (1) up or down within a chord, after the chord has already been inspected on both staves (vertical refixation), and (2) leftward refixation to a previous chord (either back horizontally on the same stave or diagonally to the other stave). These are analogous to Pollatsek & Rayner’s two categories of refixation in the reading of language: (1) “same-word rightward refixation”, i.e., on different syllables in the same word, and (2) “leftward refixation” to previously read words (also known as “regression”).\n\nLeftward refixation occurs in music reading at all skill-levels. It involves a saccade back to the previous note/chord (occasionally even back two notes/chords), followed by at least one returning saccade to the right, to regain lost ground. Weaver reported that leftward regressions run from 7% to a substantial 23% of all saccades in the sight-reading of keyboard music. Goolsby and Smith reported significant levels of leftward refixation across all skill-levels in the sight-reading of melodies.\n\nLooking at the same information more than once is, \"prima facie\", a costly behaviour that must be weighed against the need to keep pace with the tempo of the music. Leftward refixation involves a greater investment of time than vertical refixation, and on logical grounds is likely to be considerably less common. For the same reason, the rates of both forms of refixation are likely to be sensitive to tempo, with lower rates at faster speed to meet the demand for making swifter progress across the score. Souter confirmed both of these suppositions in the skilled sight-reading of keyboard music. He found that at slow tempo (one chord a second), 23.13% (SD 5.76%) of saccades were involved in vertical refixation compared with 5.05% (4.81%) in leftward refixation (\"p\" < 0.001). At fast tempo (two chords a second), the rates were 8.15% (SD 4.41%) for vertical refixation compared with 2.41% (2.37%) for leftward refixation (\"p\" = 0.011). These significant differences occurred even though recovery saccades were included in the counts for leftward refixations, effectively doubling their number. The reductions in the rate of vertical refixation upon the doubling of tempo was highly significant (\"p\" < 0.001), but for leftward refixation was not (\"p\" = 0.209), possibly because of the low baseline.\n\nThe eye–hand span (EHS) is the separation between eye position on the score and hand position. It can be measured in two ways: in notes (the number of notes between hand and eye; the 'note index'), or in time (the length of time between fixation and performance; the 'time index'). The main findings in relation to the eye–voice span in the reading aloud of language were that (1) a larger span is associated with faster, more skilled readers, (2) a shorter span is associated with greater stimulus-difficulty, and (3) the span appears to vary according to linguistic phrasing. At least eight studies into eye movement in music reading have investigated analogous issues. For example, Jacobsen (1941) measured the average span to the right in the sight singing of melodies as up to two notes for the unskilled and between one and four notes for the skilled, whose faster average tempo in that study raises doubt as to whether skill alone was responsible for this difference. In Weaver (1943:28), the eye–hand span varied greatly, but never exceeded 'a separation of eight successive notes or chords, a figure that seems impossibly large for the reading of keyboard scores. Young (1971) found that both skilled and unskilled participants previewed about one chord ahead of their hands, an uncertain finding in view of the methodological problems in that study. Goolsby (1994) found that skilled sight singers' eyes were on average about four beats ahead of their voice, and less for the unskilled. He claimed that when sight singing, 'skilled music readers look farther ahead in the notation and then back to the point of performance' (p. 77). To put this another way, skilled music readers maintain a larger eye–hand span and are more likely to refixate within it. This association between span size and leftward refixation could arise from a greater need for the refreshment of information in working memory. Furneax & Land (1999) found that professional pianists' spans are significantly larger than those of amateurs. The time index was significantly affected by the performance tempo: when fast tempos were imposed on performance, all participants showed a reduction in the time index (to about 0.7 s), and slow tempos increased the time index (to about 1.3  s). This means that the length of time that information is stored in the buffer is related to performance tempo rather than ability, but that professionals can fit more information into their buffers.\n\nSloboda (1974, 1977) cleverly applied Levin & Kaplin's (1970) 'light-out' method in an experiment designed to measure the size of the span in music reading. Sloboda (1977) asked his participants to sight read a melody and turned the lights out at an unpredictable point during each reading. The participants were instructed to continue playing correctly 'without guessing' for as long as they could after visual input was effectively removed, giving an indication as to how far ahead of their hands they were perceiving at that moment. Here, the span was defined as including peripheral input. Participants were allowed to choose their own performing speed for each piece, introducing a layer of uncertainty into the interpretation of the results. Sloboda reported that there was a tendency for the span to coincide with the musical phrasing, so that 'a boundary just beyond the average span \"stretches\" the span, and a boundary just before the average \"contracts\" it' (as reported in Sloboda 1985:72). Good readers, he found, maintain a larger span size (up to seven notes) than do poor readers (up to four notes).\n\nTruitt et al. (1997) found that in sight reading melodies on the electronic keyboard, span size averaged a little over one beat and ranged from two beats behind the currently fixated point to an incredibly large 12 beats ahead. The normal range of span size was rather smaller: between one beat behind and three beats ahead of the hands for 88% of the total reading duration, and between 0 and 2 beats ahead for 68% of the duration. Such large ranges, in particular, those that extend leftwards from the point of fixation, may have been due to the 'wandering effect'. For the less skilled, the average span was about half a crotchet beat. For the skilled, the span averaged about two beats and useful peripheral perception extended up to five beats. This, in the view of Rayner & Pollatsek (1997:52), suggests that:\n\nRayner & Pollatsek (1997:52) explained the size of the eye–hand span as a continuous tug-o-war, as it were, between two forces: (1) the need for material to be held in working memory long enough to be processed into musculoskeletal commands, and (2) the need to limit the demand on span size and therefore the workload in the memory system. They claimed that most music pedagogy supports the first aspect [in advising] the student that the eyes should be well ahead of the hands for effective sight reading. They held that despite such advice, for most readers, the second aspect prevails; that is, the need to limit the workload of the memory system. This, they contended, results in a very small span under normal conditions.\nSmith (1988) found that when tempo is increased, fixations are fewer in number and shorter in mean duration, and that fixations tend to be spaced further apart on the score. Kinsler & Carpenter (1995) investigated the effect of increased tempo in reading rhythmic notation, rather than real melodies. They similarly found that increased tempo causes a decrease in mean fixation duration and an increase in mean saccade amplitude (i.e., the distance on the page between successive fixations). Souter (2001) used novel theory and methodology to investigate the effects of tempo on key variables in the sight reading of highly skilled keyboardists. Eye movement studies have typically measured saccade and fixation durations as separate variables. Souter (2001) used a novel variable: pause duration. This is a measure of the duration between the end of one fixation and the end of the next; that is, the sum of the duration of each saccade and of the fixation it leads to. Using this composite variable brings into play a simple relationship between the number of pauses, their mean duration, and the tempo: the number of pauses factored by their mean duration equals the total reading duration. In other words, the time taken to read a passage equals the sum of the durations of the individual pauses, or nd = r, where n is the number of pauses, d is their mean duration, and r is the total reading time. Since the total reading duration is inversely proportional to the tempo—double the tempo and the total reading time will be halved—the relationship can be expressed as nd is proportional to r, where t is tempo.\n\nThis study observed the effect of a change in tempo on the number and mean duration of pauses; thus, now using the letters to represent proportional changes in values,\n\nnd = ⁄, where n is the proportional change in pause number, d is the proportional change in their mean duration, and t is the proportional change in tempo. This expression describes a number–duration curve, in which the number and mean duration of pauses form a hyperbolic relationship (since neither n nor d ever reaches zero). The curve represents the range of possible ratios for using these variables to adapt to a change in tempo. In Souter (2001), tempo was doubled from the first to the second reading, from 60 to 120 MM; thus, t = 2, and the number–duration curve is described by nd = 0.5 (Figure 2). In other words, factoring the proportional change in the number and mean duration of pauses between these readings will always equal ½. Each participant’s two readings thus corresponded to a point on this curve.\n\nIrrespective of the value of t, all number–duration curves pass through three points of theoretical interest: two ‘sole-contribution’ points and one ‘equal-contribution’ point. At each sole-contribution point, a reader has relied entirely on one of the two variables to adapt to a new tempo. In Souter's study, if a participant adapted to the doubling of tempo by using the same number of pauses and halving their mean duration, the reading would fall on the sole-contribution point (1.0,0.5). Conversely, if a participant adapted by halving the number of pauses and maintaining their mean duration, the reading would fall on the other sole-contribution point (0.5,1.0). These two points represent completely one-sided behaviour. On the other hand, if a reader’s adaptation drew on both variables equally, and factoring them gives 0.5, they must both equal the square root of t (since t = 2 in this case, the square root of 2). The adaptation thus fell on the equal-contribution point:\n\n(formula_1, formula_1), equivalent to (0.707,0.707).\n\nPredicting where performers would fall on the curve involved considering the possible advantages and disadvantages of using these two adaptive resources. A strategy of relying entirely on altering pause duration to adapt to a new tempo—falling on (1.0,0.5)—would permit the same number of pauses to be used irrespective of tempo. Theoretically, this would enable readers to use a standardised scanpath across a score, whereas if they changed the number of their pauses to adapt to a new tempo, their scanpath would need to be redesigned, sacrificing the benefits of a standardised approach. There is no doubt that readers are able to change their pause duration and number both from moment to moment and averaged over longer stretches of reading. Musicians typically use a large range of fixation durations within a single reading, even at a stable tempo. Indeed, successive fixation durations appear to vary considerably, and seemingly at random; one fixation might be 200 ms, the next 370 ms, and the next 240 ms. (There are no data on successive pause durations in the literature, so mean fixation duration is cited here as a near-equivalent.)\n\nIn the light of this flexibility in varying fixation duration, and since the process of picking up, processing and performing the information on the page is elaborate, it might be imagined that readers prefer to use a standardised scanpath. For example, in four-part, hymn-style textures for keyboard, such as were used in Souter (2001), the information on the score is presented as a series of two-note, optically separated units—two allocated to an upper stave and two to a lower stave for each chord. A standardised scanpath might consist of a sequence of ‘saw-tooth’ movements from the upper stave to the lower stave for a chord, then diagonally across to the upper stave and down to the lower stave of the next chord, and so on. However, numerous studies have shown that scanpaths in the reading of a number of musical textures—including melody, four-part hymns, and counterpoint—are not predictable and orderly, but are inherently changeable, with a certain ragged, ad-hoc quality. Music readers appear to turn their backs on the theoretical advantage of standardised scanpath: they are either flexible or ad hoc when it comes to the number of pauses—just as they are with respect to their pause durations—and do not scan a score in a strict, predetermined manner.\n\nSouter hypothesised that the most likely scenario is that both pause duration and number are used to adapt to tempo, and that a number–duration relationship that lies close to the equal-contribution point allows the apparatus the greatest flexibility to adapt to further changes in reading conditions. He reasoned that it may be dysfunctional to use only one of two available adaptive resources, since that would make it more difficult to subsequently use that direction for further adaptation. This hypothesis—that when tempo is increased, the mean number–duration relationship will be in the vicinity of the equal-contribution point—was confirmed by the data in terms of the mean result: when tempo doubled, both the mean number of pauses per chord and the mean pause duration overall fell such that the mean number–duration relationship was (0.705,0.709), close to the equal-contribution point of (0.708, 0.708), with standard deviations of (0.138,0.118). Thus, the stability of scanpath—tenable only when the relationship is (0.5,1.0)—was sacrificed to maintain a relatively stable mean pause duration.\n\nThis challenged the notion that scanpath (largely or solely) reflects the horizontal or vertical emphasis of the musical texture, as proposed by Sloboda (1985) and Weaver (1943), since these dimensions depend significantly on tempo.\n\nBoth logical inference and evidence in the literature point to the fact that there are three oculomotor imperatives in the task of eye movement in music reading. The first imperative seems obvious: the eyes must maintain a pace across the page that is appropriate to the tempo of the music, and they do this by manipulating the number and durations of fixations, and thereby the scanpath across the score. The second imperative is to provide an appropriate rate of refreshment of the information being stored and processed in working memory by manipulating the number and duration of fixations. This workload appears to be related to tempo, stimulus complexity and stimulus familiarity, and there is strong evidence that the capacity for high workload in relation to these variables is also connected with the skill of the reader. The third imperative is to maintain a span size that is appropriate to the reading conditions. The span must not be so small that there is insufficient time to perceive visual input and process it into musculoskeletal commands; it must not be so large that the capacity of the memory system to store and process information is exceeded. Musicians appear to use oculomotor commands to address all three imperatives simultaneously, which are in effect mapped onto each other in the reading process. Eye movement thus embodies a fluid set of characteristics that are not only intimately engaged in engineering the optimal visual input to the apparatus, but in servicing the process of that information in the memory system.\n\n"}
{"id": "14330368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14330368", "title": "Figura serpentinata", "text": "Figura serpentinata\n\nFigura serpentinata (Italian - serpentine figure) is a style in painting and sculpture, intended to make the figure seem more dynamic, that is typical of Mannerism. It is similar, but not identical, to contrapposto, and features figures often in a spiral pose. Early examples can be seen in the work of Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael and Michelangelo.\n\nEmil Maurer writes of the painter and theorist Giovanni Paolo Lomazzo (1538–1600): \"The recommended ideal form unites, after Lomazzo, three qualities: the pyramid, the \"serpentinata\" movement and a certain numerical proportion, all three united to form one whole. At the same time, precedence is given to the \"moto\", that is, to the meandering movement, which should make the pyramid, in exact proportion, into the geometrical form of a cone.\"\nBousquet holds that the \"serpentinata\" style arose as a result of the discovery of the Laocoön group in 1506, and its deep impact on all artists, but on Michelangelo in particular. John Shearman also argues that it was invented by Michelangelo, citing the \"Victors\" that he produced for Pope Julius II's tomb. Maurer, on the other hand, can only detect this style rarely in Michelangelo's work and cites Beccafumi instead as its pioneer. Beccafumi's student Marco Pino connected Beccafumi's style with those of Salviati, Parmigianino and perhaps even Michelangelo, and his work as a whole is marked by \"serpentinata\" motifs. Paolo Pino himself says in his \"Dialogo della Pittura\", that his figures' poses are many and varied, and that in all his works to find one single figure, that completely and utterly distorts, is ambivalent and difficult.\n\nAs Maurer writes, painters are freer than sculptors and less closely tied-down to nature. Thus they can play around with their figures, reshaping, overstretching, geometricising, dissolving, caricaturing, colouring, meandering, according to the painting's goal and intended effect. With the loosening of the norms of the Renaissance and the development of the \"Serpentita\" style, that style's structures and rules began to be systematised. A style of form began by which figures showed physical power, passion, tension and semantic perfection. Movements were not without motivation, nor even simply done with a will, but with will shown in a pure form. Also their actions arose not out of power, but powerlessness.\n\nThe style exerted an influence even into the 1620s, with Bernini's \"The Rape of Proserpina\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35313027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35313027", "title": "Geko Karen", "text": "Geko Karen\n\nGeko is a Karen language of Burma. Yinbaw is reportedly a variety. Speakers of Geko and Yinbaw are ethnically Kayan, as are speakers of Lahta and Padaung.\n\n\nYinbaw (population 7,300 as of 1983) is spoken in eastern Shan State and Kayah State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49387044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49387044", "title": "Gloria Wekker", "text": "Gloria Wekker\n\nGloria Daisy Wekker (born June 13, 1950) is an Afro-Surinamese Dutch educator and writer who has focused on gender studies and sexuality in the Afro-Caribbean region and diaspora. She was the winner of the Ruth Benedict Prize from the American Anthropological Association in 2007.\n\nGloria Wekker was born in 1950 in Paramaribo, Suriname. She moved to Amsterdam in the 1970s and became active in the Afro-European Women’s Movement. Wekker earned a master's degree in cultural anthropology from the University of Amsterdam in 1981 and began her career working in various governmental agencies in Amsterdam, such as the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Culture on Ethnic Minorities' Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. In 1984, she became a founding member of \"Sister Outsider\", an Amsterdam-based, literary circle for lesbian black women named after the work by Audre Lorde. In 1987, she served as a Policy Associate in the Office for the Coordination of Ethnic Minorities' Affairs.\n\nIn 1992, Wekker earned her doctorate at the University of California, Los Angeles with a thesis on the sexuality and subjectivity of Afro-Surinamese women. In 2001, she was appointed to the Aletta-chair of the Department of Women's Studies at the Utrecht University. Her work focuses on the intersections of colonialism, racism, white privilege, feminist theory, lesbian theory and women in the Caribbean. Her work has earned her the title of \"Holland’s Angela Davis\" as she has forced the Dutch to examine their alleged ingrained stereotypes and attitudes towards racism and patriarchy. She has led debate which questioned the racist nature of such iconic images in Dutch tradition as Sinterklaas (Santa Clause)'s helpers as blackface golliwogs known as \"Zwarte Piet\" (Black Pete), as well as the imagery of what constitutes beauty.\n\nWekker was nominated in 2004 for the Dutch Scientific Research Council's \"Triomfprijs\" (Triumph prize). In 2006, her book \"The Politics of Passion: Women's Sexual Culture in the Afro-Surinamese Diaspora\" won critical praise and was awarded with the 2007 Ruth Benedict Prize from the American Anthropological Association. In 2011, she began a sabbatical to work at the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Studies on a research project, which resulted in the publication in 2016 of \"White Innocence: Paradoxes of Colonialism and Race\". Because of her work with both sociology and policy, Wekker has been named as part of an international committee which was appointed at the University of Amsterdam in 2015 to increase diversity at the university.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27025746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27025746", "title": "Heartless (2009 film)", "text": "Heartless (2009 film)\n\nHeartless is a 2009 British horror film written and directed by Philip Ridley and starring Jim Sturgess, Noel Clarke, Clémence Poésy and Eddie Marsan. This was Ridley's first film in fourteen years since 1995's \"The Passion of Darkly Noon\". The film garnered positive reception from critics who praised the performances and dark atmospheric tone that complemented the Faustian plot.\n\nJamie Morgan (Jim Sturgess) is a lonely, troubled photographer with a large heart-shaped birthmark that covers nearly half of his face. He is still a virgin at 25 because a lifetime of alienation and bullying have left him unable to make friends or attract women. At the photographic studio he shares with his brother and nephew Lee, he meets aspiring model Tia (Clémence Poésy).\n\nAs Jamie develops photos from a shoot, he notices a disturbing face looking at him from the window of a house. When he goes back to investigate, he follows a suspicious man to a group of hooded vandals around a fire, who emit eerie shrieks. One notices Jamie and shrieks at him. Jamie is shocked to see a demonic lizard-like face under the hood, with huge pin-like teeth. Over time Jamie becomes aware of a series of horrific murders by Molotov cocktail that have been occurring in the neighbourhood. A witness to one of the murders, a little Asian girl, tells a TV reporter that they weren’t wearing masks; the demonic faces were real. Jamie's neighbour and new-found friend, A.J. (Noel Clarke) turns up with a huge wound that looks as if it was caused by claw marks. Parts of his dismembered body then turn up in the local area.\n\nJamie and his mother are walking in the neighborhood when they are attacked by the demonic gang. His mother is immolated while Jamie watches helplessly, and he is savagely beaten and left for dead. While unconscious in hospital he glimpses a man in his dream who says he's waiting for Jamie. Later, he receives a phone call from a man with the same voice, and is guided to the apartment of Papa B (Joseph Mawle) and his assistant Belle (Nikita Mistry), who looks just like the little Asian girl from the TV report. Papa B offers a Faustian bargain: Jamie must fulfil Papa B's desire for chaos with occasional acts of vandalism in return for the removal of his birthmarks. Despite Papa B admitting that he was responsible for his mother's death as a way of bringing Jamie to him, Jamie consents and they shake hands. Jamie is told to immolate himself with a Molotov cocktail in order to be reborn. Jamie miraculously survives and peels away his burned skin to reveal perfect, unblemished skin.\n\nInitially things go well: a chance meeting with Tia leads a newly confident Jamie to spend the day with her in the park, where his beloved, deceased father first taught him to use a camera. The deal sours, however, when the Weapons Man (Eddie Marsan) arrives: Papa B has reneged on their bargain and Jamie must now commit murder by ripping the heart from a living victim. The Weapons Man tortures Jamie until he agrees to kill a street hustler. His hope for a better life returns after he and Tia become lovers. During this time Belle also comes to live with Jamie, after Papa B beat her in a fit of rage. She starts calling Jamie \"Dad\" and becomes a bit of a guide to him, kindly and pragmatically explaining that he has no choice but to kill, to save his own life—and Belle's. But Papa B is outraged at Belle's betrayal and as punishment demands that Jamie kill a new victim—Tia.\n\nTia asks Jamie to put a photo album in his work safe, and it is revealed that Tia and Lee (Luke Treadaway) intended to steal his late mother's jewellery. Tia had initially meant only to help Lee gain access to the safe, but she ended up sincerely falling in love with Jamie. During the ensuing struggle Tia is accidentally shot and killed, and Lee is seriously wounded by \"She\", a gang leader to whom he owed money, and who wears a metallic claw in place of a severed hand.\n\nJamie is pursued by She but fights back and kills him. He notices that a mark on a wall from She's claw looks just like the wound received by A.J. Jamie tells Belle, who has turned up from nowhere, that she must flee to stay safe, and she disappears. Jamie spies himself in a mirror and sees that his birthmark has returned, and with it the knowledge that it had been there the entire time, even while he was courting Tia. Jamie confronts Papa B's minions and fights them off, but when faced with a larger demon, Papa B in his true form, runs away. Viewers are left to decide for themselves whether Papa B cheated Jamie by never removing the birthmark, or if much of what transpired was the product of Jamie's imagination.\n\nAfter waking up indoors, Jamie staggers outside. On the ground he sees several masks with sharp teeth, and looks up to see several masked and hooded gang members. But these are ordinary masks made of sacks, not the realistic demon faces Jamie has seen so far. Are these the \"demons\" he had been fighting a short while ago? Jamie now recalls himself walking and talking with Belle—only now he appears to converse with empty space. As realisation sinks in, a gang member catches him with a Molotov cocktail. As he stands still and burns to death, Jamie experiences a vision of his father, who tells him that you can only see the stars in the blackness of the night. Whether this is a memory or a near-death experience is left unclear. Jamie ascends into bright light. The light fades into a field of stars in the night sky, mirroring the words spoken by his father.\n\n\nThe film featured a number of original songs for which Ridley himself had written the lyrics. The music for these songs were composed by Ridley’s long-time collaborator Nick Bicât who had previously written music for productions of Ridley's stage plays and films. On Nick Bicât's website it states that the songs had been written to act \"like a Greek chorus, commenting on the action. Every song in the film—whether heard on the radio, in a club, or used as part of the score\".\n\nAs well as being the lead actor, Jim Sturges also sang two of the songs in the film's soundtrack. When talking about the film's music Ridley explained that \"[Jim Sturgess] heard some of the songs and loved them. He wondered if, perhaps, it would be right for him to sing a couple. To be honest, Jim and I had discussed this possibility much earlier (Jim's talents are boundless. As well as being one of the greatest actors around, he is also a great singer…not to mention song writer, poet—the list goes on!). Initially, we had both agreed it probably wouldn't be right. But as the film progressed, and the exploration of Jamie's mind in the film become ever more obsessive…well, it just seemed to make total sense for Jim to perform the two songs most pertinent to Jamie's state of mind: the theme music, Heartless, and Another Me.\"\n\nThe film's first soundtrack album - named \"Heartless\" - was distributed on 1 January 2010 and later online 17 May 2010 by Universal Music Digital Services and contained all the songs, the listing of which are below:\n\nAnother Soundtrack album - \"Heartless (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack)\" - was released by MovieScore Media on 21 June 2011 and contained the orchestral music by David Julyan used in the film, the listing of which are below:\n\nThe film had its premiere on 31 August 2009 at Film 4's Fright Fest. The film was also shown as part of the 2009 Cork Film Festival and was part of the Fantasia Festival 2010.\n\nThe film was noted for being one of the first British films to almost have a simultaneous multi-platform release, being released in cinemas 21 May and distributed on DVD, Blu-ray and Digital Download just four days later on 25 May 2010.\n\nThe film has since been released as a digital rental on the BFI player.\n\n\"Heartless\" received generally positive reviews from critics. Review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes gave it a 75% approval rating, based on 36 reviews collected: 27 \"fresh\" and 9 \"rotten\". Gary Goldstein of the \"Los Angeles Times\" credited the film to both Jim Sturgess for having \"a terrifically watchable presence,\" and director Philip Ridley for his compelling soundtrack and dark visual direction that \"even at its most seemingly outlandish remains intriguing and involving.\" Joe Leydon of \"Variety\" praised the film for the performances of both Sturgess and Marsan and the direction of scenes that give off a morose tone, concluding that, \"There's more mood than matter here, but suspenseful atmospherics effectively distract from minor plot holes.\" Kyle Smith of the \"New York Post\" commented on how the Faust theme and sappy conclusion paled in comparison to the \"macabre wit\" that Ridley displays throughout the film, calling it \"an uneasy mixture of B-movie shocks, social commentary and sentimentality that shows a potent imagination at work.\"\n\nNathan Rabin of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the film a \"B–\", crediting its second-half moral tale and the brief appearances by Marsan and Spall but felt it was hampered by the first half with its \"plodding pace, portentous tone, and underdeveloped characters\", concluding that, \"Ridley is a master of atmosphere and mood, but his fantastical conceits require a strong protagonist who isn't defined first by his birthmark, then by its absence.\" Ben Rawson-Jones of Digital Spy felt the film wasted its main cast with a promising plot that was half-heartedly executed with failed horror elements and dialogue that telegraphs the story, saying that, \"The form and content are a perfect match in \"Heartless\". Both are desperately terrible.\" He gave the film 1 star out of 5. Nick Schager of \"Slant Magazine\" criticised Ridley for crafting a Faustian film with an empty-headed protagonist, telegraphed plot elements, mixed moral themes and a muddled third act, giving the film 1 star out of 4.\n\n"}
{"id": "33653990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33653990", "title": "History of libraries", "text": "History of libraries\n\nThe history of libraries began with the first efforts to organize collections of documents. Topics of interest include accessibility of the collection, acquisition of materials, arrangement and finding tools, the book trade, the influence of the physical properties of the different writing materials, language distribution, role in education, rates of literacy, budgets, staffing, libraries for specially targeted audiences, architectural merit, patterns of usage, and the role of libraries in a nation's cultural heritage, and the role of government, church or private sponsorship. Since the 1960s issues of computerization and digitization come to the fore.\n\nLibrary history is the academic discipline devoted to the study of the history of libraries; it is a subfield of library science and of history.\n\nThe first libraries consisted of archives of the earliest form of writing – the clay tablets in cuneiform script discovered in temple rooms in Sumer, some dating back to 2600 BC. About an inch thick, tablets came in various shapes and sizes. Mud like clay was placed in the wooden frames, and the surface was smoothed for writing and allowed to dry until damp. After being inscribed, the clay dried in the sun, or for a harder finish, was baked in a kiln. For storage, tablets could be stacked on edge, side by side, the contents described by a title written on the edge that faced out and was readily seen. The first libraries appeared five thousand years ago in Southwest Asia's Fertile Crescent, the area that ran from Mesopotamia to the Nile in Africa. Known as the cradle of civilization, the Fertile Crescent was the birthplace of writing, sometime before three thousand BC. (Murray, Stuart A.P.) These archives, which mainly consisted of the records of commercial transactions or inventories, mark the end of prehistory and the start of history.\n\nThings were much the same in the government and temple records on papyrus of Ancient Egypt. The earliest discovered private archives were kept at Ugarit; besides correspondence and inventories, texts of myths may have been standardized practice-texts for teaching new scribes. There is also evidence of libraries at Nippur about 1900 BC and those at Nineveh about 700 BC showing a library classification system.\n\nOver 30,000 clay tablets from the Library of Ashurbanipal have been discovered at Nineveh, providing modern scholars with an amazing wealth of Mesopotamian literary, religious and administrative work. Among the findings were the Enuma Elish, also known as \"the Epic of Creation,\" which depicts a traditional Babylonian view of creation, the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", a large selection of \"omen texts\" including \"Enuma Anu Enlil\" which \"contained omens dealing with the moon, its visibility, eclipses, and conjunction with planets and fixed stars, the sun, its corona, spots, and eclipses, the weather, namely lightning, thunder, and clouds, and the planets and their visibility, appearance, and stations\", and astronomic/astrological texts, as well as standard lists used by scribes and scholars such as word lists, bilingual vocabularies, lists of signs and synonyms, and lists of medical diagnoses.\n\nPhilosopher Laozi was keeper of books in the earliest library in China, which belonged to the Imperial Zhou dynasty. Also, evidence of catalogues found in some destroyed ancient libraries illustrates the presence of librarians.\n\nThe Library of Alexandria, in Egypt, was the largest and most significant great library of the ancient world. It flourished under the patronage of the Ptolemaic dynasty and functioned as a major center of scholarship from its construction in the 3rd century BC until the Roman conquest of Egypt in 30 BC. The library was conceived and opened either during the reign of Ptolemy I Soter (323–283 BC) or during the reign of his son Ptolemy II (283–246 BC). An early organization system was in effect at Alexandria.\n\nThe Library of Celsus in Ephesus, Anatolia, now part of Selçuk, Turkey was built in honor of the Roman Senator Tiberius Julius Celsus Polemaeanus (completed in AD 135) by Celsus' son, Gaius Julius Aquila (consul, 110). The library was built to store 12,000 scrolls and to serve as a monumental tomb for Celsus. The library's ruins were hidden under debris of the city of Ephesus that was deserted in early Middle Ages. In 1903, Austrian excavations led to this hidden heap of rubble that had collapsed during an earthquake. The donator's son built the library to honor his father's memory and construction began around 113 or 114. Presently, visitors only see the remains of the library's facade.\n\nPrivate or personal libraries made up of written books (as opposed to the state or institutional records kept in archives) appeared in classical Greece in the 5th century BC. The celebrated book collectors of Hellenistic Antiquity were listed in the late 2nd century in \"Deipnosophistae\". All these libraries were Greek; the cultivated Hellenized diners in \"Deipnosophistae\" pass over the libraries of Rome in silence. By the time of Augustus there were public libraries near the forums of Rome: there were libraries in the Porticus Octaviae near the Theatre of Marcellus, in the temple of Apollo Palatinus, and in the Ulpian Library in the Forum of Trajan. The state archives were kept in a structure on the slope between the Roman Forum and the Capitoline Hill.\n\nPrivate libraries appeared during the late republic: Seneca inveighed against libraries fitted out for show by illiterate owners who scarcely read their titles in the course of a lifetime, but displayed the scrolls in bookcases (\"armaria\") of citrus wood inlaid with ivory that ran right to the ceiling: \"by now, like bathrooms and hot water, a library is got up as standard equipment for a fine house (\"domus\"). Libraries were amenities suited to a villa, such as Cicero's at Tusculum, Maecenas's several villas, or Pliny the Younger's, all described in surviving letters. At the Villa of the Papyri at Herculaneum, apparently the villa of Caesar's father-in-law, the Greek library has been partly preserved in volcanic ash; archaeologists speculate that a Latin library, kept separate from the Greek one, may await discovery at the site.\nIn the West, the first public libraries were established under the Roman Empire as each succeeding emperor strove to open one or many which outshone that of his predecessor. Rome's first public library was established by Asinius Pollio. Pollio was a lieutenant of Julius Caesar and one of his most ardent supporters. After his military victory in Illyria, Pollio felt he had enough fame and fortune to create what Julius Caesar had sought for a long time: a public library to increase the prestige of Rome and rival the one in Alexandria. Pollios's library, the \"Anla Libertatis\", which was housed in the \"Atrium Libertatis\", was centrally located near the Forum Romanum. It was the first to employ an architectural design that separated works into Greek and Latin. All subsequent Roman public libraries will have this design. At the conclusion of Rome's civil wars following the death of Marcus Antonius in 30 BC, the Emperor Augustus sought to reconstruct many of Rome's damaged buildings. During this construction, Augustus created two more public libraries. The first was the library of the Temple of Apollo on the Palatine, often called the Palatine library, and the second was the library of the \"Porticus of Octaviae\".\n\nTwo more libraries were added by the Emperor Tiberius on Palatine Hill and one by Vespasian after 70. Vespasian's library was constructed in the Forum of Vespasian, also known as the \"Forum of Peace\", and became one of Rome's principal libraries. The \"Bibliotheca Pacis\" was built along the traditional model and had two large halls with rooms for Greek and Latin libraries containing the works of Galen and Lucius Aelius. One of the best preserved was the ancient Ulpian Library built by the Emperor Trajan. Completed in 112/113 AD, the Ulpian Library was part of Trajan's Forum built on the Capitoline Hill. Trajan's Column separated the Greek and Latin rooms which faced each other. The structure was approximately fifty feet high with the peak of the roof reaching almost seventy feet.\n\nUnlike the Greek libraries, readers had direct access to the scrolls, which were kept on shelves built into the walls of a large room. Reading or copying was normally done in the room itself. The surviving records give only a few instances of lending features. Most of the large Roman baths were also cultural centres, built from the start with a library, a two-room arrangement with one room for Greek and one for Latin texts.\n\nLibraries were filled with parchment scrolls as at Library of Pergamum and on papyrus scrolls as at Alexandria: the export of prepared writing materials was a staple of commerce. There were a few institutional or royal libraries which were open to an educated public (such as the Serapeum collection of the Library of Alexandria, once the largest library in the ancient world), but on the whole collections were private. In those rare cases where it was possible for a scholar to consult library books there seems to have been no direct access to the stacks. In all recorded cases the books were kept in a relatively small room where the staff went to get them for the readers, who had to consult them in an adjoining hall or covered walkway.\n\nIn 213 BC during the reign of Emperor Qin Shi Huang most books were ordered destroyed. The Han Dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD) reversed this policy for replacement copies, and created three imperial libraries. Liu Xin a curator of the imperial library was the first to establish a library classification system and the first book notation system. The seven Epitomes would be created as the cataloging system started by Liu Xiang and finished by his son Liu Xin. The title of the Seven Epitomes seems to suggest its classification to have seven classes. In fact, it comprised six main classes and 38 divisions or subclasses. Preceding the six classes was the Collective Epitome - thus the title Seven Epitomes. At this time the library catalog was written on scrolls of fine silk and stored in silk bags. Important new technological innovations include the use of paper and block printing. Wood-block printing, facilitated the large-scale reproduction of classic Buddhist texts which were avidly collected in many private libraries that flourished during the T'ang Dynasty (618–906 AD).\n\nThe Ming Dynasty in 1407 founded the imperial library, the Wen Yuan Pavilion. It also sponsored the massive compilation of the Yongle Encyclopedia, containing 11,000 volumes including copies of over 7000 books. It was soon destroyed, but similar very large compilations appeared in 1725 and 1772.\n\nDuring the Late Antiquity and Middle Ages periods, there was no Rome of the kind that ruled the Mediterranean for centuries and spawned the culture that produced twenty-eight public libraries in the \"urbs Roma\". The empire had been divided then later re-united again under Constantine the Great who moved the capital of the Roman Empire in 330 AD to the city of Byzantium which was renamed Constantinople. The Roman intellectual culture that flourished in ancient times was undergoing a transformation as the academic world moved from laymen to Christian clergy. As the West crumbled, books and libraries flourished and flowed east toward the Byzantine Empire. There, four different types of libraries were established: imperial, patriarchal, monastic, and private. Each had its own purpose and, as a result, their survival varied.\n\nChristianity was a new force in Europe and many of the faithful saw Hellenistic culture as pagan. As such, many classical Greek works, written on scrolls, were left to decay as only Christian texts were thought fit for preservation in a codex, the progenitor of the modern book. In the East, however, this was not the case as many of these classical Greek and Roman texts were copied.\n\nIn Byzantium, much of this work devoted to preserving Hellenistic thought in codex form was performed in scriptoriums by monks. While monastic library scriptoriums flourished throughout the East and West, the rules governing them were generally the same. Barren and sun-lit rooms (because candles were a source of fire) were major features of the scriptorium that was both a model of production and monastic piety. Monks scribbled away for hours a day, interrupted only by meals and prayers. With such production, medieval monasteries began to accumulate large libraries. These libraries were devoted solely to the education of the monks and were seen as essential to their spiritual development. Although most of these texts that were produced were Christian in nature, many monastic leaders saw common virtues in the Greek classics. As a result, many of these Greek works were copied, and thus saved, in monastic scriptoriums.\n\nWhen Europe passed into the Dark Ages, Byzantine scriptoriums laboriously preserved Greco-Roman classics. As a result, Byzantium revived Classical models of education and libraries. The Imperial Library of Constantinople was an important depository of ancient knowledge. Constantine himself wanted such a library but his short rule denied him the ability to see his vision to fruition. His son Constantius II made this dream a reality and created an imperial library in a portico of the royal palace. He ruled for 24 years and accelerated the development of the library and the intellectual culture that came with such a vast accumulation of books.\n\nConstantius II appointed Themistius, a pagan philosopher and teacher, as chief architect of this library building program. Themistius set about a bold program to create an imperial public library that would be the centerpiece of the new intellectual capital of Constantinople. Classical authors such as Plato, Aristotle, Demosthenes, Isocrates, Thucydides, Homer, and Zeno were sought. Themeistius hired calligraphers and craftsman to produce the actual codices. He also appointed educators and created a university-like school centered around the library.\n\nAfter the death of Constantius II, Julian the Apostate, a bibliophile intellectual, ruled briefly for less than three years. Despite this, he had a profound impact on the imperial library and sought both Christian and pagan books for its collections. Later, the Emperor Valens hired Greek and Latin scribes full-time with from the royal treasury to copy and repair manuscripts.\n\nAt its height in the 5th century, the Imperial Library of Constantinople had 120,000 volumes and was the largest library in Europe. A fire in 477 consumed the entire library but it was rebuilt only to be burned again in 726, 1204, and in 1453 when Constantinople fell to the Ottoman Turks.\n\nPatriarchal libraries fared no better, and sometimes worse, than the Imperial Library. The Library of the Patriarchate of Constantinople was founded most likely during the reign of Constantine the Great in the 4th century. As a theological library, it was known to have employed a library classification system. It also served as a repository of several ecumenical councils such as the Council of Nicea, Council of Ephesus, and the Council of Chalcedon. The library, which employed a librarian and assistants, may have been originally located in the Patriarch's official residence before it was moved to the Thomaites Triclinus in the 7th century. While much is not known about the actual library itself, it is known that many of its contents were subject to destruction as religious in-fighting ultimately resulted in book burnings.\n\nDuring this period, small private libraries existed. Many of these were owned by church members and the aristocracy. Teachers also were known to have small personal libraries as well as wealthy bibliophiles who could afford the highly ornate books of the period.\n\nThus, in the 6th century, at the close of the Classical period, the great libraries of the Mediterranean world remained those of Constantinople and Alexandria. Cassiodorus, minister to Theodoric, established a monastery at Vivarium in the toe of Italy (modern Calabria) with a library where he attempted to bring Greek learning to Latin readers and preserve texts both sacred and secular for future generations. As its unofficial librarian, Cassiodorus not only collected as many manuscripts as he could, he also wrote treatises aimed at instructing his monks in the proper uses of reading and methods for copying texts accurately. In the end, however, the library at Vivarium was dispersed and lost within a century.\n\nThrough Origen and especially the scholarly presbyter Pamphilus of Caesarea, an avid collector of books of Scripture, the theological school of Caesarea won a reputation for having the most extensive ecclesiastical library of the time, containing more than 30,000 manuscripts: Gregory Nazianzus, Basil the Great, Jerome and others came and studied there.\n\nThe first libraries in Muslim lands were not necessarily for the public, but they contained much knowledge. The need for the preservation of the Quran, the Muslim Holy Book, and the Traditions of the Muhammad, the Prophet of Islam is what led to the collection of writings in the Muslim world. Where traditions and history used to be oral, the need to preserve the words of the Quran necessitated a method of preserving the words by some means other than orally. Mosques that were the center of everything in an Muslim societies day-to-day life became also libraries that stored and preserved all knowledge, from the Quran to books on religion, philosophy and science. \n\"Under the Abbasids, Muslims formed the vanguard of civilization. The Abbasids were influenced by the Quran and Hadith such as, \"the ink of scholar is equal to the blood of martyr, \"stressing the value of knowledge.\" With the passion of the Caliphs to establish centers of knowledge, the Muslim world quickly began to have different centers that housed libraries which contained encyclopedias, translations, commentaries and treatises written by Muslim philosophers, scholars and scientists. \nWith the discovery of paper, the Muslim world quickly began to progress in its development of libraries, and \"libraries (royal, public, specialised, private) had become common and bookmen (authors, translators, copiers, illuminators, librarians, booksellers' collectors) from all classes and sections of society, of all nationalities and ethnic backgrounds, vied with each other in the production and distribution of books.\"\n\nBy the 8th century first Iranians and then Arabs had imported the craft of papermaking from China, with a paper mill already at work in Baghdad in 794. By the 9th century public libraries started to appear in many Islamic cities. They were called \"halls of Science\" or \"dar al-'ilm\". They were each endowed by Islamic sects with the purpose of representing their tenets as well as promoting the dissemination of secular knowledge. In Baghdad, the library was known as the House of Wisdom. It also was a university where numerous scholars and copyists translated works from other nations into Arabic. he 9th-century Abbasid Caliph al-Mutawakkil of Iraq, ordered the construction of a \"zawiyat qurra\" – an enclosure for readers which was \"lavishly furnished and equipped\". In Shiraz Adhud al-Daula (d. 983) set up a library, described by the medieval historian, al-Muqaddasi, as \"a complex of buildings surrounded by gardens with lakes and waterways. The buildings were topped with domes, and comprised an upper and a lower story with a total, according to the chief official, of 360 rooms... In each department, catalogues were placed on a shelf... the rooms were furnished with carpets\". The libraries often employed translators and copyists in large numbers, in order to render into Arabic the bulk of the available Persian, Greek, Roman and Sanskrit non-fiction and the classics of literature.\n\nIt should also be noted that Islamic states in Africa began to see a rapid development in education from the 11th century. Libraries of particular importance would include that of Timbuktu, which held many manuscripts that were important for over 600 years in the Ghanan, Mali and Songhai empires. One of the most notable authors was Ahmad Baba who wrote over 40 manuscripts – widely considered as being one of the most influential scholars from Timbuktu. Many of the manuscripts and buildings were destroyed by the Arab-European invasion in 1591 and writers, such as Ahmad Baba were taken into captivity. Despite this and the poor preservation conditions as many as 700,000 manuscripts still survive today.\n\nThis flowering of Islamic learning ceased centuries later when learning began declining in the Islamic world, after many of these libraries were destroyed by Mongol invasions. Others were victim of wars and religious strife in the Islamic world. However, a few examples of these medieval libraries, such as the libraries of Chinguetti in West Africa, remain intact and relatively unchanged. Another ancient library from this period which is still operational and expanding is the Central Library of Astan Quds Razavi in the Iranian city of Mashhad, which has been operating for more than six centuries.\n\nThe contents of these Islamic libraries were copied by Christian monks in Muslim/Christian border areas, particularly Spain and Sicily. From there they eventually made their way into other parts of Christian Europe. These copies joined works that had been preserved directly by Christian monks from Greek and Roman originals, as well as copies Western Christian monks made of Byzantine works. The resulting conglomerate libraries are the basis of every modern library today.\n\nThe spread of religion and philosophy in South and East Asia spurred the development of writing and books. Chinese emperors were very supportive of this culture. Chinese printing and papermaking, which predate Western development, gave birth to a thriving book culture in East Asia. Several Asian religious and philosophical movements are responsible for stimulating learning, printing and book collecting: Buddhism, Confucianism, Daoism, and Jainism. Jainism, a major faith of the Indian subcontinent, had a tradition of religious, scientific, and cultural scholarship. Early practitioners of the faith not only produced scriptural writing the first century BC, but also established some of Asia's earliest libraries. Mainly housed in temples, these libraries later became known as \"Jain Knowledge Warehouses\" and is responsible for the preservation of hundreds of thousands handwritten manuscripts.\nThe invention of paper in China allowed the Chinese to create an early form of printing (stone-rubbing). Writings the sixth-century philosopher, Confucius, were originally inscribed on stone tablets. To achieve this early form of printing the Chinese would push soft paper onto the stone, apply ink to the back of the sheet, resulting in a black background with white letters. The Chinese also employed inked carved woodblock to produce printed materials. One the major Buddhist cannons, the \"Tripitaka,\" was published in 5,000 volumes using more than 130,000 individual woodblocks. In the eleventh century movable type was developed in China and Koreans established the first foundry for producing movable type. In spite of these developments, woodblock printing remained the norm in China, Korea, and Japan. Each ruler in China compiled its own official written archives. Every emperor decided which philosophical texts, which accounts of history, which rituals of faith, and what poetry and literature would be permitted in the empire; oftentimes chronicling their own version of the previous ruler's history. Confucian and Buddhist writings that were brought to Korea and Japan are directly responsible for the continued development of book publishing and library building in East Asia.\n\nBuddhist scriptures, educational materials, and histories were stored in libraries in pre-modern Southeast Asia. In Burma, a royal library called the Pitakataik was legendarily founded by King Anawrahta; in the 18th century, British envoy Michael Symes, on visiting this library, wrote that \"it is not improbable that his Birman majesty may possess a more numerous library than any potentate, from the banks of the Danube to the borders of China\". In Thailand libraries called ho trai were built throughout the country, usually on stilts above a pond to prevent bugs from eating at the books.\n\nIn the Early Middle Ages, monastery libraries developed, such as the important one at the Abbey of Montecassino in Italy. Books were usually chained to the shelves, reflecting the fact that manuscripts, which were created via the labour-intensive process of hand copying, were valuable possessions.\n\nDespite this protectiveness, many libraries loaned books if provided with security deposits (usually money or a book of equal value). Lending was a means by which books could be copied and spread. In 1212 the council of Paris condemned those monasteries that still forbade loaning books, reminding them that lending is \"one of the chief works of mercy.\" The early libraries located in monastic cloisters and associated with scriptoria were collections of lecterns with books chained to them. Shelves built above and between back-to-back lecterns were the beginning of bookpresses. The chain was attached at the fore-edge of a book rather than to its spine. Book presses came to be arranged in carrels (perpendicular to the walls and therefore to the windows) in order to maximize lighting, with low bookcases in front of the windows. This \"stall system\" (i.e. fixed bookcases perpendicular to exterior walls pierced by closely spaced windows) was characteristic of English institutional libraries. In European libraries, bookcases were arranged parallel to and against the walls. This \"wall system\" was first introduced on a large scale in Spain's El Escorial.\n\nAlso, in Eastern Christianity monastery libraries kept important manuscripts. The most important of them were the ones in the monasteries of Mount Athos for Orthodox Christians, and the library of the Saint Catherine's Monastery in the Sinai Peninsula, Egypt for the Coptic Church.\n\nFrom the 15th century in central and northern Italy, libraries of humanists and their enlightened patrons provided a nucleus around which an \"academy\" of scholars congregated in each Italian city of consequence. Malatesta Novello, lord of Cesena, founded the Malatestiana Library. Cosimo de Medici in Florence established his own collection, which formed the basis of the Laurentian Library. In Rome, the papal collections were brought together by Pope Nicholas V, in separate Greek and Latin libraries, and housed by Pope Sixtus IV, who consigned the Bibliotheca Apostolica Vaticana to the care of his librarian, the humanist Bartolomeo Platina in February 1475.\n\nAlso the Hungarian Bibliotheca Corviniana was one of the first and largest Renaissance Greek-Latin library, established by Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary between 1458 and 1490. In 1490, the library consisted of about 3,000 codices or \"Corvinae\". Beatrix of Aragon Queen of Hungary encouraged his work with the Bibliotheca Corviniana. Lots of Corvinaes made in Florence and inspired Lorenzo Medici to found his own Greek-Latin library. The Turkish invasion of Hungary in the 16th century destroyed the codices.\n\nIn the 16th century Sixtus V bisected Bramante's Cortile del Belvedere with a cross-wing to house the Apostolic Library in suitable magnificence. The 16th and 17th centuries saw other privately endowed libraries assembled in Rome: the Vallicelliana, formed from the books of Saint Filippo Neri, with other distinguished libraries such as that of Cesare Baronio, the Biblioteca Angelica founded by the Augustinian Angelo Rocca, which was the only truly public library in Counter-Reformation Rome; the Biblioteca Alessandrina with which Pope Alexander VII endowed the University of Rome; the Biblioteca Casanatense of the Cardinal Girolamo Casanate; and finally the Biblioteca Corsiniana founded by the bibliophile Clement XII Corsini and his nephew Cardinal Neri Corsini, still housed in Palazzo Corsini in via della Lungara. The Republic of Venice patronized the foundation of the Biblioteca Marciana, based on the library of Cardinal Basilios Bessarion. In Milan Cardinal Federico Borromeo founded the Biblioteca Ambrosiana.\n\nThis trend soon spread outside of Italy, for example Louis III, Elector Palatine founded the Bibliotheca Palatina of Heidelberg.\n\nThese libraries don't have as many volumes as the modern libraries. However, they keep many valuable manuscripts of Greek, Latin and Biblical works. After the invention of the printing press, many Renaissance libraries began to collect printed texts as well as valuable manuscripts. This shift in collection materials took place within a hundred-year period- from 1550 to 1650- where the collection of texts shifted between luxury collectibles to printed texts filled with useful information. The transition of collections during the Renaissance was not just a shift exclusively from manuscripts to printed texts, although this did categorize the shift, but from books as expensive luxury artifacts both in print and in manuscript form to an expenditure on multiple copies of printed texts which held valuable, intellectual practicality. This shift can be seen as one from a textually aesthetic point of view to one where texts held intellectual usefulness. One example is the library at the Ducal Palace in Urbino, Italy. The collection of the Ducal Palace library of Urbino is evidence of two different economies of collecting: luxury and intellectual. The older library served to collect texts which served primarily to memorialize the history of the Duke of Urbino's relations and show his magnificence, while the new library served primarily as an information retrieval system for contemporary scholars to research with and discuss. In addition to manuscripts and information based texts, the Ducal library also housed what we would consider now as archival materials. This included a collection of Renaissance newsletter manuscripts, diplomatic, engineering, military, and other political and moral documents.\n\nTianyi Chamber, founded in 1561 by Fan Qin during the Ming Dynasty, is the oldest existing library in China. In its heyday it boasted a collection of 70,000 volumes of antique boo\n\nThe 17th and 18th centuries include what is known as a golden age of libraries; during this some of the more important libraries were founded in Europe. Francis Trigge Chained Library of St. Wulfram's Church, Grantham, Lincolnshire was founded in 1598 by the rector of nearby Welbourne. Thomas Bodley founded the Bodleian Library, which was open to the \"whole republic of the learned\", Norwich City library was established in 1608 and the British Library was established in 1753. Chetham's Library in Manchester, which claims to be the oldest public library in the English-speaking world, opened in 1653. Other early town libraries of the UK include those of Ipswich (1612), Bristol (founded in 1613 and opened in 1615), and Leicester (1632). Shrewsbury School also opened its library to townsfolk.\n\nThe Bibliothèque Mazarine was initially the personal library of cardinal Mazarin (1602–1661), who was a great bibliophile. His first library, arranged by his librarian, Gabriel Naudé, was dispersed when he had to flee Paris during the \"Fronde\". He then began a second library with what was left of the first, assisted by the successor to Naudé, François de La Poterie. At his death he bequeathed his library, which he had opened to scholars since 1643, to the Collège des Quatre-Nations which he had founded in 1661. The Bibliothèque Sainte-Geneviève was also founded in Paris, the Austrian National Library in Vienna, the National Central Library in Florence, the Prussian State Library in Berlin, the Załuski Library in Warsaw and the M.E. Saltykov-Shchedrin State Public Library in St Petersburg.\n\nBut this golden age was not just some prosaic period of great expansion to the number and accessibility of the libraries of Europe; it was also a period of great conflict. The Reformation did not just inspire a redistribution of power but also a redistribution of wealth and knowledge. While the Thirty Years War (1618–1648) decimated the population of Europe (from 21 million at the beginning of the conflict to 13 million by the end) it also aided in the redistribution of this wealth and knowledge.\n\nOften the plunder of this conflict included the recovery of books from looted monasteries and libraries. Given the large cost associated with the creation of the codex it should come as little surprise that books would be seen as a prize of both pecuniary and scholastic wealth, enough that a Bavarian noble sent the captured contents of the Palatine Library of Heidelberg to the Vatican as a trophy to the Pope. On the other side of the conflict, King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden specifically targeted Jesuit schools and seminaries and had wagon loads of loot (seized books and manuscripts) returned to the libraries of his home. Large volumes of books changed hands during the Thirty Years War and eventually found their way across Europe where new libraries sprang up to house these redistributed treasures.\n\nIn addition to stores of knowledge being shuffled around as spoils of war, the printing press created economies of scale that allowed for the exchange of books to become more commonplace. Book fairs were the most merchants most common choice of sale and catalogs were their most common choice of organization.\n\nThe collectors of this period helped shape the 'form' of libraries. We can see echoes of many of their innovations in the tropes of today's libraries. As noted previously, influenced by the ideals of Gabriel Naude, Cardinal Jules Mazarin proclaimed his library \"open to everybody without exception\". Also, possibly inspiring a trope, Sir Robert Bruce Cotton organized his library with the placement of busts of ancient Romans at the tops of his shelves and cataloged his contents alphanumerically based on the name of the shelf (bust) and the books physical position on the shelf (by number of books preceding it).\n\nAt the start of the 18th century, libraries were becoming increasingly public and were more frequently lending libraries. The 18th century saw the switch from closed parochial libraries to lending libraries. Before this time, public libraries were parochial in nature and libraries frequently chained their books to desks. Libraries also were not uniformly open to the public.\n\nEven though the British Museum existed at this time and contained over 50,000 books, the national library was not open to the public, or even to a majority of the population. Access to the Museum depended on passes, of which there was sometimes a waiting period of three to four weeks. Moreover, the library was not open to browsing. Once a pass to the library had been issued, the reader was taken on a tour of the library. Many readers complained that the tour was much too short.\n\nAt the start of the 19th century, there were virtually no public libraries in the sense in which we now understand the term i.e. libraries provided from public funds and freely accessible to all. Only one important library in Britain, namely Chetham's Library in Manchester, was fully and freely accessible to the public. However, there had come into being a whole network of library provision on a private or institutional basis.\n\nThe increase in secular literature at this time encouraged the spread of lending libraries, especially the commercial subscription libraries. Many small, private book clubs evolved into subscription libraries, charging high annual fees or requiring subscribing members to purchase shares in the libraries. The materials available to subscribers tended to focus on particular subject areas, such as biography, history, philosophy, theology, and travel, rather than works of fiction, particularly the novel.\n\nUnlike a public library, access was often restricted to members. Some of the earliest such institutions were founded in late 17th century England, such as Chetham's Library in 1653, Innerpeffray Library in 1680 and Thomas Plume's Library in 1704. In the American colonies, the Library Company of Philadelphia was started in 1731 by Benjamin Franklin in Philadelphia, PA.\n\nThe increasing production and demand for fiction promoted by commercial markets led to the rise of circulating libraries, which met a need that subscription libraries did not fulfil. William Bathoe claimed that his commercial venture was 'the Original Circulating library', opening doors at two locations in London in 1737. Circulating libraries also charged subscription fees to users and offered serious subject matter as well as the popular novels, thus the difficulty in clearly distinguishing circulating from subscription libraries.\nSubscription libraries were democratic in nature; created by and for communities of local subscribers who aimed to establish permanent collections of books and reading materials, rather than selling their collections annually as the circulating libraries tended to do, in order to raise funds to support their other commercial interests. Even though the subscription libraries were often founded by reading societies, committees, elected by the subscribers, chose books for the collection that were general, rather than aimed at a particular religious, political or professional group. The books selected for the collection were chosen because they would be mutually beneficial to the shareholders. The committee also selected the librarians who would manage the circulation of materials.\n\nIn Britain there were more than 200 commercial circulating libraries open in 1800, more than twice the number of subscription and private proprietary libraries that were operating at the same time. Many proprietors pandered to the most fashionable clientele, making much ado about the sort of shop they offered, the lush interiors, plenty of room and long hours of service. \"These 'libraries' would be called rental collections today.\"\n\nPrivate subscription libraries functioned in much the same manner as commercial subscription libraries, though they varied in many important ways. One of the most popular versions of the private subscription library was a gentleman's only library. Membership was restricted to the proprietors or shareholders, and ranged from a dozen or two to between four and five hundred.\n\nThe Liverpool Subscription library was a gentlemen only library. In 1798, it was renamed the Athenaeum when it was rebuilt with a newsroom and coffeehouse. It had an entrance fee of one guinea and annual subscription of five shillings. An analysis of the registers for the first twelve years provides glimpses of middle-class reading habits in a mercantile community at this period. The largest and most popular sections of the library were History, Antiquities, and Geography, with 283 titles and 6,121 borrowings, and Belles Lettres, with 238 titles and 3,313 borrowings.\nPrivate subscription libraries held a greater amount of control over both membership and the types of books in the library. There was almost a complete elimination of cheap fiction in the private societies. Subscription libraries prided themselves on respectability. The highest percentage of subscribers were often landed proprietors, gentry, and old professions.\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century and in the first decades of the nineteenth the need for books and general education made itself felt among social classes created by the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution. The late 18th century saw a rise in subscription libraries intended for the use of tradesmen. In 1797, there was established at Kendal what was known as the Economical Library, \"designed principally for the use and instruction of the working classes\". There was also the Artizans' library established at Birmingham in 1799. The entrance fee was 3 shillings. The subscription was 1 shilling 6 pence per quarter. This was a library of general literature. Novels, at first excluded, were afterwards admitted on condition that they did not account for more than one-tenth of the annual income.\n\nThe first national libraries had their origins in the royal collections of the sovereign or some other supreme body of the state.\n\nOne of the first plans for a national library was devised by the Welsh mathematician John Dee, who in 1556 presented Mary I of England with a visionary plan for the preservation of old books, manuscripts and records and the founding of a national library, but his proposal was not taken up.\n\nIn England, Sir Richard Bentley's \"Proposal for Building a Royal Library\" published in 1694 stimulated renewed interest in the subject. Sir Robert Cotton, 1st Baronet, of Connington, a wealthy antiquarian, amassed the richest private collection of manuscripts in the world at the time and founded the Cotton Library. After the Dissolution of the Monasteries, many priceless and ancient manuscripts that had belonged to the monastic libraries began to be disseminated among various owners, many of whom were unaware of the cultural value of the manuscripts. Sir Robert's genius was in finding, purchasing and preserving these ancient documents. After his death his grandson donated the library to the nation as its first national library. This transfer established the formation of the British Library.\n\nThe first true national library was founded in 1753 as part of the British Museum. \nThis new institution was the first of a new kind of museum – national, belonging to neither church nor king, freely open to the public and aiming to collect everything. The museum's foundations lay in the will of the physician and naturalist Sir Hans Sloane, who gathered an enviable collection of curiosities over his lifetime which he bequeathed to the nation for £20,000.\n\nSloane's collection included some 40,000 printed books and 7,000 manuscripts, as well as prints and drawings. The British Museum Act 1753 also incorporated the Cotton library and the Harleian library. These were joined in 1757 by the Royal Library, assembled by various British monarchs.\n\nThe first exhibition galleries and reading room for scholars opened on 15 January 1759, and in 1757, King George II granted it the right to a copy of every book published in the country, thereby ensuring that the Museum's library would expand indefinitely.\nAnthony Panizzi became the Principal Librarian at the British Library in 1856, where he oversaw its modernization. During his tenure, the Library's holdings increased from 235,000 to 540,000 volumes, making it the largest library in the world at the time. Its famous circular Reading Room was opened in 1857. Panizzi undertook the creation of a new catalogue, based on the \"Ninety-One Cataloguing Rules\" (1841) which he devised with his assistants. These rules served as the basis for all subsequent catalogue rules of the 19th and 20th centuries, and are at the origins of the ISBD and of digital cataloguing elements such as Dublin Core.\nIn France, the first national library was the Bibliothèque Mazarine, which evolved from its origin as a royal library founded at the Louvre Palace by Charles V in 1368. At the death of Charles VI, this first collection was unilaterally bought by the English regent of France, the Duke of Bedford, who transferred it to England in 1424. It was apparently dispersed at his death in 1435. The invention of printing resulted in the starting of another collection in the Louvre inherited by Louis XI in 1461. Francis I transferred the collection in 1534 to Fontainebleau and merged it with his private library.\n\nThe appointment of Jacques Auguste de Thou as librarian in the 17th century, initiated a period of development that made it the largest and richest collection of books in the world. The library opened to the public in 1692, under the administration of Abbé Louvois, Minister Louvois's son. Abbé Louvois was succeeded by the Abbé Bignon, or Bignon II as he was termed, who instituted a complete reform of the library's system. Catalogues were made which appeared from 1739 to 1753 in 11 volumes. The collections increased steadily by purchase and gift to the outbreak of the French Revolution, at which time it was in grave danger of partial or total destruction, but owing to the activities of Antoine-Augustin Renouard and Joseph Van Praet it suffered no injury.\n\nThe library's collections swelled to over 300,000 volumes during the radical phase of the French Revolution when the private libraries of aristocrats and clergy were seized. After the establishment of the French First Republic in September 1792, \"the Assembly declared the \"Bibliotheque du Roi\" to be national property and the institution was renamed the \"Bibliothèque Nationale\". After four centuries of control by the Crown, this great library now became the property of the French people.\"\n\nIn the newly formed American republic, James Madison first proposed instituting a congressional library in 1783. The Library of Congress was established on 24 April 1800, when president John Adams signed an act of Congress providing for the transfer of the seat of government from Philadelphia to the new capital city of Washington. Part of the legislation appropriated $5,000 \"for the purchase of such books as may be necessary for the use of Congress ..., and for fitting up a suitable apartment for containing them...\" Books were ordered from London and the collection, consisting of 740 books and 3 maps, was housed in the new Capitol.\nThe Imperial Public Library was established in 1795 by Catherine the Great, whose private collections included the domestic libraries of Voltaire and Diderot, which she had purchased from their heirs. Voltaire's personal library is still one of the highlights of the collection. The plan of a Russian public library was submitted to Catherine in 1766 but the Empress did not approve the project for the imperial library until , eighteen months before her death.\nThe cornerstone of the foreign-language department came from the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in the form of Załuski's Library (420,000 volumes), nationalized by the Russian government at the time of the partitions. The Polish-language books from the library (numbering some 55,000 titles) were returned to Poland by the Russian SFSR in 1921.\n\nAlthough Germany was only constituted as a state in 1871, the first national library was set up in the context of the German revolutions of 1848. Various booksellers and publishers offered their works to the Frankfurt Parliament for a parliamentary library. The library, led by Johann Heinrich Plath, was termed the \"Reichsbibliothek\" (\"Reich library\"). After the failure of the revolution the library was abandoned and the stock of books already in existence was stored at the Germanisches Nationalmuseum in Nuremberg.\nIn 1912, the town of Leipzig, seat of the annual Leipzig Book Fair, the Kingdom of Saxony and the Börsenverein der Deutschen Buchhändler (Association of German booksellers) agreed to found a German National Library in Leipzig. Starting 1 January 1913, all publications in German were systematically collected (including books from Austria and Switzerland).\n\nAlthough by the mid-19th century, England could claim 274 subscription libraries and Scotland, 266, the foundation of the modern public library system in Britain is the Public Libraries Act 1850. The Act first gave local boroughs the power to establish free public libraries and was the first legislative step toward the creation of an enduring national institution that provides universal free access to information and literature. In the 1830s, at the height of the Chartist movement, there was a general tendency towards reformism in the United Kingdom. The Capitalist economic model had created a significant amount of free time for workers, and the middle classes were concerned that the workers' free time was not being well-spent. This was prompted more by Victorian middle class paternalism rather than by demand from the lower social orders. Campaigners felt that encouraging the lower classes to spend their free time on morally uplifting activities, such as reading, would promote greater social good.\n\nIn 1835, and against government opposition, James Silk Buckingham, MP for Sheffield and a supporter of the temperance movement, was able to secure the Chair of the Select Committee which would examine \"the extent, causes, and consequences of the prevailing vice of intoxication among the labouring classes of the United Kingdom\" and propose solutions. Francis Place, a campaigner for the working class, agreed that \"the establishment of parish libraries and district reading rooms, and popular lectures on subjects both entertaining and instructive to the community might draw off a number of those who now frequent public houses for the sole enjoyment they afford\". Buckingham introduced to Parliament a Public Institution Bill allowing boroughs to charge a tax to set up libraries and museums, the first of its kind. Although this did not become law, it had a major influence on William Ewart MP and Joseph Brotherton MP, who introduced a bill which would \"[empower] boroughs with a population of 10,000 or more to raise a ½d for the establishment of museums\". This became the Museums Act 1845.\nThe advocacy of Ewart and Brotherton then succeeded in having a select committee set up to consider public library provision. The Report argued that the provision of public libraries would steer people towards temperate and moderate habits. With a view to maximising the potential of current facilities, the Committee made two significant recommendations. They suggested that the government should issue grants to aid the foundation of libraries and that the Museums Act 1845 should be amended and extended to allow for a tax to be levied for the establishment of public libraries. The Bill passed through Parliament as most MPs felt that public libraries would provide facilities for self-improvement through books and reading for all classes, and that the greater levels of education attained by providing public libraries would result in lower crime rates.\n\nThe earliest example in England of a library to be endowed for the benefit of users who were not members of an institution such as a cathedral or college was the Francis Trigge Chained Library in Grantham, Lincolnshire, established in 1598. The library still exists and can justifiably claim to be the forerunner of later public library systems. The beginning of the modern, free, open access libraries really got its start in the UK in 1847. Parliament appointed a committee, led by William Ewart, on Public Libraries to consider the necessity of establishing libraries through the nation: In 1849 their report noted the poor condition of library service, it recommended the establishment of free public libraries all over the country, and it led to the Public Libraries Act in 1850, which allowed all cities with populations exceeding 10,000 to levy taxes for the support of public libraries.\n\nSalford Museum and Art Gallery first opened in November 1850 as \"The Royal Museum & Public Library\", as the first unconditionally free public library in England. The library in Campfield, Manchester was the first library to operate a \"free\" lending library without subscription in 1852. Norwich lays claims to being the first municipality to adopt the Public Libraries Act 1850 (which allowed any municipal borough with a population of 100,000 or more to introduce a halfpenny rate to establish public libraries – although not to buy books). Norwich was the eleventh library to open, in 1857, after Winchester, Manchester, Liverpool, Bolton, Kidderminster, Cambridge, Birkenhead and Sheffield.\n\nAnother important act was the Education Act 1870, which increased literacy and thereby the demand for libraries. By 1877, more than 75 cities had established free libraries, and by 1900 the number had reached 300. This finally marks the start of the public library as we know it. And these acts influenced similar laws in other countries, such as the US.\n\nThe first tax-supported public library in the United States was Peterborough, New Hampshire (1833) first supported by state funds then an \"Act Providing for the Establishment of Public Libraries\" in 1849. The Peterborough Town Library was proposed by Reverend Abiel Abbot as a central collection of books that would be owned by the people and be free to all of the town's inhabitants. The original collection was bought by Reverend Abbot and the library trustees and was housed in Smith & Thompson's general store, which also acted as a post office.\n\nThe year 1876 is key in the history of librarianship in the United States. The American Library Association was formed, \"The American Library Journal\" was founded, Melvil Dewey published his decimal-based system of classification, and the United States Bureau of Education published its report, \"Public libraries in the United States of America; their history, condition, and management.\" During the post-Civil War years, there was a rise in the establishment of public libraries, a movement led chiefly by newly formed women's clubs. They contributed their own collections of books, conducted lengthy fund raising campaigns for buildings, and lobbied within their communities for financial support for libraries, as well as with legislatures and the Carnegie Library Endowment founded in the 20th century. They led the establishment of 75–80 percent of the libraries in communities across the country.\n\nPhilanthropists and businessmen, including John Passmore Edwards, Henry Tate and Andrew Carnegie, helped to increase the number of public libraries from the late 19th century. Carnegie alone built over 2000 libraries in the US, 660 Carnegie Libraries in Britain, in addition to many more in the Commonwealth.\n\nExactly where and when the first publicly supported library for blacks was established is still a question in need of an answer, the history of African Americans and libraries in the United States is one with a rich heritage. The earliest established library started by and for African Americans in the United States was the Philadelphia Library Company of Colored Persons. By 1838, its collection included 600 volumes, as well as pamphlets and maps. Members could read independently, or they could follow a scheduled course of study.\n\nDr. William E. B. Du Bois attributed the movement for Negro libraries to the \"natural desire (of the race) for books\". The philanthropy of Andrew Carnegie had a tremendous impact upon the ability of \"Colored Library Associations\" being able to gain access to funding in order to build libraries in and for their communities.\n\nBeginning in 1910, South Africa's public libraries grew in importance to the country's English settlers. During World War I, South Africa had a total of seventy-one subscription libraries, all governed by the English government. Afrikaners had less libraries at the time with only seven libraries.\n\nIn 1928, two librarians were appointed by the Carnegie Corporation in New York to survey library resources in South Africa. Their top two concerns were the lack of library use by Afrikaners and creating library provisions and school library services for non-Whites, with the recommendation that they not share the same buildings as White patrons.\n\nDuring the apartheid years (1948–1994), progressive libraries such as the Durban Library, opened branches in Indian and Colored communities, despite government pressure to not do so. The years of apartheid began with the Natal Indian Congress, founded by Gandhi, which called upon the Durban City Council to end the restriction of non-Europeans by opening the library to all sections of the community. The pressure put on the city council by the Natal India Congress forced the council to start a travelling service for non-European patrons.\n\nThe Afrikaans government during apartheid passed several discriminatory legislative measures including the Separate Amenities Act of 1953, forcing councils to provide separate amenities and services for each race. If the councils were unable to provide these amenities and services to all races, they focused solely on Whites. During this time the Afrikaans government became responsible for Black library provisions while the provinces became responsible for Colored, Indian and White library provisions, a fact that took two years for the South African Library Association to find out.\n\nIn the 20th century, many public libraries were built in different Modernist architecture styles, some more functional, others more representative. For many of these buildings, the quality of the interior spaces, their lighting and atmosphere, was becoming more significant than the façade design of the library building. Modernist architects like Alvar Aalto put great emphasis on the comfort and usability of library spaces. The Municipal Library he built 1958–62 for the German city of Wolfsburg features a great central room for which he used a series of specially designed skylights to bring in natural light, even though all the walls are covered with books.\n\nIn the 21st century libraries are changing and evolving to match modern society. Lots of libraries are facing financial issues and crises. But are finding ways to adapt to people's needs. Such as providing digital services to patrons at home, and creating more user friendly places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38940628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38940628", "title": "Information Centre on Academic Mobility and Equivalence", "text": "Information Centre on Academic Mobility and Equivalence\n\nThe Information Centre on Academic Mobility and Equivalence (CIMEA) is the Italian centre in the National Academic Recognition Information Centre (NARIC) network. It was established in 1984 and since 1986 has operated through an agreement with Italy's Ministry of Education, Universities and Research.\n"}
{"id": "52296528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52296528", "title": "International Composers' Guild", "text": "International Composers' Guild\n\nThe International Composers’ Guild was an organization created in 1921 by Edgard Varèse and Carlos Salzedo. It was responsible for performances and premieres of works by Béla Bartók, Alban Berg, Erik Satie, Carlos Chávez, Henry Cowell, Charles Ives, Maurice Ravel, Wallingford Riegger, Francis Poulenc, and Anton von Webern, and others.\n"}
{"id": "1391413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1391413", "title": "Jemaa el-Fnaa", "text": "Jemaa el-Fnaa\n\nJemaa el-Fnaa (Arabic: ساحة جامع الفناء \"saaHat jamaaʻ al-fanâʼ\", also Jemaa el-Fna, Djema el-Fna or Djemaa el-Fnaa) is a square and market place in Marrakesh's medina quarter (old city). It remains the main square of Marrakesh, used by locals and tourists.\n\nThe origin of its name is unclear: \"Jamaa\" means \"congregation\" in Arabic, probably referring to a destroyed Almoravid mosque. \"el Fnaʼ\" or \"finâʼ\" can mean \"death\" or \"a courtyard, space in front of a building\". \"\"finâʼ\" in arabic commonly means \"open area\", straight translation would be \"the gathering/congregation area\". Other meanings could be \"The assembly of death,\" or \"The Mosque at the End of the World\". Another explanation is that it refers to a mosque with a distinctive courtyard or square in front of it. A third translation is \"assembly of the dead\", referring to public executions on the plaza around 1050 AD.\n\nMarrakesh was founded by the Almorabits 1070-1072. After a destructive struggle, it fell to the Almohads in 1147. Following this, Jamaa el-Fna was renovated along with much of the city. The city walls were also extended by Abou Yacoub Youssef and particularly by Yacoub el Mansour from 1147-1158. The surrounding mosque, palace, hospital, parade ground and gardens around the edges of the marketplace were also overhauled, and the \"kasbah\" was fortified. Subsequently, with the fortunes of the city, Jamaa el Fna saw periods of decline and also renewal.\n\nDuring the day it is predominantly occupied by orange juice stalls, water sellers with traditional leather water-bags and brass cups, youths with chained Barbary apes and snake charmers despite the protected status of these species under Moroccan law.\n\nAs the day progresses, the entertainment on offer changes: the snake charmers depart, and late in the day the square becomes more crowded, with Chleuh dancing-boys (it would be against custom for girls to provide such entertainment), story-tellers (telling their tales in Berber or Arabic, to an audience of locals), magicians, and peddlers of traditional medicines. As darkness falls, the square fills with dozens of food-stalls as the number of people on the square peaks.\nThe square is edged along one side by the Marrakesh souk, a traditional North African market catering both for the common daily needs of the locals, and for the tourist trade. On other sides are hotels and gardens and cafe terraces, and narrow streets lead into the alleys of the medina quarter.\n\nOnce a bus station, the place was closed to vehicle traffic in the early 2000s. The authorities are well aware of its importance to the tourist trade, and a strong but discreet police presence ensures the safety of visitors. \nThe idea of the UNESCO project Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity came from people concerned about the Jamaa el Fna. The place is known for its active concentration of traditional activities by storytellers, musicians and performers, but it was threatened by economic development pressures. In fighting for the protection of traditions, the residents called for action on an international level. To recognize the need for the protection of such places — termed \"cultural spaces\" — and other popular and traditional forms of cultural expression.\n\nUNESCO encourages communities to identify, document, protect, promote and revitalize such heritage. The UNESCO label aims to raise awareness about the importance of oral and intangible heritage as an essential component of cultural diversity.\nShortly before noon on April 28, 2011, a blast originating in a cafe in the square killed 17 people and injured another 25. Initial reports blamed an accidental gas explosion, but officials later blamed \"criminals\" and \"terrorists\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3151959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3151959", "title": "Kupe", "text": "Kupe\n\nIn the Māori mythology of some tribes, Kupe (10th century) was involved in the Polynesian discovery of New Zealand.\n\nThere is contention concerning the status of Kupe. The contention turns on the authenticity of later versions of the legends, the so-called 'orthodox' versions closely associated with S. Percy Smith and Hoani Te Whatahoro Jury. Unlike the attested tribal traditions about Kupe recorded before Smith and Jury, the orthodox version is precise in terms of dates and in offering placenames in Polynesia where Kupe is supposed to have lived or departed from. The orthodox version also places Kupe hundreds of years before the arrival of the other founding canoes, whereas in the earlier traditions, Kupe is most definitely contemporary with those canoes (Simmons 1976). In addition, according to legends of the Whanganui and Taranaki regions Kupe was a contemporary of Turi of the Aotea canoe. In other traditions, Kupe arrived around the year 1400 on other canoes, including Tainui and Tākitimu (Simmons 1976:20–25).\n\nIn the \"orthodox\" version, Kupe was a great chief of Hawaiki who arrived in New Zealand in 925 AD. He left his cousin Hoturapa to drown during a fishing expedition and kidnapped his wife, Kuramarotini, with whom he fled in her great canoe Matawhourua. During their subsequent journeys, they overcame numerous monsters and sea demons, including the great octopus named as Te Wheke-a-Muturangi, and discovered New Zealand. Returning to Hawaiki, Kupe told of his adventures and convinced others to migrate with him (Craig 1989:127; see also External links below).\n\nDavid Simmons said \"A search for the sources of what I now call 'The Great New Zealand Myth' of Kupe, Toi and the Fleet, had surprising results. In this form they did not exist in the old manuscripts nor in the whaikorero of learned men. Bits and pieces there were. Kupe was and is known, in the traditions of the Hokianga, Waikato, East Coast and South Island: but the genealogies given did not tally with those given by S. Percy Smith. The stories given by Smith were a mixture of differing tribal tradition. In other words the whole tradition as given by Smith was pakeha, not Maori. Similarly, the story of Toi and Whatonga and the canoe race leading to settlement in New Zealand could not be authenticated except from the one man who gave it to Percy Smith. Learned men of the same tribe make no mention of this story and there are no waiata celebrating their deeds. Tribal origin canoes are well known to the tribes belonging to them: but none of them talk as Smith did of six large sea-going canoes setting out together from Raiatea. The Great New Zealand Myth was just that\". (Simmons 1977).\n\nTraditions about Kupe appear among the peoples of the following areas: Northland, Ngāti Kahungunu, Tainui, Whanganui-Taranaki, Rangitāne, and the South Island.\n\nIn the Northland traditions, Kupe is a discoverer and contemporary with, but older than, Nukutawhiti, the ancestor of the Ngā Puhi people. Kupe arrives, lives at Hokianga, and returns to Wawauatea, his homeland, leaving certain signs and marks of his visit (Simmons 1976:34).\n\n\nEarly accounts from the Ngāti Kahungunu area consistently place Kupe on board the Tākitimu canoe or name as his companions people who are strongly associated with the Tākitimu. No other canoes are mentioned in connection with him. They also contain no references to the octopus of Muturangi, nor of the chase from Hawaiki (Simmons 1976:20).\n\n\nHe then traveled south to reach Mahia.\n\nTainui traditions about Kupe can be summarised as: Kupe stole Hoturapa’s wife or wives; came to New Zealand and cut up the land; raised rough seas; and went away again. The sources in detail:\n\n\nWhanganui-Taranaki traditions can be summarised as: Kupe came looking for his wife who had been abducted by (H)oturapa. His canoe was named Mataho(u)rua; Kupe was associated with Turi as his contemporary. Kupe cut up the land, and he was a brother of Ngake. Kupe encountered rough seas on his journey. The octopus story is known, but the creature is not named. Except in later versions which are somewhat suspect as to their authenticity, the accounts do not include the episode in which Kupe chases the octopus from Hawaiki (Simmons 1976:27). Here are some of the accounts from this area:\n\n\n\nThe few references to Kupe in South Island sources indicate that the traditions are substantially the same as those of Ngāti Kahungunu, with whom Ngāi Tahu, the main tribe of the South Island, had strong genealogical and trading links (Simmons 1976:34). \n\n\"When Kupe, the first discoverer of New Zealand, first came in sight of the land, his wife cried, 'He ao! He ao!\" (a cloud! a cloud!). Great Barrier Island was therefore named Aotea (white cloud), and the long mainland Aotearoa (long white cloud). When Kupe finally returned to his homeland his people asked him why he did not call the newly discovered country after his fatherland. He replied, 'I preferred the warm breast to the cold one, the new land to the old land long forsaken'.\"\n\nWilliam Trethewey produced the statuary for the New Zealand Centennial Exhibition that was held in 1939/40 in Rongotai, Wellington. A frieze depicted the progress of New Zealand, groupings of pioneers, lions in Art Deco style, a large fountain and a figure of Kupe standing on the prow of his canoe were produced for the centennial exhibition. Of all these works, only the Kupe Statue still remains. After having spent many decades at Wellington Railway Station, then the Wellington Show and Sports Centre and finally at Te Papa, the Kupe Group Trust successfully fundraised to have the plaster statue cast in bronze. Since 2000, the bronze statue has been installed at the Wellington Waterfront.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "469219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=469219", "title": "List of headgear", "text": "List of headgear\n\nThis is an incomplete list of headgear (that is, anything worn on the head), both modern and historical.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee Type of helmet\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39957113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39957113", "title": "List of neo-noir titles", "text": "List of neo-noir titles\n\nThe following is a list of films belonging to the neo-noir genre. Following a common convention of associating the forties and fifties with film noir, the list takes 1960 to date the beginning of the genre. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1255882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1255882", "title": "List of unclassified languages according to the Ethnologue", "text": "List of unclassified languages according to the Ethnologue\n\nThe following languages are listed as unclassified by the \"Ethnologue\" (17th edition), though in their descriptions some are identified with an established family, or have been retired as spurious. Since the 15th edition, several other unclassified languages were found to be related to known languages once better data was collected, and some, such as \"Amikoana\" and \"Miarrã\", were found to be spurious and their ISO codes were retired. (See spurious languages.) Languages which became extinct before 1950 are the purview of Linguist List and are being gradually removed from \"Ethnologue\"; they are listed as an addendum to this page.\n\n\n\n\nBhatola is listed as unclassifiable (due to a lack of data) by \"Glottolog\".\n\nAll cants:\n\n\nThese languages became extinct before 1950 and their ISO codes are not, or are no longer, maintained by SIL. Maintenance of additional languages extinct before 1950 is being gradually shifted from SIL to Linguist List. \n\n"}
{"id": "265010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265010", "title": "March Forward, Dear Mother Ethiopia", "text": "March Forward, Dear Mother Ethiopia\n\nMarch Forward, Dear Mother Ethiopia ( ; ; \"\") is the national anthem of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.\n\nThe anthem's lyrics were written by Dereje Melaku Mengesha, and the music was composed by Solomon Lulu Mitiku. The song was adopted in 1992, as part of reforms that followed the dissolution of the Derg government.\n\n"}
{"id": "25559456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25559456", "title": "Memory Eternal", "text": "Memory Eternal\n\nMemory Eternal (, \"Aiōnia ē Mnēmē\"; , \"Thikruhu muabbadan\"; , \"Sauk'uno Khseneba\"; , \"Věčĭnaja pamętĭ\", Ukrainian: Вічная Пам'ять (vichnaya pamyat) ), is an exclamation, an encomium like the polychronion, used at the end of an Eastern Orthodox funeral or memorial service. The same exclamation is used by those Eastern Catholic Churches which follow the Byzantine Rite. It is the liturgical counterpart to the Western Rite prayer \"Eternal Rest\". The \"eternal memory\" mentioned in the prayer refers to remembrance by God, rather than by the living, and is another way of praying that the soul has entered heaven and enjoys eternal life.\n\nThis chant is parallel to \"Many years\" which is chanted for living members of the Church (and occasionally for national or local authorities, even though they may not be Orthodox). \"Memory eternal\" is not chanted for those who have been officially glorified (canonized) as saints. As part of the glorification process for new saints, on the eve of the day before their glorification, \"Memory eternal\" will be chanted for them at the end of a solemn service known as the \"Last Requiem.\" The chanting of \"Memory eternal\" is introduced by a deacon, as follows:\n\nIt concludes with the line \"with the saints, grant her/him rest o Lord, memory eternal!\"\n\n\"Memory Eternal\" is chanted at the end of services on Saturdays of the Dead, though not for an individual, but for all of the faithful departed.\n\n\"Memory Eternal\" is intoned by the deacon and then chanted by all in response three times during the liturgy on the Sunday of Orthodoxy to commemorate church hierarchs, Orthodox monarchs, Orthodox patriarchs and clergy, and all deceased Orthodox Christians \n\nIn the Russian Orthodox Church, \"Memory Eternal\" is chanted on the Sunday of Orthodoxy for all of the departed rulers of Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "17194262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17194262", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Pakistan)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Pakistan)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Integration, Urdu: وزارث ثقافت; reporting name: MoCul, is a Cabinet-level ministry of Government of Pakistan, charged with the promotion of culture (architecture, cinema (films), , folklore, literature (Mushaira), music, philosophy, textiles and theatre), implementing and enforcing the cultural policies and activities in the country. The ministry is devolved into provincial governments of Pakistan, but its federal activities are currently managed by the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Integration which is currently headquartered in Cabinet Secretariat, Islamabad Capital Venue. Its executive and political figure is the Culture Minister, who is a public appointed official and must be required to be a member of Parliament of Pakistan. The ministry coordinates its activities through its designated departments and also at the university levels.\n\nThe Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Integration coordinates departments that are listed below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49475874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49475874", "title": "Mouth and foot painting", "text": "Mouth and foot painting\n\nMouth and foot painting is a technique to create drawings, paintings and other works of art by maneuvering brushes and other tools with the mouth or foot. The technique is mostly used by artists who through illness, accident or congenital disability have no use of their hands. The Association of Mouth and Foot Painting Artists (AMFPA) is a worldwide organization representing these artists.\n\nThe brushes and tools that are used are ordinary artist's implements, but they may be modified in length or width. Mouth painters hold the brush in their mouth or between their teeth and maneuver it with their tongue and cheek muscles. The paper or canvas is usually mounted vertically on an easel. Mouth painting is strenuous for neck and jaw muscles since the head has to perform the same back and forth movement as a hand does when painting. Foot painting can be done sitting on the floor, at a table or at an easel, as most foot painters use their toes with the same dexterity as people with hands use their fingers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42029679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42029679", "title": "Njai", "text": "Njai\n\nThe njai (; Perfected Spelling: nyai) were women who were kept as housekeepers, companions, and concubines in the Dutch East Indies (modern-day Indonesia). In the original Balinese, the word \"njai\" meant \"sister\", but the term later took a more specific meaning. Author Rob Nieuwenhuys described the position of the njai as always subservient, being the white man's housekeeper and companion, before she was his concubine.\nThe word \"njai\" (also \"nyai\", \"njaie\", \"nyaie\", \"nyahi\" or \"nyi\") comes from a Balinese word meaning sister. In Sundanese the term \"nyai\" refer to \"miss\" or young woman, while in Betawi dialect, \"nyai\" refer to \"grandmother\" or elderly lady. The \"Great Dictionary of the Indonesian Language of the Language Center\" gives three definitions for \"njai\": as a term for referring to a married or unmarried woman, as a term for referring to a woman older than the speaker, and for the concubine of a non-Indonesian. It is this last definition which is used here, a definition which gained traction in the 17th century when Balinese \"njais\" first became common in the colonial capital of Batavia (now Jakarta). The word, in discussion of the Indies, is sometimes simply translated as \"mistress\".\n\nA variety of other terms were used to refer to the \"njai\", with a varying degree of positive and negative connotations. In the 19th century the term \"inlandse huishoudster\", or simply \"huishoudster\" (housekeeper), was common. The \"njai\" were also known as \"moentji\", from the Dutch diminutive \"mondje\", meaning \"mouth\", and the more negative \"snaar\" (\"strings\"); both referred to the \"njai\"'s verbal propensities. As the \"njai\" could also serve as a translator and language teacher, terms such as \"boek\" (\"book\") and \"woordenbooek\" (\"dictionary\") are also noted. Objectification of the \"njai\" was found in terms such as \"meubel\" (\"furniture\") and \"inventarisstuk\" (\"inventory items\").\n\nNot all \"njai\" were necessarily native Indonesian--in Madelon Szekely-Lulofs's 1931 novel \"Rubber\", \"njai\" Kiku San is Japanese.\n\nEuropeans first arrived in the Indonesian archipelago in the 16th century, and in 1602 the Dutch East India Company was established to ensure Dutch domination of the spice trade. The Europeans established small settlements, and in many of them the European residents were all men. Without contact with Dutch women, they began turning to their female slaves (mostly originating from Sulawesi, Bali, and outside the archipelago) for sexual services. By 1620 the habit had become so prevalent that Governor-General Jan Pieterszoon Coen passed a law forbidding Dutchmen from keeping concubines. To prevent a relapse, Coen began bringing orphans from the Netherlands, termed \"compagniesdochters\", to become wives of company employees. The program, however, had little effect, as the company could not keep up with the demand. There were also concerns that these women were only accepting marriage for personal gain and that they would attempt to draw their husbands back to the Netherlands – and out of the employment of the Dutch East Indies Company.\n\nIn the 1650s, Governors-General Carel Reyniersz and Joan Maetsuycker began promoting interracial marriage between Dutchmen and indigenous women, who were thought to be less greedy and less likely to ask their husbands to leave the Indies. The Eurasian daughters of these marriages proved to be popular targets of affections, as marriage to one could help men improve their social position. Many men, however, were unable to marry them, as they generally sought persons already in a position of power. Instead, it was more common for Dutchmen to take Asian women as their partners, as they could not marry without the company's permission and would not be repatriated if they married a non-Christian.\n\nWhen the British took control of the Indies in 1812, they were shocked by the practices of concubinage, interracial marriages, and slavery in the Indies. They attempted to force all elements of Indies society to live in accordance with British morals. However, they were unable to eliminate the keeping of \"njais\", and, indeed, some Englishmen kept a \"njai\" of their own.\n\nAfter the British returned the Indies to the Dutch in 1815, a new wave of immigration – including some women – began. These newcomers, as with the British before them, were shocked by the intermarriage and keeping of \"njais\". Under the new system they established, which pushed for a sharper delineation between Europeans and non-Europeans, a \"njai\" marrying a European could be recognized as of a similar stature to Europeans. Those who were not married, however, received no special recognition.\n\nOwing to an economic boom, the early 20th century saw another surge in immigration from Europe. With the European population now of a considerable size, Indies society began drifting towards a more racially divided one. Venues exclusive to one racial group were opened, and European, Chinese, and indigenous people rarely intermingled. Along with this change, the position of men living with a \"njai\" became increasingly difficult. The Indies government, following a decree by Governor-General Alexander Willem Frederik Idenburg, would not hire them, and businesses attempted to promote endogamy. In the Netherlands, extensive polemics were written which condemned, from a moral point of view, the practice of keeping a \"njai\": the practice was deemed to be based on nothing but lust, for a \"njai\" \"could not touch the soul\". Concern was also expressed over men's seeming lack of enthusiasm for having children with their \"njai\", leading to high abortion rates.\n\nBy the 1910s the number of \"njais\" had decreased, although prostitution had become more prevalent. The practice had not died out, however, by the time the Empire of Japan invaded and occupied the Indies. During the occupation, the \"njai\" and their mixed-race children were forcefully separated from European men, who were put into internment camps. After the occupation ended in 1945, Sukarno proclaimed an independent Indonesia. During the ensuing revolution, the \"njai\" were forced to choose between going with their partners to Europe, or staying in Indonesia; both choices were taken.\n\nThe \"njai\" could be sent home with little or no warning, with or without her children. This was common when the European man prepared to marry.\n\nThe general view of \"njai\" was, at first, extremely negative. In the 17th century, they were described as \"lustful beasts\", with voracious sexual appetites who would not accept money for sex, but pay for it. Coen, in a 1620 letter, described \"njai\" as lazy (except in their sexual deeds), stupid, dishonest, and willing to kill the persons they hated.\n\nThe children of a \"njai\" were often raised in indigenous traditions, by their mother or by a maid. The fathers would generally not interact with them, preferring to socialize with other European men instead. In the 17th century few could speak Dutch, although later education programs were initiated to promote the use of the language.\n\nThe \"njai\" has a broad presence in literature. James Siegel argues that \"Dutch shame\", which he describes as caused by guilt over the contemporary situation in the Indies that the Dutch colonialists seemed incapable of improving, gave rise to certain stock characters that would explain Dutch political and administrative failure. Siegel cites such characters as the \"venal Arab\" and the \"lustful, greedy Chinese merchant\", and the \"'deceitful' housekeeper or \"njai\"\".\n\n\"Njai\" characters are common in works of Chinese Malay literature. Some of the earliest were \"syair\" (poems), published in 1907 by Lie Kim Hok and Tjiang O. S. respectively in 1897; both were adaptations of \"Tjerita Njai Dasima\". In 1904, Oei Soei Tiong published \"Njai Alimah\". In the 1910s and 1920s, several books were published with \"njais\" as the title characters, including \"Njai Aisah\" (Tan Boen Kim; 1915), \"Njai Soemirah\" (Thio Tjin Boen; 1917), and \"Njai Marsina\" (Numa, 1923).\n\n\"Njai\" are present in early films from the Dutch East Indies, several of which were adapted from novels. In 1929 Tan's Film produced \"Njai Dasima\", an adaptation of \"Tjerita Njai Dasima\". The film was a critical and commercial success, and Indonesian film historian Misbach Yusa Biran writes that cinemas could make up for several days of losses with a single showing. \"Tjerita Njai Dasima\" has since been adapted a further three times. A talkie version, directed by Bachtiar Effendi, was released by Tan's by January 1932. Although the 1941 adaptation eliminated Dasima's role as a \"njai\", the 1970 adaptation \"Samiun and Dasima\" by Hasmanan reinstated Dasima's role as a \"njai\". Other Indies films featuring \"njai\" in key roles include \"Boenga Roos dari Tjikembang\" (1931) and \"De Stem des Bloeds\" (1932); the latter of these has been read as promoting a positive image of the mixed-race children of \"njai\" and Europeans.\n\n"}
{"id": "35934051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35934051", "title": "PVC decking", "text": "PVC decking\n\nPVC decking is composed entirely of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and contains no wood. PVC decking is a more expensive option in the decking industry, but it provides significant fade and stain resistance and lower maintenance requirements compared to other products. \n\nPVC decking was introduced to the market around 2005 and continues to be a contender as a top deck building material. Its uniquely all-plastic makeup makes it distinctly different from wood decking or other composite decking options. PVC decking has changed in appearance since its introduction and is now available in different colors.\n\nUnlike some other wood-alternative decking materials, PVC decking is not made with any wood. It is made completely from plastic instead of from a combination of materials. \n\nProducing PVC decking is a relatively difficult process called co-extrusion. The deck board core is coated and bound with an outer plastic shell, but the materials can be temperamental and hard to work with. Commercial production is challenging, not only for this reason, but also because about one eighth of the deck boards produced are considered unsellable and therefore scrapped. The fragile nature of this production process requires careful ingredient mixing and precise execution. \n\nPVC decking offers the most significant fade, stain, and mold resistance among decking products. The products are marketed as low-maintenance and are typically easy to clean and maintain. PVC decking typically doesn't require staining, sanding, or painting. It is sometimes partially composed of recycled plastic material, making it an environmentally friendly, efficient use of resources. The product is significantly lighter compared to wood composite products and can be bent and shaped to create custom configurations.\n\nCompared to other synthetic decking products, PVC is the most expensive. The 100% PVC makeup of the board makes it costlier than the wood powder/plastic mix used in composite decking. This cost means that PVC will be a more expensive investment up front, although manufacturers claim that the long life and low maintenance requirements of the deck make it an economical decision in the long run. PVC lacks the realistic feel of wood. Although manufacturers form the product with a realistic wood grain or brushstroke, some contractors and homeowners simply do not like the artificial sheen of the product. PVC is also formulated to resist scratches, stains, and mold, but some wear will still show over the life of the product.\n\n"}
{"id": "1393461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1393461", "title": "Pollen zone", "text": "Pollen zone\n\nPollen zones are a system of subdividing the last glacial period and Holocene paleoclimate using the data from pollen cores. The sequence provides a global chronological structure to a wide variety of researchers, such as geologists, climatologisists, geographers and archaeologists, who study the physical and cultural environment of the last 15,000 years.\n\nThe palynological aspects of the system were first investigated extensively by the Swedish palynologist Lennart von Post in the years before the First World War. By analysing pollen in core samples taken from peat bogs, von Post noticed that different plant species were represented in bands through the cores.\n\nThe differing species and differing quantities of the same species are caused by changes in climate. Von Post was able to confirm the Blytt-Sernander climatic sequence showing fluctuations between warmer and colder periods across thousands of years. He used local peat sequences combined with varve dating to produce a regional climatic chronology for Scandinavia.\n\nIn 1940 Harry Godwin began applying von Post's methods to pollen cores from the British Isles to produce the wider European sequence accepted today. It basically expanded the Blytt-Sernander further into the late Pleistocene and refined some of its periods. Following the Second World War, the technique spread to the Americas.\n\nCurrently scientists are focusing a repertory of several different methods on core samples in peat, ice, lake and ocean bottoms, and sediments to achieve \"high resolution\" dating not possible to only one method: Carbon dating, Dendrochronology, isotope ratios on a number of gases, studies of insects and molluscs, and others. While often doubting the utility of the modified Bytt-Sernander, they seem to confirm and expand it all the more.\n\nAt present nine main pollen zones, I-IX, are defined, based on the work of J. Iversen, published in 1954. These are matched to period names called \"biostratigraphic divisions\" in the table, which were defined for Denmark by Iverson based on layers in the peat bogs. They represent climatic and biological zones in the peat. \n\nOthers have used these names in different senses, such as the 1974 chronozones of J. Mangerud. The sequences in Germany and Sweden are not exactly the same as those in Denmark, inviting scientists there to use the names still differently or make other definitions. Moreover, the names are apt to be used interchangeably for glacials, interglacials, stadial, interstadials, or oscillations, leading some scientists to deplore the lack of system.\n\nThe system of the table below covers from around 13,000 BC to the modern day. Dates, given in years BC, are best viewed as being based on uncalibrated C-14 dates, which, when calibrated, would result in much earlier BC dates. For example, an Older Dryas start date of 10,000 BC translates roughly into an uncalibrated BP date of 12,000. Calibrated, that becomes 14,000 BP, 12,000 BC. To obtain quick, on-line calibrations, you may use CalPal.\n\nThe dates in the table correspond relatively well to more modern dates for the earlier periods. Larger discrepancies begin at the end of the Boreal. More, and more modern, details on the dating of the periods are given under the article for each one.\n\nThe archaeological periods listed only apply to north Europe, and do so approximately. For example, there is no uniform chronozone, \"the Bronze Age\", which would apply globally or even be of the same dates between north and south Europe.\n\nThe geological stages listed are only defined for the British Isles. Scientists use different names for north Europe, south Europe and other regions. However, they are cross-correlated in the articles for the ones listed.\n\nIn contrast to glacial periods, these pollen zones are being used to apply globally, with but few exceptions. It is acceptable, for example, to refer to the \"Younger Dryas\" of Antarctica, which has no pollen of its own. A few scientists disapprove of such uses.\n\n"}
{"id": "39243517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39243517", "title": "Prehistoric art in Scotland", "text": "Prehistoric art in Scotland\n\nPrehistoric art in Scotland is visual art created or found within the modern borders of Scotland, before the departure of the Romans from southern and central Britain in the early fifth century CE, which is usually seen as the beginning of the early historic or Medieval era. There is no clear definition of prehistoric art among scholars and objects that may involve creativity often lack a context that would allow them to be understood.\n\nThe earliest examples of portable art from what is now Scotland are highly decorated carved stone balls from the Neolithic period, which share patterns with Irish and Scottish stone carvings. Other items from this period include elaborate carved maceheads and figurines from Links of Noltland, including the Westray Wife, which is the earliest known depiction of a human face from Scotland.\n\nFrom the Bronze Age there are examples of carvings, including the first representations of objects, and cup and ring marks. Representations of an axe and a boat at the Ri Cruin Cairn in Kilmartin, and a boat pecked into Wemyss Cave, are probably the oldest two-dimensional representations of real objects that survive in Scotland. Elaborate carved stone battle-axes may be symbolic representations of power. Surviving metalwork includes gold lunula or neckplates, jet beaded necklaces and elaborate weaponry, such as leaf swords and ceremonial shields of sheet bronze.\n\nFrom the Iron Age there are more extensive examples of patterned objects and gold work. Evidence of the wider La Tène culture includes the Torrs Pony-cap and Horns. The Stirling torcs demonstrate common styles found in Scotland and Ireland and continental workmanship. One of the most impressive items from this period is the boar's head fragment of the Deskford carnyx. From the first century CE, as Rome carried out a series of occupations, there are Roman artifacts like the Cramond Lioness and Roman influence on material culture can be seen in local stone carvings.\n\nThe ability to study prehistoric art is dependent on surviving artifacts. Art created in mediums such as sand, bark, hides and textiles has not normally endured, while less-perishable materials, such as rock, stone, bone, ivory (and to a lesser extent wood), later pottery and metal, are more likely to be extant. Whether all these artifacts can be defined as works of art is contested between scholars. Alexander Marshack argued that the earliest, non-representational incisions on rock mark the beginnings of human art. More cautiously, Paul Mellars suggests that the relative rarity of these works means they cannot be seen as integral to early human society and evidence of an artistic culture.\n\nColin Renfrew has pointed out the dangers of applying modern values of art to past societies and cultures. Günter Berghaus argues that these works have often been approached with a set of post-Renaissance aesthetic values that distinguish between artists and craftsman and art and artifact, although these categories are not universal and may be inappropriate for understanding prehistoric society. Duncan Garrow has pointed to the difficulties of the modern distinction drawn between form and decoration. The emphasis in studies of prehistoric art tend to be placed on decoration in objects such as ceramics and ignores the importance of form, found in objects such as weapons.\n\nMany meanings have been suggested for the advent and nature of prehistoric art. It may have helped develop human solidarity in its early stages. Open air rock art may have acted as signposts for the route of animal migrations. Cave art may have had a ritual role in rites of initiation, vision quests or totemic ceremonies. Portable objects may have acted as notation systems and anthropomorphic figures may have had a role in religious rituals. However, most artifacts can only be understood in their context, which is often lost or poorly understood.\n\nScotland was occupied by Mesolithic hunter-gatherers from around 8500 BCE, who were highly mobile boat-using people making tools from bone, stone and antlers. Neolithic farming brought permanent settlements, like the stone house at Knap of Howar on Papa Westray, dating from around 3500 BCE. The settlers also introduced chambered cairn tombs, as at Maeshowe, and the many standing stones and circles such as those at Stenness on the mainland of Orkney, which dates from about 3100 BCE, and similar stones to which are found across Europe from about the same time.\n\nThere is no surviving art from the Mesolithic period in Scotland, probably because the mobile peoples of the period would have made this on perishable organic items. Probably the oldest surviving portable visual art from Scotland are carved stone balls, or petrospheres, that date from the late Neolithic era. They are a uniquely Scottish phenomenon, with over 425 known examples. Most are from modern Aberdeenshire, but a handful of examples are known from Iona, Skye, Harris, Uist, Lewis, Arran, Hawick, Wigtownshire and fifteen from Orkney, five of which were found at the Neolithic village of Skara Brae. Many functions have been suggested for these objects, most indicating that they were prestigious and powerful possessions. Their production may have continued into the Iron Age. The complex carved circles and spirals on these balls can be seen mirrored in the carving on what was probably a lintel from a chambered cairn at Pierowall on Westray, Orkney, which seem to be part of the same culture that produced carvings at Newgrange in Ireland. Similarly, elaborately carved maceheads are often found in burial sites, like that found at Airdens in Sutherland, which has a pattern of interlocking diamond-shaped facets, similar to those found across Neolithic Britain and Europe.\n\nPottery appeared in the Neolithic period once hunters and gatherers transitioned to a sedentary lifestyle, until then they needed to use lightweight, mobile containers. Finely made and decorated Unstan ware, survives from the fourth and third millennia BCE and is named after the Unstan Chambered Cairn on the Mainland of the Orkney Islands. Typical are elegant and distinctive shallow bowls with a band of grooved patterning below the rim, using a technique known as \"stab-and-drag\". A second variation consists of undecorated, round-bottomed bowls. Unstan ware is mostly found in tombs, specifically tombs of the Orkney-Cromarty type, that include the so-called Tomb of the Eagles at Isbister on South Ronaldsay, and Taversoe Tuick and Midhowe on Rousay, but has occasionally been found outside of tombs, as at the farmstead of Knap of Howar on Papa Westray. There are scattered occurrences of Unstan ware on the Scottish Mainland, as at Balbridie, and in the Western Isles, as at Eilean Domhnuill. Unstan ware may have evolved into the later grooved ware style, associated with the builders of the Maeshowe class of chambered tomb, which began on Orkney early in the third millennium BCE, and was soon adopted throughout Britain and Ireland. Grooved ware vessels are often highly decorated and flat bottomed, often with patterns similar to those on petrospheres and carved maceheads.\n\nIn 2009 the Westray Wife, a lozenge-shaped figurine that is believed to be the earliest representation of a human face found in Scotland, was discovered at the site of a Neolithic village at Links of Noltland near Grobust Bay on the north coast of Westray. The figurine's face has two dots for eyes, heavy brows and an oblong nose and a pattern of hatches on the body could represent clothing. Two figurines were subsequently found at the site in 2010 and 2012.\n\nThe Bronze Age began in Scotland about 2000 BCE as new techniques of metalworking began to reach northern Britain. The creation of cairns and Megalithic monuments continued. There was probably a fall in population in this period. There is evidence of cellular round houses of stone on Shetland and wooden crannogs, roundhouses partially or entirely built on artificial islands. As elsewhere in Europe, hill forts were first introduced in this period.\n\nFrom this period there are extensive examples of rock art. These include cup and ring marks, a central depression carved into stone, surrounded by rings, sometimes not completed. These are common elsewhere in Atlantic Europe and have been found on natural rocks and isolated stones across Scotland. The most elaborate sets of markings are in western Scotland, particularly in the Kilmartin district. The representations of an axe and a boat at the Ri Cruin Cairn in Kilmartin, and a boat pecked into Wemyss Cave, are probably the oldest two-dimensional representations of real objects that survive in Scotland. Similar carved spirals have also been found on the cover stones of burial cists in Lanarkshire and Kincardine.\n\nThere are also elaborate carved stone battle-axes found in East Lothian, Aberdenshire and Lanarkshire. These show little sign of use or wear, and so, rather than being practical objects, may be symbolic representations of power. Similarly, the site at Forteviot, in Perthshire, produced a unique warrior burial under a giant sandstone slab. The slab is engraved with a spiral and has an axehead pecked into the underside, and underneath there are grave goods of a copper dagger with leather scabbard and a carved wooden bowl.\n\nSurviving metalwork includes personal items like the gold lunula or neckplates found at Auchentaggart in Dumfriesshire and Southside, Lanarkshire, which date from about 2000 BCE and are similar to those found in relatively large numbers in Ireland, but also with examples across Great Britain and in Portugal. Jet beaded necklaces strung in a crescent shape have been found at sites including Poltalloch and Melfort in Argyll and Aberlemno in Angus.\n\nSophisticated pottery with impressed designs was found in Scotland during the Bronze Age. One example is a decorated grave food vessel dated from about 1000 BCE that was found at a Kincardineshire grave group. Two bronze armlets were also found at the site.\n\nElaborate weaponry includes bronze leaf swords and ceremonial shields of sheet bronze made in Scotland between 900 and 600 BCE. The Migdale Hoard is an early Bronze Age find at Skibo Castle that includes two bronze axes; several pairs of armlets and anklets, a necklace of forty bronze beads, ear pendants and bosses of bronze and jet buttons. The \"Ballachulish Goddess\" is a life-sized female figure from 700–500 BCE in oak with quartz pebbles for eyes, found at Ballachulish, Argyll.\n\nThe Iron Age began in Scotland from about the seventh century BCE. From this point there are the first finds of iron artifacts in hoards that are consistent containing other items that are consistent with Bronze Age practice. there is also evidence of smithing and smelting on some settlement sites. Iron Age society in Scotland shared many traits with Southern Britain, Ireland and in some cases continental Europe. These included roundhouses and enclosed and fortified settlements, but it also contained elements of independent development.\n\nFrom the early part of the period there is relatively little metalwork and a larger amount of ceramics. The assemblage of early Iron Age ceramics from Atlantic Scotland is large compared with the rest of Britain. There are a wide variety of forms and styles, some which resemble those of southern Britain, particularly those with incised geometric ornament.\n\nBy this period Scotland had been penetrated by the wider La Tène culture, which is named after the archaeological site of La Tène on the north side of Lake Neuchâtel in Switzerland. The Torrs Pony-cap and Horns are perhaps the most impressive of the relatively few finds of La Tène decoration from Scotland, and indicate links with Ireland and southern Britain. The Stirling torcs, found in 2009, are a group of four gold torcs in different styles, dating from 300 BCE and 100 BCE. Two demonstrate common styles found in Scotland and Ireland, but the other two indicate workmanship from what is now southern France, and the Greek and Roman worlds.\n\nThere are surviving ring-headed pins, which were probably made locally and not imported, and appear to be part of a British and Irish type that was not part of the La Tène culture. There are also spiral finger rings, glass beads and long-handled combs, which are found across Britain, but have local characteristics. The bronze Stichill collar is a large engraved necklace, fastened at the back with a pin. The Mortonhall scabbard, probably from the first century CE, is elaborately decorated with trumpet curves and \"S\"-scrolls. Further north there are finds of massive bronze armlets, often with enamelled decoration, like the ones found at Culbin Sands, Moray. One of the most impressive items from this period is the boars head fragment of the Deskford carnyx, a war-trumpet from Deskford in Banffshire, probably dating from the first century CE. Similar instruments are mentioned in Roman sources and depicted on the Gundestrup Cauldron found in Denmark.\n\nIn stone carving there are a number of simple stone heads from Scotland, like that found at Coupar Angus in Perthshire, that may date from the Iron Age. They are similar to those found across Great Britain and Ireland, although they are difficult to date and may have been made much later.\n\nThe Romans began military expeditions into what is now Scotland from about 71 CE, building a series of forts, but by 87 the occupation was limited to the Southern Uplands and by the end of the first century the northern limit of Roman expansion was a line drawn between the Tyne and Solway Firth. The Romans eventually withdrew to a line in what is now northern England, building the fortification known as Hadrian's Wall from coast to coast. Around 141 CE they undertook a reoccupation of southern Scotland, moving up to construct a new \"limes\" between the Firth of Forth and the Firth of Clyde, where they built the fortification known as the Antonine Wall. The wall was overrun and abandoned soon after 160 and the Romans withdrew back to the line of Hadrian's Wall, until Roman authority collapsed in the early fifth century.\n\nThe Antonine Wall and its associated forts left a direct sculptural legacy in Scotland. There are 19 distance slabs along the wall that depict graphically the victories and marches of the legions involved in its construction. There are also surviving sculptures, including an altar to Diana and Apollo. There is a fountainhead from a bath-house in the shape of a man's head with a gaping mouth, and the head from a bust or statue, perhaps the goddess Fortuna, both found at Bearsden Roman Fort, East Dunbartonshire, both showing a local Celtic influence in their style.\n\nAway from the wall, Roman sculptures include the marble head of a Roman emperor or general, broken from a larger statue, which was found at Hawkshaw, Peebleshire in the late eighteenth century. It dates to the second century CE and may have been looted from a Roman monument further to the south. The Cramond Lioness is a sculpture, probably imported, of a lioness devouring a bound prisoner, found near the Roman base of Cramond Roman Fort near Edinburgh. A relief of the goddess Brigantia found near Birrens in Dumfriesshire, combines elements of native and classical art.\n\nThe Newstead Helmet, found at the Roman fort in Newstead, near Melrose in Roxburghshire, is one of the most impressive of many finds of Roman arms and armour. The Staffordshire Moorlands Pan is a second-century Romano-British \"trulla\" apparently decorated as a souvenir for a soldier who had served on Hadrian's Wall, and probably made locally. A number of items were also found in the Sculptor's Cave, Coversea in Morayshire, including Roman pottery, rings, bracelets, needles and coins, some of which had been re-used for ornaments.\n\n"}
{"id": "7787984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7787984", "title": "Public and private screening", "text": "Public and private screening\n\nA public screening is the showing of moving pictures to an audience in a public place. The event screened may be live or recorded, free or paid, and may use film, video, or a broadcast method such as satellite or closed-circuit television. Popular events for public screenings include films, sporting events, and concerts. Private screening refers to the screening of a commercially made film to a group of people somewhere other than one of their homes. Private screening can be legally complex, as the rules and regulations vary from country to country.\n\nLive public screenings of association football matches, called \"\", became especially popular at the 2006 football World Cup in Germany.\n\nShowing a video to a group of people outside of the home is legally regarded as a public showing, and is therefore in breach of copyright for DVDs/videos that have been purchased or hired for domestic use. To organise a group screening, permission from the copyright owner of the title in question will need to be obtained. Obtaining such rights clearances can be a complex procedure.\n\nFor certain types of screening (\"non-theatrical\" screening), it is possible to hire a copy of a film from its distributor with the rights already cleared. The primary non-theatrical distributors of feature films on DVD, video and 16mm in Britain are the BFI and Filmbank Distributors.\n\nAnother option is to buy a \"blanket\" licence for the year known as a 'Public Video Screening Licence' which may work out cheaper if showing film is to be a regular event.\n\n"}
{"id": "33614408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33614408", "title": "Pusilha", "text": "Pusilha\n\nPusilhá is an archaeological site in Belize. The location of this Late Classic Maya urban complex along the east and west flow of trade afford archaeologist a historical view of a secondary Maya site. Continuing excavation has changed the overall picture of Maya social and political relationships between larger and smaller cities. The research conducted at Pusilhá began at the beginning of the 20th century and continues to this day.\n\nThe site of Pusilhá is located in the Toledo district of Belize in the town of San Benito Poité. Situated between the Poite and Pusilha rivers that run east and west may have had an impact of why the Maya urban complex was built there. The site is also located favorably between the Caribbean to the south and the Maya Mountains to the east. Pusilhá was also situated in the region for the flow of goods and ideas from the central lowlands and southeastern periphery located in Honduras. With the major Maya urban sites of central lowlands at Caracol and Tikal and the southern lowland site of Copan, Pusilhá was possibly a major transfer point for economic activates in the whole of the lowland region\n\nThe initial site survey was conducted in 1927 by archaeologists from the British Museum Expedition to British Honduras that was led by Thomas Joyce. The survey led to the removal of the best preserved stelae from Pusilhá to the British Museum in London. The survey yielded dates and calendrical glyphs that were included in Sylvanus G. Morley’s discussion work \"The Inscriptions of Petén\". Thomas Joyce also conducted an extensive ceramics evaluation in 1929. In the intervening 70 years very little research has been done at Pusilhá. This state of affairs has changed with research and excavations carried out by Geoffrey Braswell and the Pusilha Archaeological Project beginning in 2001. The excavation that has continued to present has exposed three major areas at the center of Pusilhá to archaeological interpretation.\n\nPusilhá has a series of confirmed occupation date. It is known through ceramic analysis that this site is dateable to the late classic. A stelae found on site indicates a late classic occupation. According to Braswell, the current excavator of the site, “Stela P begins with the initial series date of 9.7.0.0.0 and contains a historical retrospective date of 9.6.17.8.18 (A.D. 570), implying that the kingdom was founded shortly before the beginning of the Late Classic period”. He does state that excavations from surrounding residential areas away from the complexes center seem to indicate an early classic occupation but additional excavation is required to confirm this for the rest of the site. Transitions in ceramics, burials and construction coupled with the usual cessation of inscriptions on stelae indicate continued occupation at Pusilhá through to the post classic. The last official date, which is a calendar round date, occurs at 9.18.7.10.3, or A. D. 798.\n\nThe initial excavation and surveys seem to show that politically Pusilhá was a second tier polity. The ceramics evidence showed that there were ties to Copan and Quirigua. It also seems likely that there were connections between Tikal and Caracol as those polities rose to prominence in the Petén. Based in part to the favorable location of Pusilhá along both east and west corridors of trade and the north and south axis of influence that had Caracol to the north and Copan to the south it seemed likely that the polity was politically dependent to one of its larger neighbors. But the current archaeological evidence indicates that Pusilhá maintained its independence.\n\nThe archaeological evidence indicates that Pusilhá was a traditional Maya \"elite\" led urban complex. There are known to be eight rulers that are associated with the Pusilhá emblem glyph from the late Classic period with a possible two additional from the Terminal Classic. All total there are 39 named individuals that have been discovered by the epigraphers in the hieroglyphic record. Of note is an individual who at first was linked as a ruler of Copan based on the artifactual record of that polity. k’ak’ u ti’ chan is the name of Ruler B of Pusilhá as well as Ruler 11 at Copan and was first ascribed to be the same individual. Further research has shown that they were contemporaries to each other that had different known parentage.\n\nThe site of Pusilhá has the one representation of bridge construction that has survived to modern time. The polity of Pusilhá also offers a look at the quantity and quality of the stelae available for study from a secondary urban complex. This site may represent an alternative method of looking at how the Maya govern themselves that is contrary to prevailing view of conquest and absorption of smaller cities into the larger cities in the region. To truly understand this site it must be stated that research and excavation is at a very early stage and that more work is required to fully understand the place that Pusilhá holds in the greater Maya world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "615394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615394", "title": "Robert D. Putnam", "text": "Robert D. Putnam\n\nRobert David Putnam (born 1941) is an American political scientist. He is the Peter and Isabel Malkin Professor of Public Policy at the Harvard University John F. Kennedy School of Government. Putnam developed the influential two-level game theory that assumes international agreements will only be successfully brokered if they also result in domestic benefits. His most famous (and controversial) work, \"Bowling Alone\", argues that the United States has undergone an unprecedented collapse in civic, social, associational, and political life (social capital) since the 1960s, with serious negative consequences. In 2010, he co-published an article in which he noted that the trend had moved the other way; he continued to advocate a push towards more social capital but he felt his famous thesis (\"Americans are now bowling alone\") was no longer true. In March 2015, he published a book called \"Our Kids: The American Dream in Crisis\" that looked at issues of inequality of opportunity in the US.\n\nRobert David Putnam was born on January 9, 1941, in Rochester, New York, and grew up in Port Clinton, Ohio, where he participated in a competitive bowling league as a teenager. Putnam graduated from Swarthmore College in 1963 where he was a member of Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. An outstanding student, he won a Fulbright Fellowship to study at Balliol College, Oxford, and went on to earn master's and doctorate degrees from Yale University, the latter in 1970. He taught at the University of Michigan until joining the faculty at Harvard in 1979, where he has held a variety of positions, including Dean of the Kennedy School, and is currently the Malkin Professor of Public Policy. Putnam was raised as a religiously observant Methodist. In 1963, Putnam married his wife Rosemary, a special education teacher and French horn player. Around the time of his marriage, he converted to Judaism, his wife's religion.\n\nHis first work in the area of social capital was \"Making Democracy Work: Civic Traditions in Modern Italy\", a comparative study of regional governments in Italy which drew great scholarly attention for its argument that the success of democracies depends in large part on the horizontal bonds that make up social capital. Putnam writes that northern Italy's history of community, guilds, clubs, and choral societies led to greater civic involvement and greater economic prosperity. Meanwhile, the agrarian society of Southern Italy is less prosperous economically and democratically because of less social capital. Social capital, which Putnam defines as \"networks and norms of civic engagement\", allows members of a community to trust one another. When community members trust one another, trade, money-lending, and democracy flourish.\n\nIn 1995 he published \"Bowling Alone: America's Declining Social Capital\" in the \"Journal of Democracy\". The article was widely read and garnered much attention for Putnam, including an invitation to meet with then-President Bill Clinton and a spot in the pages of \"People\". Some critics argued that Putnam was ignoring new organizations and forms of social capital; others argued that many of the included organizations were responsible for the suppression of civil rights movements and the reinforcement of anti-egalitarian social norms. Over the last decade and a half, the United States had seen an increase in bowlers but a decrease in bowling leagues.\n\nIn 2000, he published \"Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community\", a book-length expansion of the original argument, adding new evidence and answering many of his critics. Though he measured the decline of social capital with data of many varieties, his most striking point was that many traditional civic, social and fraternal organizations – typified by bowling leagues – had undergone a massive decline in membership while the number of people bowling had increased dramatically.\n\nPutnam makes a distinction between two kinds of social capital: bonding capital and bridging capital. Bonding occurs when you are socializing with people who are like you: same age, same race, same religion, and so on. But in order to create peaceful societies in a diverse multi-ethnic country, one needs to have a second kind of social capital: bridging. Bridging is what you do when you make friends with people who are not like you, like supporters of another football team. Putnam argues that those two kinds of social capital, bonding and bridging, do strengthen each other. Consequently, with the decline of the bonding capital mentioned above inevitably comes the decline of the bridging capital leading to greater ethnic tensions.\n\nIn 2016, Putnam explained his inspiration for the book, by saying,\nCritics such as the sociologist Claude Fischer argue that (a) Putnam concentrates on organizational forms of social capital, and pays much less attention to networks of interpersonal social capital; (b) Putnam neglects the emergence of new forms of supportive organizations on and off the Internet; and (c) the 1960s are a misleading baseline because the era had an unusually high number of traditional organizations.\n\nSince the publication of \"Bowling Alone\", Putnam has worked on efforts to revive American social capital, notably through the Saguaro Seminar, a series of meetings among academics, civil society leaders, commentators, and politicians to discuss strategies to re-connect Americans with their communities. These resulted in the publication of the book and website, \"Better Together,\" which provides case studies of vibrant and new forms of social capital building in the United States\n\nPutnam theorizes a relation in the negatives trends in society. He envisions a uniting factor named social capital; originally coined by social theorist Alexis deToqueville as a strength within America allowing democracy to thrive due to the closeness of society, \"trends in civic engagement of a wider sort\". Putnam observes a declining trend in social capital since the 1960s. The decreasing in social capital is blamed for rising rates in unhappiness as well as political apathy. Low social capital, a feeling of alienation within society is associated with additional consequences such as:\n\n\nIn recent years, Putnam has been engaged in a comprehensive study of the relationship between trust within communities and their ethnic diversity. His conclusion based on over 40 cases and 30,000 people within the United States is that in the short term, other things being equal, \"more\" diversity in a community is associated with \"less\" trust both among and within ethnic groups. Putnam describes people of all races, sex, socioeconomic statuses, and ages as \"hunkering down\", avoiding engagement with their local community as diversity increases. Although limited to American data, his findings run counter the contact hypothesis which proposes that distrust declines as members of different ethnic groups interact, and conflict theory which suggests that while distrust \"among\" ethnic groups rises with diversity, distrust \"within\" ethnic groups should decrease. Putnam found that even when controlling for income inequality and crime rates, two factors which conflict theory states should be prime causal factors in declining inter-ethnic group trust, more diversity is still associated with less communal trust. Further, he found that low communal trust is associated with the same consequences as low social capital. Putnam says, however, that \"in the long run immigration and diversity are likely to have important cultural, economic, fiscal, and developmental benefits.\"\n\nPutnam published his data set from this study in 2001 and subsequently published the full paper in 2007.\n\nPutnam has been criticized for the lag between his initial study and his publication of his article. In 2006, Putnam was quoted in the \"Financial Times\" as saying he had delayed publishing the article until he could \"develop proposals to compensate for the negative effects of diversity\" (quote from John Lloyd of Financial Times). In 2007, writing in \"City Journal\", John Leo questioned whether this suppression of publication was ethical behavior for a scholar, noting that \"Academics aren't supposed to withhold negative data until they can suggest antidotes to their findings.\" On the other hand, Putnam did release the data in 2001 and publicized this fact.\n\nPutnam denied allegations he was arguing against diversity in society and contended that his paper had been \"twisted\" to make a case against race-conscious admissions to universities. He asserted that his \"extensive research and experience confirm the substantial benefits of diversity, including racial and ethnic diversity, to our society.\"\n\nIn 2007 he briefly met Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi to discuss the role of civil society in the Libyan political context.\n\nHe has been a member of Phi Beta Kappa since 1963, the International Institute of Strategic Studies since 1986, the American Philosophical Society since 2005 and the National Academy of Sciences since 2001. He has been a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences from 1980 and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy from 2001 and was a Fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration, 1989–2006 and Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, 1974–1975 and 1988–1989. Other fellowships included the Guggenheim 1988–1989; the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 1977 and 1979; Fulbright 1964–1965 and 1977; SSRC-ACLS 1966–1968; Ford Foundation, 1970; German Marshall Fund, 1979; SSRC-Fulbright, 1982; SSRC-Foreign Policy Studies, 1988–1989 and was made a Harold Lasswell Fellow by the American Academy of Political and Social Science. Robert Putnam was a fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations 1977–1978 and a member since 1981. He was a member of the Trilateral Commission from 1990 to 1998. He was the President of the American Political Science Association (2001–2002). He had been Vice-President 1997–1998.\n\nIn 2004 the President of the Italian Republic made him a Commander of the Order of the Star of Italian Solidarity. He was awarded the Johan Skytte Prize in Political Science in 2006 and a Wilbur Lucius Cross Medal by the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in 2003, he was a Marshall Lecturer at the University of Cambridge in 1999 and was honored with the Ithiel de Sola Pool Award and Lectureship of the American Political Science Association.\n\nHe has received honorary degrees from Stockholm University (in 1993), Ohio State University (2000), University of Antwerp (also 2000), University of Edinburgh (2003) LUISS Guido Carli University (2011).\n\nIn 2013, he was awarded the National Humanities Medal by President Barack Obama for \"deepening our understanding of community in America.\"\n\nIn 2015, he was awarded the University of Bologna, ISA Medal for Science for research activities characterized by excellence and scientific value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35291011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35291011", "title": "Semiotics of culture", "text": "Semiotics of culture\n\nSemiotics of culture is a research field within semiotics that attempts to define culture from semiotic perspective and as a type of human symbolic activity, creation of signs and a way of giving meaning to everything around. Therefore, here culture is understood as a system of symbols or meaningful signs. Because the main sign system is the linguistic system, the field is usually referred to as semiotics of culture and language. Under this field of study symbols are analyzed and categorized in certain class within the hierarchal system. With postmodernity, metanarratives are no longer as pervasive and thus categorizing these symbols in this postmodern age is more difficult and rather critical.\n\nThe research field was of particular interest for the Tartu–Moscow Semiotic School (USSR). Linguists and semioticians by the Tartu School viewed culture as a hierarchical semiotic system consisting of set of functions correlated to it, and linguistic codes that are used by social groups to maintain coherence. These codes are viewed as superstructures based on natural language, and here the ability of humans to symbolize is central.\n\nThe study received a research ground also in Japan where the idea that culture and nature should not be contrasted and contradicted but rather harmonized was developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "11587822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11587822", "title": "Tarka sastra", "text": "Tarka sastra\n\nTarka Sastra is a science of dialectics, logic and reasoning, and art of debate that analyzes the nature and source of knowledge and its validity. Sastra in Sanskrit means that which gives teaching, instruction or command. Tarka means debate or an argument. According to one reckoning, there are six sastras. Vyakarana is one of them. Four of the sastras are particularly important Vyakarana, Mimamsa, Tarka, and Vedanta.\n\nThe sastra has concepts called \"poorva paksha\" and \"apara paksha\". When one raises a point (poorva paksha) the other one criticizes it (apara paksha). Then the debate starts. Each one tries to support his point of view by getting various references. The meaning of the word tarka also is specific, in that it does not imply a pure logical analysis but a complex activity of discourse guided by strict definitions and goals so as to have. This concept is referred in Bhagawad Gita as \"vAdaH pravadatAmasmi\" (vibhooti yOga).\n\nTarkasamgraha which is the foundational text of logic and discourse was al the text followed as a Guidelines for discourses. Tarka may be translated as \"hypothetical argument.\" Tarka is the process of questioning and cross-questioning that leads to a particular conclusion. It is a form of supposition that can be used as an aid to the attainment of valid knowledge.\n\nThere are several scholars well-versed in Tarka Sastras – Adi Shankara (788-820 CE), Ramanujacharya,Madhwacharya, Uddyotkar (Nyayavartik, 6th-7th century), Vācaspati Miśra (Tatparyatika, 9th century), Udayanacharya (Tatparyaparishuddhi, 10th century), Jayanta Bhatta (Nyayamanjari, 9th century), Vishwanath (Nyayasutravrtti, 17th century), and Radhamohan Goswami (Nyayasutravivaran, 18th century), Kumaran Asan. Paruthiyur Krishna Sastri and Sengalipuram Anantarama Dikshitar were specialized in Vyakarana, Mimamsa and Tarka Sastra. Also, Krishna Sastri excelled all those scholars of his contemporary period in Tarka Sastra.\n\nJSTOR:\n\nWorldcat:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50249599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50249599", "title": "The Long Cosmos", "text": "The Long Cosmos\n\nThe Long Cosmos is a science fiction novel by Terry Pratchett and Stephen Baxter published on 30 June 2016. It is the final installment in the award-winning five-book parallel-Earth series \"The Long Earth\".\n\nIt is the second book in the series published posthumously from Terry Pratchett.\n\nThe Long Cosmos further follows the adventures of Joshua Valienté and Lobsang.\n"}
{"id": "351227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351227", "title": "Transparency (behavior)", "text": "Transparency (behavior)\n\nTransparency, as used in science, engineering, business, the humanities and in other social contexts, is operating in such a way that it is easy for others to see what actions are performed. It has been defined simply as \"the perceived quality of intentionally shared information from a sender\". Transparency implies openness, communication, and accountability.\n\nTransparency is practiced in companies, organizations, administrations, and communities. It guides an organization's decisions and policies on the disclosure of information to its employees and the public, or simply the intended recipient of the information.\n\nFor example, a cashier making change after a point of sale transaction by offering a record of the items purchased (e.g., a receipt) as well as counting out the customer's change on the counter demonstrates one type of transparency.\n\nThe term transparency has a very different meaning in Information Security where it is used to describe security mechanisms that are intentionally in-detectable or hidden from view. Examples include hiding utilities and tools which the user does not need to know in order to do their job, like keeping the remote re-authentication operations of Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol hidden from the user. \n\nIn Norway and in Sweden, tax authorities annually release the \"skatteliste\" or \"tax list\"; official records showing the annual income and overall wealth of nearly every taxpayer.\n\nRegulations in Hong Kong require banks to list their top earners – without naming them – by pay band.\n\nIn 2009, the Spanish government for the first time released information on how much each cabinet member is worth, but data on ordinary citizens is private.\n\nRecent research suggests there are three primary aspects of transparency relevant to management practice: information disclosure, clarity, and accuracy. To increase transparency, managers actively infuse greater disclosure, clarity, and accuracy into their communications with stakeholders. For example, managers that voluntarily share information related to the firm's ecological impact with environmental activists are demonstrating disclosure; managers that limit the use of technical terminology, fine print, or complicated mathematical notations in their correspondence with suppliers and customers are demonstrating clarity; and managers that do not bias, embellish, or otherwise distort known facts in their communications with investors are demonstrating accuracy. The \"strategic\" management of transparency therefore involves intentional modifications in disclosure, clarity, and accuracy to accomplish the organization's specific objectives.\n\nAlternatively, radical transparency is a management method where nearly all decision making is carried out publicly. All draft documents, all arguments for and against a proposal, all final decisions, and the decision making process itself are made public and remain publicly archived. This approach has grown in popularity with the rise of the Internet. Two examples of organizations utilizing this style are the GNU/Linux community and Indymedia.\n\nCorporate transparency, a form of radical transparency, is the concept of removing all barriers to —and the facilitating of— free and easy public access to corporate information and the laws, rules, social connivance and processes that facilitate and protect those individuals and corporations that freely join, develop, and improve the process.\n\nAccountability and transparency are of high relevance for non-governmental organisations (NGOs). In view of their responsibilities to stakeholders, including donors, sponsors, programme beneficiaries, staff, states and the public, they are considered to be of even greater importance to them than to commercial undertakings. Yet these same values are often found to be lacking in NGOs.\n\nThe \"International NGO Accountability Charter\", linked to the Global Reporting Initiative, documents the commitment of its members international NGOs to accountability and transparency, requiring them to submit an annual report, among others. Signed in 2006 by 11 NGOs active in the area of humanitarian rights, the INGO Accountability Charter has been referred to as the “first global accountability charter for the non-profit sector”. In 1997, the One World Trust created an \"NGO Charter\", a code of conduct comprising commitment to accountability and transparency.\n\nMedia transparency is the concept of determining how and why information is conveyed through various means.\n\nIf the media and the public knows everything that happens in all authorities and county administrations there will be a lot of questions, protests and suggestions coming from media and the public. People who are interested in a certain issue will try to influence the decisions. Transparency creates an everyday participation in the political processes by media and the public. One tool used to increase everyday participation in political processes is freedom of information legislation and requests. Modern democracy builds on such participation of the people and media.\n\nThere are, for anybody who is interested, many ways to influence the decisions at all levels in society.\n\nThe right and the means to examine the process of decision making is known as transparency.\nIn politics, transparency is used as a means of holding public officials accountable and fighting corruption. When a government's meetings are open to the press and the public, its budgets may be reviewed by anyone, and its laws and decisions are open to discussion, it is seen as transparent. It is not clear however if this provides less opportunity for the authorities to abuse the system for their own interests.\n\nWhen military authorities classify their plans as secret, transparency is absent. This can be seen as either positive or negative; positive because it can increase national security, negative because it can lead to corruption and, in extreme cases, a military dictatorship.\n\nWhile a liberal democracy can be a plutocracy, where decisions are made behind locked doors and the people have fewer possibilities to influence politics between the elections, a participative democracy is more closely connected to the will of the people. Participative democracy, built on transparency and everyday participation, has been used officially in northern Europe for decades. In the northern European country Sweden, public access to government documents became a law as early as 1766. It has officially been adopted as an ideal to strive for by the rest of EU, leading to measures like freedom of information laws and laws for lobby transparency.\n\nTo promote transparency in politics, Hans Peter Martin, Paul van Buitenen (Europa Transparant) and Ashley Mote decided to cooperate under the name Platform for Transparency (PfT) in 2005. Similar organizations that promotes transparency are Transparency International and the Sunlight Foundation.\n\nA recent political movement to emerge in conjunction with the demands for transparency is the Pirate Party, a label for a number of political parties across different countries who advocate freedom of information, direct democracy, network neutrality, and the free sharing of knowledge.\n\n21st century culture affords a higher level of public transparency than ever before, and actually requires it in many cases. Modern technology and associated culture shifts have changed how government works (see WikiLeaks), what information people can find out about each other, and the ability of politicians to stay in office if they are involved in sex scandals. Due to the digital revolution, people no longer have a high level of control over what is public information, leading to a tension between the values of transparency and privacy.\n\nScholarly research in any academic discipline may also be labeled as (partly) transparent (or open research) if some or all relevant aspects of the research are open in the sense of open source, open access and open data, thereby facilitating social recognition and accountability of the scholars who did the research and replication by others interested in the matters addressed by it.\n\nSome mathematicians and scientists are critical of using closed source mathematical software such as Mathematica for mathematical proofs, because these do not provide transparency, and thus are not verifiable. Open-source software such as SageMath aims to solve this problem.\n\nIn the computer software world, open source software concerns the creation of software, to which access to the underlying source code is freely available. This permits use, study, and modification without restriction.\n\nIn computer security, the debate is ongoing as to the relative merits of the full disclosure of security vulnerabilities, versus a security-by-obscurity approach.\n\nThere is a different (perhaps almost opposite) sense of transparency in human-computer interaction, whereby a system after change adheres to its previous external interface as much as possible while changing its internal behaviour. That is, a change in a system is transparent to its users if the change is unnoticeable to them.\n\nSports has become a global business over the last century, and here, too, initiatives ranging from mandatory drug testing to the fighting of sports-related corruption are gaining ground based on the transparent activities in other domains.\n\nSigmund Freud following Friedrich Nietzsche (\"On Truth and Lie in a Nonmoral Sense\") regularly argues that transparency is impossible because of the occluding function of the unconscious.\n\nAmong philosophical and literary works that have examined the idea of transparency are Michel Foucault's \"Discipline and Punish\" or David Brin's \"The Transparent Society\". \nThe German philosopher and media theorist Byung-Chul Han in his 2012 work \"Transparenzgesellschaft\" sees transparency as a cultural norm created by neoliberal market forces, which he understands as the insatiable drive toward voluntary disclosure bordering on the pornographic. According to Han, the dictates of transparency enforce a totalitarian system of openness at the expense of other social values such as shame, secrecy, and trust. He was criticized for his concepts, as they would suggest corrupt politics and for referring to the anti-democratic Carl Schmitt.\n\nAnthropologists have long explored ethnographically the relation between revealed and concealed knowledges, and have increasingly taken up the topic in relation to accountability, transparency and conspiracy theories and practices today. Todd Sanders and Harry West for example suggest not only that realms of the revealed and concealed require each other, but also that transparency in practice produces the very opacities it claims to obviate.\n\nClare Birchall, Christina Gaarsten, Mikkel Flyverbom, and Mark Fenster among others, write in the vein of 'Critical Transparency Studies' which attempts to challenge particular orthodoxies concerning transparency. \nBirchall, assessed in an article \"[...] whether the ascendance of transparency as an ideal limits political thinking, particularly for western socialists and radicals struggling to seize opportunities for change [...]\". She argues that the promotion of 'datapreneurial' activity through open data initiatives outsources and interrupts the political contract between governed and government. She is concerned that the dominant model of governmental data-driven transparency produces neoliberal subjectivities that reduce the possibility of politics as an arena of dissent between real alternatives. She suggests that the radical Left might want to work with and reinvent secrecy as an alternative to neoliberal transparency.\n\nResearchers at University of Oxford and Warwick Business School found that transparency can also have significant unintended consequences in the field of medical care. McGivern and Fischer found 'media spectacles' and transparent regulation combined to create 'spectacular transparency' which some perverse effects on doctors' practice and increased defensive behaviour in doctors and their staff. Similarly, in a four-year organizational study, Fischer and Ferlie found that transparency in the context of a clinical risk management can act perversely to undermine ethical behavior, leading to organizational crisis and even collapse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11244698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11244698", "title": "Uniforms of the Royal Air Force", "text": "Uniforms of the Royal Air Force\n\nThe Royal Air Force uniform is the standardised military dress worn by members of the Royal Air Force. The predominant colours of Royal Air Force uniforms are blue-grey and Wedgwood blue. Many Commonwealth air forces' uniforms are also based on the RAF pattern, but with nationality shoulder flashes. Cadets of the RAFAC which includes the ATC and CCF (RAF) Sections wear similar uniforms.\n\nThe RAF currently numbers the various uniforms which may be worn. The following table summarises the numbering:\n\nThe RAF's service dress is worn on formal and ceremonial occasions. In temperate regions, it is the most formal uniform in use at present. It remains essentially unchanged from the service dress uniform adopted in the early 1920s. It consists of a blue-grey jacket and trousers (or skirt for female personnel). A great coat may be worn at ceremonial events when the weather is cold. In warm weather regions a stone coloured variant of Service dress is worn.\n\nIn 1947, the temperate officers' services dress jacket was altered. The lower side pockets were removed and the single slit was replaced by two hacking jacket style slits. The lower button was moved up to a position behind the belt and silk embroidery flying badges were replaced with ones in bullion embroidery. These changes were unpopular and in 1951, with the exception of the lower button move, the former uniform style was re-adopted.\n\nService dress takes the following forms:\n\nService working dress, officially designated Number 2 Dress, is the routine uniform worn by most RAF personnel not on operations. It is analogous to the Army's barrack dress. RAF service working dress comes in a number of variations:\n\n\nThe RAF stable belt may be worn with all forms of service working dress.\n\nIn warm weather regions a stone coloured variant of Service working dress is worn.\n\nAircrew-specific uniforms are officially designated as Number 14 Dress by the RAF. Aircrew on flying duties wear an olive drab flying suit in temperate regions or a khaki flying suit in desert regions. A leather flying jacket, purchased at individual expense, may be worn with the flying suit but only while the wearer is on the ground.\n\nRAF personnel on operations, exercise or in certain tactical formed units wear Multi Terrain Pattern (MTP) Personal Clothing System Combat Uniform (PCS CU) is a camouflage uniform. This uniform is the same as the British Army's operational uniform. This consists of PCS CU Trousers and Shirt (which is usually worn tucked in, but can be left untucked in warm climates), PCS CU smock and brown boots. A beret or 'Boonie' hat is worn as head dress. \n\nIn 2006 a 45mm squared tactical recognition flash was introduced for all personnel to wear on the right shoulder of operation clothing. A small rectangular identification patch such as Expeditionary Air Wing (EAW), Expeditionary Air Group (EAG) or Sqn insignia may be worn under the TRF. A Union Flag is worn on the left shoulder.\n\nIn the RAF mess dress, officially designated Number 5 dress, is worn at formal evening functions. All regular officers possess mess dress whereas warrant officers and senior non-commissioned officers wear mess dress if they choose to purchase it. The current mess dress for men consists of a high waisted blue-grey single-breasted jacket fastened at the front by a single link of two RAF buttons connected by a link clip, white marcella shirt, bow tie, waistcoat or cummerbund and blue-grey trousers. Rank, for officers, is indicated in gold braid on the lower sleeve.\n\nThe first RAF mess dress was introduced in 1920 and it featured a high waisted single-breasted blue-grey jacket which tapered to a point at the front below the waist. A blue-grey waistcoat, trousers and black shoes were also worn. Rank was indicated on shoulder boards in gold lace. This uniform was modified in 1928 when the shoes were replaced by boots and overalls with gold lace and bright blue stripes were introduced. This modified form of the uniform lasted until 1934 when it was replaced by a version similar to the current men's mess dress. The wearing of mess dress was suspended during World War II.\n\nFor women, mess dress currently consists of the same style high waisted blue-grey single-breasted jacket and white marcella shirt as men, a small bow tie and cummerbund and a straight ankle length blue-gray skirt, worn with patent-leather court shoes and barely-black tights or stockings. From the 1970s and prior to the introduction of current women's mess dress in 1996, female officers wore a royal blue \"Empire line\" dress made of crimplene material with a loose mandarin neck, long sleeves and an ankle length hem. Rank was indicated on a small enamelled brooch worn near the neck. \n\nOfficers serving on Royal Auxiliary Air Force squadrons in Scotland may wear the Douglas Grey tartan with their mess dress. The RAF tartan was designed in 1988 and it was officially recognised by the Ministry of Defence in 2001. The tartan is worn by the RAF's voluntary pipes bands, although not as part of an official RAF uniform.\n\nRAF personnel without No 5 dress, such as airmen, junior officer cadets and some non-regular officers, wear No 1 dress with the blue shirt and tie replaced with a white shirt (not Marcella) and black bow tie should the need to wear mess dress arise. This dress pattern is officially designated Number 4 Dress and was previously known as \"(Interim) Mess Dress\".\n\nIn April 1920 Air Ministry Weekly Order 332 detailed a full dress uniform. It consisted of a single-breasted jacket in blue-grey with a stand-up collar. Rank was indicated in gold braid on the lower sleeve and white gloves were worn. \n\nInitially the full dress uniform was worn with the service dress cap. However, in 1921 a new form of head-dress was introduced. It was designed to resemble the original flying helmet and it consisted of a leather skull cap trimmed with black rabbit fur. The helmet also featured an ostrich feather plume which was connected at an RAF badge. This helmet was never popular and junior officers were eventually permitted to wear the service dress hat on full dress occasions.\n\nGroup Captain HRH the Duke of York (later King George VI) wore RAF full dress at his wedding to Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon in 1923. The Duke wore or carried the full dress headgear rather than the service dress cap.\n\nThe wearing of the full dress uniform was suspended just prior to the outbreak of World War II. Although the uniform was occasionally worn by air officers as late as the 1950s, its use was never officially re-instated. Today the blue-grey full dress uniform is no longer worn, except in a modified form by RAF bandsmen.This uniform is; from 2012, worn with the peaked cap rather than the busby; and is now referred to as Number 9 Service Dress\n\nThere is also a full dress uniform for use by officers in the tropics, officially designated as No.6A Full Ceremonial Dress (Warm Weather Areas). It consists of a white tunic with stand collar, matching trousers, blue-grey peaked cap and black leather shoes. It is only issued to specific appointment holders (e.g. aide-de-camp and air attaché), and even then these are hardly ever worn. Other officers may purchase the uniform at their own expense but few choose to do so.\n\nWith the establishment of the Royal Air Force as an independent service on 1 April 1918, orders were issued detailing new uniform patterns. Major General Mark Kerr designed the first officer uniform which was largely pale blue with gold braid trimmings. Additionally, the Royal Flying Corps' use of khaki was continued. It has been suggested that the pale blue colour was adopted as the cloth had been intended for use by the Imperial Russian Cavalry and, following their disbandment after the Bolshevik Revolution it became available at low cost. As it was the responsibility of officers to buy their own uniforms, a wearing-out period for old uniforms was allowed and the change-over to the air force uniform was slow.\n\nThe 'wearing out' period also applied to other ranks. Former members of the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service continued to wear their old uniforms. New recruits into the newly formed Royal Air Force were often issued with the olive green Army Pattern General Service Tunic.\nLater in 1918 a belted olive green uniform was adopted for other ranks, and it was these tunics that first carried the RAF eagle badges on each shoulder.\n\nThe pale blue colour for officers' uniforms was unpopular and impractical and John Slessor who was later promoted to Marshal of the RAF described it as \"a nasty pale blue with a lot of gold over it, which brought irresistibly to mind a vision of the gentlemen who stands outside the cinema\". A little over a year after its introduction, the pale blue colour was discontinued. On 15 September 1919, Air Ministry Order 1049 replaced it with the blue-grey colour which has remained in use to this day. The olive green uniform continued to be worn until 1924 when it too was replaced by a blue-grey colour.\n\nWar service dress, also known as battle dress, was introduced in 1940 as a blue/grey version of the British Army's battle dress. Initially, war service dress was only worn by air crew. However, in 1943, its use was authorised for all ranks and trades. War service dress continued to be worn after the end of World War II. It was significantly altered in 1948 and not phased out until 1973.\n\nAir force rumour later had it that the \"air force blue\" colour of the postwar uniform had been that of a textile produced in quantity to clothe Russian soldiers during the First World War, and not yet exported when the Russian revolution of 1917 closed that market. \n\nA visible distinction between the RAF and the other military services was that all ranks wore a starched collar and tie. Up to 1918, only Officers of the British Army and Royal Navy wore neck-ties; and Officers of all services bought their uniforms from military tailors, while other servicemen were issued clothing from government stocks. Several features of the RAF uniform distinguished officers from airmen; their cap badges were different, airmen's being all brass while officers' were gold-embroidered fabric; airmen wore the RAF eagle patch on both shoulders while officers did not; and the fabric of airmen's wool uniforms was thick and heavy, while officers' uniforms were of \"smooth blue\" barathea fabric. Another distinction was that while the British Army shod its men only in ankle-high boots the RAF after 1945 also issued its airmen with ordinary shoes for everyday working wear. The shoes maintained the class distinction in that only officers wore shoes with toecaps. Similarly, officers wore unlined brown leather gloves while airmen's gloves were of knitted wool.\n\n\"Smooth blue\" uniforms for non-commissioned personnel were introduced in the 1950s, first for Warrant Officers. By 1956 NCOs of all ranks (corporal and up) were permitted to buy \"smooth blue\" uniforms at their own expense. Another innovation of the period was raincoats, hitherto worn only by officers. Despite the rainy British climate, the only weather protection for airmen outdoors was either their heavy winter overcoats or the rectangular ground sheets issued for all soldiers' use on campaign. Regulations were altered in the 1950s to allow airmen to wear raincoats bought at their own expense.\n\nDuring 1973 the wartime \"Hairy Mary\" working dress uniforms were replaced for all ranks with the 1972 pattern No 2 uniforms. Made of a smooth woollen and man-made fibre mix material the jacket was a loose blouson design with a front zip fastener and epaulettes. In the mid 1980s RAF blue crew-necked woollen pullovers were replaced with a new V-neck design featuring blue-grey cloth elbow and shoulder patches plus a pen holder patch on the left sleeve.\n\nIn the 1990s an RAF blue nylon foul weather jacket and overtrousers were issued. Although not initially intended it quickly became standard practice for officers and other ranks to attach rank badges to the lapels and wear the nylon jacket in place of the uniform raincoat, as a more practical modern wear.\n\nThe Royal Air Force ranks and insignia form part of the uniform of the Royal Air Force. Royal Air Force rank insignia were based on combination of those of the Royal Navy officer rank insignia and British Army.\n\nFor officers (see also RAF officer ranks):\nFor other ranks (see also RAF other ranks):\n\nThe Royal Air Force has the following (rather famous) pilot qualification badge, and a number of other specialist qualification badges based on it:\nThe Royal New Zealand Air Force uniform is also of the RAF pattern, but with nationality shoulder flashes. The Indian Air Force uniform is also of a similar pattern to the RAF uniform. The Royal Australian Air Force uniform is in midnight blue, instead of grey-blue. Prior to the 1968 unification of the Canadian Forces, the Royal Canadian Air Force service dress was nearly identical to that of the RAF. In 1986 Distinctive Environmental Uniforms (DEU) were introduced to the Canadian Forces and the Air Command (now once again known as the Royal Canadian Air Force) variant maintains some similarity with the RAF's uniform. Until 2014, the RCAF DEU retained the gold sleeve rings (for officers), chevrons (for non-commissioned personnel) and crowns/Royal Arms Of Canada (for warrant officers). On 24 September 2014, the RCAF announced it would return in part to pre-unification RAF-styled insignia; however, with the exception of Private being retitled \"Aviator\" (\"Aviateur\" in French), rank titles would remain unchanged.\n\nCadets of the ATC and CCF (RAF) Sections wear the uniforms of the Royal Air Force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19988207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19988207", "title": "Union List of Artist Names", "text": "Union List of Artist Names\n\nThe Union List of Artist Names (ULAN) is a free online database of the Getty Research Institute using a controlled vocabulary, which by 2018 contained over 300,000 artists and over 720,000 names for them, as well as other information about artists. Names in ULAN may include given names, pseudonyms, variant spellings, names in multiple languages, and names that have changed over time (e.g., married names). Among these names, one is flagged as the preferred name. \n\nAlthough it is displayed as a list, ULAN is structured as a thesaurus, compliant with ISO and NISO standards for thesaurus construction; it contains hierarchical, equivalence, and associative relationships.\n\nThe focus of each ULAN record is an artist. In the database, each artist record (also called a subject) is identified by a unique numeric ID. The artist's nationality is given, as are places and dates of birth and death (if known). Linked to each artist record are names, related artists, sources for the data, and notes. The temporal coverage of the ULAN ranges from Antiquity to the present and the scope is global.\n\nArtists may be either individuals (persons) or groups of individuals working together (corporate bodies). Artists in the ULAN generally represent creators involved in the conception or production of visual arts and architecture. Some performance artists are included (but typically not actors, dancers, or other performing artists). Repositories and some donors are included as well.\n\nDevelopment of the ULAN began in 1984 by the J. Paul Getty Trust. The Trust, which already managed the Art and Architecture Thesaurus (AAT), began the project in response to requests from Getty projects for controlled vocabularies of artists' names. The ULAN grows and changes via contributions from the user community and editorial work of the Getty Vocabulary Program.\n\nAlthough originally intended only for use by Getty projects, the broader art information community outside the Getty expressed a need to use ULAN for cataloging and retrieval. The Getty thus distributed ULAN for broader use according to the tenets previously established for the construction and maintenance of the Art and Architecture Thesaurus: Its scope includes names needed to catalog and retrieve information about the visual arts and architecture; it is based on terminology that is current, warranted for use by authoritative literary sources, and validated by use in the scholarly art and architectural history community; and it is compiled and edited in response to the needs of the user community. Originally constructed as a simple alphabetized \"union list\" of clustered artist names and biographies, in order to make it consistent with the AAT and Getty Thesaurus of Geographic Names, in the late 1990s ULAN was brought into compliance with national and international standards for thesaurus construction. Its scope was broadened to include corporate bodies such as architectural firms and repositories of art, which may have hierarchical levels.\n\nThe ULAN was founded under the management of Eleanor Fink (head of what was then called the Vocabulary Coordination Group, and later Director of the Art History Information Program, later called the Getty Information Institute). The ULAN has been constructed over the years by numerous members of the user community and an army of dedicated editors, under the supervision of several managers. The ULAN was published in 1994 in hardcopy (Union List of Artist Names. Project manager, James M. Bower; senior editor, Murtha Baca. New York: G.K. Hall, 1994) and machine-readable files. Given the growing size and frequency of changes and additions to the ULAN, by 1997 it had become evident that hard-copy publication was impractical. It is now published in automated formats only, in both a searchable online Web interface and in data files available for licensing. The data for ULAN is compiled and edited in an editorial system that was custom-built by Getty technical staff to meet the unique requirements of compiling data from many contributors, merging, moving, and publishing in various formats. Final editorial control of the ULAN is maintained by the Getty Vocabulary Program, using well-established editorial rules. The current managers of the ULAN are Patricia Harpring, Managing Editor, and Murtha Baca, Head, Vocabulary Program and Digital Resource Management.\n\nEven though the structure is relatively flat, the ULAN is constructed as a hierarchical database; its trees branch from a root called Top of the ULAN hierarchies (Subject_ID: 500000001); it currently has two published facets: Person and Corporate Body. Entities in the Person facet typically have no children. Entities in the Corporate Body facet may branch into trees. There may be multiple broader contexts, making the ULAN structure polyhierarchical. In addition to the hierarchical relationships, the ULAN also has equivalent and associative relationships.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "247533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247533", "title": "Vegeta", "text": "Vegeta\n\nVegeta is the Prince of an extraterrestrial race of warriors known as the Saiyans just like the series' protagonist, Goku. Vegeta is extremely vain and proud, constantly referring to his heritage throughout the series. He believes he should be regarded as the strongest fighter in the Universe and becomes obsessed with surpassing Goku after fighting him. After his loss to Goku and the Z fighters, Vegeta later reluctantly unites with the heroes to thwart greater threats to the universe. Throughout the series, Vegeta's role changes from villain to antihero and later as one of the heroes, while remaining a rival to Goku. Vegeta's character, particularly his personality, has been well received. He is one of the \"Dragon Ball\" franchise's most popular characters.\n\nFollowing the trend that names of members of the Saiyan race are puns on vegetables, Vegeta's name is a pun of the word \"vegetable\" itself. Toriyama stated that when he received a lot of fan mail telling him not to kill Vegeta, he purposely did just that. After the release of \"\", Toriyama expressed interest in having Vegeta be the lead in the event of another animated feature, though he insisted this was only his intent and no decision had been formed.\n\nVegeta is the prince of the Saiyan race, being the son of King Vegeta, with Planet Vegeta named after his father. Vegeta is shown to be exceptionally vain and egotistical. Only in very few instances is he seen to be afraid of opponents, such as against Freeza. Arguably, his most defining trait is his rivalry with Goku and obsession to surpass him in power.\n\nVegeta has a signature hair style that firmly stands upwards, with a prominent widow's peak. Like all full-blooded Saiyans, he possesses black eyes, jet black hair that never grows in length, and had a tail before Yajirobe cut it off. Vegeta is noticeably shorter than Goku, although a visible shift in Akira Toriyama's artistic style lessens this difference later in the series. Vegeta continues to don the traditional Saiyan armor for a large portion of his appearances, until he integrates into Earthly society eventually favoring clothing more characteristic of a human altogether.\n\nVegeta is introduced as the proud prince of the race. He travels to Earth with his comrade Nappa to use the Dragon Balls to wish for immortality. Nappa easily fights off Earth's heroes and kills Tenshinhan, Chaozu, and Piccolo in the process. Goku then arrives after completing his training with Kaiō-sama. Goku easily defeats Nappa who is then killed by Vegeta, for the shame of being defeated by a low class Saiyan such as Goku. Vegeta fights and beats Goku in a very close fight after resorting to his Ozaru form, but is unable to beat the rest of the heroes due to his sustained injuries. Exhausted and being consistently harassed by Gohan, Kuririn and Yajirobe, he barely escapes with his life and is humiliated by the fact that Goku pleaded with Krillin to spare his life. Vegeta travels to planet Namek in an attempt to wish for immortality using that planet's Dragon Balls, cutting the tyrant Freeza off from making the same wish in the process. Upon arrival, Vegeta manages to kill many of Freeza's henchmen and also mercilessly destroys a whole defenseless Namekian village for their Dragon Ball. Later on Vegeta is forced to team up with Gohan, Goku, Piccolo, and Krillin so they can fight off Freeza. He also kills most members of the Ginyu Force. Ultimately, he is defeated and subsequently killed by Freeza while asking Goku to avenge him and all the other Saiyans. Vegeta is unintentionally revived with a wish from the Dragon Balls from Earth.\n\nAfter Freeza's final defeat, Vegeta chooses to stay on Earth and has a son named Trunks with Bulma. Three years later, Vegeta finally becomes a Super Saiyan and easily destroys Android 19, sent by Dr. Gero to kill Goku. However, even as a Super Saiyan, he is easily defeated by Android 18. Afterwards, Vegeta ascends beyond the Super Saiyan level while training with Trunks from an alternate dimension in the and pummels the artificial life form Cell, who has absorbed Android 17. Vegeta's overconfidence leads him to allow Cell to absorb Android 18, upon which Cell achieves his \"perfect\" form. After Vegeta fails to defeat Perfect Cell, he is forced to participate in Cell's martial arts tournament known as the Cell Games, in which he makes a crucial intervention so Gohan can overpower and defeat Cell in his perfect form.\n\nSeven years later, Vegeta allows himself to be consumed by Bobbidi's evil power for his own desire to become powerful enough to fight and defeat Goku. He then goes on an indiscriminate killing spree to provoke Goku to fight him. However, when the monster Majin Buu is revived as a result of the energy released from their fight, Vegeta knocks out Goku from behind after deceiving Goku by feigning a truce. Vegeta then faces Majin Boo alone and ends up sacrificing himself in an attempt to defeat Boo, dedicating his sacrifice to Bulma, Trunks, and Goku. With all other fighters dead or absorbed, Vegeta is allowed to recover his body and returns to Earth to help Goku, the last warrior remaining, against the threat of Boo. He reluctantly combines bodies with Goku using the \"Potara\" earrings, to create the fused warrior Vegito, who completely overwhelms Boo with his strength. Eventually, Vegito allows himself to be absorbed into Boo's body to free the other heroes absorbed by Boo, but this leads to the splitting of the fusion. Goku and Vegeta manage to free their allies who have been absorbed by Boo, causing him to undergo a new transformation, which results in his return to his original Kid Boo form. On the Kaiō-shin's planet, Vegeta battles Boo again to buy time for Goku to gather energy for the \"Genki Dama\", which he uses to defeat Majin Boo once and for all. It is during this fight that Vegeta finally admits Goku as both his superior and friend.\n\nIn addition, Vegeta appears in eight of the \"Dragon Ball Z\" movies; in the , Vegeta comes to Goku's aid against Cooler, foiling his attempt at powering the Big Gete Star with their energy by overloading it; in the , Vegeta appears to aid the others in combating a new wave of androids, destroying Android 15; in the , Vegeta shows hesitation in fighting Broly due to his immense strength though he overcomes it in time to supply Goku with his energy, contributing to Broly's defeat; in the , Vegeta withdraws from attending a tournament, disillusioned by Goku's death, but comes to help Trunks when believing he is in danger; in the , after having a difficult time with Janemba, Vegeta fuses with Goku to form Gogeta who defeats Janemba easily; in the , Vegeta fights Hirudegarn after he steps on his home; in the , Vegeta tries appeasing Beerus so that he will not destroy the Earth and surpasses Goku and even Beerus, briefly following a power boost of rage brought on by Beerus slapping Bulma; and lastly, in the , Vegeta trains off planet with Whis and returns to Earth to combat the resurrected Freeza, being killed by him when he destroys the Earth.\n\nAfter the latter two films, Vegeta participates in a tournament where he defeats Frost, Magetta, and Cabba, but is defeated by the assassin Hit. He travels to Planet Potaufeu to retrieve Goten and Trunks, where he fights a copy of himself. He is then reunited with Future Trunks and begins training to fight Goku Black, also training Trunks for the fight. Vegeta travels to the future to counter Goku Black, but is defeated and returns to the past. Vegeta heals and returns to the future for a rematch. failing to defeat Goku Black before traveling to the present, where he trains, giving him enough strength to best Goku Black in their next encounter. Vegeta and Goku then meet their match against Zamasu's fused form, forcing them to once again fuse into Vegito, who defuses from overusing his energy. Vegeta later aids Trunks in defeating Zamasu. Vegeta loses a battle to Arale, and later declines training with Goku due to Bulma's pregnancy. When his daughter, Bulla, is born, Vegeta develops a strong attachment to her and becomes very protective over her wellbeing. \n\nVegeta decides to enter in the Tournament of Power in order to protect his family. During the tournament Vegeta is successful in knocking out numerous fighters. He knocks out Toppo, who achieved the power of a Hakaishin or God of Destruction, and then aids Goku in fighting the last remaining member of Universe 11, Jiren. It is during his fight with Jiren and Toppo that Vegeta breaks the limits of his Super Saiyan Blue form, achieving a higher power and form known as 'Super Saiyan Blue Evolution'. With 2 minutes remaining in the tournament, Jiren knocks Vegeta out, who then sends the last of his remaining power to Goku.\n\nIn filler episodes of \"Dragon Ball Z\", set during the Saiyan arc, Vegeta and Nappa travel to Arlia while in space, being hailed as a hero after saving the people there. After leaving, Vegeta destroys the planet from space. After the Namek arc, Vegeta travels across space in an ultimately unsuccessful attempt at finding Goku, defeating remnants of Freeza's army. After the Boo arc, Vegeta attends a gathering with the other heroes.\n\nIn \"Dragon Ball GT\", Vegeta is confronted by a Baby-possessed Gohan. Baby possessed Vegeta during their battle despite strong resistance by Vegeta, and the resulting Baby/Vegeta fusion battles Goku. Vegeta is later split from Baby's body before Baby is destroyed. Later, he fights Super Android #17, but again, he is knocked out and nearly killed. When Omega Shenron wreaks havoc, he fights with Goku as a Super Saiyan 4 but the two eventually revert to normal. Afterwards, Vegeta says a farewell to Goku, who leaves the duty of protecting Earth in Vegeta's hands before he flies off into the sky on Shenron.\n\nVegeta has appeared in many video games related to the \"Dragon Ball\" franchise as both a playable character and boss. In several games, Vegeta is capable of transforming into a Super Saiyan 3, first introduced in \"Dragon Ball Z: Raging Blast\". In the 2003 game \"Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 2\", Vegeta can be absorbed by Boo as one of the alternate forms exclusive to the game. In the 2010 arcade game \"Dragon Ball: Heroes\", Vegeta bests Super 17 before and after he merges with Android 18. A Time Breaker-possessed version of Vegeta also appears in the game. In the 2015 game \"\", Vegeta serves as a mentor to the player character, teaching \"Galic Gun\", \"Final Barrage\", \"Shine Shot\" and \"Final Flash\". He has also appeared in other non \"Dragon Ball\"-related video games, such as \"Jump Super Stars\", \"Jump Ultimate Stars\", and even in the \"Dragon Ball Z\"/\"One Piece\"/\"Naruto\" crossover game \"Battle Stadium D.O.N\".\n\nVegeta has made several appearances in other manga, one of which is in Akira Toriyama's \"Dragon Ball\" self-parody \"Neko Majin\", where he battles the titular character. In the \"Dragon Ball\" and \"One Piece\" crossover, \"Cross Epoch\", Vegeta is re-imagined as a captain of a crew of air pirates which includes Trunks, Usopp, and Nico Robin. On September 15, 2006, Vegeta made a guest appearance in a chapter of the \"Kochira Katsushika-ku Kameari Kōen-mae Hashutsujo\" manga, \"Super Kochikame\", entitled . Vegeta appears in the \"Karate Shoukoushi Kohinata Minoru\" manga in Chapter 178. Two characters go to a restaurant that features live Muay Thai boxing and Vegeta is in the background cheering. He also makes a single panel appearance in Toriyama's 2014 \"\" special.\nVegeta has also been the victim of parody: the \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" \"Gag Special 2005\" issue released on November 12, 2004 featured a \"Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo\" one-shot \"Dragon Ball\" parody manga. The manga was a humorous retelling of the battle between Goku and Vegeta initial battle; Jelly Jiggler was Goku and Don Patch was Vegeta.\n\nVegeta has made two contributions to music: in the eighth installment of \"Hit Song Collection series\" entitled \"\", Vegeta sings the song \"Vegeta-sama no Oryori Jigoku!!\". The song focuses of Vegeta cooking a special Okonomiyaki, and in \"Dragon Ball Kai: Song Collection\" he sings the song \"Saiyan Blood\", which he brags about how great he is. Other \"Dragon Ball\"-related songs that center around Vegeta are \"Koi no Nazonazo\" by Kuko and Tricky Shirai which focuses on his and Bulma's relationship and \"Ai wa Ballad no Yō ni~Vegeta no Theme~\" by Shin Oya which represents Vegeta's reflections on his life and then current family.\n\nUp until his tail was cut off, Vegeta could turn into a gigantic monkey-like creature called an by looking at a full moon, an ability common of all Saiyans with tails. Vegeta has the ability to create and enhance attacks with the use of \"ki\". He also has the ability to use , which enables him to fly. Constant training and his Saiyan heritage have given him vast superhuman strength, durability, speed and reflexes. Vegeta can increase his strength, speed, stamina, invulnerability and flight speed many fold if he directs ki into them.\n\nVegeta is known to give names for his various energy attacks. In his early appearance, Vegeta is seen to use attacks similar to several of the protagonists of the series, such as a , a laser-like disk capable of cutting through solid objects, and a ki wave similar to Goku's \"Kamehameha\". One of his better known attacks is the , although he uses it only once in the series proper; during his battle against Goku in an attempt to destroy the Earth. He later develops the and the techniques, which are much more powerful than his older energy attacks. One of Vegeta's most commonly used tactics in the series is when he bombards an opponent with an array of small \"ki\" blasts. He is not known to have an official name for this attack, but it is occasionally called . In \"Dragon Ball GT\", Vegeta displays a powerful new attack, entitling it the , where he uses his left hand to fire off a massive beam of green \"ki\" that widens with distance. Because of his immense strength and power, Vegeta, along with few other characters from the \"Dragon Ball\" franchise, can destroy entire planets with single attacks if he intends to.\n\nVegeta also possesses several transformations that greatly enhance his abilities to varying degrees. He gains the ability to transform into a Super Saiyan and, through training, can further transform into advanced states of Super Saiyan as the series continues. Vegeta later achieved the immensely powerful transformation under Whis's tutelage. During his fight with Jiren, a mortal stronger than a destroyer, Vegeta unlocks a transformation called Super Saiyan God Super Saiyan Evolution by breaking his very utmost limits. Vegeta can also fuse with Goku and create a warrior who has the combined power and skills of both. One method is by using the \"Potara\" earrings, presented to Goku by the Old Kaiō-shin. This results in a 'potara fusion' creating , who, in his reappearance in \"Dragon Ball Super\", can also transform into a Super Saiyan God Super Saiyan. The other method, appearing only in the anime, is by performing the 'Metamorese Fusion Dance', which creates .\n\nIn the original Japanese version of the anime and all other media, Vegeta is voiced by Ryō Horikawa.\n\nIn the Ocean Productions English dub, Vegeta was voiced by Brian Drummond. Drummond returned in the Funimation dub of \"Dragon Ball Super\" to voice Vegeta's Duplicate.\n\nIn Funimation's in house dub, Christopher Sabat has voiced Vegeta in all \"Dragon Ball\" media, including video games. While Sabat continued to dub Vegeta's adult incarnation in \"Dragon Ball Z Kai\", Laura Bailey voiced Vegeta's child incarnation in \"Dragon Ball Z Kai\" and Justin Briner voiced Vegeta's child incarnation in \"Dragon Ball Super\".\n\nVegeta has generally received praise by various reviewers from manga, anime and other media. Theron Martin from Anime News Network noted Vegeta's pride as being partially responsible for the success of the series. His fight against Goku during the final story arc was also commented to be very entertaining, despite its length as well as Goku and Vegeta's fighting styles, which Martin considered to have become stale. In another review, Theron noted Vegeta's overcoming his pride to help defeat Cell as the best scene from the fight against said antagonist due to how it creates the climax of the scene. Todd Douglass Jr. from DVD Talk commented on Vegeta's skills and anger, noting them to be a good combination for any fight even though it is a one-sided battle due to how powerful he is. Douglass called his reveal as a villain during the appearance of Bobbidi, \"the real meat\" of the story. Carlos Ross from Them Anime Reviews found Vegeta and Bulma's relationship to have too much comic potential and comments that such characterization was lost.\n\nVegeta is an extremely popular character in the series, placing fourth in the 1993 \"Dragon Ball\" character popularity poll voted on by \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" readers, and moved up to second in the 1995 one. In 2004, fans of the series voted him the second most popular character for a poll in the book \"Dragon Ball Forever\". In About.com \"Top 8 Anime Love Stories\", Vegeta and Bulma's relationship ranked second with Katherine Luther commenting that such a relationship was unpredictable by fans. Mania Entertainment writer Briana Lawerence listed Vegeta 9th in the article 10 Male Headaches of Anime, criticizing his personality and his repeated desire to surpass Goku's power. Vegeta has appeared in the Anime Grand Prix poll taking high places in the category \"best male character\" in the 1991 poll and 1992 poll. Vegeta was placed twenty-first in IGN's 2009 top anime character of all-time list, calling him \"the original unmitigated bastard\" that preceded Light Yagami and Lelouch Lamperouge, and in the tenth spot in 2014. Vegeta came third on IGN's 2014 Top 10 Anime Villains list, stating, \"The most famous bad-guy-turned-not-so-bad in all of anime. Vegeta started out as an alien punk with a sadistic streak and an inferiority complex, but over time he became one of Goku's friends, and every now and then, if he was feeling nice that day, he'd help save the world.\" A Biglobe poll conducted in 2012 listed Vegeta at number 16 of Japanese fans' favorite \"tsundere\" characters, the highest among male characters on that list, and a Thai magazine about anime characters also listed him among male tsunderes.\n\nVegeta's quote \"It's over 9000!\", referring to Goku's new power level, has become an Internet meme and a popular catchphrase referring to a large number or great quantity. The line originates from episode 21 of the Ocean Productions English dub, \"The Return of Goku\", where Vegeta was voiced by Brian Drummond. It was altered from the original line, which was . Subsequent releases and dubs have used one of the two numbers.\n\nWWE superstars The New Day wore Vegeta-inspired costumes at WrestleMania 32 as a part of their grand entrance for their match against The League of Nations. The costume worn by the antagonist Erik Killmonger in the 2018 film \"Black Panther\" is strikingly similar to Vegeta's costume. Killmonger is portrayed by Michael B. Jordan, who is known to be a fan of \"Dragon Ball\".\n"}
{"id": "56970574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56970574", "title": "Word gap", "text": "Word gap\n\nThe term 30 million word gap (often shortened to just the word gap) was coined in a 2003 article by Betty Hart and Todd R. Risley titled \"The Early Catastrophe: The 30 Million Word Gap by Age 3\". Hart and Risley used LENA devices, an electronic microphone that measured how many words the child hears to record samples of the utterances of entire families over 2.5 years. Families were classified by socioeconomic status (SES) into \"high\" (professional), \"middle\" (working class), and \"low\" (welfare) SES. They found that the average child in a professional family hears 2,153 words per waking hour, the average child in a working class family hears 1,251 words per hour, and an average child in a welfare family only 616 words per hour. Extrapolating, they stated that, \"in four years, an average child in a professional family would accumulate experience with almost 45 million words, an average child in a working-class family 26 million words, and an average child in a welfare family 13 million words.\"\n\nThe authors found a correlation between word exposure and the rate of vocabulary acquisition in the subject children. The recordings showed that high SES toddlers spoke approximately 2 new words a day between their second and third birthdays, middle SES children 1 word per day, and low SES children 0.5 words per day. Spoken words are a measure of productive vocabulary. It is thought that during children's vocabulary development the productive vocabulary mirrors their underlying receptive vocabulary growth.\n\nThe authors and subsequent researchers have posited that the word gap–or certainly the differing rates of vocabulary acquisition–partially explains the achievement gap in the United States, the persistent disparity in educational performance among subgroups of U.S. students, especially subgroups defined by socioeconomic status and race.\n\nOther critics theorize that the language and achievement gaps are not a result of the amount of words a child is exposed to, but rather alternative theories suggest it could derive from the disconnect of linguistic practices between home and school. Thus, judging academic success and linguistic capabilities from socioeconomic may ignore bigger societal issues. The ongoing word gap discourse can be seen as a modern movement in educational discussion.\n\nPrior to the 30 million word gap study, extensive research had noted strong institutional variation in student success on standardized tests. The initial attention to achievement gap started with a 1966 publication from the U.S. Department of Education titled “Equality of Educational Opportunity.” The publication begins the onset of achievement gap by acknowledging that there is a great disparity within educational outcomes as a result of inequitable institutions, especially those that were not seen as part of the purview of schools such as cultural, socioeconomic, and linguistic realities of students at home. The National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) had further been used to census information that various studies used to show achievement gaps across a number of demographics. The idea of equity in education had also given rise to similar gap discourse around the world.\n\nHart and Risley (2003) spent 2 ½ years observing 42 families for an hour each month to learn what typical home life was like for 1 and 2 year old children. The families were grouped into 4 variables, upper SES, middle SES, lower SES and just a few that were on welfare. They found that by age 3 children in welfare families had a vocabulary of 525 words where children in upper SES families had vocabulary of 1,116 words. They also found that the children in upper class families were learning vocabulary at a faster rate. The researchers suggested the reason for this difference is because the welfare children heard on average 616 words per hour where professional-family children heard on average 2,153 words per hour. Thus, proposing the 30 Million Word Gap. The achievement gap is explained as a result of the language gap, in that because children are lacking in their vocabulary and literary skills, they will not be as successful in academics. Hart and Risley argue this is an indispensable societal concern because it sets the child at a disadvantage for not being exposed to more vocabulary skills at a young age.\n\nFernald, Marchman, and Weisleder (2013) conducted a study with 48 children from diverse backgrounds ages 18–24 months old. The families were divided into low-SES (socioeconomic status) and high-SES. Their first goal was to track developmental changes in processing efficiency in relation to vocabulary learning. Their second goal was to examine difference in aspects of early language development in relation to their SES. Their results showed that children at the same age from the lower class families had lower vocabulary scores when compared to children in higher class families. Fernald et al (2013) also found that by 18 months old language processing and vocabulary disparities were already evident, and by 24 months old there was a 6 month gap between the SES groups in processing skills critical to language development. Fernald et al found fast reaction time as a child can translate into reaction time as an adult. Adults who have high reaction time tend to have better memories, reasoning abilities, language skills and are better able to learn new skills (fluid intelligence). Having better processing speed means having a stronger working memory, and a stronger working memory leads to a better cognitive competence. The authors express the importance of vocabulary knowledge because it sets a foundation for later literacy and language proficiency in preschool and that is predictive of academic success. Implications of long term developmental trajectories. Thus, the issue of the language gap and achievement gap are prevalent in our youth, which can be resolved by teaching families how to work and speak with their children.\n\nSperry, Sperry, and Miller (2018) replicated Hart and Risley’s study and found that the amount of word gaps varied within the same backgrounds of socio-economic status. A longitudinal study observed families with their children in their homes and the researchers spoke to the participants as if they were a family friend. They used similar social classes as HR for comparison. Middle class, working class, lower class, poor “welfare” group. During the visit, three analyses were made and transcribed for research. The first was how many words the primary caregiver spoke to the child. The second was that the words spoken by all caregivers to the child showed social class alone did not determine either the composition of households or consequently the amount of a speech a child heard. Lastly, all ambient speech, like language addressed to other individuals but overheard by language learning children was considered. In the poor community sample when you took into consideration the ambient speech, or the words that primary caregivers said to extended family, the amount of words a child hears increased by 54%, in the working class by 210%. This study was the first attempt to replicate Hart and Risley and their findings did not support the previous claims. Given the variation within communities was greater than when simply comparing socioeconomic statuses.\n\nGarcia and Otheguy (2016) were interested in the origins and validity of the Language Gap, and how the preconceptions of it impact bilingual and bidialectical children, specifically from Latino and Black backgrounds. They focused more so on how people talk about and understand language as a whole, especially within the education system. Their argument claims language is a semiotic process that involves sound, touch, and gestures and should be seen as a translanguaging-internalist perspective. She offers historical context to give insight to the creation of the Language Gap and the biases it may hold. They suggest it began when \"Brown vs The Board of Education\" (1954) and the Civil Rights Act (1964) made it illegal to judge based on one’s color or race; thus, exclusions needed to be made based on another trait. They build on Flores and Rosas (2017) idea of raciolinguistics that suggests a new way to separate whites and non-whites. They continue to give historical context on the Achievement Gap in that it was a result of the No Child Left Behind Act (2001), despite its good intentions, it compared every race and background on a standardized test written in a White monolingual way. Given the educational system functions on the dominant groups of society (i.e. white, Standardized English, middle-upper class), it ignores the linguistic and cultural practices of minorities. The theory here is that it is not that families of differing backgrounds are not adequate in teaching their children how to speak, but teach them a different linguistic culture at home than the one taught in schools.\n\nSimilarly, Johnson (2015) draws on from Faltis (2006) socialization mismatch hypothesis that the culture of the schooling system that is based around middle to upper class, White, Standardized English principles do not match the language socialization of backgrounds that may not fit into these categories. He argues the Language Gap was not a result of vocabulary or literary deficiency in a child, but rather not understanding the language socialization of different cultural backgrounds. He drew from a previous linguistic anthropologist Hymes (1972) term of “communicative competence” in that social expectations within a speech community shape the member’s use of language. Thus, diverse backgrounds in language have a different set of expectations that a member conforms to. As language differs, so does the developmental process. Johnson (2015) argues the Language Gap is not fair because it does not consider the various ways children use words and create meaning. Therefore, it is not the parents at fault leading their children to fall behind, but the school’s fault for not accommodating to children’s backgrounds.Thus, the Language Gap is not a result of a child’s capabilities to understand, but a result of how a linear function of language ignores the needs of the various ways to make meaning.\n\nThere are possible social implications to Hart and Risley’s theories of the issue of the Language Gap in society. The first possible implication is that this Language Gap is affecting youth’s success because they are not exposed to the same amount of vocabulary and literary skill as other kids from middle-upper classes. Hart and Risely suggest that possible solutions include interventions on how to improve vocab and literary skills for caregivers in low SES. However, the second possible implication of this theory is that it ignores the fact that language and culture are taught differently. In stating other backgrounds cannot be as successful as the dominant groups in society, It reinstates the homogeneity of language, in that it proposes one “true” way of speaking.\n\nGarcia and Otheguy (2016) implies the Language and Achievement Gap derive from racist ideals that reinforce the idea that some cultures are seen as “disadvantaged”. To place the blame on different backgrounds is to invalidate their way to make meaning just because they have different cultures. Thus, to not consider the responsibility of the schooling system is to promote the homogeneity of Standardized English and this notion that anyone who doesn’t speak or understand it is inferior and prone to future failure. Garcia argues it deligitimatizes backgrounds of families and their linguistic and cultural practices because it is not seen to be “successful” in the eyes of the education system.\n\nSperry, Sperry and Miller discussed some of the consequences of the original Hart and Risley (2003) article. The 30 Million Word Gap has received widespread media attention. In 2013 Bloomberg Philanthropies mayors challenge awarded providence Rhode Island its grand prize to “providence talks” - a project proposed to teach poor parents how to speak to their children with the aid of the LENA Device. The Clinton foundations “Too Small to Fail” initiative which hosted the White House Word Gap event in 2014, resulted in the US department of Health and Human services funding remedial efforts to address the Word Gap.\n\nIn addition, Georgia has a policy “Talk with Me Baby” that is a public action strategy aimed at increasing the number of words children are exposed to in early childhood. \"Talk With Me Baby\" is a program that provides professional development of nurses, who will then coach new parents how they should talk to their children. This program is funded by Greater United Way of Atlanta.\n\nThe University of Chicago, School of Medicine's Thirty Million Words Initiative provides intervention for caregivers and teaches to show them how to optimize their talk with their kids. This program is funded by the PNC Foundation.\n\nThe Word Gap theory can be seen as part of a larger development in modern educational reform and movement: the Achievement Gap discourse. It is widely accepted and noted by scholars that ideas around individual outcome in schools varies based on various demographics. Explaining variations in achievement in schools across levels of demographics that may result in a gap in student achievement has become the primary problems public schools have to address. The Discourse is based on evidence and assumptions of why primarily poor students of color do not perform at the same levels as their more affluent White and certain Asian group counterparts- it creates language to how schools and communities can be organized more optimally to help students and schools produce more equitable and successful outcomes. The Achievement Gap also addresses a gender gap achievement, and standardized test score gaps broadly across countries, notably with standardized examinations on STEM subjects. The Discourse can also be seen as a turning away from traditional explanations of performance in school as individualistic, to the creation of cultural framework understanding to help explain what conventions hinder and produce successful students. \"Under performing, adequate yearly progress (AYP), highly qualified, below basic, and proficient\" are some terms used to mark good and bad aspects of schools, their teachers, and their students which in turn reifies the Achievement Gap theory. As a broader Discourse, it is an idea which is multimodally shared and accepted as common belief between parents, policy makers, teachers and students through various means according to James Paul Gee’s idea of Discourse in socio-linguistic analysis.\n\nThe effects of the Achievement Gap Discourse cause several cultural phenomena- “cultural gate-keeping,” in which policy makers and education reformers decide and label students as more or less capable and worthy than others. Schools might be called under-performing, which can further affect the policy and financing prescribed by their districts, or even higher authorities.\n\nUsing metric standards to understand the cause in Achievement Gap as a result of ineffective cultural practices also tends to place blame on the families unless there is ample socio-linguistic inquiry to individual family circumstance, which still often creates a Discourse against deemed underachieving students’ culture.\n\nThe Achievement Gap Discourse initiated with two primary modes in American educational studies: Achievement Gap among races, and gap among socioeconomic status (SES). \"The gap Discourse\" does not typically extend across generations or other forms of demographics that have been studied, and further study of Achievement Gap among different dimensions faces the initial stigmatization as a result of the gap Discourse in various studies around the turn of the 21st Century, pin-headed by the 30 million Word Gap. Among critics are many linguists, anthropologists, and social discipline specialists, as well as organizations such as the Linguistic Society of America.\n\nThe achievement gap became an especially strong interest for study in the turn of the century, and the early 2000's when a plethora of studies looked at factors such as standardized test scores, presence in class, GPA, enrollment, and dropout rates in secondary and post-secondary education. The problem came in the analyses of the studies which were criticized for looking at race and socioeconomic explanations to explain educational outcome without taking into account others such as S. J. Lee, 2005, Pang, Kiang, & Pak, 2004, and Rothstein 2004 which provided broad postulations as to why race and SES accounted for varied success. President George W. Bush's administration’s No Child Left Behind rhetoric of 2001 and 2002 left researchers limited to the type of research they could conduct for educational equity due to a need to appease policy makers among educational stakeholders. According to Roderick L Carey, Word Gap researcher, the NCLB “mandated objective and quantitative ‘scientifically based’ research, which left little room for qualitative research agendas that unpack contextual factors that add nuance to the understandings of how high-stakes accountability is felt and lived by students, teachers, and their families.” The rhetoric also posed ideas that placed responsibility of achievement in institutions on their most proximal function oriented members, shifting responsibility to achieve positive outcomes on high-stakes standardized tests nearly entirely on teachers and schools, whilst the difference in achievement was largely believed to be due to factors outside of the classroom. Various studies culminated to suggest general and vague underlying problems within specific communities which caused deficit in learning outcomes under this context.\n\nAmong these studies, Hart and Risley stumbled upon the idea of word gap when working with youth who used cochlear implants, to form their the idea: they hypothesized exposure to spoken word might explain an achievement gap in standardized test scores, then used standardized testing data on language as well as an in depth study to conclude their 30 million word gap publication.\n\nThe \"Oxford Word Gap\" is used to describe the word gap found between races and socioeconomic classes in the United Kingdom. The report study “Why Closing the Word Gap Matters: Oxford Language Report” details out statistics collected in primary and secondary schools in the United Kingdom, along the same ideas as the American Word Gap idea, citing \"Hart and Risley (2003)\" in the report. It was published in 2018, so all of its implications are yet to be seen.\n\nA great number of states have paid attention to Achievement Gap across hundreds of criteria including demographics, access to language and economic resources and race around the world: notably in the United Kingdom, France, South Africa as named in one comparative analysis. UNESCO has held strongly in its principles the importance on aspects of educational equity, and other educational movements similar to that of the United States Word Gap are numerous throughout Europe and some other members of UNESCO. Europe also has its own varied standards on the ideas of multilingual competence per state, which stress the apprehension and exposure to secondary language vocabulary in students of all ages.\n\nThe Word Gap has largely been defined to mean the idea of the observed gap between the spoken and read language in the specific context of American education reform described in this article, however other proposed ideas or active research have used it to describe differences in access to language varieties experienced in public settings, such as signage in Orellana, 2017's \"Another Type of Word Gap\", as well as other linguistic resources such as using media for language acquisition. Other aspects of linguistic resource studies could change the language or may attempt to use terms to remain distinct from the stigma of word gap.\n"}
