{"id": "57047996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57047996", "title": "1938 Belgrade Car Show", "text": "1938 Belgrade Car Show\n\nThe 1938 Belgrade Car Show was the first car show organized in Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. Held from 5 to 15 March 1938, it was one of the 9 officially registered car shows in Europe at the time. The show evolved into an annual event, today internationally labeled \"BG Car Show\" (, ).\n\nAt the time, Belgrade was the capital of Yugoslavia, which was generally considered the \"non-motorized\" state. The first car appeared in Belgrade in 1903 and, statistically, in the second half of the 1930s Yugoslavia had only 1 car on 1,000 inhabitants, while Germany had 15, United Kingdom 40 and France 53. The state decided to assemble the plan to motorize the country and popularize the automobiles, to the point that \"motorization\" became one of the most discussed economic, but also political, topics. In that period, Vlada Ilić - one of the wealthiest industrialist in the state and mayor of Belgrade 1936-39 - negotiated with the Ford Motor Company in order to obtain the licence to assemble cars in Yugoslavia.\n\nThe royals were also included in the process of the automobiles popularization. Queen mother Maria was an enthusiastic driver. A Romanian princess, she was driving before she married King Alexander of Yugoslavia and, as the future bride, she personally drove her mother from Bucharest to Belgrade, driving her luxurious Delage. She also drove from Belgrade to Paris, almost . As a queen, she was often seen driving her Rolls-Royce through Belgrade, which was a major rarity at the time, both because she was a royal and a woman. She quit driving on her own, though, after her husband was assassinated in the car in 1934, in Marseilles, France. The Queen was a patron of the Automobile Club of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia which organized the Belgrade Grand Prix in 1939. The still minor King Peter II was named a patron of the car show in 1938.\n\nThe idea of organizing the show in Belgrade was suggested by Daimler-Benz. Despite strong protest against the motion which came from some other European fairs, the Belgrade car show was held and accepted as one of the 9 officially registered car shows in Europe. In February 1938, the Belgrade press was announcing the event. A common place in the articles was that the show will push for the popularity and development of the cars. Velizar Janković, former transportation minister, wrote about the importance of such shows, saying that President of France and Führer of Germany open the shows in Paris and Berlin, respectively, which shows how significant these events are. Yugoslav prime minister Milan Stojadinović said that \"Yugoslavia, at this moment, has only 12,000 automobiles, mostly defective\", estimating that the state needs at least 150,000 vehicles. The press was vocal about the high taxes which owners of the vehicles had to pay, especially for the trucks, claiming that Bucharest, the capital of Romania, had more cars than the entire Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\n\nThe car show was held at the newly constructed Belgrade Fair venue on the left side of the Sava river, across the Belgrade at that time. The foundation stone was ceremonially placed on 6 June 1937. Works were finished in three months and the facility was open on 11 September 1937. It had modern and artistic buildings, including the high metal spike construction, which became known as the Central Tower. It was designed by the architects Milivoje Tričković, Rajko Tatić and Đorđe Lukić who envisioned it as the monumental modern complex, with the Central Tower as the domineering motif. Around the tower, the exhibition pavilions were built, including five Yugoslav, one for the “Nikola Spasić Foundation”, the national pavilions of Italy, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Hungary and the Dutch company Philips. The complex included: of roofed exhibition space, of open exhibition space, of lawns and flower beds and of roads and paths.\n\nDuring World War II, the occupational German and Croatian forces turned the complex into the Sajmište concentration camp. It was never rebuilt and the new Belgrade Fair venue was open in 1957, across the river, so the old locality is today known as the Staro Sajmište (\"old fairground\").\n\nThe show was held 5-15 March 1938 and was open by the minister of trade, Milan Vrbanić. King Peter and his mother Queen Maria later toured the show, visiting all the exhibited vehicles.\n\nThere were 107 exhibitors, from United States, Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Belgium and Yugoslavia. Due to the space constrictions, application from further 117 exhibitors were denied. Exhibitors and dealers included:\n\nAustria\n\n\nCzechoslovakia\n\n\nGermany\n\n\nItaly\n\n\nUnited States of America\n\n\nAltogether, 375 vehicles were displayed. There were 158 passenger cars, 65 trucks, 10 buses, 18 chassis, 105 motorbikes and bicycles, 10 car engines, 3 tractors and 1 excavator. The most popular displays were those of Opel, BMW, Fiat, Dodge, Chevrolet, Buick and Mercedes. Commercial vehicles were presented by Mercedes, Büssing, WUMAG and Krupp. In total, the show had 40,000 visitors and most of the cars that were purchased during the exhibition were the limousines, as the car was still considered a luxury in Yugoslavia at the time.\n\nOpel exhibited a specially designed car which had a shell made of transparent Plexiglas so that visitors could see the machinery inside the car. It was a major novelty at the time.\n\nThe number of exhibitors grew in the second and third shows, which were held in 1939 and 1940. Despite the outbreak of World War II, the exhibitors came from Germany, Italy, United States, Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. Especially popular were the cars with the wood gas engines. Fourth show, planned for the May 1941 was canceled after the German invasion of Yugoslavia, which included the heavy bombing of Belgrade, began on 6 April 1941.\n\nAfter the new Belgrade Fair was finished in 1957, the car show was revived. Originally, it was held in 1957, 1959 and 1961 as part of the International Fair of Technics, and became a location for establishing the business connections between dealers. In 1965 the car show had 525.000 visitors while in 1966 the first fair rally under the European criteria was organized and the show officially entered the International calendar of car shows. In 1970 the show had 586 exhibitors from 23 countries from 4 continents on the exhibition area of . It was the first time that the racing cars were also displayed. In 1971, despite cancelling of the show in Frankfurt and troubles with the Paris Motor Show, 403 exhibitors came to the Belgrade show.\n\nIn the 1980s the fair was held to high regard and was compared to the shows in Geneva, Barcelona or Turin. In 1991, despite the heavy economical and political crisis in Yugoslavia and the quotas for the import of the equipment and technologies imposed by the state which reduced the number of exhibitors, the show was still the largest one in the Eastern Europe. Despite the period of wars and economic sanctions in the 1990s, the fair survived. Since 2013 it is officially named \"DDOR BG CAR SHOW\".\n"}
{"id": "42394235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42394235", "title": "2007–08 Elitserien (bandy)", "text": "2007–08 Elitserien (bandy)\n\nElitserien for bandy in 2007–08 was the first season of the \"new\" Elitserien, replacing the former Allsvenskan and Elitserien.\n\nA best-of-three playoff were used in the quarter-finals and best-of-five in the semi-finals. The crucial final for the Swedish Championship was played at Studenternas IP in Uppsala on 15 March 2008.\n"}
{"id": "52393458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52393458", "title": "2016 United States presidential election recounts", "text": "2016 United States presidential election recounts\n\nFollowing Republican nominee Donald Trump's presumed electoral college victory in the United States presidential election of 2016, a group of computer scientists, cyber security experts, and election monitors raised concerns about the integrity of the election results. They urged the campaign staff of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, who had conceded the campaign on November 9, to petition for a recount in three key states: Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. When the Clinton campaign declined to file for recounts, Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein agreed to spearhead the recount effort on November 23, on the grounds that unspecified \"anomalies\" may have affected the election's outcome. The Clinton team subsequently pledged to support the recount efforts \"in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides.\" President-elect Trump and his supporters filed legal motions in all three states to prevent the recounts. Two other states were the subject of recount bids that were separate from Stein's efforts in the Rust Belt states: American Delta Party/Reform Party presidential candidate Rocky De La Fuente filed for a partial recount in Nevada on November 30, and three Florida citizens filed for a complete hand recount in their state on December 6.\n\nIn accordance with the Electoral Count Act of 1887, all states must certify and submit their final election results to the electoral college six days before the college meets. Under this \"safe harbor\" provision, any recount efforts for the 2016 election had to be completed before the deadline of December 13, 2016. The recount in Nevada went forward and were completed on schedule, resulting in only minor changes to vote tallies. Wisconsin permitted individual counties to decide whether to provide paper ballots for recount or merely to rerun the same computer totals. A recount in Michigan was allowed to proceed for three days before being halted by court order, and a federal lawsuit to compel a recount in Pennsylvania was dismissed. While the partial Michigan recount did unearth some instances of improper ballot handling and possible voter fraud, no indications of widespread hacking were discovered, and the overall outcome of the election remained unchanged, despite the evidence that the voting machines were old and faulty, possibly counting as \"blank\" ballots many that contained visually clear indications of presidential choice.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "263509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263509", "title": "605 BC", "text": "605 BC\n\nThe year 605 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 149 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 605 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25035357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25035357", "title": "A Great Night in Harlem", "text": "A Great Night in Harlem\n\nA Great Night in Harlem Benefit Concert is an annual series of concerts organized by the Jazz Foundation of America (JFA), a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization, since 2001 to raise money for the Jazz Foundation's Musician Emergency Fund.\n\nIn August 2000, after being hired as Executive Director of the Jazz Foundation, Wendy Oxenhorn discovered the organization had only left in the fund. She suggested organizing a fundraising concert at the Apollo Theater. When she was told they could not afford to rent the Apollo, Oxenhorn asked board member Jarrett Lilien for advice. Lilien told Oxenhorn he would pay to rent the Apollo.\n\nOxenhorn conceived of the idea for the concerts during her first year as Executive Director of the JFA in 2000, after watching a 1994 documentary called \"A Great Day in Harlem\" about jazz musicians. The first concert, which took place in September 2001, raised $350,000 for the foundation's Jazz Musicians Emergency Fund, and over 65 jazz artists performed. Every year since, the event has grown.\n\nBy this time, the Foundation's emergency caseload had tripled and they were now helping 150 musicians. Lauren Roberts joined the organization and together they ran it, handling an average of 10 cases a day. Because of the success of the A Great Night in Harlem, they initiated the Jazz in the Schools Program, which generated employment for more than 400 elderly musicians in New York City.\n\nThe annual A Great Night In Harlem concerts were the organization's was the only major funding source. Each year it, and the Foundation's caseload, grew Lilien and his partners at E-Trade Financial Corp. started the first Musicians Emergency Housing Fund, which enabled the Jazz Foundation to pay rents and keep mortgages from foreclosure. The Jazz Foundation of America was now able to support hundreds of elderly musicians who had fallen behind due to illness or age, preventing evictions and homelessness.\n\nJarrett Lilien became the first president of the JFA. Within months, he was also made president of E-Trade Financial Corp. The Jazz Foundation had become a national organization. By 2009, they were handling approximately 500 emergency cases a year.\n\nOn Monday, September 24, 2001, the JFA presented the first A Great Night in Harlem at the Apollo Theater on 125th Street and Adam Clayton Powell Boulevard, at 7 p.m. The performance was MC'd by Bill Cosby, and Gil Noble, host of WABC-TV's Sunday television show \"Like It Is\".\n\nThe 2002 recording of \"A Great Night in Harlem\" was released as a two-CD set by Playboy Jazz PBD2-7502-2, with all the profits from the sale going to the Jazz Musicians’ Emergency Fund.\n\nOn September 26, 2002, the JFA hosted the second annual fund-raising concert, again at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. Performers included Pete Cosey, Jim Hall , Danny Moore, Joe Piscopo, and George Benson, and was hosted by several celebrities.\n\nBill Cosby presented awards to Dr. Jack McConnell, and Congressman John Conyers, Skitch Henderson presented the Lifetime Achievement Award to Clark Terry and Abbey Lincoln, and Dr. Billy Taylor presented the Humanitarian Award to Jimmy Owens. Bill Cosby and Joe Piscopo were the Masters of Ceremonies. The 2002 concert honored Clark Terry and Congressman John Conyers.\n\nIn 2002, the recording of the 2001 \"A Great Night in Harlem\" concert was released (see below for details). All profits from the sale of this two-CD set benefit the Jazz Foundation of America’s Jazz Musicians’ Emergency Fund.\n\nOn September 26, 2003, at the Apollo Theater, the third Annual Great Night In Harlem concert was held. The 2003 benefit was hosted by Bill Cosby, Chevy Chase, Whoopi Goldberg and Branford Marsalis. The concert featured performances by Irene Reid with Don Milletello, Randy Johnston, Billy Phipps and Tootsie Bean. George Wein and Bill Cosby presented the \"Saint of Jazz Award\" to Harry Elias of JVC America. A surprise award was presented to Bill Cosby by Leo Corbie, Chairman of the Jazz Foundation of America, and Quincy Jones. A Lifetime Achievement Award was presented to Jimmy Heath. Stanley Jordan and Cassandra Wilson wrapped up the evening.\n\nThe fourth A Great Night in Harlem concert was hosted by the JFA on October 28, 2004. The 2004 benefit concert featured appearances by MCs Bill Cosby, Quincy Jones, Gil Noble, and Mario Van Peebles with his son Melvin Van Peebles, who surprised the event planners by opening the second half of the show playing two jazz tunes on piano, including a number by Thelonious Monk.\n\nAmong the featured performers were Danny Mixon, Jimmy McGriff, Larry Lucie, Johnny Blowers, and Max Lucas. Bill Cosby and Clark Terry presented a \"surprise\" award to Quincy Jones. Jones introduced the tribute to Ray Charles, arranged by Al Jackson; Kenny Barron and Regina Carter played \"Georgia on My Mind\".\n\nThe benefit paid special tribute to African drummer Babatunde Olatunji, led by Sanga of The Valley, John Ward, Shawn Banks, Gary Fritz, Gabu, Daoud, Seku, Tonge, Checharp, Aba Shaini, and Bas.\n\nThe fifth A Great Night in Harlem concert was hosted by the Jazz Foundation of America on May 4, 2006. The 2006 benefit concert was hosted by Bill Cosby, Danny Glover, and Dr. Billy Taylor and featured performance by The Newbirth Brass Band, Odetta, Harold Mabern, Seth Farber, and James Blood Ulmer. A surprise appearance by Henry Butler, Elvis Costello and Sweet Georgia Brown closed the evening.\n\nThe sixth A Great Night in Harlem fundraiser concert was held on May 17, 2007, at the Apollo Theater, hosted by Bill Cosby, Danny Glover and Gil Noble. The 2007 concert's theme was \"A History of the Music\". Performers included Dr. John, Duke Ellington Orchestra, Davell Crawford, Jimmy Norman, and Patti Bown.\n\nThe seventh concert was hosted on May 29, 2008. The Masters of Ceremonies were Bill Cosby, Danny Glover and Chevy Chase. Featured performers were Randy Weston, and the Randy Weston Trio, The Dave Brubeck Quartet, Dr. Michael White and The Original Liberty Jazz Band, Frank Foster and his Loud Minority Big Band, Hank Jones, and Norah Jones. Awards were presented to Englewood Hospital & Medical Center, Claude Nobs, and Montreux Jazz Festival.\n\nThe eighth concert was hosted by the JFA on May 14, 2009. The event was hosted by The Sopranos' Michael Imperioli, Wendy Oxenhorn, and Dick Parsons. This year’s concert was billed as a \"tribute to the blues\". Performers included John Dee Holeman, Gene Bertoncini, Eric Lewis, Deacon John Moore, and Lou Reed.\n\nThe ninth concert was hosted by the Jazz Foundation of America on May 20, 2010. Great Night 2010 was hosted by Kevin Kline, Michael Imperioli, David Johansen, and Wendy Oxenhorn. The concert was billed A History of the Music and was dedicated to \"The Spirit of Greatness\". Performers included R. L. Boyce, Baba Ola Jagun and Manno Charlemagne. Dick Parsons and Chevy Chase presented the Medicine for Music Award to Jay Nadel and Dr. Frank Forte of Englewood Hospital & Medical Center.\n\n\"A Great Night in Harlem\" was released as a 2-CD set that features solo and combo recordings of various jazz musicians during a benefit concert for the Jazz Musicians Emergency Relief Fund. Proceeds from the sale of this CD go to the fund. The album was recorded live at the Apollo Theater, New York, on September 24, 2001. It includes liner notes by Nat Hentoff. \"Sunset & The Mockingbird\" (Tommy Flanagan) was nominated for the 2003 Grammy Awards for Best Jazz Instrumental Solo.\n\nThe organization's blog said, \"To say this once-in-a-lifetime musical gathering made for 'A Great Night In Harlem' is an understatement! Many of jazz's greatest living musicians came together for the benefit of the Jazz Musicians Emergency Relief Fund. That magical night in Harlem has been preserved in a special 21-CD set for all to enjoy. Artists include Randy Brecker, Ron Carter, Kenny Barron, Regina Carter, Jimmy Owens, Cassandra Wilson, Lou Donaldson and many more. 2002.\"\n\nCD 1\n\nCD 2\n\nCD 1\n\nCD 2\n"}
{"id": "2147097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2147097", "title": "A Very Special Family Guy Freakin' Christmas", "text": "A Very Special Family Guy Freakin' Christmas\n\n\"A Very Special Family Guy Freakin' Christmas\" is the sixteenth episode of \"Family Guy\"s third season. It originally aired on Fox on December 21, 2001. In the episode, it is Christmas time in Quahog, a time when Lois's plans for a perfect holiday blow up in her face, causing her to have a mental breakdown. Stewie uses his role as the baby Jesus in the town play to be good for Santa Claus, about whom he has become paranoid, and show Lois the true meaning of Christmas.\n\n\"A Very Special Family Guy Freakin' Christmas\" was written by Danny Smith and directed by Brian Hogan. Though the episode aired during the third season, it was a holdover from the second production season. It featured guest performances from the original members of the rock band KISS (Peter Criss, Ace Frehley, Gene Simmons, and Paul Stanley).\n\nIt is rated as TV-14 and also sold as a DVD.\n\nLois signs Stewie up to star as baby Jesus in a nativity scene at the Quahog Christmas pageant. Stewie plays along in hopes of pleasing Santa, who he believes is omnipotent and thereby can supply him with plutonium. After Lois repeatedly reminds Peter to donate a present to charity, he mistakenly donates all of the family's Christmas gifts to a needy kids' charity. Lois seems unfazed by the mistake, but insists that the entire family shop for new presents at the mall. Peter reluctantly agrees, although he only wants to watch \"KISS Saves Santa\" on television; Brian stays behind to keep an eye on the turkey cooking in the oven. While at the mall, Peter finds a pair of barrettes that Meg wanted and ends up chasing down an old lady to a pet fish store called \"Age of Aquariums\", where the old lady throws fish food on him so that all the fish jump onto him to feed while the old lady escapes.\n\nMeanwhile, at home, an ember shoots onto the family rug from the fireplace. While Brian tries to deal with this crisis, the overcooked turkey begins to burn. Brian finds a fire extinguisher, but to his dismay, it is merely a novelty item filled with plastic snakes, which, upon being released into the fire, promptly explode and make it worse. After using the real fire extinguisher, he slips on the foam from it and the TV falls on top of him. Afterwards the interior of the house is destroyed; Brian escapes, but with his paws burnt hairless. Amazingly, Lois maintains a cheerful attitude, saying that they just need to clean up a bit. However, when Meg tells her that they are out of paper towels, Lois suffers a nervous breakdown and furiously screams at the family about how difficult it is to ensure that Christmas happens without a hitch, then runs from the ruined house on a rampage (Meg then ironically finds some paper towels mere seconds after Lois' rampage).\n\nLois storms through town, berating people for their Christmas optimism. When she reaches the town square, she climbs the Christmas tree there and grabs the ornamental star on top, bent on destroying it. The rest of the family arrives and Stewie, eager to perform a good deed to earn Santa's grace, performs an extemporaneous monologue about Jesus and the meaning of Christmas. Lois, watching Stewie, regains her sanity, but Peter, who thinks Lois isn't getting the message, allows the police to shoot her with a tranquilizer dart, just after she puts the star back on the tree.\n\nThe next morning at Christmas, the family opens their presents: Stewie gets his plutonium; Peter gets a week's vacation, a new VCR, and his own copy of \"Kiss Saves Santa\"; and Brian gets at what first appears to be a bottle of wine, but actually turns out to be a book. Lois is heavily sedated, sitting limply in a rocking chair and drooling. In the closing scene, the Griffins wish everyone a Merry Christmas (though Lois is still too numb to speak clearly).\n\nThe episode was originally intended to air in December 2000, as part of the second season. However, it was shelved after the show was canceled for the first time, then reshuffled into the third season when the show returned.\n\nWhen Peter and Lois are at Joe's house, Peter points at their TV and says \"You guys know that Rudolph is on, right?\", a reference to the special \"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer\" which is telecast yearly. Peter is seen wanting to watch \"Kiss Saves Santa\", a fictional special whose plot involves the rock band KISS saving Santa Claus from pterodactyls. Brian is seen watching \"Bob Hope's Christmas with the Troops\", a Christmas special featuring Bob Hope performing a monologue to a group of Civil War Union soldiers. While Lois is marching through the city on a rampage, she runs into George Bailey from \"It's a Wonderful Life\" and Frosty the Snowman.\n\nAlynda Wheat of \"Entertainment Weekly\" ranked the episode 21 on her list of \"26 Classic Holiday TV Episodes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47480168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47480168", "title": "Adarsh Liberal", "text": "Adarsh Liberal\n\nAdarsh Liberal (an Ideal Liberal) is a sarcastic term used on social media in India to describe a person who blindly opposes the policies of the Modi Government. The term came to be used on social media after the term \"Bhakt\" became popular to describe a person who blindly supports the policies of the Modi Government. \n\nAccording to a poster released on social media, \"Adarsh Liberal\" is \"someone who goes on an expensive holiday to discuss and understand poverty\", and a person who \"supports PETA but eats chicken and beef\", \"shifts goalposts if losing arguments\", \"questions Hindu mythology to become secular\" etc. It is a minor alteration of the old term \"Adarsh Balak\" which is used to make fun of Indian liberals.\n\n"}
{"id": "55229170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55229170", "title": "Alexandra Theatre (London)", "text": "Alexandra Theatre (London)\n\nThe Alexandra Theatre was a theatre located in the Stoke Newington district of London. Built in 1897, it was located at 65 and 67 Stoke Newington Road where the present-day Alexandra Court now stands. The theatre was demolished in the 1960s.\n\nOpened on December 27, 1897 as \"The Alexandra Theatre and Opera House\", it was designed by theatre architect Frank Matcham for F. W. Purcell. Upon opening, the theatre had a capacity of 2,025, spread across pit, traditional circle and gallery seating. In 1904, city records list the theatre’s capacity as 1,710, along with an assessed value of £1,250.. The theatre's first performance was the December 27, 1897 staging of \"Dick Whittington\", an adaption of the pantomime Dick Whittington and His Cat.\n\nThe theatre was operated by F. W. Purcell until 1905 when he sold it to new owners. The theatre’s new owners changed its name to the Palace Theatre of Varieties. However, in 1909, it was sold again, this time to Stoll Moss Empires, Ltd., who reverted it back to its original name, the Alexandra Theatre and placed it under the management of Oswald Stoll. In the late 1910s Stoll had screens, projectors and other equipment needed for cinema projection installed and by 1922 cine-variety programs were being presented to audiences. The theatre also presented film matinees and on Sundays, on which, by law, no live performances could be done, the theatre screened films exclusively.\n\nIn 1932, the Alexandra was purchased by Standard Cinema Properties Ltd. and converted to screen films exclusively. However, in 1934 the theatre came under independent management and, in addition to reverting to featuring a mixture of live and film performances, a modern (for the time) sound system was installed. A few years later, the theatre closed with the entry of the United Kingdom into World War II. \n\nThe Alexandra reopened in 1945 after the war ended and subsisted on a variety of live performances, such as boxing matches, Yiddish theatre productions, and special events. During this period, the theatre hosted performances from the Motley Theatre Design Group, including a 1947 staging of an adaptation of Hans Christian Andersen's \"The Snow Queen\", adapted by Evgeny Schwartz. The Alexandra remained open and staging productions and events until finally closing its doors for good in 1950. Thereafter, the building stood empty for many years before being demolished in the early 1960s so that the Alexandra Court tenement could be built.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5533641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5533641", "title": "Appleby Horse Fair", "text": "Appleby Horse Fair\n\nThe Appleby Horse Fair calls itself \"an annual gathering of Gypsies and Travellers in the town of Appleby-in-Westmorland in Cumbria, England.\"\n\nThe horse fair, also known as Appleby New Fair, is held each year in early June. It attracts about 10,000 Gypsies and Travellers, about 1000 caravans, several hundred horse-drawn vehicles, and about 30,000 visitors. Rather than an organised event with a set programme, it's billed as the biggest traditional Gypsy Fair in Europe, one that's like a big family get together. The horses are washed and trotted up and down the flashing lane most main days. There is a market on Jimmy Winter's Field selling a variety of goods - some traditional to the Gypsy travelling community - and a range other horse-related products. The Gypsy and Traveller attendees include British Romanichal, Irish Travellers, Scottish Gypsy and Traveller groups, Kale (Welsh Romanies), and more. \n\nThe fair is held outside the town of Appleby where the Roman Road crosses Long Marton Road, not far from Gallows Hill, named after the public hangings that were once carried out there. In the mid 20th century the story developed that the fair originated with a royal charter to the borough of Appleby from King James II of England in 1685. However, recent research has shown that the 1685 charter, which was cancelled before it was enrolled, is of no relevance. Appleby's medieval borough fair, held at Whitsuntide, ceased in 1885. The 'New Fair', held in early June on Gallows Hill, which was then unenclosed land outside the borough boundary, began in 1775 for sheep and cattle drovers and horse dealers to sell their stock; by the 1900s it had evolved into a major Gypsy/Traveller occasion. No-one bestowed the New Fair, no-one ever owned it, no-one was ever charged to attend it: it was and remains, a true people's fair.\n\nThe legal status of the Fair does not depend on a charter, therefore, but on the legal concept of 'prescriptive right,' that is to say easement by prescription or custom. \"Praescriptio est titulus ex usu et tempore substanniam capiens ab auctoritate legis.\" 'Prescription is a title by authority of law, deriving its force from use and time.'\n\nThe fair is a regular but spontaneous gathering, and is not organised by any individual or group, although the Gypsies and Travellers have a \"Shera Rom\" (Head Romani) who arranges toilets, rubbish skips, water supplies, horse grazing etc., and acts as liaison with the local authority co-ordinating committee (Multi-Agency Strategic Co-ordinating Group, or MASCG) which manages the public authorities' response to the Fair.\n\nThe fair has no organised or scheduled events. The main activities take place on Fair Hill (the main campsite field, with some catering and trade) and more recently on the Market Field, which was opened up by a local farmer about 10 years ago, and is now the main stall trading and catering area. There are half a dozen licensed campsites and car parks nearby. Most horse trading takes place at the crossroads (known to the local authority as 'Salt Tip Corner') and on Long Marton Road (known to the Gyspies and Travellers as the ‘flashing lane’), where horses are shown off (or ‘flashed’ ) by trotting up and down at speed. (The flashing lane is not suitable for anyone of limited mobility, such as the infirm, the very old or the very young, due to the risks associated with horses travelling at speed, and spectators are strongly advised to keep behind the barriers.)\n\nMany of the horses are taken down to ‘the Sands’, near the Appleby town centre beside the River Eden, where horses are ridden into the river to be washed, and it is not unusual to see scores of horses tied up opposite The Grapes public house. The highway at that location is closed to vehicle traffic for the main days of the fair, which are now the Friday, Saturday and Sunday.\n\nThe fair customarily ends on the second Wednesday in June, and starts on the Thursday before that. Although the last Tuesday was once the main horse dealing day, due to the growth of the market field and the large number of visitors, the main day is now the Saturday, and it is all over by the Monday morning.\n\nBesides the horses, there are fortune tellers, palm readers, buskers and music stalls, clothing stalls, tools and hardware, china, stainless steel, and horse-related merchandise including harness and carriages.\n\nThe horse fair generates some controversy with complaints of mess being left in the town, violent crime and animal cruelty.\n\nThe Local Authority (Eden District Council, which convenes the Multi-Agency Strategic Co-Ordinating Group to manage the official response to the fair) is required to deal with these matters, and their official sources provide a context for these controversial issues. (See below)\n\nIn 2014 there were 28 arrests at the fair, the lowest for several years (for among other things, drug use, drunkenness, and obstruction), which senior police have confirmed is not disproportionate to other large-scale public events. In 2015, this number came down further, with only 15 arrests over the whole fair, for what the police described as 'mostly low level disorder. During the 2018 Fair there were 7 arrests, including one arrest for a previously issued warrant. The number of caravans in the Eden District in 2018 was signifiantly higher, approximately 20% up on 2017. '\n\nAs regards rubbish and clean-up costs, although the trade stands leave a few tons of waste, the market field and Fair Hill are cleaned of litter the day after the fair, at no cost to the ratepayers, and within a week there is hardly a trace that a fair has been held. The MASCG Committee reported that improvements in provision of litter bins, signage etc. had resulted a reduction in the number of tonnes of litter from 43 tonnes to 29 tonnes. \n\nAs regards animal cruelty, the RSPCA patrols the fair scrupulously, and although in 2009 Animal Aid called for the fair to be banned, nevertheless the instances of cruelty are few, and they are prosecuted where they do occur. Warnings and advice are given in borderline cases, and the very great majority of horses at the fair are well looked after, well treated, and in good condition. In 2016, the RSPCA stated unequivocally that although there were some welfare issues, mostly brought about by the hot weather, the Fair is a large-scale event and it is only a small minority of people who attend the fair that have little regard for animal welfare.\n\n"}
{"id": "16253894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16253894", "title": "Assassination of Indira Gandhi", "text": "Assassination of Indira Gandhi\n\nIndian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was assassinated at 9:30 a.m. on 31 October 1984 at her residence in Safdarjung Road, New Delhi. She was killed by her bodyguards Satwant Singh and Beant Singh in the aftermath of Operation Blue Star, the Indian Army's June 1984 assault on the Golden Temple in Amritsar which left the Sikh temple heavily damaged.\n\nOperation Blue Star had a wide impact on politics in India as many Sikh youths joined the Khalistan movement. Indira Gandhi was unpopular among Sikhs due to her role in the operation, which had destroyed and damaged portions of the Akal Takht and caused massive casualties among Sikh pilgrims. Sikh sensibilities were also offended at the alleged entry of army personnel with boots into the temple complex and the alleged destruction of Sikh scriptures and manuscripts in the temple library that caught fire due to explosives used during the operation. Such claims and other rumours led to an atmosphere of mistrust towards the government and ended in a conspiracy to assassinate Gandhi. This occurred within four months of the conclusion of the operation.\n\nThe perception of threat to Gandhi's life increased after the operation. Accordingly, Sikhs were removed from her personal bodyguard by the Intelligence Bureau due to the fear of assassination. However, Gandhi was of the opinion that this would reinforce her anti-Sikh image among the public and strengthen her political opponents. She ordered the Special Protection Group to reinstate her Sikh bodyguards, including Beant Singh who was reported to be her personal favourite.\n\nAt about 9:20 a.m. Indian Standard Time on 31 October 1984, Gandhi was on her way to be interviewed by British actor Peter Ustinov who was filming a documentary for Irish television. She was walking through the garden of the Prime Minister's Residence at No. 1 Safdarjung Road in New Delhi towards the neighboring 1 Akbar Road office.\n\nShe passed a wicket gate guarded by Satwant Singh and Beant Singh, and the two men opened fire. Beant Singh fired three rounds into her abdomen from his .38 revolver, then Satwant Singh fired 30 rounds from his Sten submachine gun after she had fallen to the ground. Both men then threw down their weapons and Beant Singh said, \"I have done what I had to do. You do what you want to do.\" In the next six minutes, Border Police officers Tarsem Singh Jamwal and Ram Saran captured and killed Beant Singh. Satwant Singh was arrested by Gandhi's other bodyguards along with an accomplice trying to escape; he was seriously wounded. Satwant Singh was hanged in 1989 with accomplice Kehar Singh.\n\nSalma Sultan gave the first news of the assassination of Indira Gandhi on Doordarshan's evening news on 31 October 1984, more than ten hours after she was shot. It is alleged that Gandhi's secretary R. K. Dhawan overruled intelligence and security officials who had ordered the removal of Sikh policemen as a security threat, including her assassins.\n\nBeant Singh was one of Gandhi's favorite guards whom she had known for ten years. Satwant Singh was 22 years old when he assassinated her and had been assigned to Gandhi's guard just five months before the assassination.\n\nGandhi was taken to the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences in New Delhi at 9:30 a.m., where doctors operated on her. She was declared dead at 2:20 p.m. The postmortem examination was conducted by a team of doctors headed by Tirath Das Dogra, who stated that 30 bullets had struck Gandhi from a Sterling sub-machine gun and a revolver. The assailants had fired 33 bullets at her, of which 30 had hit; 23 had passed through her body, while seven remained inside. Dogra extracted bullets to establish the identity of the weapons and to correlate each weapon with the bullets recovered by ballistic examination. The bullets were matched with respective weapons at CFSL Delhi. Her body was taken in a gun carriage through Delhi roads on the morning of 1 November to Teen Murti Bhavan where her father stayed and where she layed in state. She was cremated on 3 November near Raj Ghat, a memorial to Mahatma Gandhi, at an area named \"Shakti Sthal\". Her elder son and successor Rajiv Gandhi lit the pyre.\n\nOver the next four days, thousands of Sikhs were killed in retaliatory violence.\n\nThe Justice Thakkar Commission (headed by Justice Manharlal Pranlal Thakkar) of Inquiry set up to probe Indira Gandhi's assassination recommended a separate probe for the conspiracy angle behind the assassination. The Thakkar Report stated that the \"needle of suspicion\" pointed at R. K. Dhawan for complicity in the conspiracy.\n\nSatwant Singh and alleged conspirator Kehar Singh were sentenced to death. Both were executed on 6 January 1989.\n\nA Punjabi movie titled \"Kaum De Heere\" (translation: People's Diamonds) highlighting the role/lives of the two guards that assassinated Indira Gandhi was set to be released on 22 August 2014, but was banned by the Indian government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38554113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38554113", "title": "Avaete, Seed of Revenge", "text": "Avaete, Seed of Revenge\n\nAvaete, Seed of Revenge () is a 1985 Brazilian drama film directed by Zelito Viana. Based on the massacre of Cinta Larga people in the region of Fontanillas (now Juína, Mato Grosso), it was shot along the Juruena River, Mato Grosso, as well as on locations in São Paulo and Brasília. It was entered into the 14th Moscow International Film Festival where it won the Silver Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "7155633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7155633", "title": "Bali Kite Festival", "text": "Bali Kite Festival\n\nThe Bali Kite Festival is an annual international kite festival held in July in Padang Galak area, Sanur Beach, Bali. Traditional giant kites (4 metres in width and almost 10 metres in length) are made and flown competitively by teams from the villages (\"banjar\") of Denpasar. The event is a seasonal religious festival intended to send a thanking message to the Hindu gods to create abundant crops and harvests.\n\nThe teams consist of about 70 to 80 people, each team with its own Gamelon band, flag bearers and flyers.\n\nBebean (fish-shaped), Janggan (bird-shaped) and Pecukan (leaf-shaped) are three traditional kites flown during this kite festival. The kites are flown by teams of 10 or more adult kitefliers. The Bebean is the largest kite, and looks like a broad-mouthed, split-tailed fish. The Janggan form has a broad flowing cloth tail that can reach more than 100 metres in length. \n\nThe Pecukan requires the most skill to fly, as its unstable form often tumbles towards the ground. Red, white and black are traditional colours used in the kite's designs. Each type of traditional kite has its own competition, with heats of 10 teams vying for the best launch and longest flight. Sometimes the kites come down over the adjacent rice paddies, and the team members have to dash through the paddy to rescue the kite before it lands in the water.\n\nA competition is also held for 'New Creation' (\"kreasi baru\") kites which may include detailed three-dimensional figures representing the Hindu Gods or sponsorship kites. Traditional and new creation kites are constructed from bamboo and cotton cloth.\n\nIn the dry season of June through August, the winds blow continually from east to west in most of Indonesia. Balinese children and adults fly kites in the vacant rice paddies during this period. \n\nA gamelan orchestra plays music throughout the festival. The festival attracts many tourists and international kitefliers, along with many local spectators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49394070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49394070", "title": "Baron 52", "text": "Baron 52\n\nBaron 52 was the call sign of a United States Air Force EC-47 carrying eight crew members that was shot down over Laos during the predawn hours of 5 February 1973, a week after the Paris Peace Accords officially ended the United States involvement in the Vietnam War. The remains of four crewmen were recovered from the crash site, but those of the remaining four have never been found. Although the U.S. government considers them to have been killed in action and as late as 1996 listed them as \"accounted for\", family members and POW/MIA advocates believe the four survived the crash and were taken captive and possibly sent to the USSR. The intelligence gatherers and their equipment would have been highly valued by the Soviets who maintained a presence both in Laos and North Vietnam. The incident has been featured on several nationwide news programs and a 1991 episode of the U.S. television series \"Unsolved Mysteries\". More recent research by the National Alliance of Families for the Return of America's Servicemen presented to Congress has prompted a status review of the incident scheduled to take place in 2016.\n\nAlthough the Paris Peace Accords had officially ended the United States' direct role in the Vietnam War, only a week after its signing the U.S. Air Force sent an EC-47Q electronic warfare collection aircraft on a night-time radio-direction-finding mission to monitor the Ho Chi Minh trail and locate North Vietnamese tanks moving south. The plane, tail number 43-48636, belonged to the 361st Tactical Electronic Warfare Squadron and began its mission from Ubon Royal Thai Air Force Base. The flight crew also were part of the 361st while the collection crew manning the rear of the plane were from Det 3, 6994th Security Squadron. Over Laos, the plane began taking anti-aircraft fire and went down in Salavan Province, Laos about east of the city of Salavan and from the border with South Vietnam at a site in the jungle within of three major roads leading into North Vietnamese-held territory.\n\n361st Tactical Electronic Warfare Squadron:\n\n\n6994th Security Squadron:\n\n\nThe location of the wreckage was first discovered by U.S. Air Force search and rescue on 7 February 1973. The plane was determined to have crashed inverted, coming to rest upside down in the jungle; both wings had been sheared off. A team consisting of three pararescuemen and an intelligence expert were on the ground for approximately an hour and found three bodies in the charred wreckage, those of Spitz, Prim and Bollinger in the cockpit, still strapped in their seats. Outside of the wreckage, they found Lt. Bernhardt's body. In the rear of the plane they observed that the jump door had been removed (it was never located), the crew's safety belts were unbuckled, and all of the top secret sensitive equipment was missing as were the rear crew's parachutes.\n\nOn 9 February 1973, Bernhardt's remains were recovered and positively identified four days later. On 22 February, the other seven men were declared killed in action despite no confirmation of the fates of the four members of the collection crew.\n\nThe families of the missing crew members believe there is evidence they bailed out and were taken captive by the North Vietnamese Army (NVA). They point to information in official reports, such as the fact that their safety belts were unbuckled and their remains were not at the crash site, to support their beliefs that the rear crew had time to bail out. In addition, at approximately 8:00 AM on 5 February, U.S. Intelligence listening post at Phu Bai Combat Base in South Vietnam intercepted NVA communications from the area indicating they were transporting four captured Airmen. Such communications continued to be intercepted for the next three months. Also on record is a Pathet Lao radio intercept regarding four \"air pirates\" captured the day Baron 52 was shot down; no other U.S. aircraft was downed that day. A Laotian operative secretly working for the U.S. reported observing the transport of four prisoners along the road near the crash site. All of these records remained classified by the U.S. government. This evidence was first presented to the American public by columnist Jack Anderson on the U.S. news program \"Good Morning America\" in 1978. During Anderson's report, he stated a \"Pentagon spokesman now agrees there's a good chance these four men were survivors of the crash. Yet, the Pentagon deliberately gave the families misinformation\".\n\nIn 1992, in front of the Senate Select Committee on POW/MIA Affairs, a representative of the Defense Intelligence Agency testified that it was the government's position that these reports were unrelated to Baron 52; this testimony was repeated in 1994 before the House Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In November 1992, the Lao government allowed a team to survey the crash site where a dogtag with Sgt. Matejov's name on it was found, after nearly 20 years, lying in plain sight. Also recovered were 23 bone fragments and half of a tooth which were taken to the Central Identification Laboratory in Hawaii, where Ellis R. Kerley publicly stated that the bone fragments \"can not be proven conclusively to be human.\" According to further testimony given before the House Subcommittee by Albert Santoli, Kerley was replaced by \"a U.S. Army Lt. Colonel, professionally a dentist, who has limited forensic experience\", and the bone fragments were declared to be the remains of all seven of the remaining crew members. The families requested DNA analysis be done on the bone fragments and tooth, but their requests were denied by the government.\n\nOn 27 March 1996, the bone fragments were interred at Arlington National Cemetery in a group burial. The families of all seven men attended although the families of the four rear crew members were there to \"honor the sacrifice\" of the flight crew and did not believe the bone fragments were those of Melton, Matejov, Cressman or Brandenburg. Matejov's younger brother, John Matejov, has sought help from both Wyoming Senators and Congressmen in petitioning the Pentagon for further information as well as appealing directly to President Obama. Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Roger Shields said the government \"acted 'precipitously' to declare Matejov and the other three missing crew members to be dead\". In their book, \"The Men We Left Behind\", Mark Sauter and Jim Sanders wrote that \"The names were scratched from the list (of MIAs) because they were an inconvenience that would have complicated Henry Kissinger's life\". Kissinger negotiated the Paris Peace Accords and was responsible for carrying out President Nixon's promise to bring all POWs home. They further alleged that \"the men weren't dead, and the Pentagon knew it\" and that it was covered up because the flight was illegal under the Paris agreement.\n\nCongress is set to review the status of the four crewmen in 2016.\nThe status of one of the four crewman was not changed to MIA 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "38061597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38061597", "title": "Bluegrass Underground", "text": "Bluegrass Underground\n\nBluegrass Underground is a monthly musical event hosted in Cumberland Caverns since 2008. In 2011, it became a nationally syndicated television show airing on PBS. The program also airs weekly on the AM radio station WSM.\n\n\"Bluegrass Underground\" season two was awarded four Emmys (Mid-South) for Best Entertainment Program, Best Director/Program, Excellence in Audio, and Excellence in Lighting Design. That season's series was also Emmy-nominated for Best Photography/Program and Technical Achievement.\n\nBluegrass Underground Season One won the Emmy (Mid-South) for Lighting Design and in addition was nominated for EMMYs in the categories of Best Arts Program, Excellence in Audio, Best Photography/Program, and Technical Achievement. Bluegrass Underground Season One also was awarded by Cine Golden Eagle Award for professional non-fiction in spring 2012. It received a Telly Silver Award that same year.\n\n"}
{"id": "26594253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26594253", "title": "Brandjacking", "text": "Brandjacking\n\nBrandjacking is an activity whereby someone acquires or otherwise assumes the online identity of another entity for the purposes of acquiring that person's or business's brand equity. The term combines the notions of 'branding' and 'hijacking', and has been used since at least 2007 when it appeared in \"Business Week\" referencing the term used in a publication by the firm MarkMonitor (MarkMonitor and its PR firm, the Zeno Group, coined the phrase; MarkMonitor registered the trademark, BrandJacking Index®, but left brandjacking as a term for use in the public domain). The tactic is often associated with use of individual and corporate identities on social media or Web 2.0 sites, as described in Quentin Langley's 2014 book \"Brandjack\", and may be used alongside more conventional (offline) campaign activities.\n\nWhile similar to cybersquatting, identity theft or phishing in nature and in possible tactics, brandjacking is usually particular to a politician, celebrity or business and more indirect in its nature. A brandjacker may attempt to use the reputation of its target for selfish reasons or seek to damage the reputation of its target for hostile, malicious or for political or campaigning reasons. These reasons may not be directly financial, but the effects on the original brand-holder may often include financial loss - for example, negative publicity may result in the termination of a celebrity's sponsorship deal, or, for a corporation, potentially lead to lost sales or a reduced share price.\n\n\nBrandjacking avoidance may include:\nHowever, action against the brandjackers and their supporters can actually draw attention to the problem (the Streisand effect). For example, following Greenpeace's KitKat campaign, Nestlé had the video removed from YouTube, but Greenpeace quickly re-posted it to video-sharing site Vimeo.com and highlighted the attempted censorship using Twitter and other social media. Attempts by Nestlé to constrain user activity on its Facebook fan page further fanned the controversy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50131202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50131202", "title": "Brescia explosion", "text": "Brescia explosion\n\nThe Brescia explosion occurred in 1769 in Brescia (now part of Italy) when a large store of gunpowder exploded after a lightning strike, causing extensive destruction and many deaths. Claims that as many as 3,000 people died in the explosion (which may be an exaggeration), places the event high on lists of accidents and disasters by death toll.\n\nOn August 18, 1769, the city of Brescia in northern Italy was devastated when the Bastion of San Nazaro was struck by lightning. The resulting fire ignited about 90,000 kg (or about 200,000 lb) of gunpowder stored there by the Republic of Venice, causing a massive explosion. Huge stones were hurled in a radius of a kilometer around the explosion, landing on people, houses, and church buildings including Santi Nazaro e Celso. Doors of houses and shops and city gates were thrown open, and broken glass showered down.\n\nThis explosion destroyed about one-sixth of the city. Reports of death tolls vary, with 3,000 deaths often reported in later English sources, though an official account from two years after the event references 400 dead and 800 wounded. French writer Louis-Sébastien Mercier claimed in his popular 1770 novel \"L'An 2440, rêve s'il en fut jamais\", which was translated into English as \"Memoirs of the year two thousand five hundred\" that by 1772, 2,500 died in the explosion.\n\nScipione Garbelli's \"Le Rovine di Brescia\" was published in 1771 and documented the tragedy.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church withdrew its religious objection to lightning rods after the event.\n\nBritain reacted to the tragedy by passing laws governing the private manufacture and storage of gunpowder. In determining how to protect the British government stores, Benjamin Franklin advised the use of pointed lightning rods, and prevailed in a debate over whether pointed rods or blunt rods should be used.\n\nThe memory of the tragedy long remained with the people of the city. The fire and noise caused by the fall of a meteorite in nearby Alfianello in 1883 are said to have immediately caused recall of the long ago explosion.\n\n"}
{"id": "53399296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53399296", "title": "Brexit and arrangements for science and technology", "text": "Brexit and arrangements for science and technology\n\nBrexit and arrangements for science and technology refers to arrangements affecting scientific research, experimental development and innovation that are within the scope of the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union on the terms of Britain's withdrawal from the European Union (EU).\n\nAt the time of passing the European Union (Notification of Withdrawal) Act 2017 in March 2017, the terms of Britain's disengagement were unknown. The outlook was uncertain for the future funding of British scientific research and for the UK's future relationship, as a third country, with the EU for patent protection of innovation, trade in medium- and high-tech goods and industrial contracts issued by European scientific institutions. Opinions differed on whether scientific research and development would be affected by a loss of mobility and international collaboration, or whether Britain's withdrawal from the EU should be seen as an opportunity to expand scientific collaboration.\n\nFollowing the 2016 referendum vote to leave the European Union, the UK government started the withdrawal process on 29 March 2017, to begin negotiating the future arrangements which would have effect after the withdrawal.\n\nThe government's negotiating policy at that time was stated in a white paper, published in February 2017, \"The United Kingdom’s exit from and new partnership with the European Union\", that explicitly mentioned remaining at the vanguard of science and innovation and seeking continued close collaboration with the UK's European partners. The white paper mentioned in more general terms: controlling the number of EU nationals coming to the UK; securing the status of EU citizens who are already living in the UK, and that of UK nationals in other member states; protecting and enhancing existing workers’ rights; forging a new partnership with the EU, including a wide reaching free trade agreement, and seeking a mutually beneficial new customs agreement with the EU; and forging free trade relationships across the world.\n\nFrom the beginning, policy requirements influencing or determining the withdrawal negotiation were expressed in the Preamble and Articles of the Treaty on European Union (TEU). Article 3 mentions the promotion of \"scientific and technological advance\" in a context governed by the Union's aims for an internal market, and a highly competitive social market economy. A policy requirement mentioned in the Preamble is promoting economic and social progress for the peoples of the EU member states, taking into account the principle of sustainable development and within the context of the accomplishment of the internal market and of reinforced cohesion and environmental protection.\n\nAbout 32 000 non-British EU academics occupy 17% of UK university teaching and research posts. There are over 42,000 international staff (non-UK EU and non-EU nationals) working at the Russell Group universities, a group of 24 research-intensive British universities that include Oxford and Cambridge Universities. International staff make up 25% of the overall workforce, 39% of academics and 48% of staff on research-only contracts at Russell Group universities.\n\nOver the period 2008–2014, the UK produced 15% of the world's most highly cited articles for a share of just 4% of the global research pool. Between 2008 and 2014, 56% of scientific articles published in the UK in internationally catalogued journals had at least one co-author who was based outside the country, according to Thomson Reuters' Web of Science (Science Citation Index Expanded). The majority of these articles were co-authored by Americans (100,537), followed by German, French, Italian and Dutch scientists. These four European countries accounted for a total of 159,619 articles.\n\nBritain's overall research intensity, measured as a percentage of gross domestic product, is comparatively low: 1.63% of GDP in 2013, compared to the EU average of 2.02%. The UK's business enterprise sector performs two-thirds of the total. In 2015, Britain's scientific establishment expressed concern that 'UK investment in research was failing to keep pace with other leading nations and risks eroding the capacity to attract and retain the very best researchers from the UK and overseas'.\n\nAs an EU member state, the UK participates in the European Research Area and it is considered likely that the UK would wish to remain an associated member of the European Research Area, like Norway and Iceland, in order to continue participating in the EU framework programmes. All EU members contribute to the budget for each seven-year framework programme for research and innovation, the most recent of these being Horizon 2020, adopted in 2014. British researchers receive EU funding through programmes like Horizon 2020. Access to this money will now be renegotiated with the EU with the UK government committing to make up any shortfall to UK institutions.\n\nOnce it is no longer a member state, the UK will not be entitled to EU structural funds, which are increasingly being used to finance research-related infrastructure. Over the period of the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Development (2007–2013), the UK received €8.8 billion from the EU, according to a report by the Royal Society citing European Commission data, and Britain contributed €5.4 billion to this programme. In terms of funding awarded on a competitive basis, the UK was the second-largest recipient of the Seventh Framework Programme after Germany, securing €6.9 billion out of a total of €55.4 billion between 2007 and 2013.\n\nBritish universities receive a disproportionate share of EU-awarded research grants. For instance, in 2013, the UK received more competitive research grants (close to 1000) from the European Research Council (ERC) than any other EU country; 44% of these grants went to non-nationals based in the UK, the largest number of any EU country. Germany obtained just over 600 ERC grants. This has raised questions about how such funding would be affected by a Brexit.\n\nOn average, British universities relied on the EU for around 11% of their research income in 2014–2015. Two-thirds (66%) came from government sources, 4% from British businesses, 13% from British charities and 5% from sources beyond the EU. The EU share can be much higher for the top research universities. For instance, in 2013, the University of Manchester successfully applied for £23 million from the European Regional Development Fund to create a National Graphene Institute. The UK's Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Unit provided a further £38 million. The University of Manchester is participating in the two flagship projects selected for €1 billion in funding under Horizon 2020's Future and Emerging Technologies programme, namely the graphene project and the human brain project. The chancellor of the University of Oxford, Chris Patten, said in July 2016 that the university received about 40% of its research income from government and that its 'research income will of course fall significantly after we have left the EU unless a Brexit government guarantees to cover the shortfall'.\n\nOn 13 August 2016, Chancellor Philip Hammond promised that British businesses and universities would have certainty over future funding and advised them to continue bidding for competitive EU funds while the UK remained a member of the EU. He said that all structural and investment fund projects, including agri-environment schemes, signed before the Autumn Statement would be fully funded and that the UK would underwrite the payments for research project funding awarded by the EU to universities participating in Horizon 2020, even when specific projects continued beyond the UK’s departure from the EU.\n\nOn 21 November 2016, Prime Minister Theresa May announced an increase in government investment in research and development worth £2 billion a year by 2020 and a new Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund to back priority technologies.\n\nOn 23 February 2017, the Business Secretary announced a £229 million investment in research and development within the government's new industrial strategy, which is being developed in consultation with stakeholder groups. Of this investment, £126 million is to go towards the creation of 'the world-class' National Graphene Institute at the University of Manchester, graphene having been first isolated at this university in 2004, and £103 million to create a new centre of excellence for life and physical sciences at the Rosalind Franklin Institute in Oxford, which will foster ties between academia and industry.\n\nOn 20 November 2017, the Prime Minister’s office and the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy issued a statement announcing an extra £2.3 billion of public money for research and development in 2021/2022, which would raise government expenditure that year to £12.5 billion. The government is planning to work with industry to increase private investment, with the aim of seeing total research spending increase by as much as £80 billion by 2027, to the equivalent of 2.4% of GDP. By 2016, the UK had raised its research effort to 1.69% of GDP, according to the UNESCO Institute for Statistics.\n\nThe Brexit Health Alliance was established in June 2017 with Sir Hugh Taylor as chair ‘to safeguard’ the interests of the health service. The 14 participating organisations cover the whole of the UK.\n\nThe National Health Service is 'facing the worst nursing crisis for the last 20 years', with official figures published in June 2017 showing a 96% drop in less than in a year in the number of nurses from the European Union registering to practice in the UK: 46 European nurses arrived to work in Britain in April 2017, compared with 1,304 in the month after the Brexit referendum.\n\nAs of February 2018, 62,000 National Health Service (NHS) staff in England were non-British EU nationals, equivalent to 5.6% of all NHS staff. This compares with 12.5% for non-British NHS staff overall, including staff from Asia and Africa. Non-British EU nationals made up almost 10% of doctors in England's hospital and community health services, just over 7% of all nurses and 5% of scientific, therapeutic and technical staff. More than one in three (36%) hospital doctors earned their main medical qualification beyond the UK: 20% in Asia and 9% in the EU. Some 4% of general practitioners qualified in the EU and 13% in Asia.\n\nAccording to a 2017 study by European law firm Fieldfisher, the UK contributes £620 million annually to 67 European institutions. The study observed that 'following Brexit, it is likely that much of the budget will need to be redirected to support functions inside the UK.' The biggest savings will come from the UK no longer having to contribute £470 million towards the running costs of 21 bodies that include the European Parliament, the EU's diplomatic service (the European External Acton Service), the European Council, the European Court of Justice and the European Anti-fraud Office. Fieldfisher's Regulatory Group estimates that the British government 'will need to contribute around £35 million annually to part-fund several EU agencies with which the UK will need to maintain a strategic partnership' post-Brexit, The remainder (£114 million annually) will need to be invested in the UK counterparts or in new purpose-built UK government agencies, to maintain essential functions formerly carried out on the UK's behalf by the EU agencies.\n\nDifferent EU countries host specialized European agencies. These agencies may be responsible for enforcing particular regulatory regimes, or for pooling knowledge and sharing information. Examples are the European Medicines Agency based in the UK, the European Chemicals Agency based in Finland, the European Aviation Safety Agency based in Germany, the European Space Agency based in France and the European Food Safety Authority based in Italy. There are also three European Supervisory Authorities which are responsible for oversight in the field of financial services. One of the three is based in London, the European Banking Authority. \n\nIn its Brexit white paper of February 2017, the British government stated that, 'as part of exit negotiations, the government will discuss with the EU and Member States our future status and arrangements with regard to these agencies'.According to a white paper published by the Department for Exiting the EU in 2017 and cited by the Fieldfisher study, the UK will need to maintain a strategic partnership with some EU agencies. This includes those agencies 'which regulate aviation safety, maintain electricity transfer arrangements and deal with energy regulation, data protection, defence policy, policing and approaches to security and environmental policy'. A third country (that is, a non-EU member state) may participate in certain EU agencies by concluding an international agreement with the EU. These agreements cover issues such as the third country's budgetary contribution and staffing arrangements. In a blog post in July 2016, Merijn Chamon of the Ghent European Law Institute wrote that 'this option would allow the UK to pick and choose but the procedure is very cumbersome, which is also why today very few such agreements with third states have been concluded. For the UK, these agreements could, in theory, be incorporated in the Article 50 agreement, but it is doubtful whether that agreement is the appropriate instrument for such detailed arrangements'.\n\nIn her Mansion House speech on 2 March 2018, the Prime Minister stated that <nowiki>\"</nowiki>we will also want to explore with the EU the terms on which the UK could remain part of EU agencies such as those that are critical for the chemicals, medicines and aerospace industries: the European Medicines Agency, the European Chemicals Agency, and the European Aviation Safety Agency'. She went on to say that 'we would, of course, accept that this would mean abiding by the rules of those agencies and making an appropriate financial contribution. I want to explain what I believe the benefits of this approach could be, both for us and the EU. First, associate membership of these agencies is the only way to meet our objective of ensuring that these products only need to undergo one series of approvals, in one country. Second, these agencies have a critical role in setting and enforcing relevant rules. And if we were able to negotiate associate membership, we would be able to ensure that we could continue to provide our technical expertise. Third, associate membership could permit UK firms to resolve certain challenges related to the agencies through UK courts rather than the European Court of Justice'.\n\nIf the UK leaves the EU Single Market and Customs Union, which was its stated intention as of March 2018, it may not be possible for the UK to obtain associate membership of the EU. In its draft negotiating guidelines published on 7 March 2018, the Council of the European Union stated that 'the Union will preserve its autonomy as regards its decision-making, which excludes participation of the United Kingdom as a third-country to (sic) EU Institutions, agencies or bodies'.\n\nThe government has said it plans to leave the European Court of Justice. Prime Minister Theresa May stated unequivocally at the Conservative Party Conference in October 2016 that 'we are not leaving [the EU] only to return to the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice. That’s not going to happen'.\n\nThe Prime Minister also pledged to curb free movement and indicated that she would seek single market access. These goals are, however, incompatible with EU statements that both free movement and ECJ adjudication are non-negotiable prerequisites for single market access.\n\nEU companies currently need to file for patent protection in all 28 member states. The unitary patent package adopted by 25 EU members in 2013 (by all but Croatia, Italy and Spain) is expected to slash procedural fees and translation costs by 85%. The unitary patent package will only apply, however, once the Agreement on a Unified Patent Court enters into force. For that to happen, 13 countries must ratify it, including France, Germany and the UK.\n\nBy June 2018, 16 countries had ratified the agreement, including France on 14 March 2014 and the UK on 26 April 2018 - but not Germany, meaning that the court has not yet entered into force. In announcing ratification of the Unified Patent Court, the British Minister of Intellectual Property, Sam Gyimah, stated that 'the unique nature of the proposed court means that the UK’s future relationship with the Unified Patent Court will be subject to negotiation with European partners as we leave the EU'.\n\nSome British ministers have expressed concern at the potential loss of innovation and business interest in the UK, if Britain isn't part of the Unified Patent Court after it leaves the EU. Normally, members of the new patent court must be both EU members and members of the European Court of Justice. Even if the European Commission could be persuaded to ignore the requirement for EU membership, the UK would have to remain a member of the European Court of Justice (ECJ). This is not because the patent court would be a conduit for EU law into Britain but because the patent court would occasionally have to refer to the ECJ on matters of European law when assessing patent cases, in order to know which definition to adopt.\n\nBritish judges were heavily involved in developing the procedures for the Unified Patent Court. When it was decided that the Unified Patent Court would be split into three locations, Prime Minister David Cameron 'succeeded in making sure that one of them – which will rule on pharmaceuticals and life sciences – was in London'. The UK has developed a reputation as a key hub in this area, an argument which helped it to win the bid to host the European Medicines Agency.\n\nThe European Medicines Agency, which licenses new drugs, is based in London. The Secretary of Health, Jeremy Hunt, has stated that the UK will leave this agency because it is subject to the European Court of Justice. Nineteen EU countries have offered to host the Agency. On 20 November 2017, the city of Amsterdam in the Netherlands was chosen after several rounds of voting. The agency must move to Amsterdam and take up its operations there by 30 March 2019 at the latest.\n\nIn September 2018, the European Medicines Agency decided to exclude the UK from all current and future contracts for the assessment of new drugs. This authorisation process is compulsory for all drugs sold in Europe. The UK's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency accounted for an estimated 20-30% of all drug assessments in the EU in 2018, earning the MHRA about £14 million a year.\n\nThe European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) is based in Helsinki, Finland. It owns and maintains the world’s most comprehensive database on chemicals. The EU's Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation requires industry to register information on the safety of substances they use in ECHA's central database. By 2018, 13 620 European companies had registered nearly 90 000 chemicals with ECHA that had been manufactured in, or imported into, the EU and European Economic Area. When several companies produce the same chemical, the registration with ECHA is shared between them \n\nWere the UK to leave the agency, it would be difficult to determine who owns the data that British companies have submitted to ECHA up to now. In her Mansion House speech in March 2018, the Prime Minister suggested that the UK could retain associate membership of ECHA once it becomes a third country but, as of mid-2018, it was not clear whether such a proposal would be acceptable to the EU. Even if the UK remains in the agency, British producers of chemicals will only be able to access the EU market post-Brexit if they comply with REACH. Since the EU is constantly updating its lists of banned and restricted chemicals, the British and EU regimes will diverge unless the UK regularly copies ECHA’s decisions on individual chemicals. Regulatory divergence would oblige UK producers wishing to export chemicals to the EU to comply with two sets of rules, adding red tape and pushing up costs.\n\nThe European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) is based in Cologne, Germany. In 2017, the government was reportedly exploring the possibility of becoming an associate member of EASA to ensure that international flights out of the UK are not adversely affected by Brexit. Article 66 of EASA regulations establishes a legal route for a third country to participate in this agency. Were the UK to become an associate member of EASA, it would continue to make a financial contribution to the body but would lose its voting rights. In the case of a domestic dispute over the application of safety regulations, UK courts would have jurisdiction but, according to Article 50 of the same EASA rules, the European Court of Justice would be the ultimate arbitre of EASA rulings.\n\nAll EU members (except Denmark) are part of the European Defence Agency, which is based in Brussels. EU Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier tweeted in November 2017 that 'the UK will no longer be a member of the European Defence Agency or Europol. The UK will no longer be involved in decision-making, nor in planning our defence and security instruments'. \n\nIn December 2017, the UK was one of 25 EU countries which signed up to the Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO), the EU's new defence pact. In June 2018, the UK was one of nine EU countries which launched an autonomous European Intervention Initiative, along with Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain. The force will be able to deploy troops near Europe's borders in the event of a crisis. EU defence ministers also agreed in June 2018 to fix conditions for third country participation in PESCO projects that would also apply to the UK once it leaves the bloc.\n\nIn June 2017, the European Commission announced that it was developing a collaborative research programme in innovative defence products and technologies at EU level that would become operational on 1 January 2021 when the EU's next seven-year framework programme for research gets under way. In June 2018, the European Commission proposed endowing the European Defence Fund with €13 billion over the period 2021-2027 to enable cross-border investments in the latest interoperable technology and equipment in areas such as encrypted software and drone technology. Of this, €4.1 billion will finance competitive and collaborative research projects, mainly through grants, involving at least three participants from three EU member states. Beyond the research component, €8.9 billion will be available to co-finance with member states the cost of prototype development and the ensuing certification and testing requirements. In June 2018, the French press agency AFP cited an EU official as saying that 'currently, 80% of research and development in the European Union is done on a national basis. The result is 173 weapons systems that are not interoperable. We cannot let things go on like this.’ Another EU official was cited as saying that 'countries that are not members of the EU and the European Economic Area will not be associated to the European Defence Fund unless a specific agreement is concluded to that aim. The programme is designed to apply as of 1 January 2021 and therefore for a Union of 27 Member States.'\n\nThe government stated in its Brexit white paper of February 2017 that invoking Article 50 to leave the EU would involve leaving the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) as well. Although Euratom is an independent body, it is governed by EU bodies such as the European Commission, the European Council of Ministers and European Court of Justice.\n\nEuratom’s flagship project is the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER). The ITER project involves a consortium made up of China, the EU, India, Japan, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation and the United States. The project is building an experimental reactor in France that will be powered by nuclear fusion, a technology which produces few pollutants.\n\nThe EU is financing its 45% share of the ITER construction costs (€2.7 billion over the 2014–2020 period ) through the EU budget's Multiannual Financial Framework. 'During the forthcoming negotiations, the European Commission is expected to claim the UK’s share of this amount as a liability towards the EU'.\n\nBetween 2014 and 2018, Euratom has a total research budget of €1.6 billion under the Horizon 2020 budget, of which about €728 million has been set aside for research on nuclear fusion. Of this, €424 million has been earmarked for EUROfusion, a consortium of universities and national laboratories, primarily for ITER-related research. A further €283 million will go to the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy, the UK's national laboratory for fusion research. The Culham Centre hosts the world's largest magnetic fusion experiment, Joint European Torus (JET), on behalf of its European partners. The JET facilities are used by about 350 European fusion scientists each year. JET has an annual budget of about €69 million. Of this, 87.5% is provided by the European Commission and the remainder by the UK's Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council within the Euratom Treaty.\n\nResearch is not the only focus of Euratom. As stated in the government's Brexit white paper, 'the Euratom Treaty provides the legal framework for civil nuclear power generation and radioactive waste management for members of the Euratom Community, all of whom are EU Member States. This includes arrangements for nuclear safeguards, safety and the movement and trade of nuclear materials both between Euratom Members such as France and the UK, as well as between Euratom Members and third countries such as the USA'. In 2016, about 21% of the UK's electricity came from nuclear power. The UK ranks second in the EU after France for the number of operational nuclear reactors (15).\n\nIn its white paper, the government confirmed that ' the nuclear industry remains of key strategic importance to the UK and leaving Euratom does not affect our clear aim of seeking to maintain close and effective arrangements for civil nuclear cooperation, safeguards, safety and trade with Europe and our international partners. Furthermore, the UK is a world leader in nuclear research and development and there is no intention to reduce our ambition in this important area'.\n\nIn the government's letter of 29 March 2017 notifying the European Council of the UK’s intention to withdraw from the EU, Prime Minister Theresa May also announced ‘the UK’s intention to withdraw from the European Atomic Energy Community’.\n\nIn its Cooperation on Science and Innovation paper on the UK's future partnership with the EU, the Department for Exiting the EU states that 'the UK hopes to find a way to continue working with the EU on nuclear R&D, including the Joint European Torus (JET) and International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (TER) programmes'.\n\nThe European Space Agency (ESA) has 22 member states and is independent of the EU, even if programmes tend to benefit from EU funding. The Copernicus Earth Observation Programme, for instance, is 70% EU funded. This has raised concerns in the UK space sector as to whether British companies will be entitled to submit tenders for lucrative ESA contracts post-Brexit. The UK is aiming for its space sector to raise its global market share from 6.6% to 10% by 2030. Airbus Defence and Space in Stevenage built Sentinel 5P, an air pollution monitoring satellite that was launched in the UK in October 2017 as part of the Copernicus programme. Sentinel 5P is part of a 45.5 million euro contract signed with ESA in 2011. The UK government stated in its future partnership paper on Collaboration on Science and Innovation that it wishes to remain fully involved in Copernicus, Galileo and the Space Surveillance and Tracking programme post-Brexit. Third countries may participate in ESA programmes but current arrangements tend to cover data access and usage, rather than eligibility to apply for large industrial contracts.\n\nIn June 2018, a majority of EU member states sided with the European Commission in rejecting British demands to remain a full partner in the development of the Galileo satellite once the UK becomes a third country. This means that British companies will be unable to bid for the new round of contracts being issued by the EU. The British Minister of Universities and Science, Sam Gyimah, reacted to the decision by saying that Britain was willing to 'walk away' from the project and develop a rival satellite. The UK is demanding that the EU return the £1 billion invested thus far by the UK in Galileo.\n\nIn January 2018, the European Commission announced that the back-up security monitoring centre for Galileo, Europe's version of the Global Positioning System, would be relocated from Britain to Spain as part of the Brexit process. The centre was originally awarded to London in 2010 following a competitive bidding process.\n\nThe European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) is an independent intergovernmental organisation, subject to its own treaty. The UK’s membership of CERN is therefore unaffected by Brexit. Several of CERN’s member and associate member states are not EU members, and the organisation is headquartered outside the EU, in Switzerland. British citizens will retain the right to be employed by CERN, and British businesses will remain eligible to bid for CERN contracts.\n\nCERN’s core research programme is funded by its member states, but CERN also receives EU grants through the bloc's multi-year framework programmes, including Horizon 2020. CERN member states that neither belong to the EU, nor have special arrangements with the bloc, can participate in CERN-EU research projects but are not entitled to EU funding. British nationals will be entitled to apply for the EU’s Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships as long as CERN receives funding from this scheme.\n\nScientists in favour of staying in the EU have noted that membership allows researchers to move freely between member states and to work with no restrictions. Immediately after the UK general election 2015, pro-remain scientists founded the grassroots campaign Scientists for EU. A group of leading British scientists wrote a letter to the Times on 22 May 2015 stating that ‘it is not sufficiently known to the public that the EU is a boon to UK science and innovation. Freedom of movement for talent and ambitious EU science funding programmes, which support vital, complex international collaborations, put the UK in a world-leading position'. A \"Nature\" poll in March 2016 found that 83% of UK scientists were in favour of remaining in the EU. After the 2016 referendum, hundreds of scientists contacted Scientists for EU voicing concerns about the future of scientific research in the UK after Brexit, many saying they planned to leave the UK. \n\nCommenting in 2016, Kurt Deketelaere, secretary-general of the League of European Research Universities in Leuven, Belgium, whose purpose is to influence policy in Europe and to develop best practice through mutual exchange of experience, said that the potential loss of mobility and collaboration was worrying for scientists across Europe, as scientists wished 'to work with the best in their field'. However, for Angus Dalgleish, a cancer and HIV researcher at St George’s, University of London, who once stood for election as a member of the pro-Brexit UK Independence Party, universities already maintained successful collaborations with non-EU members, so opting out would have 'no negative impact on scientific collaboration whatsoever'.\n\nOn 18 November 2016, the House of Commons Science and Technology Committee published a report in which it recommended that the Department for Exiting the European Union appoint a departmental Chief Scientific Adviser to 'help ensure that the impact on science and research of various models for Brexit, and the opportunities these provide, is understood and prioritised within the Department'. The Committee also recommended raising the UK's commitment to research to 3% of GDP, the target fixed by the European Union in the Lisbon Strategy in 2000 and reiterated in \"Europe 2020\", 'to demonstrate a determination not only to negotiating [sic] a post-Brexit relationship with the EU that is good for science but also to secure opportunities for science collaboration with markets beyond Europe'.\n\nIn a press release of 18 November 2016, Scientists for the EU welcomed the report's recommendations but regretted that it portrayed research collaborations beyond the EU as an opportunity of Brexit. 'EU membership has never restricted UK science collaborations outside the EU', the press release stated. 'Rather, EU membership has enhanced UK global outreach via its world-leading programme'. Commenting on the press release, Martin Yuille, Co-Director of the Centre for Integrated Genomic Medical Research in Manchester, said that 'Brexit will not enhance opportunities for collaboration beyond the EU because, as an EU Member State, we already benefit from the global collaboration framework developed over the decades by the EU. The EU has Science and Technology Agreements with 20 countries (including the major economies) and is preparing similar agreements with further countries and regional groupings (e.g. the whole of Africa and the Pacific Rim). The EU is developing a permanent structure of scientific and technological collaboration with 180 countries. All that will need to be replaced by a UK outside the EU'.\n\nIn its March 2018 report on Brexit, Science and Innovation, the House of Commons' Select Committee on Science and Technology recommended that the Government ask the Migration Advisory Committee to integrate its conclusions regarding the immigration arrangements needed to support science and innovation into a broader agreement with the EU on science and innovation 'by October 2018 ... if a pact is not agreed in late 2018, this will increase risks to retaining and attracting the essential talent that our science and innovation sectors need.\n\nA July 2016 investigation by \"The Guardian\" suggested that some UK researchers were being discriminated against in funding and research projects after the referendum result. The newspaper reported that European partners were reluctant to employ British researchers due to uncertainties over funding. It cited a confidential survey of the UK's Russell Group universities, a group of 24 institutions renowned for research and academic excellence; in one case, 'an EU project officer recommended that a lead investigator drop all UK partners from a consortium because Britain's share of funding could not be guaranteed'. The uncertainty over future funding for projects stands to harm research in other ways, the same survey suggests. A number of institutions that responded said some researchers were reluctant to carry on with bids for EU funds because of the financial unknowns, while others did not want to be the weak link in a consortium. One university said it had serious concerns about its ability to recruit research fellows for current projects.\n\nIn February 2017, the ComUE (Consortium of universities and establishments) of the University of Paris Seine issued an invitation to British universities to apply for space on site post-Brexit. The idea for a Paris Seine International Campus on the outskirts of Paris dates back to 2013 but, in light of the UK's impending departure from the EU, ComUE decided to reserve facilities and services for British universities to enable them to develop high-level research and teaching activities on site. Jean-Michel Blanquer, dean and president of ESSEC Business School, a member of ComUE, told the \"Times Higher Education Supplement\" that 'it would be a “win-win” situation for UK universities concerned about losing European funding opportunities and international students'.\n\nIn a notice posted on the research section of the European Commission on 6 October 2017, UK researchers were informed that if the UK does not agree on a new science cooperation arrangement with Brussels after it leaves the EU in March 2019, they will not receive any more EU funding or will have to leave existing projects. The statement regarding Horizon 2020 funding said, \"If the United Kingdom withdraws from the EU during the grant period without concluding an agreement with the EU ensuring in particular that British applicants continue to be eligible, you will cease to be eligible to receive EU funding (while continuing, where possible, to participate) or be required to leave the project on the basis of Article 50 of the grant agreement.\" \n\nIn its March 2018 report on Brexit, Science and Innovation, the House of Commons' Select Committee on Science and Technology recalled that the UK needed to commit by October 2018 to contributing to the EU's next Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2021-2027), or risk compromising its role as a 'science superpower'. The report stated that 'we are concerned that the Government’s default position does not appear to be that the UK will participate in Framework Programme 9. While the details of the Programme have not yet been agreed, the Government should state clearly that it intends to participate ... Specifically, the Government should state clearly in its response to this report that it intends to secure Associated Country status for Framework Programme 9'.\n\nOn 21 July 2018, the newly appointed Brexit Secretary, Dominic Raab, suggested that the UK might not honour the withdrawal agreement that guarantees continued funding of EU programmes until the end of Horizon 2020 in December 2020 through a transitional arrangement. According to a technical note published by the government in August outlining the likely consequences of a no-deal Brexit for the UK's participation in Horizon 2020, UK institutions would no longer be eligible for three Horizon 2020 funding lines after 29 March 2019: European Research Council (ERC) grants, Marie Skłodowska-Curie actions (MSCA), and SME instrument (SMEi) grants for small innovative businesses under a no-deal Brexit scenario. Mike Galsworthy, co-founder and director of Scientists for EU, described this document as 'a huge blow'. He commented that 'these three lines represent 45% of the UK’s receipts to date from Horizon 2020. If the UK is currently winning €1.283 billion each year from Horizon 2020, then a no-deal Brexit will cost UK research €577.35 million (£520.7 million) a year in lost opportunity to access these high-value grants. By far the most critical of those funding lines is the ERC. The UK has won €4.73 billon to date from Horizon 2020 overall, with €1.29bn of that in the form of ERC grants, €0.7 billion in the form of MSCA grants and €0.14 billion in SME Instrument grants<nowiki>\"</nowiki>. In the event of a no-deal Brexit, UK Research and Innovation would take over the funding of projects that currently receive payments from the European Commission. However, Dr Galsworthy observes that this would not allow UK research project coordinators to pay their partners in EU countries, forcing the UK partner to step aside from any coordinating role. The UK has coordinated more Horizon 2020 research projects than any other EU country.\n\nAfter the British referendum in June 2016, Carlos Ghosn, Chief Executive Officer of Japanese vehicle manufacturer Nissan, expressed doubts about the company's future in the UK if the country left the single market. After receiving written assurances from the government, Ghosn confirmed in October 2016 that its Qashqai and X-Trail SUV ranges would be built at its Sunderland plant but added that the firm would want to 're-evaluate the situation' once the final Brexit deal was concluded.\n\nThe Business Secretary told the House of Commons on 31 October 2016 that the government had assured Nissan that it would continue its longstanding programme of support for the competitiveness of the automotive sector, work with the automotive sector to ensure that more of the supply chain could locate to the UK and maintain a strong commitment to research and development into ultra-low emission vehicles. He also said that, in its negotiations to leave the EU, the government would ensure that trade between the UK and EU member states was 'free and unencumbered'.\n\nAs a large net contributor to the EU budget, Britain hosts one of the Airbus plants in Broughton. There is concern that the UK may lose this leverage post-Brexit. Airbus pays UK suppliers about £4 billion per year and employs 15,000 people directly in the UK. About 4,000 of these employees design the wings for Airbus planes at Filton in Bristol. Another 6,000 workers build more than 1,000 wings each year at Broughton in Flintshire for commercial Airbus aircraft. In September 2017, Paul Everitt, chief executive of ADS, the trade organisation for companies in the UK aerospace, defence, security and space sectors, expressed concern that, post-Brexit, 'there could be a long-term erosion of Britain’s competitiveness and that big projects will not be allocated to the UK'.\n\nUnless the UK strikes bilateral agreements with third countries before leaving the EU to replace those agreements established by the EU with these countries, or this area is covered by the Brexit agreement, British airline carriers will not be entitled to fly to third countries after 29 March 2019.\n\nOnce the UK leaves the EU, it will no longer benefit from the EU’s preferential trade agreements with more than 60 third countries, including Canada, Israel, Mexico (revised agreement to be finalized by end 2018), the Republic of Korea, Switzerland and Turkey. An EU-Japan agreement is due to be signed in 2018. On 22 May 2018, the European Commission opened negotiations for bilateral free trade agreements with Australia and New Zealand. Post-Brexit, the UK will need to negotiate its own free trade deals with all of these countries over a number of years. In the interim period, World Trade Organization (WTO) rules on tariffs will apply to British high-tech trade with EU third countries. The EU trades with 24 countries on the basis of WTO rules, including the United States of America, Brazil and China. In order to ensure continued unfettered access to the EU's internal market, the UK could choose to remain in the European Economic Area (like Iceland and Norway) or to conclude a number of bilateral treaties covering the provisions of the single market (Swiss model) but this would oblige the UK to adhere to the European Union's four fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of movement within the EU. If no deal is concluded with the EU, the UK will have to fall back on WTO trade rules (and related higher tariffs) for its trade with the EU post-Brexit.\n\nA March 2017 report by the House of Lords' European Union Committee concluded that non-tariff barriers post-Brexit could pose as much of a barrier as tariffs to trade in goods. It stated that both applying rules of origin and operating to two separate regulatory standards—for the domestic and EU markets—would be costly for UK businesses. The report analysed several high-tech sectors.\n\nTom Williams, chief operating officer of Airbus’s commercial planes unit, cautioned in 2016 against erecting barriers to the free movement of people and parts across its European sites (in Broughton, Toulouse and Hamburg), as the British plant is part of an EU value chain. 'We need a situation that is no less favourable than now', he said. 'When I build a set of wings in Broughton and send them to (the Airbus plant in) Toulouse , I don’t need a thousand pages of documents and tariffs'.\n\nGoods imported into a territory that is not part of a customs union must follow ‘rules of origin’, a procedure which determines where a product and its components were made, in order to levy the correct customs duty. The House of Lords' European Union Committee observed in March 2017 that rules of origin would apply to trade post-Brexit, whether the UK concluded a free trade agreement with the EU or traded with the EU under the rules of the World Trade Organization. ‘Applying rules of origin will generate significant additional administration, and therefore costs and delays, to UK businesses’, the committee's report stated.\n\nIn his submission to the House of Lords' European Union Committee, Steve Elliott, Chief Executive Officer of the Chemical Industries Association, highlighted the importance of the EU’s Control of Major Accident Hazards (COMAH) Regulations for the chemicals industry and expressed the view that the level of UK-EU trade was such that ‘we would need to continue’ to comply with the EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation.\n\nChris Hunt, Director General and Company Secretary of the UK Petroleum Industry Association said that, as the European Committee for Standardisation was open to non-EU members, Brexit ‘should make no difference’ to the UK’s membership and influence. Concerning the downstream petroleum sector, Mr Hunt stated that he would be ‘very keen to ensure that we stick with the COMAH Regulations’. Michael Tholen, Director of Upstream Policy, Oil and Gas UK, stated that the EU had ‘no direct remit over the precise activities of oil and gas extraction offshore’ but that the EU did influence the upstream industry through environmental standards and energy market standards.\n\nThrough the Whole Vehicle Type Approval system, the EU sets standards for road vehicles which permit cars to travel or be sold across the EU without further inspections. The British Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders told the House of Lords' Committee that ‘the validity of existing type approvals issued by the Vehicle Certification Agency once the UK has left the EU’ required ‘urgent legal clarification’.\n\nMr Paul Everitt, Chief Executive Officer of the Aerospace and Defence Sector Group, told the committee that it is through the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) ‘that we gain access to all of our major markets, whether it is the US, China, Japan or elsewhere’. For this reason, continued membership of EASA was ‘our number one ask of the UK Government’.\n\nIn the food and beverages sector, Agra Europe observed that, in areas such as food labelling and pesticide residues, ‘any significant divergence from EU standards in these areas could make UK goods illegal on the EU market’.\n\nThe House of Lords' European Union Committee heard in March 2017 that, in the pharmaceutical industry, UK standards would need to be recognised as equivalent by the EU as a pre-requisite for ongoing EU trade. Moreover, regulatory harmonisation and conformity to common labelling requirements would increase the production costs for British pharmaceuticals.\n\nProfessor Sir Michael Rawlins, chair of the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), the UK body that would take over from the European Medicines Agency, told the House of Lords in January 2017 that 'one of the biggest worries' he had about setting up a stand-alone regulator in post-Brexit Britain was that the UK would be 'at the back of the queue' for new drugs. Professor Paul Workman, president of the UK Institute of Cancer Research, expressed similar concerns. Since pharmaceutical companies sought regulatory approval for new drugs in the biggest markets first, he said, these companies would only approach the UK after the European Union, United States of America and Japan. He estimated that this could mean a delay of two years in new drug breakthroughs becoming available to British patients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3174020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3174020", "title": "Corruption Perceptions Index", "text": "Corruption Perceptions Index\n\nThe Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) is an index published annually by Transparency International since 1995 which ranks countries \"by their perceived levels of corruption, as determined by expert assessments and opinion surveys.\" The CPI generally defines corruption as \"the misuse of public power for private benefit\".\n\nThe CPI currently ranks 176 countries \"on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt)\". Denmark and New Zealand are perceived as the least corrupt countries in the world, ranking consistently high among international financial transparency, while the most perceived corrupt country in the world is Somalia, ranking at 9 out of 100 since 2017\n\nTransparency International commissioned the University of Passau's to produce the CPI.\n\nThe 2012 CPI takes into account 16 different surveys and assessments from 12 different institutions. The 13 surveys/assessments are either business people opinion surveys or performance assessments from a group of analysts. Early CPIs used public opinion surveys. The institutions are:\n\n\nCountries need to be evaluated by at least three sources to appear in the CPI. The CPI measures perception of corruption due to the difficulty of measuring absolute levels of corruption.\n\nA study published in 2002 found a \"very strong significant correlation\" between the Corruption Perceptions Index and two other proxies for corruption: black market activity and overabundance of regulation.\n\nAll three metrics also had a highly significant correlation with real gross domestic product per capita (RGDP/Cap); the Corruption Perceptions Index correlation with RGDP/Cap was the strongest, explaining over three fourths of the variance. (Note that a lower index on this scale reflects greater corruption, so that countries with higher RGDPs generally had less corruption.)\n\nResearch papers published in 2007 and 2008 examined the economic consequences of corruption perception, as defined by the CPI. The researchers found a correlation between a higher CPI and higher long-term economic growth, as well as an increase in GDP growth of 1.7% for every unit increase in a country's CPI score. Also shown was a power-law dependence linking higher CPI score to higher rates of foreign investment in a country.\n\nLegend:\n\nThe 20 top countries that were ranked as having the lowest perceived levels of corruption were (note scale of 10 to 1): \nThe 20 bottom countries that were ranked as having the highest perceived levels of corruption were: \nThe 20 top countries that were ranked as having the lowest perceived levels of corruption were (note scale of 10 down to 1): \nThe 20 bottom countries that were ranked as having the highest perceived levels of corruption were: \nBecause corruption is willfully hidden, it is impossible to measure directly; instead, proxies for corruption are used. Seligson states that corruption is a very \"difficult phenomenon to measure\", there have been many attempts to solve this problem but they've all come up with limitations.\n\nThe Index has been criticized on the basis of its methodology.\n\nAccording to political scientist Dan Hough, three flaws in the Index include:\nMedia outlets frequently use the raw numbers as a yardstick for government performance, without clarifying what the numbers mean. The local Transparency International chapter in Bangladesh disowned the index results after a change in methodology caused the country's scores to increase; media reported it as an \"improvement\".\n\nIn a 2013 article in \"Foreign Policy\", Alex Cobham suggested that CPI should be dropped for the good of Transparency International. It argues that the CPI embeds a powerful and misleading elite bias in popular perceptions of corruption, potentially contributing to a vicious cycle and at the same time incentivizing inappropriate policy responses. Cobham writes, \"the index corrupts perceptions to the extent that it's hard to see a justification for its continuing publication.\"\n\nHowever, recent econometric analyses that have exploited the existence of natural experiments on the level of corruption and compared the CPI with other subjective indicators have found that, while not perfect, the CPI does appear to consistently and validly measure the magnitude of corruption across the world.\n\nIn the United States, many lawyers advise international businesses to consult the CPI when attempting to measure the risk of Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations in different nations. This practice has been criticized by the \"Minnesota Journal of International Law\", which wrote that since the CPI may be subject to perceptual biases it therefore should not be considered by lawyers to be a measure of actual national corruption risk.\n\nTransparency International also publishes the Global Corruption Barometer, which ranks countries by corruption levels using direct surveys instead of perceived expert opinions, which has been under criticism for substantial bias from the powerful elite.\n\nTransparency International has warned that a country with a clean CPI score may still be linked to corruption internationally. For example, while Sweden had the 3rd best CPI score in 2015, one of its state-owned companies, TeliaSonera, was facing allegations of bribery in Uzbekistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "34288558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34288558", "title": "Curtas Vila do Conde", "text": "Curtas Vila do Conde\n\nCurtas Vila do Conde International Film Festival, created in 1993, is one of the most important cinematographic and cultural events in Portugal dedicated to short-films and annually produced in July, in the city Vila do Conde. The edition of 2011 had more than 20 000 spectators. In 2012 the festival celebrates the 20th Edition.\n\n\"Awards from earlier editions\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47472979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47472979", "title": "Death of Daniel Monteiro", "text": "Death of Daniel Monteiro\n\nDaniel Monteiro, a 71-year-old man, was found dead on 30 July 2015 in Païta, New Caledonia. He was reported missing two days earlier, and his vehicle and credit card had apparently been stolen. Prosecutors said he had been \"savagely\" beaten in a \"wild way\" to the point of unconsciousness, and then thrown into the Karikaté River, where he drowned. Two men were taken into custody in connection with the theft of his vehicle. A 21-year-old woman confessed to Monteiro's slaying on 3 August 2015, according to French chief prosecutor Claire Lanet.\n\nThe death of Monteiro was notable for igniting a silent protest by more than 3,000 people, who walked through the streets of Nouméa on 8 August in a demonstration against recent violence in New Caledonia. The protest was led by Jennifer Seagoe, president of the Chamber of Commerce, who presented a white paper proposing reforms to curb violent crime to French High Commissioner Vincent Bouvier.\n"}
{"id": "49658501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49658501", "title": "Delhi Gang Rape Photo Shoot", "text": "Delhi Gang Rape Photo Shoot\n\nA gang rape editorial photo shoot by Raj Shetye called \"'The Wrong Turn\"' featuring model Pooja Mor reminiscent of the Delhi Gang Rape caused international outrage due to its insensitivity worldwide in 2014. \n\nThe shoot glamorised the 2012 Delhi Gang Rape \"...the photos show a model being sexually assaulted by men sitting on a set resembling a bus. One image in the series called “The Wrong Turn” shows a man grabbing her shoulder while she looks away in disapproval and is pushing away another man. Another picture shows the model lying down while one man fondles her leg and the other holds her down.\"\n\nThe parents of the gang rape victim dubbed Nirbhaya described the incident as \"he...has mocked a girl's struggle. He has no right to play with anyone's sentiments.\" and \"they should be ashamed of it... he should be punished... the photo shoot should be banned.\"\n\nNational Commission for Women called for strict action against the photo shoot, Congress MP from Bihar Ranjeet Ranjan described the incident as disgusting and said she had given a notice in the Lok Sabha for discussion on the issue. Activist Abha Singh condemned the act saying it was \"\"not only a national shame but also legally a crime\".\"\n"}
{"id": "58104506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58104506", "title": "Erika Jayne Presents: The Pretty Mess Tour", "text": "Erika Jayne Presents: The Pretty Mess Tour\n\nErika Jayne Presents: The Pretty Mess Tour is the first headlining concert tour by American singer and songwriter Erika Jayne, consisting of 13 shows in the United States. The tour began on September 28, 2018 and ends on December 21, 2018, with a time-out for the month of November.\n\nJayne announced her debut concert tour in early August 2018. It consisted of 13 shows solely in the United States. The concert tour begins on September 28 and ends on December 21, 2018. It was reported on September 13, 2018, that her concert at Lincoln Hall in Chicago was sold out. Jayne and Fullscreen Live announced eight additional dates to the tour schedule on September 24, 2018. She said the shows will be “fantasy, love, escape, glitz, glamour and fun.”\n\nGreg Willis of \"Out\" wrote \"if her set on this new tour is anything like her headlining set at LA Pride in 2017 (where along with her own hits, she performed a cover of 90s dance classic “This Is Your Night” by Amber), then we are definitely in for a treat.\" Jayne's longtime collaborator, Mikey Minden, served as creative director of the tour. \"People\" magazine published exclusive sketches of Jayne's tour costumes on September 28, 2018. \"Creating these costumes from scratch was a dream come true. These looks describe different aspects of my personality and capture the essence of the show,\" Jayne told \"People\".\n\nSpeaking on the tour, Jayne stated: \"I'm so excited to get back on the stage this fall for The Pretty Mess Tour! The best part of it all is finally getting to meet so many fans across the county. Get ready, my pretties!\"\n\nAlice Laussade of \"D magazine\" wrote that \"if you know Erika Jayne’s NSFW style of music, you wouldn’t guess that she and Taylor Swift have similar fan bases. I would, though, because I know a lot of moms. Moms scream-sing Taylor Swift with their kids in the morning carpool line, and watch Bravo’s \"Real Housewives of Beverly Hills\" while they chug cans of wine at night.\" Laussade also noted that fan fashion was part of the concert, seeing fans wearing \"thigh-high boots, sequins, pink leather jackets paired with crazy-long blonde extensions, white Sambas paired with fancy athleisurewear, and a group of folks in SeeYouNextTuesday* shirts (of course, referencing her golden necklace worn on RHOBH).\" \n\nNina Bradley of \"Bustle\" wrote that \"with a \"New York Times bestseller\" and a recent TED Talk now added to her impressive résumé, Erika Jayne's upcoming Pretty Mess tour is just the latest must-see event to come from the reality star — which means tickets are going to go fast.\" Several celebrities, including January Jones, Jasmine Tookes, Kyle Richards and Lisa Rinna came to support her concert at The Globe Theater. Melissa Gorga of \"The Real Housewives of New Jersey\" took a photo of Erika Jayne and her dancers on stage at a sold out show in Jersey City and later offered a favorable review of the show in an Instagram post.\n\n"}
{"id": "52133375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52133375", "title": "Global MX-5 Cup", "text": "Global MX-5 Cup\n\nThe Battery Tender Global MX-5 Cup is the professional Spec Miata series sanctioned by IndyCar in the United States. The pro Spec Miata series has its roots in 2003, but a unified national championship was launched in 2006.\n\nThe first generation Mazda MX-5 or Mazda Miata was launched in the U.S. market in May 1989 (model year 1990). The Sports Car Club of America placed the car in the Showroom Stock C class for production vehicles with a 1.600cc engine. The rules allowed the car to be entered in races when the model was one year old, in 1991. As production and popularity of the sports car grew the SCCA developed a separate class for the car. After an exhibition race at Road Atlanta in 1999 an SCCA regional class was launched in 2000. In professional autosport the Miata's were entered in the SCCA World Challenge, but without major results.\n\nThe Mazdaspeed Miata Cup was launched for 2003 with a Pacific and an Atlantic championship. The series first race was run at BeaveRun Motorsports Complex on May 3rd and 4th 2003. Chip Herr and Niki Coello won the two races over the weekend. Niki Coello went on to win the Atlantic Tour championship. Bobby Carter won the inaugural Pacific Tour.\n\nThe introduction of the third generation Mazda MX-5 came also the national pro series in 2006. The inaugural season started at Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca. A total of 22 racers started the inaugural race which was won by Chip Herr, from pole position. The series was support event for the Rolex Sports Car Series at Laguna Seca, Lime Rock Park, Mid-Ohio and Miller Motorsports Park. The series also supported events of CASCAR, ChampCar, American Le Mans Series and the Grand Prix de Trois-Rivières. Jim Daniels clinched the championship with one round remaining. The 2007 season started at the Grand Prix of Houston with the series first night race. Jason Saini won five out of eight races to clinch the championship. Saini was promoted to the 2008 SCCA World Challenge with Mazda. The 2008 season started with a Mazda Miata shootout. Brad Rampelberg won the race between SCCA and NASA champions to receive a fully funded drive in the 2008 regular season. Rampelberg finished sixth in the season standings winning races at Portland and Miller Motorsports Park. Eric Foss won the championship winning two races but finishing all eight races.\n\nTodd Lamb dominated the 2009 season. Lamb won eight out of ten races, consecutive. Marc Miller and Lyonel Kent won the remaining two races. NASCAR driver Ryan Ellis also competed in the series. Rampelberg continued in the series winning the 2010 series. In 2010 the series had its first standing start, at New Jersey Motorsports Park, previously only using a roling start. The 2011 season was a tough season for the series. The final rounds of the series saw only 16 entrants. Michael Cooper won the series as Rampelberg moved into the Continental Tire SportsCar Challenge. \n\nFor 2012 Todd Snyder was appointed as the director of competition. Snyder left the series at the end of the season to join the IMSA. The series created a partnership with the Skip Barber Racing School for young racers. Bryan Hixon was the first driver to win the class. The regular championship was won by Stevan MacAleer. Former single-seater racer Christian Szymczak won the 2013 series championship. Kenton Koch, winner of the 2013 Skip Barber class, won the 2014 overall championship. This was the first back to back championship win for Alara Racing and team principal Ken Murillo. In November 2014 Mazda unveiled the new Global MX-5 Cup at the SEMA tradeshow. The final season of the third generation car was won by John Dean II with a 13 point margin on Patrick Gallagher.\n\nFor 2016 the Global MX-5 Cup was launched. The series featured the new fourth generation Mazda MX-5, and a new prize package. The winner of the series was invited to test a Mazda powered Lola B08/80 prepared by Mazda Motorsports. Last seasons championship contenders Dean II and Gallagher again competed at the front of the pack. Gallagher won the first race after Dean II started from pole position. The championship was won by 26-year old Nathanial Sparks. Sparks won a $200,000 scholarship to advance his racing career. The season culminated with a new shootout format. The Mazda MX-5 Cup Global Invitational debuted with nineteen drivers from eight different countries. The inaugural edition was won by Sparks. Former FIA GT1 racer Gabriele Gardel also competed in the race.\n\nFor 2017 sanctioning of the series was taken over from SCCA Pro Racing to IndyCar. Promotion of the series was taken over by Andersen Promotions. Andersen Promotions, headed by Dan Andersen, also promotes and runs all series of the Road to Indy (USF2000, Pro Mazda Championship and Indy Lights). The Global MX-5 Series joined the IndyCar Series at the Grand Prix of Alabama, Kohler Grand Prix, Honda Indy Toronto and the Grand Prix at The Glen.\n\nIn the early Mazdaspeed Miata Cup accepted first- and second generation Mazda MX-5s. The series followed Spec Miata rules as issued by the SCCA, NASA and Midwestern Council. Tires from the labels Toyo, Kumho and Hankook were allowed. Three types of MX-5's were allowed to run in the series. The edition of the MX-5 built from 1990 through 1993 featured a 1.600cc engine. The car had a minimum weight of 2.300lbs. The second type allowed were cars built from 1994 through 1998. The car featured a 1.800cc engine and had a minimum weight of 2.350lbs. Lastly cars built from 1999 through 2005 featured a 1.800cc engine and had a minimum weight of 2.400lbs.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2015 the series used the third generation Mazda MX-5. The car featured a 2.0L 200hp engine prepared by Mazdaspeed. Through the years model years 2006 through 2014 were accepted. The engine featured modifications by Mazdaspeed such as a modified cold air intake. The gearbox was a stock 6-speed manual out of the Sport Package. The suspension and shocks were also provided by Mazdaspeed. Tires were provided by Hankook in 2006 and 2007. Between 2008 and 2009 the tires were provided by Kumho. As of 2010 the tires are provided by BFGoodrich.\n\nFor the 2016 season Mazda introduced the fourth generation Mazda MX-5. The car is built at the Hiroshima Mazda factory. The MX-5 Cup version is developed by Mazda North American Operations and Long Road Racing. The engine is a 2.0 L SkyActiv-G (PE-VPS) I4. The ECU is provided by General Engine Management Systems. Tom Long was the test driver during the development phase.\n"}
{"id": "4890712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4890712", "title": "Henri Poincaré Prize", "text": "Henri Poincaré Prize\n\nThe Henri Poincaré Prize sponsored by the Daniel Iagolnitzer Foundation was created in 1997 to recognize outstanding contributions in mathematical physics, and contributions which lay the groundwork for novel developments in this broad field. The Prize is also created to recognize and support young people of exceptional promise who have already made outstanding contributions to the field of mathematical physics. The prize is awarded to three individuals every three years at the International Congress on Mathematical Physics. The prize committee is appointed by the International Association of Mathematical Physics (IAMP).\n\n"}
{"id": "22711555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22711555", "title": "High Noon in Hong Kong", "text": "High Noon in Hong Kong\n\nHigh Noon in Hong Kong was a World Boxing Organisation sanctioned boxing event. It was to feature four fights: a heavyweight title fight between Herbie Hide and Tommy Morrison; Steve Collins versus American Lonnie Beasley for the WBO middleweight title; Billy Schwer would challenge Rafael Ruelas for the IBF lightweight title, plus Frank Bruno versus Ray Mercer in a non-title fight in the Hong Kong Stadium on 22 October 1994. It was cancelled at the last minute because of major financial problems.\n\nAccording to British sports promoter Barry Hearn, he met John Daly, a Los Angeles-based Londoner, in June 1994, who asked him to provide boxers for the event. American boxing promoter Bob Arum was providing Tommy Morrison and Barry Hearn would provide Herbie Hide and Steve Collins. Mickey Duff and Jarvis Astaire provided Frank Bruno for a non-title fight with Ray Mercer, as well as Billy Schwer for the IBF lightweight title challenge against Rafael Ruelas. \n\nThe four-fight High Noon show at the Hong Kong Stadium was offered as pay-per-view with a cash flow estimated at US$2.3 million, expected from the American public.\n\nBarry Hearn withdrew his boxers, Herbie Hide and Steve Collins, when their purse guarantees were not in place by the deadline of 5.30 pm local time on Saturday. Bob Arum was the event's nominal promoter but refused to come up with the cash to save it. Daly tried to raise the money which, according to Arum, was around US$2m.\n\nWhen the local bankers whom Daly thought had agreed to salvage the show refused to advance him a further US$771,000 against anticipated revenue from ticket sales and American pay-per-view subscriptions at US$25 each, Daly had no choice. He said that the boxers' purses were Arum's responsibility, which Arum did not agree with.\n\nDaly had spent at least US$800,000 of his own money into it. \"My end of the deal was kept,\" Daly argued. \"I had to arrange the stadium, air fares and all the pre-fight promotional expenses, which I did, but the purses were not part of my obligation.\"\n\nThe 2,000-odd fight fans in Hong Kong who bought tickets, some worth a couple of thousand dollars, had yet to receive refunds a year later.\n\nFrank Bruno said: \"I feel very let down by Bob Arum and the promoters. They were supposed to be top professionals, the creme de la creme. I thought they were the business, but to be quite honest they've been unprofessional, totally unprofessional.\"\n\n\"To cancel a promotion just like that without consulting anyone is very serious. A lot of money has been going into this. Top Rank are big promoters and they should have dug deep in their pockets - they've made enough money out of fighters over the years.\"\n\n\"It's tough for all the fighters, and for the people who worked five days a week to afford to come over here and support us. It's disgusting. It's staggering.\"\n\nMickey Duff, who plans to sue Arum and Top Rank on behalf of Bruno and Billy Schwer said: \"What kind of promoters are these? I've been in the business 45 years and I've never cancelled a show just because I was going to lose money. I'd rather cut my throat than do that.\"\n\nBarry Hearn said, \"But to be honest I was very pleased with myself in Hong Kong. I stood my ground. How many others would have?\"\n"}
{"id": "37410640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37410640", "title": "International Kite Festival in Gujarat – Uttarayan", "text": "International Kite Festival in Gujarat – Uttarayan\n\nEvery year, Gujarat celebrates more than 200 festivals. The International Kite Festival (Uttarayan) is regarded as one of the biggest festivals celebrated. Months before the festival, homes in Gujarat begin to manufacture kites for the festival.\n\nThe festival of Uttarayan marks the day when winter begins to turn into summer, according to the Indian calendar. It is the sign for farmers that the sun is back and that harvest season is approaching which is called Makara Sankranti. This day is considered to be one of the most important harvest day in India. Many cities in Gujarat organize kite competition between their citizens where the people all compete with each other. In this region of Gujarat and many other states, Uttarayan is such a huge celebration that it has become a public holiday in India for two days. During the festival, local food such as Undhiyu (a mixed vegetable including yam and beans), sesame seed brittle and Jalebi is served to the crowds. Days before the festival, the market is filled with participants buying their supplies. In 2012, the Tourism Corporation of Gujarat mentioned that the International Kite Festival in Gujarat was attempting to enter the Guinness World Records book due to the participation of 42 countries in it that year.\n\nThe International Kite Festival takes place in Gujarat India. The festival is called Uttarayan. The festival is celebrated in many cities of Gujarat, Telangana and Rajasthan like Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Udaipur,Jodhpur, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Hyderabad, Nadiad, Dakor. However, the International Kite Event takes place in Ahmedabad (Kite capital of Gujarat) which accommodates visitors from many international destinations.\n\nThe best place to enjoy this festival is the Sabarmati Riverfront (its sabarmati river bank with capacity of over 500,000 people) or the Ahmedabad Police Stadium, where people lay down to see the sky filled with thousands of kites \n\nDuring the festival week the markets are flooded with kite buyers and sellers. In the heart of Ahmedabad, there is one of the most famous Kite markets - \"Patang Bazaar\", which during the festive week opens 24 hours a day with buyers and sellers negotiating and buying in bulk.\n\nMoreover, many families in Ahmadabad start making kites at home and setup small shops in their own homes.\n\nThere is also a Kite Museum, located at Sanskar Kendra in Paldi area of Ahmedabad. Established in 1985, it contains a collection of unique kites.\n\nOther parts of India also celebrate kite festival. In Delhi on 15 August and most of Bihar's districts on 14 April. It is said because they just prepare new crop wheat. People offer prayers, eat Sattu (made from new crop wheat) and new mangoes (baby mango also known as \"Tikola\").\n\nThe festival takes place on 14 January of each year during the Makar Sankranti and continues until 15 January. This date marks the end of winter and the return of a more clement weather for farmers of the Gujarat region. These days have also become a public holiday within the Gujarat state of India so that everyone can take part in the celebration. 15th January is known as ' Vasi Uttarayan '.\n\nThe symbolism of this festival is to show the awakening of the Gods from their deep sleep. Through India's history, it is said that India created the tradition of kite flying due to the kings and Royalties later followed by Nawabs who found the sport entertaining and as a way to display their skills and power. It began as being a sport for kings, but over time, as the sport became popular, it began to reach the masses. Kite flying has been a regional event in Gujarat for several years. However the first International Festival was celebrated in 1989 when people from all across the globe participated and showcased their innovative kites.\nIn the recent 2012 event, The International Kite Festival was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the presence of Governor Dr. Kamla.\n\nAlthough the idea of flying kites to celebrate Uttrayan was introduced by Muslims from Persia, today regardless of your background or beliefs, you are welcome to fly kites with everyone else in Gujarat in January. Most visitors arrive from around India, from Gujarat itself or another state. In major cities of Gujarat, kite flying starts as early as 5 am and goes until late night where approximately 8-10 million people participate in the whole festival.\n\nHowever, many visitors are international who come from around the world, such as Japan, Italy, UK, Canada, Brazil, Indonesia, Australia, the USA, Malaysia, Singapore, France, China, and many more to take part in the celebration.\n\nThe kite festival has been strongly influenced by its international participants, in the recent events, for instance:\n\nAt the same time, the festival is the occasion for many public entities such as famous dancers, singers, actors or politicians who make an appearance and entertain the population. In 2004, for example, the Bollywood actress Juhi Chawla was part of the celebration and performed a Garba (dance) which is very popular in India.\n\nDuring the event, kite markets are set up alongside food stalls and performers. The kites are usually made with materials such as plastic, leaves, wood, metal, nylon and other scrap materials but the ones for Uttarayan are made of light-weight paper and bamboo and are mostly rhombus shaped with central spine and a single bow. Dye and paint are also added to increase the glamour of the kite. The lines are covered with mixtures of glue and ground glass which when dried, rolled up and attached to the rear, also known as firkees, become sharp enough to cut skin. These types of sharp lines are used on fighter kites known in India as \"patangs\" to cut down other kites during various kite fighting events. During the night, on the second day of the festival, illuminated kites filled with lights and candles known as tukals or tukkals are launched creating a spectacle in the dark sky.\nIn Gujarat kites are made up of two types of paper that is :-\n1.Simple paper kites &\n2.Butter paper kites.\n\nKites are a real part of the culture in Asia, which is why most of the kite festivals around the world take place in those areas. Here are the Most Popular Kites Festival of the World:\n\n"}
{"id": "24762271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24762271", "title": "Ispah rebellion", "text": "Ispah rebellion\n\nThe Ispah rebellion () was a series of civil wars occurring in the middle of 14th century in Fujian under the Yuan dynasty. The term Ispah might derive from the Persian word \"سپاه\" (\"sepâh\"), meaning \"army\" or \"Sepoy\". Thus, the rebellion is also known as the Persian Sepoy rebellion (波斯戍兵之乱; \"Bōsī Shùbīng zhī Luàn\") in Chinese documents.\nUnder Mongol rule, the number of Arab and Persian Muslims residing in the Chinese port city of Quanzhou was greatly boosted. In 1357, a predominantly Muslim army led by two Quanzhou Muslims, Sayf ad-Din (赛甫丁) and Amir ad-Din (阿迷里丁), revolted against the Yuan dynasty. In defiance of imperial forces, the army seized control of Quanzhou, Putian, and even reached the provincial capital Fuzhou.\n\nIn 1362, the Ispah army collapsed into internal conflict and was eventually crushed in 1366 by the Han Chinese commander Chen Youding (陈友定), who was loyal to the Yuan dynasty.\n\nFrom the 13th century to the early 14th century in the Yuan dynasty, overseas trade was extremely prosperous in Fujian. As the starting point of the Maritime Silk Road, Quanzhou was China's, possibly the world's, largest port. It was also the largest city in Fujian, with a population exceeding that of Fuzhou, Fujian's administrative center. The Arabs called it \"Tiger's claw\", which has been used by merchants in Europe and elsewhere. At the time, Quanzhou's population exceeded 2 million, with a wall as long as 30 miles. Jinjiang's river and its harbor had 10,000 ships docked, with highly developed trade. Quanzhou exported luxuries such as silk, ceramics, copper, and iron, as well as satin, while imports include pearls, ivory, rhino horns, frankincense, etc. The most important imports were spices and herbs.\n\nQuanzhou had many foreign residents, such as Arabs, Persians, Europeans, Jews, Indians etc. There were around 100 different languages being used. The Quanzhou people labeled these foreigners as Fan (\"蕃\" or \"番\"). Due to the massive number of foreigners coming in, authorities didn't want foreigners to stay and interfere with the locals' lifestyles in the beginning. Quanzhou had large ethnic enclaves (\"蕃坊\", \"蕃人巷\"), with foreigners and natives often intermarrying and giving birth to mixed children (often labeled Half Southern Fan or \"半南蕃\"). Although foreigners and natives had some cultural intermingling, the foreigners still practiced and spread their own religions, such as Islam, Christianity, Manichaeism, Hinduism, etc. This religious and ethnic diversity made management much harder.\n\nThere are multiple theories about the origin of the word \"Ispah\". Some think that \"Ispah\" originated from the Persian word \"سپاه\"(sepâh), which means militia, cavalry, or some derived version. It could also be the Persian equivalent of \"mercenaries\" or borrowed from the name of a city, Isfahan, given that most of the people came from that city. Others believe that Ispah is used for designating troops, instead of as an actual name.\n\nIn the early Yuan dynasty, the Mongols gave the Islamic Sunni Semu Pu Shougeng (蒲寿庚) family public support, since they helped rebel against the Song dynasty and establish the Yuan dynasty. As a result, this family became stronger and had more influence over politics and the economy. The Sunni Muslims in Quanzhou became more dominant in Quanzhou and excluded the Shiites, causing growing resentment among them. In 1282 (the 19th year of the Yuan dynasty), the Yuan dynasty stationed 3000 Shiite forces in Quanzhou, but even then there were still too few Shiites in Quanzhou. Near the end of the Yuan Dynasty, the government struggled to deal with various armed rebellions. The Quanzhou Shiite Persians organized the Ispah army to defend their ethnic group, which already had a large Persian population with growing strength. In March 1357, Sayf ad-Din and Amir ad-Din, the commanders of the Ispah army, seized the opportunity to control Quanzhou, and suppressed the formerly dominant Sunni. The Ispah army became one of the strongest forces in Fujian.\n\nAfterwards many of the foreign Arab and Persian merchants were massacred when the uprising was crushed and their graves desecrated, forcing many of them to flee Quanzhou. Some of the massacres and grave desecrations were reprisals against the descendants of Pu Shougeng, who had defected and surrendered the cities to the Mongols during their invasion of the Song dynasty.\n\nIn revenge over Pu Shougeng's defection to the Yuan dynasty, here were mass killings against the descendants of Pu Shougeng.\n\nOf the Han Chinese Li family in Quanzhou, Lin Nu, the son of Li Lu, visited Hormuz in Persia in 1376, married a Persian or an Arab girl, and brought her back to Quanzhou. Li Nu was the ancestor of the Ming Dynasty reformer Li Chih. Lin Nu and his descendants were erased from the family genealogy by his relatives who were angry at him for converting to Islam and marrying a Persian girl because xenophobic feeling against foreigners was strong at that time due to Persian Semu atrocities in the Ispah Rebellion in which the Yuan defeated the Ispah and the Semu were massacred. The branch of the family who held to their Chinese customs felt ashamed so they changed their surname from Lin to Li to avoid associating with their relatives, Lin Nu's descendants with his Persian wife who practiced Islam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25078889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25078889", "title": "Jerky Turkey", "text": "Jerky Turkey\n\nJerky Turkey is a 1945 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer cartoon directed by Tex Avery.\n\nIn 1620, Pilgrims, riding a caricatured \"Mayflower\" with a number of World War II-era anachronisms (such as a navy gunnery deck, a Henry J. Kaiser nameplate and a fuel rationing card) land at Plymouth Rock and establish a colony, where they quickly separate into \"Ye Democrats\" and \"Ye Republicans.\" The Pilgrims all stand in line for cigarettes (some are caricatures of Avery's animation crew), while the town crier bemoans that he has been made eligible for the draft {\"1-A\"}. \n\nA pear-shaped Pilgrim, who speaks with the milquetoast mannerisms of Bill Thompson (who was unavailable and had to be impersonated because of his being inducted into war service), emerges from his dilapidated teardrop trailer home and goes hunting for a turkey for a Thanksgiving dinner. The turkey emerges from the \"House of Seven Gobbles\" (a literal black market in disguise) and, seeing an easy mark and speaking in an impersonation of Jimmy Durante, offers himself to the pilgrim, only to use this as the start of a series of rapid-fire gags that stretch the limits of even cartoon physics, with the turkey consistently getting the best of his increasingly befuddled and frustrated opponent. Eventually the two make up and decide to \"eat at Joe's,\" following the advice of a clapboard-wearing bear advertising his steakhouse that appears throughout the film. When they reach Joe's steakhouse, the door closes, loud crashes and thuds are heard, and Joe the bear is seen coming out of the restaurant without his sandwich board; on his back is a tattoo which reads \"I'm Joe\". The bear is grinning and picking his teeth, as the swallowed-whole turkey and pilgrim sulk in the bear's stomach. The pilgrim closes the cartoon holding up a sign of his own: \"DON'T eat at Joe's.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32722163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32722163", "title": "Karachi International Book Fair", "text": "Karachi International Book Fair\n\nThe Karachi International Book Fair is an annual book fair held in Karachi, Pakistan. It is the largest book fair in the country, preceding the Lahore International Book Fair.It provides a platform where publishers, booksellers, agents, cultural organisations and press can meet, exchange ideas and identify business opportunities.It has been organised by Pakistan Publisher's and Booksellers Association.\n\nIt is held annually in November at the Karachi Expo Centre grounds in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan\n\nThe Karachi International Book Fair forms a part of Pakistan Publisher's and Booksellers Association strategy to transform Karachi into a major centre in the publishing world.\n\nThe Karachi International Book Fair brings together the Asia and International publishing communities.The fair provides access to publisher's in the Asia,and as such is an important event in the negotiation and sale of book rights and licensing.\n\nThe 2014 fair was the 10th Karachi International Book Fair from 12–16 November at the Karachi Expo Centre. There were 400 visitors.\n\nThe 2015 fair will be held in the Karachi Expo Centre from 12–16 November\n\nThe 12th Karachi International Book Fair commenced on Thursday in the Expo Centre. The exhibition will continue from December 15–19.\n\n"}
{"id": "16907948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16907948", "title": "Kingston Canadian Film Festival", "text": "Kingston Canadian Film Festival\n\nThe Kingston Canadian Film Festival is an annual celebration of the best in Canadian cinema held in Kingston, Ontario. It is the largest stand-alone showcase of feature films from across Canada. The 2019 festival will take place on February 28 - March 3\n\nIn addition to the best new Canadian films of the year, KCFF presents workshops, panels, live music and podcasts, plus lots of special guests, with past appearances by Ellen Page, Gordon Pinsent, Deepa Mehta, Cathy Jones, plus cast from Kids in the Hall, Letterkenny, Mr. D, and The Trailer Park Boys.\n\nThe Kingston Canadian Film Festival is held annually in late February to early March and is a registered charity.\n\nThe Kingston Canadian Film Festival was launched in 2001 by Alex Jansen, who was then studying film at Queen's University. It was a three-day event held at the Screening Room Movie Theater, a two screen repertory cinema which Jansen was managing at the time. The Festival was launched with assistance from Moving Pictures: Canadian Films on Tour (who were replaced by the Toronto International Film Festival Group in 2003). In 2002, the Festival added a second, larger venue on the Queen's University campus, increased the number of screenings substantially and added a fourth day to the event, becoming the largest stand-alone showcase of feature films from across Canada.\n\n\nThe Kingston Canadian Film Festival showcase 30-40 of the best Canadian features of the year. Features include work from first-time filmmakers, as well as Oscar winners. The Canadian Features also have a strong focus on French filmmaking, and films created by indigenous directors.\n\nEvery year, KCFF generally display 3 distinct Canadian short programs. Each program presents its own theme. Typically, the festival plays 50-75 short films.\n\nIn addition to the movies, KCFF showcase live music and comedy, podcasts, receptions, awards and parties. These program offer local filmmakers the opportunity to meet industry professionals. Notable guests include Ellen Page, Gordon Pinsent, Deepa Mehta, Cathy Jones, plus cast from Kids in the Hall, Letterkenny, Mr. D, and The Trailer Park Boys.\n\nThe 2018 edition of the Kingston Canadian Film Festival included short film programs (with dedicated slots for local artists and youth), free workshops and networking, industry guest appearances and talks, receptions, special events, music, comedy, and awards.\n\n\n\n\n\nFind out the list of guests on: https://kingcanfilmfest.com/2019-festival/guests/\n\nBEST YOUTH SHORT\n\nBEST CANADIAN SHORT\n\nSTEAM WHISTLE HOMEBREW AWARD FOR BEST LOCAL SHORT - MINUTES\n\nSTEAM WHISTLE HOMEBREW AWARD FOR BEST LOCAL SHORT\n\nLIMESTONE FINANCIAL PEOPLE’S CHOICE AWARD\n"}
{"id": "34578040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34578040", "title": "List of incidents during the Beagle conflict", "text": "List of incidents during the Beagle conflict\n\nThe increasing significance of Beagle channel region led to various incidents and confrontations between Chile and Argentina around transit and fishing rights, which could potentially lead to full-scale war.\n\nOn 23 August 1904 the Argentine government asked Chile to demarcate the boundary on the Beagle Channel. Chile didn't consider it necessary because there were a complete cartography of the channel and the treaty awarded the islands depending on the location.\n\nIn order to avoid belligerents activities in Strait of Magellan, which would impede navigation, on 15 December 1914 Chile declared that the internal waters of the Strait of Magellan as well as the channels around should be considered as a Territorial or Neutral Sea even where they extend more than three miles from shore. In 1914 a German merchant was inspected by a British warship and on 14 March a Norwegian ship was seized by a British warship. Argentina protested the Chilean decree on 8 March 1915 but didn't specified the reasons.\n\nIn 1958 the Argentine Navy shelled a Chilean lighthouse in the (uninhabited) Snipe islet and occupied the island. Both ambassadors were recalled, the Chilean Navy was sent to the zone and the Argentine Marines were pulled back from the island. It was the most serious incident that occurred in the zone.\n\nIn July 1967 the master of Panamanian ship \"Ballenita\" was fined in Chile after he accepted an Argentine pilot for the route to Ushuaia. As result, Chilean pilots have to board ships bound to the Beagle Channel in Montevideo and no longer in Buenos Aires.\n\nThe lucrative centolla fishery around Tierra del Fuego led to an incident in August 1967 when the Argentine schooner ' was found fishing from Gable Island and had to be ordered by a Chilean Patrol Boat ' to retrieve her nets and leave the zone escorted out of Chilean waters.\n\nFew days later the ship re-appeared in the company of an Argentine patrol craft. Protests from both sides were issued at the highest diplomatic level.\n\nOn 29 November 1967 the Chilean Patrol Boat \"Quidora\" (PTF-82) was shelled by the Argentine Navy from Ushuaia.\n\nOn 3 February 1968 the \"USCGC Southwind\" in emergency conditions headed to Ushuaia via the eastern entrance of the Beagle Channel without notification nor permission of the Chilean Government. The Chileans protested.\n\nOn 21 May 1977, after the arbitral award, the Argentine Navy installed a lighthouse in the (inhabited) Barnevelt Island. It was immediately dismantled by the Chilean Navy.\n\nOn 8 June 1978 Chile sent a diplomatic objection to Argentine activities off the eastern mouth of the Magellan Strait and reserving rights there. In September 1980 a offshore oil rig authorized by Argentina was warned by a Chilean warship and then by military helicopter to abandon the area. Also an Argentine military aircraft threatened a Chilean warship proceeding toward the Strait of Magellan from the Falkland Islands.\n\nOn February 19 1982, six weeks before the beginning of the Falklands War, an incident occurred that could have sparked a full-fledged war between Chile and Argentina during the Papal mediation in the Beagle conflict. An Argentine patrol boat, the ARA \"Gurruchaga\" (Ex-USS Luiseno (ATF-156)) was anchored at Deceit Island inside the Beagle zone under mediation in Vatican, ostensibly providing support for sports boats participating in the Rio de Janeiro-Sydney boat race. The \"Quidora\" torpedo Boat approached and ordered the Argentine ship to leave the area. She fired several warning shots when the Argentine craft refused to move, as other Chilean ships converged to the scene. Although originally ordered not to leave the area and to wait for Argentine warships to arrive, the Argentine patrol boat received new orders to proceed to port as it became obvious that the Chilean navy had no intentions of backing down.\n\nOn 19 October 1984, as the Chilean and Argentine delegations signed the first agreement to the Treaty of Peace and Friendship of 1984 between Chile and Argentina, the Argentine artillery units fired eight rounds on the Chilean lighthouse \"Gusanos\" near Puerto Williams on the south shore of the Beagle Channel.\n"}
{"id": "39271030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39271030", "title": "Load shifting", "text": "Load shifting\n\nLoad shifting is a dangerous phenomenon in water, air, and ground transportation where many small moveable items (for example, coal) shifts or spills towards the downward side when the cargo vehicle consistently tips past 10 or 15 degrees. Over time, this can lead to escalating tilting of the cargo vehicle and can lead to tipping or eventual capsizing. Such a dangerous occurrence is prevented by active load management, avoidance of high sea conditions, and proper container/bulkhead design.\n\nOn a cargo airplane, a professional loadmaster is necessary to prevent the highly-dangerous phenomenon of load shifting. If a plane begins to take off with unsecured cargo, some of the cargo may slide to the aft of the airplane, resulting in a catastrophic switch in the centre-of-gravity and a stall condition. The National Airlines Flight 102 disaster is currently believed to be a result of load shifting.\n"}
{"id": "3197785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3197785", "title": "London to Brighton Veteran Car Run", "text": "London to Brighton Veteran Car Run\n\nThe London to Brighton Veteran Car Run is the longest-running motoring event in the world. The first run was in 1896, and it has taken place most years since its initial revival in 1927. To qualify, the cars must have been built before 1905. It is also the world's largest gathering of veteran cars – 443 started in 2005, 484 in 2009, compared to 37 starters in 1927, 51 starters in 1930 and 131 in 1938.\n\nIt takes place, currently, on the first Sunday in November and starts at sunrise from Hyde Park, London and mostly follows the old A23 road to finish at Brighton – a distance of . There are two official stops along the way: Crawley (for coffee) and Preston Park (in a suburb of Brighton). Preston Park is the official finishing point; the cars then proceed to Madeira Drive on the seafront, also the venue for Brighton's other big motoring event, the Brighton Speed Trials.\n\nThe organisers emphasise that the event is not a race – they do not even publish the order in which cars finish, and participants are not permitted to exceed an average speed of . Any that finish (many do not) before 4:30 pm are awarded a medal.\n\nThere are a few other events preceding the Veteran Car Run such as Motoring Forum, Veteran Car Run Sale, a motor show, and participant reception.\n\nThe first run took place on 14 November 1896, a wet Saturday. Organised by Harry J. Lawson, and named \"The Emancipation Run\", it was a celebration of the recently passed Locomotives on Highways Act 1896, which had replaced the restrictive Locomotive Acts of 1861, 1865 and 1878 and increased the speed limit to . Since 1878 the speed limit had been in the country and in the town and an escort had been required to walk ahead of the vehicle. The 1865 act had required the escort to carry a red flag at a distance of . The run was also the first meet of the Motor Car Club, of which Lawson was President. \n\nThe event started with a breakfast at the Charing Cross Hotel, which included the symbolic tearing in two by Lord Winchelsea of a red flag. The competitors gathered outside the Metropole Hotel, with the cars accompanied by a \"flying escort\" – estimated by one witness as \"probably 10,000\" – of pedal cyclists, recreational cycling having become popular with the English in the final decades of the 19th century. A total of 33 motorists set off from London for the coast and 17 arrived in Brighton. The first of the cars set off from London at 10:30 am and the first arrival in Brighton, by a Duryea Motor Wagon, beating the next closest Brighton arrivals by more than an hour. Two Duryea cars participated in the run, marking the first appearance of American motor vehicles in Europe.\n\nDuring the next few years, Commemoration Run took place between Whitehall Place and Sheen House Club covering the distance of about eight miles.\nThe run was not staged again until 1927, and then annually run from 1927 until the onset of the Second World War. Owing to petrol rationing, the event was cancelled until 1947. With all this considered, it is the world's longest running motoring event. Since 1930, the event has been controlled by the Royal Automobile Club.\n\nThe 1953 comedy movie \"Genevieve\" is set during one of these runs.\n\nMany racing drivers and celebrities have taken part in the event, including Richard Shuttleworth (1928–1934; 1936–1938), S. C. H. \"Sammy\" Davis, Sir Malcolm Campbell, Prince Bira, George Eyston, Richard Seaman, Kaye Don, George Formby, Phil Hill, Stirling Moss and Jochen Mass.\n\nThe 72nd anniversary run took place in 1968 and was joined by celebrity participants Prince Rainier and Princess Grace of Monaco, in a 1903 De Dion-Bouton. That year Stirling Moss also participated, driving a 1903 four-cylinder Mercedes.\n\nSome participants dress up in a late Victorian or Edwardian style of clothing. In 1971 Queen Elizabeth II was a passenger in a 1900 Daimler. A regular participant is Prince Michael of Kent.\n\nIn 2010 the RAC launched the Brighton to London Future Car Challenge, following the same route as the veteran car run, but starting in Brighton and finishing at Regent Street, London – and taking place of the day prior to the veteran run. The event is intended to showcase low energy impact vehicles of various technologies – Electric, Hybrid and Low-Emission ICE (Internal Combustion Engine). Participants compete to minimise energy consumption using \"road legal\" vehicles in \"real world\" conditions.\n\nThe results of the inaugural 2010 event showed that the electric vehicles used the least energy (0.62 MJ/km on average, or 141 miles per imperial gallon petrol equivalent), compared to the hybrid vehicles (1.14 MJ/km average, 76 mpg petrol equivalent) and the largely diesel powered internal combustion engine vehicles (1.68 MJ/km average, 52 mpg petrol equivalent).\n\nThe event was not organised as a race, but the General classification of the fastest finishers was :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50368096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50368096", "title": "Lucha Libre World Cup (2016)", "text": "Lucha Libre World Cup (2016)\n\nThe Lucha Libre World Cup was a two-day professional wrestling event and tournament organized by Mexican professional wrestling promotion Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (AAA) with the financial backing of the Grupo Modelo brewery, with Victoria Beer as the official sponsor. The tournament included a number of three-man tag teams, referred to as \"trios\" in \"Lucha Libre\", teams and wrestling promotions already announced are AAA, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), Lucha Underground and Pro Wrestling Noah among others. The tournament was announced as \"Lucha Libre Victoria World Cup\".\n\nThe Mexican \"Lucha libre\" promotion, with the financial support of the Mexican brewing company \"Grupo Modelo\" organized the first ever Lucha Libre World Cup over the summer of 2015. The tournament itself was a one-night eight-team tournament for trios, or tag teams of three wrestlers. AAA reached out to several promotions both in Mexico and around the world and arranged for six of the eight teams to come from outside of AAA. Japanese wrestling promotions All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW) and Pro Wrestling Noah. Both Total Nonstop Action and Ring of Honor, based in the United States, also sent representatives to the tournament, in each case bolstered by representatives of Lucha Underground, an AAA joint-venture project based on Los Angeles. The tournament took place on May 25, 2015, and had the AAA labelled \"Dream Team\" of Rey Mysterio Jr., El Patrón Alberto and Myzteziz win the tournament, defeating Team TNA/Lucha Underground (Matt Hardy, Mr. Anderson and Johnny Mundo) in the finals. \n\nThe event will feature a yet to be announced number of professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nWrestlers and promotions from around the world already announced are Pro Wrestling Noah, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), Lucha Underground, Pro Wrestling Wave and Oz Academy. The inclusion of Wave and Oz Academy meant that female wrestlers were going to be included too as they are all-female wrestling promotions. On April 22, 2016, AAA made their first official press release confirming the 2016 version of the Lucha Libre World Cup. The statement confirmed that there would be two qualifying matches for the Cup during the April 29 show in Xalapa, Veracruz, but did not reveal a date for the tournament nor any other participants. The first qualifier was a three-way match between Perros del Mal (\"The Bad Dogs\") teammates Joe Lider, Daga and Pentagón Jr., with the winner becoming part of a team representing AAA. The other qualifier was announced as current AAA Mega Champion El Texano Jr. wrestling against Taurus and Garza Jr. Of all the announced participants only Texano Jr. had participated in the previous year's Lucha Libre World Cup. The third qualifying match for Team AAA took place during the May 14 show in Orizaba, Veracruz and it was originally a three-way match between Nicho el Millonario, Ricky Marvin and El Hijo del Pirata Morgan but later due to a request from Psycho Clown he was added to the match and eventually won.\n\nAAA vice president Dorian Roldán explained the rules in a video uploaded to AAA's official YouTube channel last year. The tournament would consist of trios matches structured in quarterfinals, semi-finals and a final, plus an extra match to determine the third place. The bouts are slated to have a 15-minute time limit. If the time limit is reached without a clear winner, each of the participating teams selects one member, and the two picked wrestlers face off in a 5-minute sudden death in which the winning wrestler gets the victory for his team. There will be as many sudden deaths as necessary to determine a victor.\n\nMen's Division\n\nWomen's Division\n\n"}
{"id": "57156616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57156616", "title": "Miss Littlewood", "text": "Miss Littlewood\n\nMiss Littlewood is a stage musical with music, lyrics and book by Sam Kenyon. \n\nIt is based on the life of theatre director Joan Littlewood and the formation of the Theatre Workshop which found residency at Theatre Royal Stratford East.\n\nThe musical is produced by the Royal Shakespeare Company and made its world premiere at the Swan Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon on 3 July 2018 (with previews from 22 June) for a limited 6 week run until 4 August.\n\nThe production is directed by Erica Whyman with design by Tom Piper, lighting design by Charles Balfor, musical supervision and orchestrated by Sarah Travis, musical direction by Tarek Merchant, sound by Jonathan Ruddick and movement by Lucy Hind. The musical has been developed in collaboration with Theatre Royal Stratford East.\n\nThe full cast was announced on 13 April 2018.\n\nThe playtext was published by Samuel French Limited on 21 June 2018. A cast recording, produced by Gareth Cousins, was recorded at the Swan Theatre during the musical's preview period and will be released from the RSC shop and iTunes from 1 August 2018 featuring 13 tracks.\n\n\nThe production, orchestrated by Sarah Travis, uses 7 musicians, including 1 reed player (clarinet/bass clarinet/flute), 1 brass (trumpet), 2 strings (violin/viola and cello/double bass), a percussionist and 2 keyboards (keyboard/accordion and keyboard programming).\n\n"}
{"id": "13181821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13181821", "title": "National Black Arts Festival", "text": "National Black Arts Festival\n\nThe National Black Arts Festival was founded in 1987 after the Fulton County Arts Council (in Atlanta, Georgia) commissioned a study to explore the feasibility of creating a festival dedicated to celebrating the work of artists of African descent. The study provided compelling reasons why the Atlanta community was the right place for such a festival. Fulton County Government as the major sponsor, joined by additional corporate and foundation sponsors, the Festival's first biannual summer festival was held in 1988. \nOver the eighteen years of the festival, artists and attendees alike have come to expect the emerging and renowned artists to grace the stages and exhibition spaces of the city; collectors look eagerly to the Artists’ Market for their next opportunity to buy from some of the best artists in the country; film fans flock to the screenings of known and unknown work; concert halls are filled with the voices and instruments of those who are considered to be the standard bearers in jazz, gospel and everything in-between; the masters of the stage and screen have joined us over the years; and the writers who have preserved the voices of the African Diaspora in literature have blessed us with their presence. People of all ages and races have gathered together to bask in the presence of: Maya Angelou, Charles Dutton, Wynton Marsalis, Amiri Baraka, Avery Brooks, Nancy Wilson, Sweet Honey in the Rock, Spike Lee, Ousmane Sembène, Pearl Cleage, Kenny Leon, Carrie Mae Weems, Radcliffe Bailey, Sonia Sanchez and literally thousands of other artists from the USA and around the world.\n\nAs the festival firmly established itself as one of the most important festivals in the World presenting the art and culture of the African Diaspora, it seized the opportunity to expand to year-round educational and humanities programming and hosting the Festival every year. With a regular presence the festival looks forward to continuing and strengthening its important ties with its many local, national and international partners. The Festival's success has been anchored by the willing and creative collaborations of local cultural institutions. This year alone there are over 40 independently produced programs; without them side by side, the festival's energy and ability to reach so many–the young and old in every corner of the country–would be dramatically diminished.\n\nAnd the commitment of the festival's various artistic leadership: Avery Brooks, Dwight Andrews and Stephanie Hughley have allowed the breadth and reach of the festivals to touch over five million people since the first Festival. Each artistic director brought their own ideas and energy, building on the vision of their colleagues across the diaspora.\n"}
{"id": "19777249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19777249", "title": "Organizing principle", "text": "Organizing principle\n\nAn organizing principle is a core assumption from which everything else by proximity can derive a classification or a value. It is like a central reference point that allows all other objects to be located, often used in a conceptual framework. Having an organizing principle might help one simplify and get a handle on a particularly complicated domain or phenomenon. On the other hand, it might create a deceptive prism that colors one's judgment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6500175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6500175", "title": "Public holidays in Mozambique", "text": "Public holidays in Mozambique\n"}
{"id": "1858468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858468", "title": "Rocabarraigh", "text": "Rocabarraigh\n\nRocabarra or Rocabarraigh is a phantom island or rock in Scottish Gaelic myth, which is supposed to appear three times, the last being at the end of the world.\n\nThe name has also been used to refer to Rockall, a real rock in the North Atlantic. When Martin Martin visited St Kilda in 1716, he refers to it as \"Rockoll\", but goes on to mention that the locals also knew Rockall as \"Rockabarra\" (\"Rocabarraigh\").\n\nThe name has hints of a Norse origin, \"barraigh\" (\"bar-ey\") being a common element in Scottish placenames. \"Roca\" may come from the Goidelic language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39650167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39650167", "title": "SIGINT (conference)", "text": "SIGINT (conference)\n\nThe SIGINT conference was a three-day conference held yearly on the social and technical aspects of digital society. It was organized by the Chaos Computer Club and held in Cologne, Germany. The conference featured both lectures and workshops on various different topics. It specifically wanted to focus on the social and political aspect of technology and hacker culture. The conference was officially discontinued in January 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "232169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232169", "title": "Shoplifting", "text": "Shoplifting\n\nShoplifting (also known as boosting and five-finger discount) is the unnoticed theft of goods from an open retail establishment. Shoplifting typically involves a person concealing a store item on their person, in pockets or under clothes (or in a bag, baby stroller, etc.) and leaving the store without paying for it. With clothing, shoplifters may put on items from the store and leave the store wearing the clothes. The terms \"shoplifting\" and \"shoplifter\" are not usually defined in law. The crime of shoplifting generally falls under the legal classification of larceny. Shoplifting is distinct from burglary (theft by breaking into a closed store), robbery (stealing by threatening or engaging in violent behavior) or armed robbery (stealing by using a weapon). In the retail industry, the word shrinkage or shrink, can be used to refer to merchandise lost by shoplifting, but the word also includes loss by other means, such as waste, uninsured damage to products, and theft by store employees.\n\nShoplifters range from amateurs acting on impulse, to career criminals who habitually engage in shoplifting as a form of income. Career criminals may use several individuals to shoplift, with some participants distracting store employees while another participant steals items. Amateurs typically steal products for personal use, while career criminals generally steal items to resell them in the underground economy. Other forms of shoplifting include swapping price labels of different items, return fraud or eating a grocery store's food without paying for it. Commonly shoplifted items are those with a high price in proportion to their size, such as disposable razor blades, vitamins, alcoholic beverages and cigarettes. Retailers have reported that 0.6% of their inventory is lost to shoplifting.\n\nStores use a number of strategies to reduce shoplifting, including storing small, expensive items in locked glass cases; chaining or otherwise attaching items to shelves or clothes racks (particularly expensive items); attaching magnetic or radio sensors or dyepacks to items; installing curved mirrors mounted above shelves or video cameras and video monitors, hiring plainclothes \"store detectives\" and security guards, and banning the bringing in of backpacks or other bags. Some stores have security guards at the exit, who search backpacks and bags and check receipts. Stores also combat shoplifting by training employees how to detect potential shoplifters.\n\nThe first documented shoplifting started to take place in 16th-century London. By the early 19th century, shoplifting was believed to be primarily a female activity. In the 1960s, shoplifting began to be redefined again, this time as a political act. Researchers divide shoplifters into two categories: \"boosters\", professionals who resell what they steal, and \"snitches\", amateurs who steal for their personal use.\n\nShoplifting is the act of knowingly taking goods from an establishment in which they are displayed for sale, without paying for them. Shoplifting usually involves concealing items on the person or an accomplice, and leaving the store without paying. However, shoplifting can also include price switching (swapping the price labels of different goods), refund fraud, \"wardrobing\" (returning clothes after they have been worn), and \"grazing\" (eating or sampling a store's goods while in the store). Price switching is now an almost extinct form of shoplifting for two reasons. Firstly, the labels will split apart upon attempted removal, and secondly, virtually all retail cashiers now scan items at the register, rather than relying on price stickers. Retailers report that shoplifting has a significant effect on their bottom line, stating that about 0.6% of all inventory disappears to shoplifters.\n\nGenerally, criminal theft involves taking possession of property illegally. In self-service shops, customers are allowed by the property owner to take physical possession of the property by holding or moving it. This leaves areas of ambiguity that could criminalize some people for simple mistakes, such as accidental putting of a small item in a pocket or forgetting to pay. For this reason penalties for shoplifting are often lower than those for general theft. Few jurisdictions have specific shoplifting legislation with which to differentiate it from other forms of theft, so reduced penalties are usually at a judge's discretion. Most retailers are aware of the serious consequences of making a false arrest, and will only attempt to apprehend a person if their guilt is beyond a reasonable doubt. Depending on local laws, arrests made by anyone other than law enforcement officers may also be illegal.\n\nSome shoplifters are amateurs who do not steal regularly from stores and who do not use shoplifting as a form of income (e.g., by reselling stolen goods). Researchers call these amateurs \"snitches,\" as they are stealing items for their personal use. In several countries, criminal flash mobs, primarily made up of teenagers and young adults, enter stores with the intention of stealing merchandise while accomplices distract staff.\n\nHowever, there are people and groups who make their living from shoplifting and other crimes. They tend to be more skilled career criminals who use more sophisticated shoplifting tactics. Researchers call professional thieves \"boosters,\" as they tend to resell what they steal on the black market.\n\nShoplifting is considered a form of theft and is subject to prosecution. In the United Kingdom, theft is defined as \"dishonestly appropriate[ing] property belonging to another with the intention of permanently depriving the other of it; and “thief” and “steal” shall be construed accordingly.\" It is one of the most common crimes. Shoplifting peaks between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m., and is lowest from 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. In the United States, shoplifting increases during the Christmas season, and arrest rates increase during spring break. Rutgers University criminologist Ronald V. Clarke says shoplifters steal \"hot products\" that are \"CRAVED,\" an acronym he created that stands for \"concealable, removable, available, valuable, enjoyable and disposable.\"\n\nThe most commonly shoplifted item used to be cigarettes, until stores started keeping them behind the cash register. Commonly shoplifted items are usually small and easy to hide, such as groceries, especially steak and instant coffee, razor blades and cartridges, small technology items such as MP3 players, smartphones, USB flash drives, earphones, CDs and DVDs, gift cards, cosmetics, jewelry, multivitamins, pregnancy tests, electric toothbrushes and clothing.\n\nIn the United States, frequently shoplifted books include ones by authors Charles Bukowski, Jim Thompson, Philip K. Dick, Martin Amis, Paul Auster, Georges Bataille, William S. Burroughs, Hunter S. Thompson, Italo Calvino, Don DeLillo, Raymond Chandler, Michel Foucault, Dashiell Hammett, Jack Kerouac and other Beat generation writers, Jeanette Winterson, Chuck Palahniuk, Haruki Murakami, Jeffrey Eugenides, and Mark Z. Danielewski. \"(See Book store shoplifting.)\"\n\nEconomists say shoplifting is common because it is a relatively unskilled crime with low entry barriers that can be fitted into a normal lifestyle. People of every nation, race, ethnicity, gender and social class shoplift. Originally, analysis of data about apprehended shoplifters and interviews with store detectives suggested that females were almost twice as likely as males to shoplift. However, since 1980, the data suggest that males are equally or more likely to shoplift than females. The average shoplifter first did it at the age of ten: shoplifting tends to peak in adolescence then steadily declines thereafter. People of all races shoplift equally, and poor people shoplift only slightly more than rich people. Men tend to shoplift using bags, and women using strollers. When caught, a shoplifter has on average $200 worth of unpaid-for merchandise.\n\nShoplifters may conceal items in their pockets, under their clothes, in bags such as backpacks, or in a personal item they are carrying (e.g., a box) or pushing (e.g., a stroller or personal wire shopping cart) or if at a shopping center/mall, a bag from another store in that center. The use of backpacks and other bags to shoplift has led some stores to not allow people with backpacks in the store, often by asking the person to leave their backpack at a store counter. With clothes, shoplifters may put on the store clothing underneath their own clothes and leave the store.\n\nSome shoppers fill a shopping cart with unconcealed merchandise, and walk out of the store without paying. Security workers call this method \"walkout\" or \"pushout\". With clothing, some shoplifters may simply put on a coat or jacket from the store and walk out wearing the item. This tactic is used because busy employees may simply not notice a person pushing a cart out without paying or walking out wearing a store-owned coat. Some \"pushout\" shoplifters purposefully exit quickly to avoid detection, as this gives employees less time to react.\n\nMany stores instruct employees other than those directly involved in theft prevention or security to only confront someone verbally, so as to avoid any possibility of being held liable for injury or unwarranted detention. While this may allow stolen goods to not be recovered, the loss of revenue may be judged to be acceptable in light of the cost of a potential lawsuit or an employee being injured by a fleeing shoplifter.\n\nShoplifting, originally called \"lifting,\" is as old as shopping. The first documented shoplifting started to take place in 16th-century London, and was carried out by groups of men called lifters. In 1591, playwright Robert Greene published a pamphlet titled \"The Second Part of Cony Catching\", in which he described how three men could conspire to shoplift clothes and fabric from London merchants. When it was first documented, shoplifting was characterized as an underworld practice: shoplifters were also con artists, pickpockets, pimps, or prostitutes.\n\nIn the late 17th century, London shopkeepers began to display goods in ways designed to attract shoppers, such as in window displays and glass cases. This made the goods more accessible for shoppers to handle and examine, which historians say led to an acceleration of shoplifting.\n\nThe word shoplift (then, shop-lift) first appeared at the end of the 17th century in books like \"The Ladies Dictionary\", which, as well as describing shoplifting, provided tips on losing weight and styling hair. Female shoplifters of this period were also called \"Amazons\" or \"roaring girls.\" Notorious female shoplifters in London included Mary Frith, the pickpocket and fence also known as Moll Cutpurse, prostitute and pickpocket Moll King, Sarah McCabe whose shoplifting career spanned twenty years, and Maria Carlston (also known as Mary Blacke), whose life was documented by diarist Samuel Pepys, who was eventually executed for theft, and who for years shoplifted clothing and household linens in London with one or more female accomplices.\n\nIn 1699, the English Parliament passed The Shoplifting Act, part of the Bloody Code that punished petty crimes with death. People convicted of shoplifting items worth more than five shillings would be hanged in London's Tyburn Tree (known as the \"Tyburn jig\") with crowds of thousands watching, or would be transported to the North American colonies or to Botany Bay in Australia. Some merchants found The Shoplifting Act overly severe, jurors often deliberately under-valued the cost of items stolen so convicted shoplifters would escape death, and reformist lawyers advocated for the Act's repeal, but The Shoplifting Act was supported by powerful people such as Lord Ellenborough, who characterized penal transportation as \"a summer airing to a milder climate\" and the archbishop of Canterbury, who believed that strong punishment was necessary to prevent a dramatic increase in crime. As England began to embrace Enlightenment ideas about crime and punishment in the 18th century, opposition to the Bloody Code began to grow. The last English execution for shoplifting was carried out in 1822, and in 1832 the House of Lords reclassified shoplifting as a non-capital crime.\n\nBy the early 19th century, shoplifting was believed to be primarily a female activity, and doctors began to redefine some shoplifting as what Swiss doctor André Matthey had then newly christened \"klopemania\" (kleptomania), from the Greek words \"\"kleptein\" (stealing) and \"mania\"\" (insanity). Kleptomania was primarily attributed to wealthy and middle-class women, and in 1896 was criticized by anarchist Emma Goldman as a way for the rich to excuse their own class from punishment, while continuing to punish the poor for the same acts.\n\nIn the 1960s, shoplifting began to be redefined again, this time as a political act. In his 1970 book \"\", American activist Jerry Rubin wrote \"All money represents theft...shoplifting gets you high. Don't buy. Steal,\" and in \"The Anarchist Cookbook\", published in 1971, American author William Powell offered tips for how to shoplift. In his 1971 book \"Steal This Book\", American activist Abbie Hoffman offered tips on how to shoplift and argued that shoplifting is anti-corporate. In her book \"The Steal: A Cultural History of Shoplifting\", social historian Rachel Shteir described how shoplifting from companies you dislike is considered by some activist groups, such as some freegans, decentralized anarchist collective CrimethInc, the Spanish anarchist collective Yomango and the Canadian magazine Adbusters, to be a morally defensible act of corporate sabotage.\n\nResearchers divide shoplifters into two categories: \"boosters,\" professionals who resell what they steal, and \"snitches,\" amateurs who steal items for their personal use. Motivations for shoplifting are controversial among researchers, although they generally agree that shoplifters are driven by either economic or psychosocial motives. Psychosocial motivations may include peer pressure, a desire for thrill or excitement, impulse, stealing because judgment is clouded by intoxication, or doing so because of a compulsion. Depression is the psychiatric disorder most commonly associated with shoplifting. Shoplifting is also associated with family or marital stress, social isolation, having had a difficult childhood, alcoholism or drug use, low self-esteem, and eating disorders, with bulimic shoplifters frequently stealing food. Some researchers have theorized that shoplifting is an unconscious attempt to make up for a past loss.\n\nResearchers have found that the decision to shoplift is associated with pro-shoplifting attitudes, social factors, opportunities for shoplifting and the perception that the shoplifter is unlikely to be caught. Researchers say that shoplifters justify their shoplifting through a variety of personal narratives, such as believing they are making up for having been victimized, that they are unfairly being denied things they deserve, or that the retailers they steal from are untrustworthy or immoral. Sociologists call these narratives neutralizations, meaning mechanisms people use to silence values within themselves that would otherwise prevent them from carrying out a particular act.\n\nA 1984 program in West Texas designed to reduce recidivism (repeat offenses) among convicted adult shoplifters identified eight common beliefs of shoplifters:\n\nDevelopmental psychologists believe that children under the age of nine shoplift to test boundaries, and that tweens and teenagers shoplift mainly for excitement or the thrill, are \"acting out\" or depressed, or are being pressured by their peers.\n\nResearches say that around the world, in countries including the United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Japan and India, people tend to shoplift the same types of items, and frequently even the same brands.\n\nBut there are also differences in shoplifting among different countries that reflect those countries' general consumption habits and preferences. In Milan, saffron, an expensive component of risotto alla Milanese, is frequently shoplifted, and throughout Italy, parmigiano reggiano is often stolen from supermarkets. In Spain, jamón ibérico is a frequent target. In France, the anise-flavoured liqueur ricard is frequently stolen, and in Japan, experts believe that manga comics, electronic games and whisky are most frequently stolen. Bookstores and magazine sellers in Japan have also complained about what they call \"digital shoplifting,\" which refers to the photographing of material in-store for later reading. Packed cheese has been the most frequently shoplifted item in Norway, with thieves selling it afterwards to pizza parlours and fast food restaurants.\n\nRetailers report that shoplifting has a significant effect on their bottom line, stating that about 0.6% of all inventory disappears to shoplifters. According to the 2012 National Retail Security Survey, shoplifting costs American retailers approximately $14B annually. In 2001, it was claimed that shoplifting cost US retailers $25 million a day. Observers believe that industry shoplifting numbers are over half employee theft or fraud and the rest by patrons. Of course, if apprehended during the shoplifting the merchandise is generally recovered by the retailers and there is often no loss to the store owner when the merchandise is surrendered to the store by the suspects. In addition, in many states retailers have the right to recover civil damages to cover the cost of providing security.\n\nAccording to a December 23, 2008, article in the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\", Dimperio's Market, the only full-service grocery store in the Hazelwood neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, closed because of shoplifters.\n\nShoplifting is considered a form of theft and is subject to prosecution.\n\nIn most cases in the United States, store employees and managers have certain powers of arrest. Store officials may detain for investigation (for a reasonable length of time), the person who they have probable cause to believe is attempting to take or has unlawfully taken merchandise (see shopkeeper's privilege). Store employees may also have citizen's arrest powers, but absent a statute granting broader authority a citizen's arrest power is normally available only for felony offenses, while shoplifting is usually a misdemeanor offense.\n\nIn the United States, store employees who detain suspects outside of and inside the store premises are generally granted limited powers of arrest by state law, and have the power to initiate criminal arrests or civil sanctions, or both, depending upon the policy of the retailer and the state statutes governing civil demands and civil recovery for shoplifting as reconciled with the criminal laws of the jurisdiction.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, an offence involving shoplifting may be charged under Section 1 of the Theft Act 1986; alternatively, if the goods stolen are worth less than £200, a person may be charged under Section 176 of the Anti-Social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act. Upon conviction, the maximum penalty is a fine or up to six months in prison if the goods stolen are worth less than £200; if they are worth more than £200, the maximum penalty is seven years in prison.\n\nIn the Islamic legal system called Sharia, \"hudud\" (meaning limits or restrictions) calls for \"Sariqa\" (theft) to be punished by amputation of the thief's hand. This punishment is categorized as \"hadd,\" meaning a punishment that restrains or prevents further crime. Sariqa is interpreted differently in different countries and by different scholars, and some say it does not include shoplifting. But, in Saudi Arabia shoplifters' hands may be amputated.\n\nShoplifting may be prevented and detected. Closed-circuit television (CCTV) monitoring is an important anti-shoplifting technology. Electronic article surveillance (EAS) is another method of inventory protection. Radio-frequency identification (RFID) is an anti-employee-theft and anti-shoplifting technology used in retailers such as Walmart, which already heavily use RFID technology for inventory purposes. Loss prevention personnel can consist of both uniformed officers and plain-clothed store detectives. Large department stores will use both and smaller stores will use one or the other depending on their shrink strategy. Store detectives will patrol the store acting as if they are real shoppers.\n\nThe presence of uniformed officers acts as a deterrent to shoplifting activity and they are mostly used by high-end retail establishments. Shoppers in some stores are asked when leaving the premises to have their purchases checked against the receipt. Some expensive merchandise will be in a locked case requiring an employee to get items at a customer's request. The customer is either required to purchase the merchandise immediately or it is left at the checkout area for the customer to purchase when finishing shopping. Many stores also lock CDs, DVDs, and video games in locking cases, which can only be opened by the checkout operator once the item has gone through the checkout. Some stores will use dummy cases, also known as \"dead boxes\", where the box or case on the shelf is entirely empty and the customer will not be given the item they have paid for until the transaction has been completed, usually by other store staff.\n\nSecurity guards are generally given the following criteria that must be met before apprehending a shoplifting suspect:\n\n\nMany stores will put up signs warning about the consequences of shoplifting or signs warning about the use of surveillance cameras in the store. This is intended to deter people from trying to shoplift.\n\nClosed-circuit television (CCTV) monitoring is an important anti-shoplifting technology. Retailers focusing on loss prevention often devote most of their resources to this technology. Using CCTVs to apprehend shoplifters in the act requires full-time human monitoring of the cameras.\nSophisticated CCTV systems discriminate the scenes to detect and segregate suspicious behaviour from numerous screens and to enable automatic alerting. However, the attentiveness of the surveillance personnel may be threatened by false reliance on automatics.\nCCTV is more effective if used in conjunction with electronic article surveillance (EAS) systems. The EAS system will warn of a potential shoplifter and the video may provide evidence for prosecution if the shoplifter is allowed to pass checkout points or leave store premises with unbought merchandise.\n\nMany stores will use public-view monitors in the store to show people there that they are being recorded. This is intended as a deterrent to shoplifting. Some stores use inexpensive dummy cameras. Even though these fake cameras cannot record images, their presence may deter shoplifting.\n\nElectronic article surveillance (EAS) are magnetic or radio-frequency tags that sound an alarm if a shoplifter leaves a store with store items that have not been paid for. EAS methods are second only to CCTV in popularity amongst retailers looking for inventory protection. EAS refers to the electronic security tags that are attached to merchandise and cause an alarm to sound on exiting the store. Some stores also have detection systems at the entrance to the bathrooms that sound an alarm if someone tries to take unpaid merchandise with them into the bathroom. Regularly, even when an alarm does sound, a shoplifter walks out casually and is not confronted if no guards are present because of the high number of false alarms, especially in malls, due to \"tag pollution\" whereby non-deactivated tags from other stores set off the alarm. This can be overcome with newer systems and a properly trained staff. Some new systems either do not alarm from \"tag pollution\" or they produce a specific alarm when a customer enters the store with a non-deactivated tag so that store personnel can remove or deactivate it so it does not produce a false alarm when exiting the store. However, with tags spider wrap may be used instead of tags.\nSome tags are stuck onto merchandise with glue (rather than being superimposed on) the shoplifter can easily scrape off the tag in their pocket. Pedestal EAS covers, which are made of durable vinyl, offer cost-effective means of adding a marketing tool at every entrance to a store; they are also custom-manufactured to fit any pedestal and can be printed to highlight specific brands or seasonal promotions. They do not interfere with the performance of the EAS systems and are easily cleaned or changed. Some shoplifters may employ jammer devices to prevent EAS tags from triggering, or magnets to remove the tags. Stores may employ technology to detect jammers and magnets.\n\nRadio-frequency identification (RFID) is an anti-employee-theft and anti-shoplifting technology used in retailers such as Walmart, which already heavily use RFID technology for inventory purposes. If a product with an active RFID tag passes the exit scanners at a Walmart outlet, not only does it set off an alarm, but it also tells security personnel exactly what product to look for in the shopper's cart.\n\nAdd-on metal detector systems will be used in some stores with electronic article surveillance which sense metallic surfaces. They are used to deter the use of booster bags which are used to shield EAS tags.\n\nStore detectives patrol the store wearing plainclothes and acting as if they are real shoppers. They may browse, examine, carry or even try on merchandise, all the while looking for signs of shoplifting and looking for possible shoplifters. Many large retail companies use this technique. Store detectives will watch a shoplifting suspect conceal an item, then stop them after they have exited the store. These types of personnel must follow a strict set of rules because of very high liability risks. Many big retail or grocery stores like Walmart, Rite Aid, Zellers, Loblaws, etc. have a store detective to watch for shoplifters. Most of these stores use secret verbal codes over the PA system to alert management, other loss prevention personal and associates that there is a shoplifter. Store detectives must follow a suspect around the store by foot or by watching video monitors and observe every move the person makes so that they do not face a lawsuit for apprehending or arresting the wrong person.\n\nThe presence of uniformed security guards acts as a deterrent to shoplifting activity and they are mostly used by high-end retail establishments such as jewellery stores and camera and electronics stores. They are also used in stores like Target and Walmart. Floor attendants greet customers, follow them as they walk about the store, and offer help with shopping. Shoplifters are not comfortable with this attention and may go somewhere else where they can steal unnoticed. In a 2008 global study conducted by NRMA, it found shoplifters are 68 percent less likely to commit the offence if they are greeted immediately as they walk into the retail store.\n\nSome stores, such as Target, will have an employee working at the fitting rooms. The employee will count how many clothes a person brings into the fitting rooms and ensure that they come out with the same number of clothes. This is to prevent people from using the fitting rooms to shoplift. The strategies used by store and security personnel can strongly affect the ability of shoplifters to succeed. All personnel must be trained in the techniques shoplifters use to steal merchandise and the proper actions to take to detect these thefts.\n\nShoppers in some stores are asked when leaving the premises to have their purchases checked against the receipt. Costco and Best Buy are well-known companies that employ this tactic. However, this is voluntary, as the store cannot legally detain the shopper unless they have probable cause to suspect the shopper of shoplifting.\n\nIn the United States, shoppers are under no actual obligation to accede to such a search unless the employee has reasonable grounds to suspect shoplifting, and arrests the customer or takes or looks at the receipt from the customer without violating any laws or if the customer has signed a membership agreement which stipulates that customers will subject themselves to inspections before taking the purchased merchandise from the store. In the cases of Sam's Club and Costco, the contracts merely say that it is their policy to check receipts at the exit or that they \"reserve the right\". That wording does not specify the results of non-compliance by the customer, and since they did not have a right to re-check receipts in the first place, it may not be legally binding at all. The purchaser who holds the receipt owns the merchandise. Employees who harass, assault, touch, or detain customers or take their purchased merchandise may be committing torts or crimes against the customers.\n\nBottom-of-basket mirrors are commonly used in grocery stores where the checkout lanes are close together and the cashier might be unable to see the entire basket to ensure payment of all items.\n\nSome expensive merchandise will be in a locked case requiring an employee to get items at a customer's request. The customer is either required to purchase the merchandise immediately or it is left at the checkout register (under the supervision of a cashier) for the customer to purchase when finished shopping. This prevents the customer from having a chance to conceal the item. Another way of locking merchandise, especially popular in liquor stores, is to place it in a secure, store-administered hard-plastic cap on a regular bottle top. Once purchased the clerk will remove the cap with a store key. It is not otherwise easily removable. Many stores also lock CDs, DVDs, and video games in locking cases, which can only be opened by the checkout operator once the item has gone through the checkout. Many stores have certain items on locking pegs which are secure hooks to where the item cannot be removed from the hook.\n\nSome stores will use dummy cases, also known as \"dead boxes\", where the box or case on the shelf is entirely empty and the customer will not be given the item they have paid for until the transaction has been completed, usually by other store staff. Some stores have been known to take this idea further by filling the dummy cases or boxes with a weight, similar to the weight of the actual item by using a weight made to fit inside the box. This causes the shoplifter to think that the box is full, trying to steal it and ending up with nothing. This was especially popular in movie rental stores such as Blockbuster Video.\n\nA retail bag check exit policy is a form policy or management procedure or set of standard guidelines or rules for customers/consumer set in place by a store owner or manager or owner of the store. In some retail stores such as JB Hi-Fi, customers are (randomly) asked, instructed, or requested or subject to present their personal bags for inspection by a staff or security guard or loss prevention associate when leaving the store on condition of entry.\n\nAdditionally, some stores such as JB Hi-Fi, BestBuy and Costco add a measure and process of conducting receipt inspection to make sure the customer is purchasing the correct item. There is another theft scheme, in which people can conceal items and then only pay for one item. Normally this is either done by customers or employees. Loss prevention/security guards would normally only ask for a bag check. The purpose is to reduce and decrease retail theft and shoplifting.\n\nIn 1897, accused murderer Lizzie Borden again received media attention when she was accused of shoplifting.\n\nIn 1937, French writer and political activist Jean Genet was arrested in Paris for shoplifting a dozen handkerchiefs from the department store Samaritaine. Genet frequently stole from shops throughout his life, including alcohol, bolts of linen, books and suits.\n\nIn 1966, Hedy Lamarr was arrested for shoplifting in Los Angeles. The charges were eventually dropped. In 1991, she was arrested on the same charge in Florida, this time for $21.48 worth of laxatives and eye drops. She pleaded \"no contest\" to avoid a court appearance, and in return for a promise to refrain from breaking any laws for a year, the charges were once again dropped.\n\nIn 1980, Lady Isobel Barnett, British radio and television personality, was found guilty of shoplifting and committed suicide four days later.\n\nIn 2001, actress Winona Ryder was arrested for shoplifting at Saks Fifth Avenue department store in Beverly Hills, California. Ryder was eventually convicted of misdemeanor theft and vandalism and became eligible for expungement of the conviction after finishing probation in 2005. Ryder was originally convicted by a jury of felony larceny/vandalism and was sentenced in a nationally televised California Superior Court proceeding in December 2002.\n\nIn August 2010, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani's daughter Caroline was arrested for stealing five beauty items worth about $100 from a Sephora store in Manhattan. She was later offered a dismissal in return for a day of community service and six months without a further offense.\n\nBritish chef and TV host Antony Worrall Thompson was arrested for shoplifting \"...three onions and two pots of...coleslaw from a branch of Tesco\" and \"...received a caution\" from authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39683872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39683872", "title": "Soldiers (play)", "text": "Soldiers (play)\n\nSoldiers: An Obituary for Geneva (Soldaten. Nekrolog auf Genf) is a 1967 play about Winston Churchill, controversial for alleging that he was involved in the death of the Polish Prime Minister, General Władysław Sikorski, in an airplane crash in 1943.\n\nGerman writer Rolf Hochhuth wrote the play on occasion of the 100th anniversary of the First Geneva Convention, alleging that Churchill condoned the murder of Sikorski in order to appease Stalin, and also highlighting Churchill's support for the mass bombing of German cities in 1943. The play was meant to premiere at Britain's National Theatre in 1967, but this was cancelled and the play was produced instead in the West End with John Colicos as Churchill.\n\nHochhuth, unaware that the plane's pilot Eduard Prchal was still alive, accused him of participating in the plot. Prchal won a libel case that seriously affected the London theatre which staged the play. Hochhuth never paid the 50,000 British pounds imposed on him by the court and subsequently avoided returning to the UK. In 2011, he revealed his source for Churchill's involvement as Jane Ledig-Rowohlt, the British wife of his publisher Heinrich Maria Ledig-Rowohlt (née Jane Scatcherd). According to Hochhuth's biographer Birgit Lahan, these rumours relayed by Jane Ledig-Rowohlt had been the sole source for the allegations in the play. \n\nThe play was profiled in the William Goldman book \"\".\n"}
{"id": "10440051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10440051", "title": "State v. Kelly", "text": "State v. Kelly\n\nState v. Kelly, 97 N.J. 178; 478 A.2d 364 (1984), is a Supreme Court of New Jersey case where the defendant, Gladys Kelly, was on trial for the murder of her husband, Ernest Kelly with a pair of scissors. The Supreme Court reversed the case for further trial after finding that expert testimony regarding the defence's submission, that Kelly suffered from battered woman syndrome, was incorrectly excluded since battered woman syndrome was a proper subject for expert evidence. Kelly was represented by Charles S. Lorber who is now with Mandelbaum Salsburg of West Orange N.J.\n\nThis is a notable case, both regarding the role of experts in new fields and in trials where the battered woman defense may be advanced, as is demonstrated by it being cited in other states, by universities, and by the US Government.\n\nFurther, it is cited as one of the notable opinions by Chief Justice Robert Wilentz.\n"}
{"id": "27717113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27717113", "title": "Sydney Eisteddfod", "text": "Sydney Eisteddfod\n\nThe Sydney Eisteddfod is an independent community based not-for-profit organisation limited by guarantee a registered charity in Sydney, Australia, and listed on the federal Register of Cultural Organisations eligible to receive tax-deductible donations. Directors and advisors are honorary. Sydney Eisteddfod annually presents a competitive festival with the help of arts and education professionals. The Festival involves events for singers, dancers, actors, musicians, choirs, bands and orchestras, along with creative categories for composers, writers and poets.\n\nThe Sydney Eisteddfod formerly known as the City of Sydney Eisteddfod opened in 1933. held from 9 to 26 August 1933 in the Sydney Town Hall, The Assembly Halls, The Railway Institute Halls and Paling's concert Hall. The illustrated souvenir programme cost one shilling.\n\nThe Sydney Eisteddfod acts as a reference source for public enquiries about other competitions and opportunities, arts organisations and supports groups, performances presented by commercial and non-profit presenters; encourages opportunities for public performance by developing artists; promoting recitals, concerts and performances; nurtures interest in the performing and creative arts, and cultivates future audiences.\n\nSydney Eisteddfod won the City of Sydney Business Award, Cultural and Creative Services section in 2011 \n\nCo Patrons\n\nLife Member\n\nVice-Patrons\n\nArtistic patrons\n\nAmbassadors\n\nFollowing the opening of Sydney Harbour Bridge in 1932, some people believed that the city needed to cultivate a more sophisticated image. At the time Sydney had no Opera House or symphony orchestra and one of its three live theatres was already marked for demolition, members of the Citizens of Sydney Organising Committee consulted leaders of the local musical community and devised plans for a great eisteddfod to enhance Sydney's reputation as a centre for arts.\n\nThe NSW State Conservatorium and President of the NSW Music Week Committee drew up a proposal to hold a large-scale event to bring together the best musical and elocutionary talent of the various States. On 22 December, this was adopted at a meeting at the Sydney Town Hall under the chairmanship of the Lord Mayor Samuel Walder MLC.\n\nIn the 1933 New Year Honours, Walder received a knighthood. He relinquished his mayoral duties, but continued his career in State politics, retained his place on the Citizens of Sydney Organising Committee and continued to support the Eisteddfod.\n\nThe First City of Sydney Eisteddfod offered a programme of 84 vocal, choral, speech and musical events and drew 5,410 entries. It opened to great success on 19 August 1933 with artist including Joan Hammond, Ernest Llewellyn and Joy Nichols.\n\nApart from a four-year recess during the Pacific War the competition has continued ever since. The Citizens Committee disbanded in 1950, but the Eisteddfod continued with the same mix of political, civic, educational and industry leadership. The City of Sydney Cultural Council was incorporated in 1975 to embrace a wider range of activities.\n\nMcDonald's Australia commenced its association with Sydney Eisteddfod (formerly known as Sydney cultural Council) in 1988 with naming rights sponsorship.\nMcDonald's Australia have also supported the McDonald's Operatic Aria since 1989 and the McDonald's Ballet Scholarship since 1998 providing the necessary nutrient for encouraging and developing artistic talent across Australia.\n\nDame Joan Sutherland\n\n"}
{"id": "53280672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53280672", "title": "The RINJ Foundation", "text": "The RINJ Foundation\n\nThe RINJ Foundation (RINJ) is a Canadian incorporated global not-for-profit health care-related non-governmental organization women's group listed with the United Nations as an NGO with \"a mission while supporting and medically caring for survivors, to also gather and compile detailed information on parties to armed conflict that are credibly suspected of committing or being responsible for acts of rape or other forms of sexual violence.\"\n\nRINJ women campaign vigorously to encourage members and the public at large to boycott entities RINJ says promote misogyny and sexual violence.\n\nBoycotts include the February 2017 response to song 'No Favors' on \"I Decided\" Rap Album by \"Slim Shady\" (Marshall Bruce Mathers (a.k.a. Eminem)) and Sean Michael Anderson (Big Sean) whom RINJ calls \"rape rappers\".\n\n\"When rappers like Eminem and Big Sean encourage the commission of felonious crimes (Lyrics in 'No Favors' call for the rape of Ann Coulter ) they themselves commit an indictable offense in the USA and could be arrested.\" \n\nAmong other boycotted misogyny/rape promoting \"offenders\" identified by RINJ were Facebook advertisers allegedly running advertisements on Facebook pages promoting rape (\"rape pages\"). RINJ joined forces with other organizations like \"Women's Views on News\" to organize boycotts of Facebook advertisers that ran advertisements on Facebook rape pages.\n\nThe RINJ Foundation women urged boycotts of broadcasters like Kyle Sandilands in Australia who reportedly attacked a female journalist making rude remarks about her breasts and threatening to \"hunt her down\". RINJ also went after Bill Cosby and sought a boycott of his shows in Canada protesting outdoors in January 2015 with \"Rape Is No Joke\" signs after a plethora of rape allegations against Cosby became public in 2014.\n\nIn April 2018, The RINJ Foundation asked the UN for sanctions against Kuwait in response to what it claimed are widespread sexual exploitation violations against migrant Filipino female workers in Kuwait. \n\nThe RINJ Foundation operates health care/rape clinics in and near war zones to apply its care, forensic evidence gathering and reporting protocols for sexual violence in areas of armed conflict where sexual violence patients are cared for and evidence is gathered about the rapists with the intent of prosecution. \"The RINJ Foundation addresses impunity and identification of perpetrators of rape in armed conflicts and war. \" \n\nThe group assists communities in identifying newly released dangerous sex offenders.\n\nRINJ reports perpetrators of pervasive violence to the International Criminal Court (ICC) and has recently been cited as \"calling on the international community to indict Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte for systematic extra-judicial killings that comprise crimes against humanity\". and has challenged operators it says have contributed to child sex trade in war zones.\n\nOn February 24, 2017, the UN Committee on Non-Governmental Organizations in its 2017 regular session recommended The RINJ Foundation (Canada) for special Consultative Status to the Economic and Social\nCouncil. The Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) at its Coordination and management meeting of 19 April 2017 adopted the recommendation of the Committee on Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to grant special consultative status to The RINJ Foundation.\n\nOn June 21, 2017, RINJ launched its fifth annual international campaign to provide a surge to its ongoing abolitionist campaign against Sexual slavery and Child sex tourism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17378587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17378587", "title": "Trixolan", "text": "Trixolan\n\nTrixolan (TX) is a purportedly therapeutic agent based on Viroxan, a citronella-based substance used by Stephen Herman, a Californian doctor who used it to treat AIDS patients. State medical officials stated that the drug hastened the deaths of at least two AIDS patients.\nHerman surrendered his medical license in 1991 when prosecutors agreed they would, in return, drop civil charges of gross negligence, incompetence, dishonesty and other offenses. In 1994, in the first AIDS medical fraud case to come to trial in the United States, a Los Angeles County jury ordered two doctors and a hospital that used Viroxan to pay five patients a total of $2.7 million. Herman had been dropped from the suit when he declared bankruptcy.\n\nTrixolan was linked in headlines to American fugitive Robert Lee Vesco and to Donald A. Nixon, President Richard Nixon's nephew.\nIn the early 1980s Donald Nixon's wife contracted breast cancer and was treated with chemotherapy. In the search for a remedy for her cancer, he met with Dr. Stephen Herman, who claimed that Viroxan could boost the immune system and could get rid of many diseases, including cancer. Donald Nixon gave his wife Trixolan and claimed that it cured his wife's cancer and her arthritis.\n\nNixon asked the Federal Government for $300 million to test the drug. When no funding was forthcoming, he formed a partnership with Vesco and other partners. Nixon was placed under house arrest in Cuba when he went to visit Vesco — who had fled to Cuba to avoid prosecution for securities fraud — for financing.\n\nPurportedly, Vesco introduced Nixon to Fidel Castro and his brother Raul, and Fidel set up four laboratories in Cuba with his nephew Antonio Fraga Castro as head of the project to develop the formula. They claim Trixolan suppresses cancer and cures AIDS, arthritis and the common cold - all of which are diseases related to immunity.\n\nCastro imprisoned Vesco in 1996, convicting him of fraud, saying he had defrauded a state-run biotechnology laboratory run by Castro's nephew in a scheme to \"develop\" TX. Associated Press reported that he had been convicted of marketing Trixolan without government permission. Vesco died of lung cancer in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "13878334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13878334", "title": "Uri Gil", "text": "Uri Gil\n\nUri Gil (born April 9, 1943) is a retired brigadier general in the Israeli Air Force. In 2007, he was listed as the most senior combat pilot in history in the Guinness World Records.\n\nGil was born in Kibbutz Givat Haim, the third of four sons. When he was a boy, Gil thought about becoming a composer because he liked to go to clubs to listen to records. He has said that he never wanted to be a pilot, but rather in an \"elite paratrooper unit\". Gil stated that he \"was forced to go to the tests for the pilot course, which are like a game, so I played along and I was accepted against my will\". He had no intention of staying on in regular service, but did so because \"we were taught to bear the burden\". Gil flew fighter jets, and flew missions in the Six-Day War, the War of Attrition and the Yom Kippur War. Gil eventually became a Squadron Commander (253 Squadron), and retired from regular duty in 1985, but still kept flying for another 18 years until he was 60 years old. Gil's last flight was on June 20, 2003. Gil has set the Guinness World Record for being the longest-flying fighter pilot.\n\nIn 2008, Gil was featured in an Israel documentary titled \"The Best Pilot in the World\". The film was directed by Dr. Amir Har-Gil. In the film, Gil talks about his over 41 years of service in the Israeli Air Force, and the many enemy planes he shot down. Gil stated in the film that he was the only pilot who had downed planes in all the wars.\n\nGil started painting as a pastime when he was in his late twenties while still a career officer in the Israeli Air Force. When he was 42, he left his career in the Air Force to devote his time to painting but continued to fly as a reserve officer until his retirement in June 2003. After leaving the Air Force, Gil moved with his wife to Ein Hod, an artist's village on the coast of the Mediterranean. Gil started doing commissioned portraits, including a portrait from a photograph of Ayn Rand. Gil likes to paint still-life paintings and innocently sensual nudes. In 1995 and 1998, Gil had two shows at the Wilfred Israel Museum in Northern Israel. Gil has also exhibited some of his work in Israeli galleries, but the reviews of his work have been lukewarm or nonexistent.\n\n\"Every sortie that I flew, every dogfight, is a brush-stroke in my portrait in the mirror into which I will peer when my operational life is over. When I reach that day, I want to be satisfied with what I see.\" \n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "40819375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40819375", "title": "Varna International Ballet Competition", "text": "Varna International Ballet Competition\n\nThe Varna International Ballet Competition is a biennial ballet competition held in Varna, Bulgaria. The competition was founded in 1964 and subsequently held in 1965 and 1966, and then every two years starting in 1968. Many dancers have gained their first international recognition at the competition.\n\nSince the contest is a fierce one lasting half a month, the Varna International Ballet Competition has been called the \"olympics of dance\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11579934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11579934", "title": "Wayne R. Grisham", "text": "Wayne R. Grisham\n\nWayne Richard Grisham (January 10, 1923 – January 19, 2011) was a U.S. Representative from California.\n\nBorn in Lamar, Colorado, Grisham graduated from Jordan High School, Long Beach, California, 1940.\nA.A., Long Beach City College, Long Beach, California, 1947.\nB.A., Whittier College, Whittier, California, 1949.\nGraduate work, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California from 1950 to 1951.\nHe was in the United States Army Air Forces, fighter pilot in the European Theater from 1942 to 1946.\nShot down and was a prisoner of war.\nHe was a teacher.\nHe served as businessman.\nHe served as president, Wayne Grisham Realty from 1958 to 1978.\nHe served as chairman of the board of directors, First Mutual Mortgage Co. from 1974 to 1978.\nHe served as member of La Mirada City Council from 1970 to 1978.\nHe served as Mayor of La Mirada from 1973 to 1974 and 1977 to 1978.\nHe served as delegate, California League of Cities and National League of Cities from 1970 to 1978.\n\nGrisham was elected as a Republican to the Ninety-sixth, succeeding retiring incumbent Del Clawson, and to the succeeding Congress (January 3, 1979 – January 3, 1983).\n\nHe was an unsuccessful candidate for renomination to the Ninety-eighth Congress in 1982, after redistricting combined his district with that of fellow Republican David Dreier.\n\nHe served as director of the Peace Corps in Nairobi, Kenya, 1983.\n\nHe was elected to the California State Assembly in 1984 and was reelected in 1986. In 1987, he ran for the California State Senate in a special election, but was defeated by Democratic Norwalk City Councilman Cecil Green. He was narrowly defeated for reelection to the state Assembly in 1988.\n\nHe was a resident of La Mirada, California.\n\n Retrieved on March 28, 2010\n"}
