{"id": "14613590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14613590", "title": "Anatoly Slivko", "text": "Anatoly Slivko\n\nAnatoly Yemelianovich Slivko (Russian: Анатолий Емельянович Сливко; December 28, 1938 – September 16, 1989) was a Soviet serial killer, convicted of the killing of 7 people in and around Nevinnomyssk between 1964 and 1985.\n\nOver a two decade-long period, Slivko molested young boys at his youth club after tricking them into unconsciousness, killing some of them in an attempt to recreate the violent death of a teenage boy he had witnessed in 1961, which had sexually aroused him.\n\nSlivko was executed by shooting on 16 September 1989.\n\nAnatoly Yemelianovich Slivko was born on 28 December 1938 in Izerbash, Dagestan ASSR, Soviet Union. Slivko lived in Stavropol and was a married father of two children, although he had known since the onset of puberty that his sexual orientation had been homosexual.\n\nIn 1961, Slivko witnessed a traffic accident in which a drunken motorcyclist had swerved into a group of pedestrians, fatally injuring a boy in his early teens who was wearing a Young Pioneers uniform. For reasons Slivko would later insist he never could explain, this scene had sexually excited him. He later recalled the accident vividly: \"The boy had experienced convulsions in his death throes as the smell of gasoline and fire permeated the air.\"\n\nBeginning in 1963, Slivko exploited his position at the children's club he ran to relive the fantasies of this accident. Once or twice a year, he would form a close friendship with a boy who was usually aged between 12 and 15 and never older than 17. The boy would be short for his age and would be wearing the Young Pioneers uniform - just like the boy Slivko had seen die in the traffic accident. Slivko would gain the boy's confidence and tell him of an experiment he knew which involved a controlled hanging into unconsciousness, to stretch the spine, after which, the boy was assured, Slivko would revive him. Prior to each boy undertaking this \"experiment\", Slivko would purchase a new uniform for the victim to wear and shine his shoes. In addition, to prevent vomiting, the victim was required not to eat for several hours before the experiment. Once the boy was unconscious, Slivko would strip him naked, caress and fondle him, take films in which he would arrange the body in suggestive positions, and masturbate.\n\nOver the course of 22 years, Slivko persuaded 43 boys to take part in this contrived experiment. In 36 cases, following his established ritual of photography, filming, and repeated masturbation, Slivko revived these boys. Cautioned by Slivko into silence, these individuals resumed their lives unaware of what had happened to them whilst they had been unconscious. However, in seven cases, Slivko's behavior became violent: once these victims were unconscious, he dismembered their bodies, poured gasoline on their limbs and torso, and set the remains on fire to remind himself of the traffic accident which had sparked his arousal.\n\nSlivko typically retained the victim's shoes as a memento. As with his surviving victims, he both photographed and filmed the entire process, and with both the boys he subsequently revived and his murder victims, he would take the films and photographs he had taken of the entire process to his home and subsequently develop these materials in a home laboratory.\n\nThe pictures and films served as stimuli for Slivko's masturbatory fantasies for months or years until he needed fresher stimuli and killed again.\n\nOn June 2, 1964, Slivko killed his first victim, a 15-year-old runaway boy named Nikolai Dobryshev. Slivko claimed this particular victim was killed unintentionally, being unable to revive Dobryshev once he was unconscious. He dismembered the boy's body and buried him, also destroying the film and photographs he had taken of this particular victim. In May, 1965, Slivko killed his second victim, Aleksei Kovalenko. Slivko began operating a club for boys named \"Chergid\" in 1966, after his first club had been destroyed in a fire.\n\nEight years later, on November 14, 1973, a 15-year-old boy named Aleksander Nesmeyanov disappeared in Nevinnomyssk. Two years later, on May 11, 1975, an 11-year-old boy named Andrei Pogasyan disappeared. Pogasyan's mother told the police that a man had made some video recordings in a nearby forest and that her son was going to participate, but the police didn't do anything to prevent this because they knew Slivko and that he had won awards for some of his videos. In the winter of 1975, a prison inmate claimed he knew where Aleksander Nesmeyanov was buried, but the police searched the area and found nothing, proving the claim was false. In 1980, a 13-year-old boy named Sergei Fatsiev, who along with Nesmeyanov and Pogasyan was a member of Chergid, disappeared. The next victim was a fifteen-year-old named Vyacheslav Khovistik, who was killed in 1982.\n\nOn July 23, 1985, Slivko killed his final victim, a 13-year-old boy named Sergei Pavlov, who disappeared after telling a neighbor he was going to meet the leader of Chergid.\n\nIn November 1985, a prosecutor Tamara Languyeva (Russian: Тамара Лангуева), investigating the disappearance of Sergei Pavlov, took an interest in the Chergid club's activities. However, she had no evidence that there was anything illegal in the way the club was run. The prosecutor interrogated many boys who had been to the club, who said they had suffered “temporary amnesia”, and that Slivko had practiced many experiments with them. Following a long inquiry, Anatoly Slivko was arrested at his Stavropol home in December 1985. He would later be formally accused of seven murders, seven counts of sexual abuse, and seven counts of necrophilia. In January and February 1986, Slivko led investigators to the whereabouts of the bodies of six of his victims, although he was unable to locate the body of his first victim. In June 1986, he was sentenced to death. He was held on death row in Novocherkassk prison for three years.\n\nIn 1989, he was asked by the police to help arrest a then-unidentified serial killer in of the Rostov oblast who had a killed a minimum of 29 victims by the time of this interview. Although Slivko did provide some insight into how offenders such as himself were able to function, much of the actual advice he provided to police would prove to be incorrect. The then-unidentified serial killer, Andrei Chikatilo, was arrested in 1990 and would be convicted of killing 52 women and children.\n\nOn September 16, 1989, just hours after he was interviewed by the police, Anatoly Slivko was executed by shooting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10717318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10717318", "title": "Anthony Hanson", "text": "Anthony Hanson\n\nAnthony Hanson is a British Master of Wine and a senior consultant to Christie's International Wine Department, as well as an expert on Burgundy, an international wine judge and author. His book \"Burgundy\" was first published in 1982, and since reissued in 2003. Following its initial publication, the book gained notoriety in part due to the famous description, \"Great Burgundy smells of shit\", a sentence which was modified in later editions.\n\nHanson has also contributed to publications such as \"Decanter\" and \"The World of Fine Wine\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32966336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32966336", "title": "Apparanda Aiyappa", "text": "Apparanda Aiyappa\n\nLieutenant General Apparanda Chengappa Aiyappa MBE (also known as A.C. Iyappa) was a World War II hero and the first Indian Signal officer in chief (Head of the Indian Army Corps of Signals). He was also the first chief of the Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL).\n\nIyappa was born on 2 September 1913 during the British Raj, into the wealthy and influential Apparanda family which belonged to the Kodava community of Kodagu. He studied in Bishop Cotton Boys' School, Bangalore and later in Stamford School, Lincolnshire in England. After college he went on to join the Indian Military Academy and from there got a commission into the British Indian Army.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century there was no organised signal service in existence in India. As far back as 1857, there is a record of a signals service in India, though it was not until 1911, as a result of the recommendations of Headlam Committee in 1910, that Signals in India came into being on a separate establishment under the auspices of the Corps of Sappers and Miners. The Corps was raised with a signal company for each division and a nucleus of a wireless company for the line of communication.\n\nBased on the recommendation of various committees, two Divisional Signals Companies (31 and 32) under Northern Army, were raised on 15 February 1911 at Fatehgarh, with Lieutenant Colonel S H Powell being conferred Commandant Designate. Two more Signal Coy (33 and 34) under Southern Army at Ahmednagar and One Wireless Company (40) at Roorkee, were raised on 1 March 1911. \nComposition of each Divisional Signal Company: \n\nWhen the post World War I re-organization of the Indian Army was carried out, the Indian Signals Corps was formed as a separate corps on 17 April 1920.\n\nOn India attaining independence in 1947, the Corps was completely Indianised and on 26 January 1950, on India attaining full sovereignty, the Indian Signal Corps was redesignated as the Corps of Signals. It is presently stationed at Jabalpur.\n\nOn 7 July 1935 he was commissioned from Indian Military Academy on to the Indian Land Forces, Special List and on 12 August 1935 he was attached to the 1st battalion 7th Rajput Regiment and the Indian Signal Corps. He was promoted Lieutenant, Indian Land Forces, Special List on 2 December 1936. He was appointed to the Indian Army 23 November 1937. In early 1939 he was permanently appointed to the Indian Signal Corps. \nAs a Captain he saw action in the Malayan Campaign in 1941 against the Japanese in World War II as Commander of a Signals Company under the 6th Indian Infantry Brigade. He was held as a prisoner of war and mistreated. He was awarded the MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) in 1946. After independence, he was promoted to Colonel and became Commander of the Signals Regiment under the 4th Infantry Division stationed in the forward areas of Punjab. Iyappa later became the Director of Signals and Signal Officer-in-Chief in 1954 as a Major General. He was the first Indian Signal officer in chief; he became the Master General of Ordnance in the rank of Lt General, and was also the first Indian to be Colonel Commandant of the Corps of Signals. Afterwards he was deputed to Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) where he became chairman and held the post until 1972.\n\nBharat Electronics Limited (BEL) was set up at Bangalore, by the Government of India under the Ministry of Defence in 1954 to meet the specialised electronic needs of the Indian Defence Services. Over the years, it has grown into a multi-product, multi-technology, multi-unit company serving the needs of customers in diverse fields in India and abroad. BEL is among an elite group of public sector undertakings which have been conferred the Navratna status by the Government of India. When it was first set up, the Government of India made Iyappa its first chairman; he remained in this position for 18 years.\n\nToday there is a park named after him (General Iyappa Park) near BEL circle in Bangalore.\n\n"}
{"id": "58449511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58449511", "title": "Ayodeji Karim", "text": "Ayodeji Karim\n\nAyodeji Ismail Karim (born December 18, 1970) is the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Costain West Africa Plc, the first construction company to become a Public limited company (PLC) in Nigeria.\n\nAyodeji Ismail Karim (born December 18, 1970) to the family of Dauda Adebayo Karim in Ibadan North East LGA, Oyo State.\n\nHe had his primary education at St George's Boys School, Falomo, Ikoyi, Lagos and his secondary education at the Metropolitan College, Isolo before proceeding to South Thames College, Wandsworth, London where he obtained a National Diploma in Electro/Mechanical Sciences. He also holds a degree in Bachelor of Materials Engineering and Engineering Design/Manufacturing both from the University of Wales, Swansea, UK.\n\nAyodeji worked as a Manager at Le Pain Croissant Ltd, Southall UK, before advancing to Charles Walden & Associates Company Ltd UK as Projects Team Lead.\nHe served as Chief Executive Officer at Fortis Construction Company Ltd and was employed by Costain West Africa Plc, in Feb. 2007 as Operations Director; He rose to become the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the construction giant in January 2010, a position he has held to date.\n\nAyodeji is the President/CEO of Winchester Farms Ltd. He is considered one of the corporate leaders in the country. Recently he was listed by Forbes as 10 Most Powerful Men in Africa.\n\nAyodeji had military training, which spanned through Territorial Army (4th Royal Green Jackets) Basic Infantry Training & Fitness, Senior Rifleman British Army, and Officer cadet, Royal Engineers Advanced Infantry Training, Military Qualification Part 2, UK. He is an Alumnus of the University of Wales Officer Training Corps Wales, British Army , UK. \nHe is a candidate for the All Progressive Congress (APC) at the Oyo State Gubernatorial election for 2019.\n\nAyodeji Ismail Karim is married and has children.\n\n"}
{"id": "10173252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10173252", "title": "Berta and Elmer Hader", "text": "Berta and Elmer Hader\n\nBerta Hoerner Hader (August 1, 1890 – February 6, 1976) and Elmer Stanley Hader (September 7, 1889 – September 7, 1973) were an American couple who jointly illustrated more than 70 children's books, about half of which they also wrote. They won the annual Caldecott Medal for \"The Big Snow\" (1948), recognizing the year's \"most distinguished American picture book for children\".\n\nBerta Hoerner was born in San Pedro, Coahuila, Mexico, where her parents Albert and Adelaide unsuccessfully tried to grow cotton with Albert's brother. The family moved 100 km to the east, to the resort town of Parras, Mexico, when Berta was three, then soon-after to Amarillo, Texas, where her father ran a grocery store. Her father died when Berta was five, and the family soon moved to the northeast of the United States. Berta, perhaps inspired by her mother's colorful sketches of Mexican life, took art classes and read extensively while still in elementary school, winning literary and artistic prizes for her work. The family again moved in 1909, this time to Seattle, Washington. While Berta's mother worked for Charity Organization Society and Washington's Home, Berta continued painting and reading, and eventually attended the University of Washington School of Journalism (1909–1912). She also apprenticed at Western Engraving Company, where she learned printing design, fashion design, illustration, and printing skills. Berta's supervisor, Eva Shepard, moved to San Francisco, and handed over her fashion work in Seattle to Berta. When Ms. Shepard then took a position in New York, Ms. Shepard asked Berta to take over her free-lance fashion illustration business in San Francisco. Berta agreed and, to further her training, she spent the summer of 1915 attending art school in Carmel, California. In the fall she moved to San Francisco, took over Eva Shepard's fashion illustration work, and attended the California School of Design, where she studies from 1915-1918. While in San Francisco, Berta befriended Rose Wilder Lane (daughter of then-unknown writer Laura Ingalls Wilder), with whom she later rented a Telegraph Hill studio (1413 Montgomery Street). Berta first met her future husband Elmer at this studio. Berta had also befriended Bessie \"Mother\" Beatty during her time in San Francisco. After Ms. Beatty's adventures covering the Russian Revolution (\"The Red Heart of Russia\", 1918), she invited Berta to New York City to do fashion design illustration for \"McCall's\", where Ms. Beatty had become an editor.\n\nElmer Hader was born in Pajaro, California, but spent much of his youth in San Francisco. At the age of 16, as a member of the National Guard, he helped restore order to San Francisco after the 1906 earthquake. He worked briefly in a survey party up the American River (near Sacramento, California), then returned to San Francisco to work as a firefighter on the State Belt Railroad (a dock-side railroad that acted as a shuttle for goods and people), where his father worked as an engineer. Elmer used his earnings from this job to pay for his first term at California School of Design. He then obtained scholarships to finish at the school (1907–1910). Elmer was also involved in theatre, and was supported by two theatrical groups, including his time in Paris at the Académie Julian from 1912-1914. He was so successful at vaudeville routines in France and the U.S. (on the Pantages circuit), in which he would do a \"Painting a Minute\" act and, later, a living statue routine (in which individuals were made up to appear to be statues), that he considered dropping his long-term goal of becoming an artist. He did not. He returned to San Francisco, set up a studio in his parents attic, painted, taught art, and arranged exhibits. Elmer was the first artist showcased in a one-man one themed show at the Palace of Fine Arts. He was drafted into the U.S. Army and returned to France in 1918 as a member of the Camouflage Corps, just at the time that Berta was asked by Ms. Beatty to come to New York to work in fashion design illustration at \"McCalls\".\n\nWhen Elmer and Berta met in San Francisco, they had both been part of a broad network of artists and intellectuals in the area. They became good friends, and, rather than return to San Francisco, Elmer went directly to New York when he was demobilized in February 1919. Berta was working for \"McCall's\". The two married in July of that year, then lived briefly in Greenwich Village. Seeking a more rustic setting, they left the city to rent the Lyall Cottage in Grand View-on-Hudson, a small town in rural Rockland County, New York on the west bank of the Hudson River. This would become the area where they would spend the rest of their lives. Their home, which took more than twenty years to construct, was largely built by the Haders and their friends, and the house became an art project in its own right. Elmer went so far as to extract the stones used to build the house from the earth himself. The Haders had a son in the early 1920s, Hamilton (named after the author Hamilton Williamson), who died from meningitis not long before he turned three. They retreated to a friend's home in Maine to grieve and heal. They returned to New York to continue work on their home and to continue their artistic careers contributing artwork to many magazines, creating broadsides, pamphlets, painting miniatures (Berta) and portraits (Elmer).\n\nThe two used their talents and Berta's connections to prepare children's sections for \"Good Housekeeping\", \"McCall's\", \"Pictorial Review\", \"Asia\", \"Century\", and \"The Christian Science Monitor\". They did pictures and cut-outs, often featuring children dressed in national costumes. In \"Berta and Elmer Hader's Picture Book of Mother Goose\", the couple collated pen-and-ink and color drawings they had done for \"Monitor\" and \"Good Housekeeping\" to great acclaim. When the US Postal Service dis-allowed the sending of magazines with cut-out segments in 1926, the Haders switched gears, gaining a contract with MacMillan for a series of children's books. They began writing the stories for some of the books in this period. Demand for their product soared, and they worked incessantly from 1927–1931, illustrating, in some cases writing, producing, and helping to sell thirty-four titles. They stayed busy for the rest of their lives, producing another seventy or so books before they retired in 1964. One book in particular, \"Billy Butter\" (1936), so impressed writer John Steinbeck that he requested Elmer Hader do the cover to \"The Grapes of Wrath\" (1939). Hader eventually did covers for two other Steinbeck works, \"East of Eden\" (1952) and \"The Winter of Our Discontent\" (1961).\n\nThe Haders were early champions of conservation, animal protection, and pacifism. This made its way into their work, particularly with titles such as \"The Runaways\" (1956) and \"Two Is Company, Three's a Crowd\" (1965?). In the early 1950s, Berta became a community activist, ignited by the seemingly lost cause of having the location of the proposed Tappan Zee Bridge moved to a less sensitive area than its planned path through her village. Though \"The New York Times\" accused her of \"blocking progress,\" the New York State Thruway Authority eventually relented, and the massive 4,88 km-long bridge was built several kilometers to the north at Nyack, where the bridge still stands today.\n\nBerta and Elmer travelled extensively in Mexico, Jamaica, and the far northeast of the United States, some of which made its way into their work. 'The Story of Pancho and the Bull with the Crooked Tail\" (1942), \"Jamaica Johnny\" (1943), and \"Tommy Thatcher Goes to Sea\" (1950) are all informed by their travels. Elmer died on his 84th birthday at his home in Grand-View-on-Hudson. Berta remained at the home until shortly before she died 1976 February 6 at the age of 85.\n\nThe above information, except where otherwise noted, has been summarized from an article by Elaine and Edward Kemp in \"Imprint: Oregon\", volume 3, 1977 spring-fall, pages 5–11. Amongst other research, the Kemps gained information through correspondence with several friends of the Haders, such as J. J. Marquis, Jane Terrill Barrow, Ruth and Latrobe Carroll, and Doris Patee.\n\n"}
{"id": "57955186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57955186", "title": "Bill Clapp", "text": "Bill Clapp\n\nWilliam H. Clapp is a social entrepreneur, philanthropist, business executive and founder and former chairman of the Matthew G. Norton Company, a property management firm based in Seattle. He is also the founder, along with his wife Paula, of Global Partnerships, Global Washington, and Seattle International Foundation.\n\nClapp is the great-grand son of Weyerhaeuser Co. co-founder Matthew Norton. Bill began his career in Alaska in the 1960s, working as a bush pilot and businessman. He returned to Seattle in 1975, where he helped found the Matthew G. Norton Company, a real estate and property management firm. He served as CEO and Chairman until 2002.\n\nClapp and his wife, Paula, became interested in philanthropy and international development in the 1990s, after visiting a microlending program in El Salvador. In 1994, the Clapps founded Global Partnerships, a microlender with partner organizations in Central and South America, the Caribbean and Africa. Since its founding, the organization has provided loans and grants totaling $300 million to more than 10 million people. Bill served as Executive Director of the organization until 2006.\n\nIn 2002, Clapp joined a group of policymakers, government officials, and philanthropists, including William H. Gates Sr., former U.S. Senator Daniel J. Evans, former EPA Administrator William D. Ruckelshaus, and former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General John Shalikashvili, in founding the Initiative for Global Development. The Washington, D.C.-based organization invests in small businesses in Africa.\n\nClappfounded Global Washington in 2008, and served as the organization's first chairman.\n\nIn 2008, Clapp and his wife founded the Seattle International Foundation (SIF), a grant-making organization with a strategic focus on Central America. Since its founding, SIF has issued grants totaling $20 million to 243 organizations. In addition to its grant-making activities, SIF partners with such organizations as the Seattle Foundation and Global Washington to enhance international philanthropy efforts originating in the Pacific Northwest.\n\nClapp served on the boards of Alaska Air Group for 20 years, and Weyerhaeuser for 16 years. He is currently a member of the Advisory Board of INCAE Business School in Costa Rica.\n"}
{"id": "26426274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26426274", "title": "Car (King of Caria)", "text": "Car (King of Caria)\n\nCar of the Carians (), according to Herodotus, was the brother of Lydus and Mysus. He was regarded as the eponymous and ancestral hero of the Carians who would have received their name from the king. He may or may not be the same as Car of Megara \n\nHerodotus mentions Car, brother of Lydus and Mysus; the three brothers were believed to have been the ancestral heroes and eponyms of the Carians, the Lydians and the Mysians respectively. This Car was credited by Pliny the Elder with inventing the auspicia.\n\nCar was also said to have founded the city Alabanda, which he named after Alabandus, his son by Callirhoe (the daughter of the river god Maeander). In turn, Alabandus's name is said to have been chosen in commemoration of his Car's victory in a horse fight— according to the scholar Stephanus of Byzantium, \"Alabandos\" was the Carian word for \"winner in a horse fight\". Another son of Car, Idrieus, had the city Idrias named after himself.\n\nThe tomb of Car was in the Carian city Souangela, giving that city its name— according to Stephanus, \"Souangela\" meant \"tomb of the king\" in Carian.\n"}
{"id": "6240458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6240458", "title": "David Farrar (blogger)", "text": "David Farrar (blogger)\n\nDavid Peter Farrar (born 11 September 1967) is a New Zealand political activist, blogger, and pollster. He is a frequent commentator in the media on Internet issues. Farrar has held many roles within the New Zealand National Party and has worked in Parliament for four National Party leaders.\n\nHis blog, \"Kiwiblog\", was the most widely read and commented on New Zealand blog in 2009. Farrar also maintains a presence on social networking sites Facebook and Twitter. In 2007 the \"National Business Review\" stated that: \"Any realistic 'power list' produced in this country would include either Farrar or his fellow blogger and opinion leader Russell Brown.\"\n\nFarrar was educated in Wellington, attending St Mark's Church School and Rongotai College. He is of Jewish descent on his father's side.\n\nHe studied at the University of Otago and later at Victoria University of Wellington. Farrar served on the Council of Otago University as a student representative, was President of the Commerce Faculty Students' Association and chaired the Student Representative Council. While he was at the University of Otago, he was the Otago correspondent for \"Campus News\" an alternative student newspaper published by a group in Auckland but which was distributed nationwide. The newspaper was published between 1984 and 1988, and David's involvement ran from 1985 to 1987.\n\nFarrar is a director of New Zealand Domain Name Registry Ltd (.nz Registry Services), and manages his own market research company Curia. Farrar is a member of the Market Research Society of New Zealand.\n\nFarrar was Vice-President of the Internet Society of New Zealand, InternetNZ, and is a frequent commentator in both broadcast and print media on Internet issues.\n\nPreviously Farrar worked as a staff member of the Leader of the Opposition (1999–2004), a staff member at National Party Head Office (1999 and 2004), a staff member in Ministerial Services under Jim Bolger (1996–1997) and in the Prime Minister's Office under Jenny Shipley (1997–1999).\n\nFarrar writes weekly columns for the \"National Business Review\" and the iPredict futures site, and is a regular commentator on Radio New Zealand and Newstalk ZB.\n\nThe \"New Zealand Listener\" 2009 Power List named Farrar the fourth most powerful person in the New Zealand media, saying \"Kiwiblog has become part of the daily routine for Beltway insiders and others with an interest in politics and public policy.\"\n\nIn 2013, Farrar, with Jordan Williams, established the fiscally conservative lobby group, the New Zealand Taxpayers' Union. The Union is based on the United Kingdom TaxPayers Alliance and resulted from both Farrar and Williams' interaction with that group's founder, Matthew Elliot, through the International Young Democrat Union.\n\nFarrar is an honorary life member of the Young Nationals, due to his many years of service to the organisation.\n\nHe survived some media calls for his resignation as National Secretary when he was arrested for his part in a joke press release, along with fellow Young National Michael P Moore, announcing that maverick National MP Michael Laws had been assassinated and that the Prime Minister was one of over 10,000 suspects. The joke press-release was made with the New Zealand Police logo. Farrar and Moore were subsequently arrested, but not convicted of any crime as they chose to participate in a diversion scheme for first time offenders of minor crime. The infamous fax and related media items are now displayed at the Backbencher Bar on Molesworth Street in Wellington, across the road from Parliament.\n\nAt the 2005 general election Farrar was the volunteer campaign manager for National's candidate Mark Blumsky. Blumsky was defeated in his attempt to become an electorate MP, but succeeded in entering parliament via the party list.\n\nFarrar professes a classical liberal approach to politics, that is often compromised by his party affiliation with the liberal conservative National Party (for instance over state security powers vs individual rights ) and identifies as a moderate of the center-right on the political spectrum. He was a co-chair of National's Classical Liberal Policy Advisory Group at its formation in 2004. He supported the legalisation of prostitution and of civil unions in New Zealand. Farrar supports a New Zealand republic, and is on the National Council of the New Zealand Republican Movement. Economically his views are more in keeping with those of parties to the right of the National Party, such as the market fundamentalism of the minority ACT party.\n\nFarrar has appeared before Parliamentary select committees on a range of issues, including the Electoral Finance Bill. He often publishes his submissions on his blog.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14561867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14561867", "title": "Death of Asel Asleh", "text": "Death of Asel Asleh\n\nThe death of Asel Asleh occurred on 2 October 2000 when a Palestinian-Israeli (Arab citizen of Israel) and peace activist was killed at the onset of the Second Intifada by the Israel security forces. Asleh was 17 years old at the time of his death.\n\nAsel Asleh (, ; May 6, 1983 – October 2, 2000) was from the village of Arraba in the Lower Galilee. He had been a member of the international conflict resolution organization Seeds of Peace since 1997. Prior to his death, Asleh described himself as \"a Palestinian-Israeli\". He had many Jewish friends and was killed while wearing the Seeds of Peace T-shirt.\n\nAsleh attended a protest in his village on 2 October. Trying to disperse the protest, an Israeli Security Forces unit shot tear-gas and live ammunition at the protesters. The precise actions which led to the death of Asleh were unclear; the police officers stated that they did not know how he was killed, while his cousin said that he had seen a gun pointed at Asleh and then he heard three shots. A physician who treated the youth commented that Asleh was shot in the neck at point-blank range, and that crucial time had been lost when the police delayed the arrival of an ambulance. Officers said he was already shot when they found him lying in the olive grove. Eventually, Asleh died at Nahariya Hospital. The examination by the Or Commission reached a very advanced stage but ended when the Asleh family refused to allow the exhumation of Asel's body to extract the bullets which killed Asleh for tests.\n\nIncluding Asleh, 13 Arab citizens of Israels were killed. Asel's father successfully led a campaign to investigate the death of his son and others killed in October 2000. Subsequently, the October 2000 events were investigated by the Israeli-government appointed Or Commission. The Or Commission heavily condemned Israeli police for being unprepared for the protests and possibly using excessive force to disperse the protesters. Asel's father, Hassan, is head of the Committee of the Victims’ Families, which has sought to keep pressure on the official responsible for the death of Asleh and the other twelve killed in October 2000. In October 2006, Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported that the main suspect in Asleh's killing refused a lie detector test six times. On October 24, 2000, three weeks after Asleh's death, United Kingdom MP Richard Burden opened a debate on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict by noting Asleh's recent death and the lack of autopsy and investigation to that point.\n\nIn February 2008, members of Seeds of Peace led a protest in front of Israel's Ministry of Justice demanding that it reopen the investigation into the October 2000 events, specifically the death of former Seed Asleh. The protesters also sent letters to Attorney General Menahem Mazuz and Prime Minister Ehud Olmert asking if the victims had been Jews if the case would be reopened.\n\nOn September 30, 2010, 6,000 Arab citizens of Israel and supporters led a procession marking the 10 year anniversary of Asleh and the 12 other Arabs killed in October 2000. The protesters called officials to try the police officers allegedly responsible for the killings. MK Ahmad Tibi said \"These past 10 years have been filled with anger and pain for the victims' families, and for the general Arab public. They represent a black mark on the history of the State of Israel,\" On 1 October, the Arab Higher Monitoring Committee declared a one-day strike to commemorate the youth.\n\n"}
{"id": "3746650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3746650", "title": "Detroit Sleeper Cell", "text": "Detroit Sleeper Cell\n\nThe Detroit Sleeper Cell is a group of men of Middle-Eastern descent who the United States Department of Justice believed were plotting an attack on Disneyland.\n\nWhile on a trip to Disneyland, the four men recorded a home video. The Justice Department believed that this recording was reconnaissance for a future terror attack. This video, combined with the testimony of self-described con-artist Youssef Hmimssa, and what the defense called doodles in a day planner, but the prosecution called terror plans, led to the conviction of two men on June 3, 2003.\nThe prosecution claimed the five were \"Takfiris\" — followers of a radical Islamic sect that allowed mujahideen to drink alcohol, use narcotics, and refrain from praying, in order to blend into Western societies, so they could mount clandestine attacks on them.\n\nYoussef Hmimssa, who pleaded guilty to multiple charges of credit card fraud and identity theft, agreed to testify against the four men, in a deal that would allow him to consolidate his other charges, and avoid further charges, reducing his sentence to between 37 and 46 months in prison. Defense attorneys Joseph A. Niskar, James C. Thomas, James Gerometta, Richard Helfrick, William Swor, Margaret Raben, and Robert Morgan were assigned to represent each individual member of the group. However, the attorneys argued the case together.\n\nLater, the conviction of the two men was overturned by information indicating that the prosecution had withheld important information from the defense. In the Justice Department's filing they claimed there was \"no reasonable prospect of winning,\" and \"In its best light, the record would show that the prosecution committed a pattern of mistakes and oversights that deprived the defendants of discoverable evidence (including impeachment material) and created a record filled with misleading inferences that such material did not exist\".\n\nA federal grand jury is investigating whether the prosecution withheld information from the defense and deceived the jury. Richard Convertino, the lead prosecutor in the case, sued Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, accusing Ashcroft and others of mismanagement and retaliation, but the lawsuit was thrown out by a judge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20863249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20863249", "title": "Don Davis (gun retailer)", "text": "Don Davis (gun retailer)\n\nDon Davis (April 10, 1933 – February 4, 2016) was an American gun retailer, the owner of Don's Guns and Galleries, a firearms retailer in Indianapolis, Indiana. He claimed to be the largest independent gun dealer in the United States, and his store has been called the largest public display of firearms in America.\nFor a while, he operated multiple 24-hour stores in the Indianapolis area.\n\nOn October 8, 1997, Davis' Greenwood, Indiana store was robbed, and an employee shot and killed. Soon after the incident, he closed all except for the Lafayette Road flagship store, which reduced its business hours. On September 17, 2012, a customer visiting the store to utilize its indoor shooting range intentionally shot a store employee twice. The employee immediately returned fire, killing his attacker.\n\nDavis was named among the top five dealers who sell guns to criminals by the U.S. Department of Justice, ranked at #4. He said that the problem is not with his selling the guns, which requires FBI screening, but with those who purchase them and privately resell them, which he describes as a major loophole in the gun control laws. Some area residents feel that Davis catered to a less-than-upstanding clientele, largely profiting from inflated prices for people that have been described as dubious.\n\nDavis was a vocal proponent of the Brady Bill, who went so far as to burn all of his military-style semiautomatic firearms on national television while the bill was being debated in Congress. He later called the bill largely ineffective, because of its wording, which does not ban guns by type or firing capacity, but rather by specific technical attributes.\n\nDavis was locally known for his late night television commercials. \"Indianapolis Magazine\" voted them as the worst Indianapolis-based commercials in 1984 and 1985. He traditionally ended them with his slogan, \"I don't want to make any money. I just love to sell guns, heh-heh-heh.\"\n\nDavis was interviewed by NPR's Michele Norris on \"All Things Considered\" to discuss the sunset of the Brady Bill. He had previously been interviewed by Paula Zahn on CNN's \"Paula Zahn Now\". He died at an Indianapolis hospital on February 4, 2016, aged 82.\n\n"}
{"id": "1391827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1391827", "title": "Eight Witnesses", "text": "Eight Witnesses\n\nThe Eight Witnesses were one of the two groups of witnesses who made a statement stating that they had seen the golden plates which Joseph Smith, Jr. said was his source material for the Book of Mormon. The other group of Book of Mormon witnesses who said they saw the plates are called the Three Witnesses.\n\nThe testimony of the Eight Witnesses was first published at the end of the 1830 edition of the Book of Mormon and has been printed in nearly every edition since, although most subsequent editions moved the statement to the front of the book and included minor grammatical corrections.\n\nBe it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom this work shall come: That Joseph Smith, Jun., the translator of this work, has shewn unto us the plates of which hath been spoken, which have the appearance of gold; and as many of the leaves as the said Smith has translated we did handle with our hands; and we also saw the engravings thereon, all of which has the appearance of ancient work, and of curious workmanship. And this we bear record with words of soberness, that the said Smith has shewn unto us, for we have seen and hefted, and know of a surety that the said Smith has got the plates of which we have spoken. And we give our names unto the world, to witness unto the world that which we have seen. And we lie not, God bearing witness of it.\nChristian Whitmer\n\nJacob Whitmer\n\nPeter Whitmer, Jun.\n\nJohn Whitmer\n\nHiram Page\n\nJoseph Smith, Sen.\n\nHyrum Smith\n\nSamuel H. Smith\n\nUnlike the Three Witnesses, the Eight testified that they both saw and handled the plates. Another difference is that the Eight testified that they were shown the plates by Joseph Smith rather than by an angel as had the Three Witnesses.\n\nToward the end of June 1829, at the Peter Whitmer, Sr. home in Fayette, New York, Joseph Smith, Jr. (with Oliver Cowdery as scribe) finished the translation of the Book of Mormon. Near the end of translation process, a prophecy was translated from the Second Book of Nephi that three, and \"a few\" others, might see the golden plates. Subsequently, on June 28, 1829, near the Whitmer farm, the Three Witnesses had their experience. Thereafter, the Smith and Whitmer families traveled to the Joseph Smith, Sr. home in Palmyra, New York. On July 2, 1829, near the Smith home, the Eight Witnesses saw and handled the golden plates.\n\nThe Eight Witnesses were all members of the Whitmer or Smith families: Christian Whitmer, Jacob Whitmer, Peter Whitmer, Jr., John Whitmer, Hiram Page, Joseph Smith, Sr., Hyrum Smith, and Samuel H. Smith. Joseph Smith, Sr. was Joseph Smith's father, and Hyrum and Samuel were his brothers. Christian, Jacob, Peter Jr. and John were David Whitmer's brothers, and Hiram Page was his brother-in-law. Noting the familiar relationship among the witnesses, satirist Mark Twain wrote, \"I could not feel more satisfied and at rest if the entire Whitmer family had testified.\"\n\nIn 1838, the living members of Whitmer family (Christian Whitmer and Peter Whitmer, Jr. died in 1835 and 1836, respectively) became estranged from Smith during a leadership struggle in Far West, Missouri, and all were excommunicated along with other dissenters and fled Caldwell County after receiving an ultimatum from the Danites. Following the death of Smith, none of the Whitmers joined the group that was led by Brigham Young and would become The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nYet despite the estrangement of the Whitmer family, there is little evidence that any of the Eight Witnesses denied his testimony to the authenticity of Book of Mormon or the gold plates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31679750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31679750", "title": "Franz von Bodmann", "text": "Franz von Bodmann\n\nFranz Hermann Johann Maria Freiherr von Bodmann, sometimes written as Bodman (born 23 March 1908 in Zwiefaltendorf – died 25 May 1945 in Altenmarkt im Pongau) was a German SS-Obersturmführer who served as a camp physician in several Nazi concentration camps.\n\nVon Bodmann joined the Nazi Party in May 1932 (membership number 1,098,482) and the SS itself in 1934 (member number 267,787). From October 1939 to June 1940 and from July 1941 to January 1942 he served with the 79th SS-Standarte in Ulm in the Second Bataillon as a physician. It was 1941 that he was promoted to the rank of Obersturmführer.\n\nVon Bodmann was appointed camp physician at Auschwitz concentration camp in February 1942 and the following year held a similar position at Majdanek concentration camp. He subsequently filled the same role at Natzweiler-Struthof concentration camp and from September 1943 at Vaivara concentration camp. At some point he also worked at Neuengamme concentration camp although the exact dates are unknown. Eyewitnesses claimed that at Auschwitz von Bodmann killed inmates personally by injecting Phenol into their veins and also stated that he carried out similar procedures at other camps. Von Bodmann's departure from Auschwitz, where he had no superiors and as such acted largely as he pleased, was hastened when he contracted typhus not long after arriving.\n\nHe left the camps in September 1944 when he was sent to work for SS-Wirtschafts-Verwaltungshauptamt and then to the Hauptamt Volksdeutsche Mittelstelle. His final assignment was as troop physician to the 5th SS Panzer Division Wiking. He was taken as a prisoner of war and held in a military hospital where he killed himself just after the end of the Second World War.\n"}
{"id": "30969724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30969724", "title": "Gary J. Aguirre", "text": "Gary J. Aguirre\n\nGary J. Aguirre is an American lawyer, former investigator with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and whistleblower.\n\nAfter working in a law firm briefly, he became a public defender, then worked as a trial lawyer in California. Having reached his professional and financial goals, he took an extended break in 1995. In 2000, he decided to go into public service and went back to law school, focusing on international and securities law.\n\nAfter earning his second law degree, he applied for a job with the SEC, where he became the lead investigator on an insider trading case involving Pequot Capital Management. Suspecting the leaked information came from John J. Mack, a Wall Street titan and major contributor to the 2004 campaign of President George W. Bush, Aguirre wanted to subpoena Mack, but supervisors told him Mack had too much \"political clout\" and would not be pursued. Aguirre complained to a superior about the preferential treatment being given Mack and was fired without warning. A Senate investigation later found his termination to have been an illegal reprisal.\n\nIn May 2010, Pequot Capital settled its insider trading charges with the SEC for $28 million and a month later, the SEC settled the wrongful termination suit filed by Aguirre for $755,000. Aguirre returned to private practice in San Diego in 2008, specializing in securities law. He has emerged as a major critic of the SEC, calling it an agency that was set up to protect the public from Wall Street, but now protects Wall Street from the public. He represents Darcy Flynn, also an SEC whistleblower, who in summer 2011 was interviewed by staff from three congressional committees. He said that the SEC had destroyed thousands of records of preliminary investigations and that SEC investigators trying to pursue a case against Deutsche Bank were thwarted by Richard H. Walker, then SEC director of enforcement, who shortly thereafter, took a job at Deutsche Bank as general counsel. He also represents Rodolfo Michelon, a whistleblower, a former comptroller at Sempra Global, who claims Sempra paid kickbacks to Mexican government officials and has filed a suit against the SEC alleging the SEC \"outsourced\" its investigation of Sempra to a law firm with ties to Sempra, in effect subverting the law.\n\nAguirre is a lawyer in San Diego, California. He was admitted to the State Bar of California on December 23, 1966. He became an associate at Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison, then one of San Francisco's largest firms. In his spare time, worked on Robert F. Kennedy's presidential campaign. On May 28, 1968, Kennedy sent him a letter that spoke of the special role lawyers played in bringing about orderly change to the nation. Just eight days after sending the letter, Kennedy was assassinated.\n\nAfter a year, Aguirre left Brobeck to become a public defender in Fresno County, where he found both the trial experience and public service he was seeking. Later moving back to private practice in San Diego, he made a name for himself by proving that Pacific Southwest Airlines (PSA) was liable for a mid-air plane crash over San Diego in 1978, then the worst aviation disaster in U.S. history. In the 1980s, Aguirre pioneered construction-defect litigation, a branch of class-action law previously considered by San Diego lawyers to be too difficult for plaintiffs to win. In 1983, \"San Diego Magazine\" called him \"a legal fireball\" for his case proving PSA's liability and for his case against the Manville Corporation, which had national importance.\n\nArguing on behalf of homeowners in construction-defect cases, by 1994, Aguirre and his partner had won 94 consecutive cases, recovering over $200 million for the plaintiffs. Aguirre has received three \"Outstanding Trial Lawyer\" awards from the San Diego Trial Lawyers Association.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Manville Corporation, a Dow Jones company sold a stucco-like product for use on exterior walls. Within a short time, the product was found to be defective and deteriorate rapidly, causing significant damage to homes and buildings. Manville pulled the product off the market in 1974, just four years after it was introduced.\n\nIn the course of preparing his case, Aguirre began monitoring Manville in October 1981, when the company undertook a reorganization that moved 75% of its assets to four of five new companies it created. The board of directors and officers remained in the same positions, so nothing essential changed; except the assets were diverted. Aguirre became convinced Manville was trying to put its assets beyond the reach of unsecured creditors and when he went to trial, he accurately predicted the company would file between 45 and 60 days.\n\nThe three-month-long trial concluded with Aguirre winning a $6 million award against Manville, at that time, the largest amount in San Diego Superior Court history. The amount was later increased to $7.5 million when delay damages were added. On July 2, 1982, the day after winning his lawsuit against Manville, Aguirre went back to court to ask that Manville be required to post a $9 million bond to guarantee his clients' judgment in case of a bankruptcy filing, arguing that Manville was on the verge of filing a Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Agreeing with Aguirre's argument, the judge ordered Manville to post a bond.\n\nEight weeks later, on August 26, 1982, Manville did file for Chapter 11 protection from multiple damage awards, shocking financial analysts. Unlike the more than 12,000 other plaintiffs, primarily asbestos cases, Aguirre's clients' judgment was insured by a $9 million bond. All lawsuits against Manville were immediately stayed, but a federal bankruptcy judge in New York separated Aguirre's case from the others, paving the way for Aguirre's clients to receive their payments. The thousands of other lawsuits remained frozen until May 1988.\n\nIn July 2004, Aguirre entered public service as a senior counsel at the SEC Division of Enforcement in Washington, D.C. A routine check of Wall Street trades flagged unusually heavy stock purchases by Pequot Capital Management, a hedge fund, in Heller Financial in July 2001, which was bought by GE Capital shortly thereafter, earning Pequot $18 million inside of a month. Aguirre was made the lead investigator on the case.\n\nAguirre pushed to subpoena John Mack, a top Wall Street executive who was then under consideration by Morgan Stanley to become its CEO and had been a major contributor to the 2004 presidential campaign of George W. Bush. Initially, Aguirre had the full support of other SEC staff and of his supervisors. This changed on June 23, 2005, when Aguirre received a phone call from Eric Dinallo, head of regulatory compliance at Morgan Stanley, who wanted to know if the SEC was \"going to proceed against Mack\" because of concerns revolving around Morgan Stanley's decision to hire Mack as CEO. The same day, Aguirre's supervisor, Robert Hanson, told him it would be an uphill battle to pursue Mack because of Mack's \"powerful political connections\".\n\nJust three days after the call to Aguirre, Mary Jo White placed a call to Linda Chatman Thomsen. Thomsen was then SEC Director of Enforcement and Aguirre's boss four levels above him. White is a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton, the law firm hired by Morgan Stanley to vet Mack and was in charge of the process She had previously been the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York which has jurisdiction over Wall Street. Though Thomsen told the Senate she told White she couldn't say anything about the Mack investigation, the Senate report said White's talking points indicated Thomsen had said there was \"smoke\" but \"surely not fire\".\n\nOver the next two days, Aguirre sent his supervisors his analysis of the evidence against Pequot and proposed interviewing Mack. On June 28, he had a \"heated discussion\" with Mark Kreitman, one of his supervisors and his former professor at Georgetown, over the SEC's refusal to interview Mack. In the meantime, he was given his year-end performance evaluation, which noted his dedication. Hanson wrote, \"<nowiki>[Aguirre]</nowiki> has consistently gone the extra mile, and then some,\" and a two-step salary increase was approved.\n\nA month later, on July 27, 2005, Aguirre sent an e-mail to his supervisor Paul R. Berger, explaining the importance of the Mack subpoena and expressing concern that \"treating Mack differently is [not] consistent with the Commission's mission, which is \"to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation.\" In this e-mail, Aguirre also reported to Berger that Hanson had said Mack had \"political connections\".\n\nThough given a pay raise and praised for his work on the Pequot case, after Aguirre raised concerns about the special treatment being given Mack, Berger told Hanson to do a \"supplemental evaluation\" of Aguirre and one other staff attorney \"looking to raise trouble\". The Senate report notes that such re-evaluations were not an authorized part of the SEC evaluation process, nor were SEC officials able to recall other instances where \"supplemental evaluations\" were drafted for other employees. Aguirre continued to have conversations with Hanson about Mack in the early days of August. Hanson continued to refer to Mack's political connections and on August 4, 2005 wrote, \"Mack's counsel will have 'juice' as I described last night—meaning that they may reach out to Paul and Linda (and possibly others).\" Apparently setting a precedent, Aguirre's supervisors re-evaluated his job performance, reversing the positive appraisal given just one month prior. While on vacation, Aguirre was abruptly fired without warning on September 1, 2005. His termination was later found to have been unlawful by the subsequent Senate investigations and report.\n\nBerger stopped the investigation of Mack and closed the case against Pequot without filing a single charge. A few months prior, on January 31, 2005, Berger had gotten an e-mail from Jan Lower, another attorney, describing in detail the $2 million potential earnings an SEC official could earn at Debevoise. On September 8, 2005, just days after Aguirre was fired, an SEC official at the same staff level as Berger wrote an e-mail to him titled \"Debevoise\", saying he had mentioned Berger's \"interest\" to White and within weeks, it was rumored that Berger would be leaving the SEC to join Debevoise & Plimpton as a partner. Berger submitted his resignation to the SEC on May 15, 2006 and on June 1, 2006 became a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton, where he continues to work. White denies asking the SEC to close any investigation.\n\nAguirre wrote an 18-page letter to members of the U.S. Senate who were chairmen of various related committees and subcommittees, detailing his allegations about Pequot. Senators Charles E. Grassley and Richard C. Shelby, both Republicans, asked SEC officials for a confidential briefing on the matter. Aguirre accused the SEC of failing to pursue Mack because of his political connections as a major fundraiser for George W. Bush. By 2006, both the Senate Finance Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee were investigating the matter, culminating in what \"Forbes\" magazine called a \"scathing\" report. In testimony, Aguirre told the committee there needed to be better regulation of hedge funds to protect the public. He said, \"There is growing evidence that today's unregulated hedge funds have advanced and refined the practice of manipulating and cheating other market participants. The potential harm hedge funds can inflict on other market participants has no real limits.\" He warned that fixing the SEC so it would protect investors and capital markets would not be easy because powerful Wall Street investment banks liked things as they are He said the SEC and the Justice Department had failed to adequately prosecute abuses by hedge funds, and he compared the situation to that which preceded the stock market crash of 1929.\n\nIn the Senate's oversight role, it conducted an extensive investigation of whether or not Mack received unlawful preferential treatment from the SEC and whether or not Aguirre was unlawfully fired as a result of objecting to this treatment. The Senate reviewed 10,000 pages of documents and held more than 30 witness interviews. Additionally, there were three hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee in June, September and December 2006. The joint report was officially released August 3, 2007. The Senate found Aguirre to have been well regarded until he questioned the SEC's misconduct toward Mack, that Mack was treated preferentially and that Aguirre was illegally fired in retaliation.\n\nAguirre then sued the SEC under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) seeking documents related to his employment and discharge, as well as the SEC's investigation of Pequot and Mack. The SEC, claiming several exemptions under the law released redacted versions of the documents, thereby withholding information. They also failed to produce Aguirre's original personnel file. Aguirre alleged in his suit that the SEC had failed to conduct an adequate search for documents and he challenged the SEC's failure to produce his original personnel file, which contained records missing from the version given him. On April 28, 2008, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, citing the Senate report extensively, ruled in his favor, forcing the SEC to turn over documents to Aguirre. The Court wrote of \"the importance of understanding the dispute between the parties, as well as plaintiff's legal argument that the public interest in disclosure of the withheld records outweighs any privacy interest\" under exemptions claimed by the SEC and relied heavily on the Senate report. It noted how the SEC resisted deposing Mack and didn't considering him a potential tipper until after a front-page article in \"The New York Times\" revealed the derailed investigation and then did not depose him until the statute of limitations for civil and criminal penalties had run out.\n\nIn 2007, Senators Chuck Grassley and Arlen Specter urged the SEC to reopen the case against Pequot, but it remained closed. Making extensive use of the documents released by the SEC to him, Aguirre uncovered incriminating evidence proving Pequot had engaged in insider trading of Microsoft and he shared this evidence with the SEC in a 16-page letter to SEC chairman Christopher Cox, dated January 2, 2009. Within days, the SEC re-opened the investigation, but no charges were filed in the weeks or months following, though when it did finally file charges, they closely followed the evidence as stated in Aguirre's letter.\n\nOn April 1, 2009, Aguirre filed a second lawsuit against the SEC for unlawful disclosure of his records under the Privacy Act of 1974, for violating the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment and for injunctive relief under the Privacy Act and FOIA. On December 2, 2009, in an interim decision on Aguirre's FOIA case, the Court again ruled in his favor. On May 26, 2010, Aguirre filed papers in this case, seeking an order directing the SEC to release additional Pequot records to him on the grounds that under the FOIA, the SEC had to turn the records over to him because it had filed no case against Pequot or anyone else. Early the next morning, on May 27, 2010, the SEC filed charges against Pequot, Samberg and Zilkha and announced a settlement with Pequot.\n\nA month later, the SEC agreed to pay Aguirre $755,000, an amount equal to four years and ten months of lost salary and attorney's fees. The amount appears to be the largest settlement ever disclosed by the Merit Systems Protection Board. On reaching the settlement with the SEC for his wrongful termination, Aguirre said, \"It's a shame the team I worked with at the SEC did not get to complete the Pequot investigation. The filing of the case in 2005 or 2006, before the financial crisis, would have been the right message at the right moment for Wall Street elite: the SEC goes after big fish too.\"\n\nAguirre now specializes in securities law, defending those victimized by investor fraud and those wishing to come forward to expose abuses. In 2008, he returned to San Diego with a reputation for winning cases.\n\nHe continued to work on the Pequot insider trading investigation, collecting and piecing together evidence, gaining information through Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests. In April 2008, he obtained a court order forcing the SEC to give him key records of its then closed Pequot investigation and later that year, he uncovered the evidence necessary to prove an insider trading charge against Pequot, founder Arthur Samberg and his former employee, David Zilkha On January 2, 2009, Aguirre sent a 16-page letter with the evidence to Christopher Cox, then SEC chairman. In it, he argued that there was sufficient evidence to reopen the case and he recommended that the U.S. Department of Justice open an investigation of Pequot, Samberg and Zilkha for possible witness tampering, bribery, obstruction of justice, and violation of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. Because the SEC continued to stonewall, on May 26, 2010, Aguirre sought an order directing the SEC to release additional Pequot records to him. He argued that because the SEC had failed to file charges against Pequot or anyone else, under the FOIA, the SEC must turn over the records. The following morning, on May 27, 2010, using allegations that closely follow Aguirre's January letter, the SEC filed charges against Pequot, Samberg and Zilkha.\n\nAguirre is helping Senator Grassley's staff examine 21,000 Federal Reserve (the Fed) transactions involving taxpayer funds distributed to banks and other financial institutions. The Fed was forced to reveal the information by Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests by Bloomberg News and Fox News, as well as provisions contained in Wall Street reform legislation. Despite pronouncements by the Fed about its transparency, the information released has been incomplete. The lack of details make it impossible to tell just how much profit the recipients of the funds are making and only the recipients' names and amount of funds are known. Aguirre says that between $3 and $4 trillion in cash transfers were made and another $9 to $11 trillion in commitments that taxpayer funds would cover the cost of failed investments. \"It looks like they are borrowing the money from the Fed, say, at 70 cents on the dollar and selling it back to the Fed for 90 cents. We can't tell for certain because the Fed won't tell us. The Fed publishes information but not enough for you to figure out what the hell happened,\" Aguirre said.\n\nAguirre represents Darcy Flynn, an SEC lawyer who also became a whistleblower after Robert Khuzami asked his staff in an e-mail on May 18, 2011 to report any questionable behavior on the part of lawyers representing clients. Though Khuzami had meant lawyers outside the SEC, Flynn reported activity that had taken place within the SEC. Early in Flynn's 13-year career at the SEC, he worked on a case where investigators thought they had clear evidence of fraud against Deutsche Bank. In an interview with \"Der Spiegel\", CEO Rolf Breuer had denied the bank was involved in talks to acquire Bankers Trust, causing Bankers Trust stock to drop, which could lower the cost of a merger. SEC investigators began looking into the matter, collecting sworn testimony and documents that proved Breuer had lied. Deutsche Bank hired former SEC enforcement director Gary Lynch to persuade the SEC not to pursue the case, which had to be approved by superiors before proceeding. Approval to go forward with the case was approved by every level and lacked only the signature of Richard H. Walker, then serving as SEC enforcement director. Rather than approve the case, on July 10, 2001 he recused himself. On July 23, 2001, a letter was sent to Deutsche Bank informing them, \"\"Inquiry in the above-captioned matter has been terminated.\" The SEC dropped the fraud investigation without the customary explanation of its decision to close the case. On October 1, 2001, Walker was hired as general counsel by Deutsche Bank. In 2004, he hired Khuzami to work at the bank and a few years later, recommended him to become SEC enforcement director. Flynn was interviewed by staff from three congressional committees in summer 2011 on the Deutsche Bank case and the destruction of files from thousands of preliminary investigation cases conducted by the SEC. Senator Grassley wrote a letter to the SEC about the document destruction and SEC inspector general H. David Kotz investigated the matter.\n\nIn 2006, while testifying before Senator Arlen Specter and the Senate Judiciary Committee about Mack, Pequot Capital and the SEC lack of oversight, he warned that SEC enforcement was dangerously lax. He said that the SEC had recovered a mere $110,000 from hedge fund insider trading over one year when the Committee itself had found evidence that over a one-year period, more than 41% of all mergers and acquisitions of over a billion dollars involved insider trading. Aguirre warned that lack of effective oversight of rampant corruption was allowing Wall Street the same unregulated market abuse and leveraging that caused the Wall Street crash of 1929. In 2008, he delivered a similar message at the Sibos conference in Vienna. Just prior to the collapse of Bear Stearns, he wrote a letter to the Senate Banking Committee that the nation's banks, and particularly Bear Stearns, were at risk because of subprime debt exposure and credit default swaps. In September 2008, during the debate on the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), Aguirre's projections on the costs of the taxpayer bailout were cited on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nAguirre is frequently quoted and interviewed in the media regarding issues related to financial and securities law and whistleblowers. Aguirre says the SEC has completely lost sight of its mission and that the mentality and culture won't change until the agency is no longer \"run by attorneys who are on sabbatical\" from Wall Street.\n\nOn July 22, 2010, President Barack Obama signed Wall Street reform legislation, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which included a provision to exempt the SEC from FOIA requests by the public. Aguirre used FOIA requests to obtain records relating to why his SEC superiors had stymied his Pequot investigation, charges which prompted two U.S. Senate committees to investigate. The documents, released against the wishes of the SEC, led to the discovery of evidence that resulted in a large settlement. Aguirre was the first to speak out about the exemptions and a letter by Congressman Darrell Issa to Mary Schapiro, chairman of the SEC relied heavily on his article, \"The Dodd-Frank Act: A FOIA Exemption for SEC Misconduct?\" from \"Wall Street Lawyer\". Congressional testimony by the Project on Government Oversight at a hearing on legislative proposals to address the problem referred to Aguirre's case as an example of the crucial need for public oversight of government agencies. Aguirre said the new bill would block public access to the SEC's records and hamper oversight. Other critics called the bill a \"backroom deal\" between the SEC and the U.S. Congress to cover up SEC failures.\n\nThe following week, first the Senate and then the House unanimously passed bills to repeal the exemptions. Obama signed the bill repealing the exemption on October 5, 2010.\n\nAguirre describes the SEC as an agency created to protect the public from Wall Street, but now protects Wall Street from the public, and calls it a revolving door, where people move from SEC positions to highly lucrative positions on Wall Street and also in reverse. \"All the agencies have to some extent or another a revolving door [where government employees move to the private sector and earn more money]. But at the SEC, what you rotate into is an enormous salary leap. SEC managers may make $200,000. That same person may make $2 million as a starting salary on the outside and can move up from there. Now, when he leaves, I'm not sure he's worth $2 million as a lawyer, but he takes his Rolodex with him and that Rolodex is gold. The system maintains itself, because those that stay know their turn will come if they play the game. They see a director or associate director move onto a $2 million job with a Wall Street law firm. Then, the departed employee calls back to his former colleagues and says, 'you know I really don't think there is much of a case against so-and-so, I'd like for you to take a look at it.' And the case goes away; the system goes on in perpetuity.\" Two of Aguirre's supervisors left the SEC for lucrative positions at private law firms. Paul Berger works at Debevoise and Plimpton. After failing to investigate the Bernie Madoff ponzi scheme, Linda Chatman Thomsen left her position as SEC Enforcement Director to become a partner at Davis Polk & Wardwell, where according to the \"Wall Street Journal\", she would be part of its \"white-collar defense group\". Robert Khuzami, who succeeded her, worked as a prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney's office in Manhattan's Southern District of New York, then went to Deutsche Bank for several years before returning being named SEC Enforcement Director.\n\nThe SEC's handling of the investigation of Pequot's $18 million profit on Heller Financial, contrasts sharply with their aggressive pursuit of a low-level GE employee and a kung fu instructor who made a much smaller trade on Heller, earning a profit of just over $150,000. According to Aguirre, decisions to pursue small cases and ignore the much larger ones involving the financial elite are less the exception, than the rule and explain why Bernie Madoff was ignored for so long.\n\nIn April 2012, representing whistleblower Rodolfo Michelson, Aguirre filed an FOIA claim against the SEC related to Michelson's claims that Sempra Global bribed Mexican government officials in order to advance its projects. Michelon filed suit against the SEC after an SEC investigation into the bribes concluded that the charges had been addressed. The suit alleges that the SEC \"outsourced\" its investigation to a law firm with ties to Sempra and seeks SEC records that indicate how the SEC conducted the investigation. Baker & McKenzie and Jones Day investigated the bribery charges. Sempra's executive vice president and general counsel was previously a partner at Jones Day. Aguirre said, \"The notion that there is a class of companies, Fortune 500 Companies and Wall Street banks and Wall Street in general who are able to conduct their own investigations through favorite law firms is repugnant to the host of regulations that require the SEC to be neutral, unbiased and treat everybody the same.\"\n\nAguirre received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of California, Berkeley in 1962, and a law degree from Boalt Hall in 1966, where he was the recipient of a Ford Foundation grant.\n\nDuring a trip to Russia in 1987, Aguirre met some filmmakers at the Moscow Film Festival and discovered an interest in film. Having reached his professional and financial goals, Aguirre left his law practice in 1995. He returned to college, earning a Master of Fine Arts degree in film from UCLA.\n\nWhile living in Spain in 2000, he became transfixed by the Bush v. Gore case and began thinking about the letter he had received from Robert F. Kennedy, which he had kept because it inspired him. Re-reading the letter, he was again inspired, reminded that lawyers can have a role beyond construction-defect cases.\n\nAt the age of 61, Aguirre went back to law school at Georgetown University Law Center to study international and securities law. Aguirre received a Master of Laws degree with distinction (honors) in 2003 and in January 2004, his LL.M thesis won second place in the Association of Securities and Exchange Commission Alumni Annual Securities Law Writing Competition and was published in the \"Delaware Journal of Corporate Law\". Four of his professors were on the SEC staff, including one, Mark Kreitman, who later became his supervisor at the SEC. Kreitman described Aguirre as \"the best student he had ever had\". After graduation, he wanted to enter public service and an advisor suggested he apply for a fraud investigator's job that had come available at the SEC.\n\nAguirre's son is the musician, Gary Jules; his younger brother, Michael, was the San Diego city attorney from 2004 to 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48304741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48304741", "title": "Georgina Jolibois", "text": "Georgina Jolibois\n\nGeorgina Jolibois (born 1968) is a Canadian politician, who was elected to represent the riding of Desnethé—Missinippi—Churchill River in the House of Commons of Canada in the Canadian federal election, 2015.\n\nPrior to her election Jolibois served for twelve years as mayor of La Loche. She also served nine years on the Royal Canadian Mounted Police \"F\" Division’s Aboriginal Advisory Committee, working with law enforcement and other community partners to build safer communities in the North.\n\nJolibois sponsored the private member bill C-369 which sought to make National Indigenous Peoples Day a legal holiday.\n"}
{"id": "18298776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18298776", "title": "Henry Andres Burgevine", "text": "Henry Andres Burgevine\n\nHenry Andres Burgevine () (1836–1865) was an American sailor of French ancestry, mercenary and soldier of fortune, who became famous for his military victories for Imperial China during the Taiping Rebellion. \n\nAccording to Caleb Carr in his biography of Frederick Townsend Ward, Burgevine was the child of a French officer who had served under Napoleon Bonaparte and who had moved to Chapel Hill, North Carolina where he became an instructor in French at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. His father, after having been caught (at what?) by the President of the University, then died in a brawl in South Carolina. Burgevine then lived with his grandparents and sister in Ashford, North Carolina.\n\nAt age 7 Burgevine moved to Washington, D.C. with his mother and became a Congressional and then a Senatorial page until 1853. After travels in India, Hawaii and Australia, he then returned to Washington and then enlisted in the French Army for the duration of the Crimean War, where he was decorated for bravery. \n\nIn the early stages of the Taiping Rebellion he sided with the Qing Army, serving as the deputy commander of Ever Victorious Army, and succeeding the commander, Frederick Townsend Ward to command the Ever Victorious Army after Ward's death. Burgevine's assignment was against Ward's will, who wished his loyal Filipino subordinate Macanaya to succeed him as the commander, but the imperial Chinese court selected Burgevine instead. However, Burgevine betrayed the Qing Dynasty by later defecting and joining Li Shixian's army. He was later repatriated to the United States but he returned to China after completing half of his journey. On his return Qing police arrested him once again. In 1865 he drowned along with 10 Qing police in Xiamen's sea on the way to Shanghai, China, although some historians believed that Burgevine was murdered on Li Hongzhang's orders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21050449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21050449", "title": "Hermann Brunner", "text": "Hermann Brunner\n\nSS-Sturmbannführer Herman Brunner is a recurrent supporting character from the Polish popular TV series \"More Than Life at Stake\" (\"Stawka większa niż życie\"). He is played by Emil Karewicz.\n\nA Sicherheitsdienst (sometimes incorrectly linked to Gestapo) officer in occupied Poland during World War II, Brunner is a ruthless Nazi official, who sometimes works with main character, Lieutenant (later Captain) Hans Kloss of Abwehr, who is really Major Stanislaw Kolicki of Polish intelligence. Brunner looks after his own interests and is not a fanatic. (Near end of the war he tries to kidnap a renowned German professor, a specialist in rocket technology, in order to sell him to the western allies in exchange for his own safety and other benefits). Nothing is known about his background.\n\nAlthough he appeared in just 5 of 18 episodes, Brunner became as popular a character as Kloss, sometimes even more popular. Despite his multiple sinister acts (in addition to his work in a repressive regime, he was also involved in an armed robbery, which left the wife of a high ranking NSDAP official dead), Brunner in part was a likeable character, due to his rascal-like sense of humor, and his lack of obvious involvement in violence on screen.\n\nMany of Brunner's lines in the series are still widely known and quoted in Poland, for example:\n"}
{"id": "51271157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51271157", "title": "I Ketut Ariana", "text": "I Ketut Ariana\n\nI Ketut Ariana (born 6 September 1989) is an Indonesian Olympic weightlifter. He represented his country at the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "32889971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32889971", "title": "Insulinde (political party)", "text": "Insulinde (political party)\n\nInsulinde (1907–1919), a direct successor of the \"Indische Party\" (IP) and later renamed the \"Nationale Indische Party\" (NIP), was a political organization that represented efforts by some Indo Eurasians to identify and cooperate with the Indigenous educated élite of the Dutch East Indies in an effort to establish an independent dominion. The organisation was mainly led by Indo-European and Javanese activists, but had a considerable membership in the South Moluccas. It was considered part of the more radical political wing in the colony, for which it faced much oppression from the colonial authorities.\n\n\"Insulinde\" was the direct successor of the Indische Party (IP), with a strong Indo-European (Eurasian) following and was based in Semarang. When the 3 founders of the IP (E.F.E. Douwes Dekker, Tjipto Mangoenkoesoemo and Soewardi Soerjaningrat) were exiled to the Netherlands in 1913, the IP secretary became chairman of the newly established ‘’Insulinde’’. The ‘’Insulinde’’ leadership was immediately put under strict police surveillance, but retained a strong core following. 6 September, the founding day of the IP and coincidentally also the day the 3 IP founders sailed into exile was proclaimed 'IP Day' by ‘’Insulinde’’.\n\nStill many former IP members were scared off by the harsh measures of the colonial authorities and refrained from joining ‘’Insulinde’’. Its magazine ‘De Express‘ lost subscriptions and came into financial difficulties. Only to be saved by the IP's so called TADO ‘’Tot Aan De Onafhankelijkheid’’, (Until The Independence) fund. The three former leaders of the IP, branded \"embittered extremists\" by the colonial government, were held in great esteem by the Insulinde members. During the 1913 Dutch imperial festivities Indo-Europeans of the ‘’Indische’’ party drove through white (totok) neighbourhoods in the big cities waving the IP banner.\n\nAugust 1914 Insulinde published its bi-weekly Dutch & Malay language paper, named ‘De Goentoer’ (The Thunder), edited by Javanese Insulinde member Darnakoesoemo, a close friend of IP leader Tjipto. To the great dismay of the authorities It still called for independence of the Dutch East Indies, “free of foreign tyranny” and defended the interests of indigenous and Indo people alike.\n\nContributors Darnakoesoemo and fellow Javanese Marco Kartodikromo aka Mas Marco, were considered “extremely dangerous” and were prosecuted for subversive activity by the authorities for which they served time. Mas Marco went to the Netherlands for 5 months after his sentence in 1916. In the Netherlands he was surprised and impressed, as other indigenous exiles and student activists were before him, by the much greater levels of freedom of speech and political freedom granted there.\n\nOnce back in the Dutch East Indies his writing became even more “radical”, and he was sentenced to a relatively heavy prison term of two years. The ’’Insulinde’’ party founded a committee and fund to support Mas Marco, his family and other persecuted activists.\n\nDutch communist leader Henk Sneevliet co-founder of the ISDV, who had arrived in Java in 1913 initially believed ‘’Insulinde’‘ could be an effective vehicle to disseminate the socialist ideals and agenda in the colony. Some members of the ISDV (predecessor of the Indonesian Communist Party) however felt that Insulinde was waging a “race struggle” rather than a “class struggle” and called E.F.E. Douwes Dekker, a “nationalist anarchist” rather than a “social democrat”.\n\nIn its political struggle Insulinde was allied to the Sarekat Islam and ISDV, organizing protest rallies and meetings attended by thousands. Cooperation with the ISDV was ended in 1917 on the grounds that Insulinde believed that the Dutch leadership of that party was trying to drive a wedge between the Indigenous and Indo people.\n\nIn the end both the authorities and public opinion considered the Marxist aims of the ISDV to uproot and transform world order, more dangerous and extreme than Insulinde's aim for independence.\n\nUnder the guidance of former IP leader Tjipto, who due to health reasons had returned early from exile, the party flourished. In 1917 Insulinde gained a large majority at the council elections of the colonial capital Batavia. In both Semarang and Ambon city Ambonese political activists joined the party. Insulinde was the first political organization obtaining a serious foothold in the Moluccas. By June 1919 Insulinde had a membership of 17,000 members and was well represented in the Volksraad (Dutch East Indies) where it maintained close ties with Budi Utomo and the Sarekat Islam.\n\nWith the return from exile of the other two former IP leaders Douwes Dekker and Soewardi Soerjaningrat the party decided to rekindle the IP's nationalist flame and renamed itself the Nationale Indische Party (NIP), National Indies Party in 1919. Again the colonial authorities thwarted any possibility for the NIP to become a mass movement by arresting NIP leaders.\n\nWhen NIP membership numbers dropped, many of its Indo-European members joined the 1919 established Indo European Alliance (IEV), founded by Douwes Dekker's former colleague, friend and associate Karel Zaalberg.\n\nThe \"National Indies Party\" (NIP) became a predecessor of Sukarno's \"Indonesian National Party\" (PNI).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30001352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30001352", "title": "Javed Abidi", "text": "Javed Abidi\n\nJaved Abidi (11 June 1965 – 4 March 2018) was an Indian activist who served as the director of the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) in India, and the founder of the Disability Rights Group.\n\nHe received an education in Journalism and Communication at Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio. He set up the disability wing of the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation in India, after being invited to do so by Sonia Gandhi.\n\nAbidi was born on 11 June 1965 in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. He was born with spina bifida. Abidi first had surgery at the age of eight to treat his spina bifida. As a result, he suffered nerve damage. He required another surgery at the age of 10 after an injury from a fall. He moved with his family to the United States. After their move to the United States, Abidi received medical care at the Boston Children's Hospital and the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago. Abidi began using a wheelchair at age fifteen.\n\nAbidi studied at Wright State University. In 1989, he moved to India to pursue a career in journalism.\n\nIn 1993, he started working for Sonia Gandhi, creating and building the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation's Disabilities Unit. A year later, Javed Abidi joined a small advocate group called the Disability Rights Group and started raising awareness for the disabled people of India. A large pro-disability rights movement arose, with the goal of getting the Parliament of India to implement a bill of rights for the disabled. Javed Abidi led a protest before Parliament on 19 December 1995. The protest pushed Parliament into passing the Persons with Disabilities Act on 22 December 1995. In 2004, his letter to Chief Justice of India addressed the accessibility of polling booths for persons with disabilities. Supreme Court of India\n\nThe Rajiv Gandhi Foundation created the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People in 1995 and appointed Abidi as its director. Abidi collaborated with business executives from IBM, Apple Inc., Oracle Corporation, Cisco Systems, Microsoft, and Hewlett-Packard to employ disabled individuals in these companies and in the high-tech industry in general. In 2000, Abidi urged the Archaeological Survey of India to install wheelchair ramps at various prominent monuments, including the Red Fort, Qutub Minar, Humayun's Tomb, and Jantar Mantar. The impetus for the ramps was to accommodate Stephen Hawking while he visited these sites. For the next two years, Abidi and the NCPEDP focused on accessibility for the disabled, publishment of disability issues, and work opportunities for the disabled.\n\nAbidi died on 4 March 2018 from a chest infection.\n\n"}
{"id": "18766781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18766781", "title": "John Davies Evans", "text": "John Davies Evans\n\nJohn Davies Evans (22 January 1925 – 4 July 2011) was an English archaeologist and academic, renowned for his research into the prehistory of the Mediterranean, and especially the prehistoric cultures of Malta. He was a Director of the Institute of Archaeology in London from 1975 until his retirement in 1989. During his directorship the Institute—the largest archaeology department in the UK and one of the largest in the world—was reorganised from a separate institution within the University of London to one affiliated with University College London, in 1986.\n\nEvans was educated at the Liverpool Institute from where he won an open scholarship to read English at Pembroke College, Cambridge, aged 17. His studies were interrupted by the outbreak of the Second World War, during which he served at Bletchley Park as one of the team involved in breaking each day's new Enigma code settings.\n\nDuring the 1940s and 1950s Evans excavated a number of the significant Megalithic sites in Malta.\n\n"}
{"id": "824781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=824781", "title": "John H. Wilson (Hawaii politician)", "text": "John H. Wilson (Hawaii politician)\n\nJohn Henry Wilson (December 15, 1871 – July 3, 1956), was a civil engineer, insurgent, co-founder of the Democratic Party of Hawaii, and Mayor of Honolulu, Hawaii three times: from 1920 to 1927, from 1929 to 1931, and from 1946 to 1954.\n\nWilson was born in Honolulu, Hawaii in 1871. His father was Charles B. Wilson (1850–1926), whose ethnic background was Scottish and Tahitian. C.B. Wilson was superintendent of the water works and fire chief under King Kalākaua, and was Marshal of the Kingdom under Queen Liliuokalani.\nHis mother was three quarters of European descent and one quarter Hawaiian Eveline M. \"Kitty or Kittie\" Townsend, granddaughter of Captain Henry Blanchard of the ship \"Thaddeus\" which had brought the first missionaries of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to Hawaii in 1820.\n\nWilson attended the Fort Street School and St. Alban's College. After graduating, he worked odd jobs on the West Coast, Hawaii, and Alaska. A construction job that he took in 1890 with Oahu Railway & Land led him to pursue civil engineering as a career. With financial support from the Queen, he enrolled at Stanford University in 1891. However, lack of funds after the overthrow of the monarchy in 1893 forced him to leave Stanford in 1894. While on the mainland he was approached by revolutionaries looking for suppliers for the 1895 Counter-Revolution in Hawaii, and attempt to restore the monarchy. He took part in the smuggling of guns and ammunition to Maui as part of the arms buildup by rebel forces. After the failed revolution he spoke little about his role in fearing he would be arrested for treason. He admitted he smuggled guns and was of rank to participate in planning his mission. He planned to land a ship of insurgents from Maui to attack Honolulu, but was the mission was aborted after the revolution was exposed and martial law was activated.\n\nIn 1896 he once again joined Oahu Railway & Land and worked on a survey for a carriage road over the Nuuanu Pali. Armed with this knowledge, he and fellow Stanford student Louis Whitehouse bid for and won the contract to build the road, completing the road in January 1898.\n\nWilson served as roads engineer for both Maui and Honolulu counties. He was in a meeting on April 30, 1900 that organized the Democratic Party of Hawaii. He married hula practitioner Kini Kapahu on May 8, 1909. They moved to Molokaʻi and lived in the Pelekunu Valley before returning to Honolulu in 1919.\n\nHis first political campaign was for a seat in the Territorial Senate in 1918, which he lost. However, upon the death of Mayor Joseph J. Fern in 1920, Wilson was selected by the Board of Supervisors to succeed him.\n\nWilson served three times as mayor, from 1920 to 1927, 1929 to 1931, and from 1946 to 1954, a total of 19 years. As mayor, Wilson oversaw the completion of Honolulu Hale, which was completed in 1929 and consolidated the functions of the city's government. He also served on some territorial commissions, including coordinating the state holiday, Kamehameha Day, until 1956.\n\nFollowing World War II Wilson considered retirement he had been \"de facto\" leader of the Democratic Party of the original five founders only two remained. David Kawānanakoa died in 1908, John S. McGrew died in 1911, and Charles J. McCarthy died in 1929. Delbert E. Metzger was a Federal Judge and powerful Democrat but his judicial career reduced his participation in politics this left Wilson as leader. Wilson preferred to leave the party in good hands. An ambitious detective named John A. Burns emerged as a successor Wilson could pass the torch to.\n\nIn his 80s, Wilson was once again a revolutionary as a key member of a nonviolent revolution called the Democratic Revolution of 1954 that brought his party to power. The early Democrats held a dislike toward Asian-Americans as threats to Hawaiians and the social demographics of Hawaii. But unlike his colleagues, Wilson himself an early Democrat and part-Hawaiian, allowed passage of 442nd veterans into the party, such as Daniel Inouye and Spark Matsunaga. He lived long enough to see the party that had overthrown the monarchy be dethroned themselves, and to some extent accomplishing what he failed in 1895. During this turbulent time Democrats were divided between right-wing \"Walkouts\" led by Ingram Stainback and the left-wing \"Standpats\" led by Burns, Wilson was a Standpat. A damaging letter written by Wilson criticizing non-Hawaii-born Democrats alluding to Stainback was considered the major factor in his loss to Republican Neal Blaisdell.\n\nDuring the late 1950s, Wilson advocated that the territorial government build a tunnel through the Koolau Mountains from Honolulu to Kaneohe through Kalihi Valley. The territorial government, however, opted to build the tunnel through the Nuuanu Pali. The city eventually proceeded with plans to build a second set of tunnels through Kalihi Valley, which opened in 1961, five years after Wilson's death. The tunnels were named the John H. Wilson Tunnels in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "41424114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41424114", "title": "Julius Spearbraker", "text": "Julius Spearbraker\n\nJulius Spearbraker was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly.\n\nSpearbraker was born on September 8, 1886 in Clintonville, Wisconsin. He attended Marquette University. Spearbraker died in 1969.\n\nSpearbraker was a member of the Assembly from 1939 to 1950. Previously, he had been Clerk of Clintonville from 1912 to 1934. Additionally, he was a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1940 and 1944.\n"}
{"id": "54038960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54038960", "title": "Ken Garnhum", "text": "Ken Garnhum\n\nKen Garnhum is a Canadian playwright, performance artist and theatrical designer. He is most noted for his performance piece \"Beuys, Buoys, Boys\", which was a shortlisted finalist for the Dora Mavor Moore Award for Outstanding New Play in 1989, and his play \"Pants on Fire\", which won the Floyd S. Chalmers Canadian Play Award in 1995.\n\nOriginally from Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, Garnhum worked in art and theatre in Charlottetown before moving to Toronto in 1981. His other plays and performance pieces have included \"Building a Post-Mortem Birdhouse\", \"How Many Saints Can Sit Around?\" (1987), \"Twenty Minute History of Art\" (1987), \"Surrounded by Water\" (1991), \"The Incredible Red Vase\" (1991), \"one word\" (1997) and \"The Hermits\" (1998).\n\nIn 1992, \"Beuys, Buoys, Boys\" was included in \"Making Out\", the first anthology of Canadian plays by gay writers, alongside works by David Demchuk, Sky Gilbert, Daniel MacIvor, Harry Rintoul and Colin Thomas. \"Pants on Fire\", one of the early AIDS-themed plays in Canadian literature, was the first play Garnhum wrote after himself being diagnosed HIV-positive in 1993.\n\nHe has also regularly worked as a set and costume designer, both on his own shows and for other playwrights; he garnered Dora Award nominations for set design in 1994 for a production of \"The House of Martin Guerre\", and for both costume and set design in 1996 for Gloria Montero's \"Frida K\".\n"}
{"id": "25109534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25109534", "title": "Kiran Rao", "text": "Kiran Rao\n\nKiran Rao (born 7 November 1973) is an Indian film producer, screenwriter and director. She is the wife of Bollywood actor Aamir Khan and the cousin of actress Aditi Rao \n\nRao was born in Telangana on 7 November 1973. Her grandfather was J. Rameshwar Rao, Raja of Wanaparthy, Wanaparthy district, Telangana state. In 1992, her parents decided to leave Kolkata so she moved to Mumbai. She graduated with a food sciences major from the Sophia College for Women in 1995. She attended the Social Communications Media course at the Sophia Polytechnic for two months, but then quit and left for Delhi. She got her Masters at AJK Mass Communication Research Center at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. Actress Aditi Rao Hydari is Rao's first cousin.\n\nRao started her career as an assistant director in the epic film \"Lagaan\" directed by Ashutosh Gowariker, whom she also assisted later on \"Swades: We, the People\". \"Lagaan\" was nominated for 74th Academy Awards in the foreign language film category. Aamir Khan produced and starred in the same film. Before \"Lagaan\", she has also done minute role of supporting actress in \"Dil Chahta Hai\". She also worked as second assistant director with Academy Award nominated director Mira Nair on the indie hit \"Monsoon Wedding\".\n\nShe scripted and directed the film \"Dhobi Ghat\", which was released in January 2011 under Aamir Khan Productions. She has started writing her next film which will have roots in Kolkata.\n\nKiran Rao was made the chairperson of the Mumbai Film Festival - MAMI in 2015. She also sang a Marathi song 'Toofan Aala' Satyamev Jayate Water Cup Anthem \n\nRao married actor Aamir Khan in December 2005, after Khan divorced his first wife Reena Dutta in 2002. They met on the sets of \"Lagaan\". Rao was one of the film's assistant directors. They now live in Bandra, a Mumbai suburb. The couple have a son, Azad Rao Khan (born on 5 December 2011), who has been named after Abdul Kalam Azad. She is an Atheist.\n\nRao has been a vegan, and she has influenced her husband, Aamir Khan, to turn vegan as well. After discussing the issue, both of them decided to turn to vegan, and although Rao had been taking chicken and cigarettes during her non-veg days, she started taking it intensively following the discussion and agreement with her husband.\n\nRao's paternal and Hydari’s maternal grandfather, J. Rameshwar Rao, was the Raja of Wanaparthy, a large estate under the Nizam of Hyderabad. Wanaparthy is a district of Telangana.\n\n\n\n\nPresenter\n"}
{"id": "45437138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45437138", "title": "Konda Bimbaša", "text": "Konda Bimbaša\n\nKonda (, March 1804–d. May/June 1807) was an Ottoman Greek mercenary in Alija Gušanac's Dahije detachment in the Sanjak of Smederevo who switched sides to the Serb rebels during the First Serbian Uprising, proclaimed a hero for his efforts in the Siege of Belgrade (1806).\n\nKonda, an Orthodox Christian, was according to his contemporary, Triantafyllos Doukas, born in the frontier of Ioannina in Epirus (now Greece). According to some, he was Greek-Aromanian. He began his military career in 1804, as a mercenary (\"krdžalija\") in the forces of Alija Gušanac. Gušanac served the Dahije, the renegade Janissaries that took over the Sanjak of Smederevo defying the Sultan since 1801. After the slaughter of the Knezes (January 1804), the Serbs decided to rise up against the Dahije after gathering in Orašac on 14 February. They crushed the power of the Dahije by August, but some towns were still held by the Dahije. The Ottomans now turned against the Serbs, and Gušanac had by then joined the Ottomans. In March 1804, with Gušanac's forces, Konda had gone to the Morava, around Ćuprija, and from there to the city of Belgrade where he stayed until prior to autumn 1806. At that time, he had the rank of \"bölükbaşı\" (captain). Konda joined the Serb rebels three months prior to the siege of Belgrade which took place on 30 November (St. Andrew's Day). He received the rank of \"bimbaša\" (major) in the rebel army, hence, is known as Konda Bimbaša (Конда Бимбаша) in historiography.\nThe plan of penetrating the town of Belgrade, through taking over the Sava, Varoš, Stambol and Vidin gates (see Gates of Belgrade), was presented by Konda to Karađorđe. Konda, well aware of the functioning of the Ottoman guard, took the leadership over volunteers to take over the Sava gate, accompanied by Uzun-Mirko. Karađorđe decided with the commanders that the attack be carried out on St. Andrew Day, during Eid al-Fitr, when the attention of the guards was lower. Rebel colons were set on each gate, to storm after the gate was taken, commanded by Miloje Petrović, Sima Marković, Vasa Čarapić, Stanoje Glavaš and Vule Ilić. At the estimated time, Konda, Uzun-Mirko, Petar Sremac, Nikola Stambolija, Karlovalija, Dragić and Mladen headed out, followed by a detachment of volunteers, and then the main colon of Miloje Petrović. Since they arrived unnoticed at the gate, Konda and Uzun-Mirko first climbed the rampart and jumped over the palisade and headed towards the guards on a bypassing road. Met by an Ottoman patrol, they presented themselves as krdžalije, then proceeded to the town gates and guards where they divided into two groups. Uzun-Mirko and Konda attacked the guards, and the rest broke into the gate locks with axes. In the fight, Uzun-Mirko received two wounds, and Konda five, but they kept on. Even though shots were fired, the Turks in the town and at the rest of the gates did not suspect that a Serbian attack was in question, but that shots were fired for the holiday. After taking over the first gates, commandos went toward the Varoš Gate, at which time the Turks were alarmed. Most of the Turks tried to reach the Upper Fortress (Kalemegdan), while the resistance was provided by the krdžalije. Uzun-Mirko and Konda also fought on the Varoš Gate, while Vasa Čarapić died taking over the Stambol Gate, and Stanoje Glavaš and Vule Ilić penetrated through the Vidin Gate, after which the rebels easily took over the town towards Kalemegdan. According to another account, mentioned by Petar Jokić, Konda and Uzun-Mirko first entered a caravanserai (inn) prior to the attack, as they knew Turkish they were unsuspicious; their fighters, not knowing that their leaders were not present, while approaching the rampart entered a conflict with Turks, at which time Konda and Uzun-Mirko fought the Turks in the inn.\n\nAfter taking over Belgrade, Konda looked after his wounds in the former shelter of \"dahija\" Aganlija. After recuperating, he returned to the battlefield. Konda fell at the Battle of Loznica (1807) (as mentioned by Doukas and Dositej Obradović). M. Đ. Milićević at first supported this in his work \"Kneževina Srbija\", but then changed it and claimed that Konda survived the battle, in his work \"Pomenik\".\n\nAccording to Andra Gavrilović, Konda's identity was confused with that of another rebel, Jovča Mihailović \"Konda\" ( 1807–13), and possibly more individuals; in that way \"the hero of Belgrade\" became a legendary person. Milićević included a story in which Konda died after 1820. \"Konda\" fought at Užice and Loznica (1807), and lived in Belgrade in 1808 according to two contemporary documents, and was mentioned as organizing war necessarities along with Raka Levajac in 1812, and left Serbia for Austria in 1813 following the suppression of the revolt, and after a short while moved to Bessarabia where he lived as an outlaw. Gavrilović was the first to critically study Milićević's accounts on Konda. R. Perović also mentioned a story that Konda was an Orthodox named Toma and was born in Lom-Palanka, in the Vidin Pashaluk, similarly found in Milićević's account on the birthplace of \"Konda\".\n\nIn composer Svetomir Nastasijević's opera \"The First Uprising\", written in 1954, Konda is included among the characters. A street in Belgrade bears his name (\"Kondina ulica\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17691079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17691079", "title": "Leo Schaya", "text": "Leo Schaya\n\nLeo Schaya (1916–1985) was a Swiss author and scholar whose works focused on the Sufi tradition, the Kabbalah, and the Traditionalist School.\n\nBorn in Switzerland, Schaya lived much of his adult life in Nancy, France. He grew up in a traditional Jewish household and from his early youth he was interested in the works of neo-Platonism, Sufism and Advaita Vedanta.\n\nHe published several articles on the Kabbalah. He also wrote a book on the Sufi doctrine of unity. He is the founder of the journal .\n\nSchaya was a friend and frequent correspondent of prominent Traditionalist Frithjof Schuon.\n\nIn English\n\nIn French\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58939957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58939957", "title": "Lillian Resler Keister Harford", "text": "Lillian Resler Keister Harford\n\nLillian Resler Keister Harford (May 15, 1851 – 1935) was an American church organizer, editor, and author. She was active worker in the Woman's Missionary Association of her church, the United Brethren in Christ, and delivered lectures for the Women's Missionary Society. In 1880, she was one of the two delegates sent by the Association to the World's Missionary Conference in London, England. She became the longest-serving president of the Association.\n\nLillian (\"Lillie\") A. Resler was born in Mount Pleasant, Pennsylvania, May 15, 1851. She was the first of seven children born to Rev. and Mrs. Jacob B. Resler. A brother was named John I.L. Ressler. Rev. Resler (d. 1891) was minister of the United Brethren in Christ church of that city. He, with only a small salary, moved to Westerville, Ohio, to give his children the benefit of Otterbein University, as soon as Keister was ready to enter, which was in 1866. She was graduated with the class of 1872.\n\nAfter completing her education, she became a school teacher.\n\nOn August 19, 1875, at Westerville, she married Rev. George Keister (b. 1847), professor of Hebrew and Church History in United Theological Seminary, Dayton, Ohio, from 1875. They had no children. The early death, in August 1880, of her husband opened the way to her broader usefulness in church work. The church of her choice, the United Brethren in Christ, organized the Woman's Missionary Association in 1875, of which she was corresponding secretary for the first year. The work of the society grew and, in 1881, it called for the full time of one woman as its corresponding secretary and to establish and edit its organ, the \"Woman's Evangel\". Keister was the available woman well-qualified for the responsible position. She was unanimously elected, holding the position in 1875-76 and 1881-1893. Besides the work on the paper, much of her time was spent giving public addresses.\n\nKeister traveled a lot. One year, she traveled in association work over in the United States. Twice, she went on short trips abroad, first in 1884, when the illness of her sister studying in Germany called her there, and again in 1888, when she was one of two delegates sent by the Woman's Missionary Association to the World's Missionary Conference in London.\n\nOn June 14, 1893, she married William P. Harford (1834-1910).\n\nKeister served as President of the Omaha Woman's Club, Omaha, Nebraska. Between 1905 and 1927, she was president of the Woman's Missionary Association. From 1927 till her death, she served as the Association's honorary president. In 1921, with Alice Estella Bell, she published \"History of the Women's Missionary Association of the United Brethren in Christ\".\n\nKeister died in 1935. The dedication and renaming of the First United Brethren Church of Omaha, Nebraska, at Nineteenth and Lothrop Streets, occurred December 5, 1909, the new name being \"The Lillian Resler Harford Memorial United Brethren Church of Omaha\". The Harford School for Girls (HSG), Moyamba, Sierra Leone is named in her honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12914922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12914922", "title": "Lorie Line", "text": "Lorie Line\n\nLorie Line (born 1958) is a classically trained pianist, composer, and performer from Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\nLine grew up in Reno, Nevada and has played the piano since she was five years old. As a young musician, she won several state piano competitions annually. Line obtained a B.A. in Music, Piano Performance from the University of Nevada in Reno. She married Tim Line in 1986 before moving to Minneapolis to accept a job as a pianist for Dayton's department stores. Line's musical career began to pick up speed as many Midwestern fans began to notice her talented piano skills while they shopped in these department stores.\n\nLine has become one of the most published arrangers and composers in the last thirty years. Since 1989, she has written and arranged music, published over 50 books of sheet music, recorded 50 CDs, and released 44 albums on her own independent label. She has sold over 6 million albums and continues to tour and perform about 60 to 80 concerts per year. Thousands of people listen to her Pandora Lorie Line radio station and her music \"spins\" nearly 2 million times every week. In addition to her general concerts, Line has performed for congressmen, governors, and two presidents. She has produced three television specials for PBS and won the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award in 2002 in the entertainment category. Her story and home have been featured in hundreds of news articles and national magazines and her private costumes have been showcased in museums. In 2015, Line was inducted in the Minnesota Hall of Fame, joining ranks with artists such as Judy Garland, Bob Dylan, and Prince.\n\nLine and her husband have lived on Lake Minnetonka in Minnesota for the past twenty years and become active gardeners; Line herself became a member of the Wayzata Garden Club fifteen years ago. They have two adult children and have raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for charities.\n\nA selection of Line's albums and music books, produced by her independent label Lorie Line Music, Inc. includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3309422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3309422", "title": "Ma Huan", "text": "Ma Huan\n\nMa Huan (, Xiao'erjing: ) (c. 1380–1460), courtesy name Zongdao (), pen name Mountain-woodcutter (會稽山樵), was a Chinese voyager and translator who accompanied Admiral Zheng He on three of his seven expeditions to the Western Oceans. Ma was a Muslim and was born in Zhejiang's Kuaiji Commandery, an area within the modern borders of Shaoxing. He knew several Classical Chinese and Buddhist texts. He learned Arabic to be able to translate.\n\nIn the 1413 expedition (the 4th), he visited Champa, Java, Sumatra, Palembang, Siam, Kochi and Hormuz.\n\nIn the 1421 expedition, he visited Malacca, Aru, Sumatra, Trincomalee, Ceylon, Kochi, Calicut, Zufar and Hormuz.\n\nIn the 1431 expedition, he visited Bengal, Chittagong, Sonargaon, Gaur and Calicut. From Calicut, he was sent by Eununch Hong Bao as emissary to Mecca.\n\nDuring his expeditions, Ma Huan took notes about the geography, politics, weather conditions, environment, economy, local customs, even method of punishment for criminals. Returned home on his first expedition, he began writing a book about his expedition, the first draft of which was ready around 1416. He expanded and modified his draft during later expeditions, the final version was ready around 1451. The title of his book was \"Yingya Shenglan\" (The Overall Survey of the Ocean's Shores).\n\nDuring the Ming dynasty and Qing dynasty, there were many printed and handcopied editions. The latest authentic text of a printed version was edited and annotated by historian . A newer edition, based on Ming dynasty handcopied editions, was recently published by Ocean Publishing House in China.\n\nAn annotated English translation by J.V.G. Mills (1887–1987) was published by the Hakluyt Society in 1970, and reprinted in 1997 by The White Lotus Press in Bangkok. Mills's translation was based on the edition by Feng Cheng jun.\n\nThe \"Yingya Shenglan\" is considered by sinologists worldwide as a primary source for the history of Ming dynasty naval exploration, history of South East Asia and history of India.\n\nSome scholars who have done research work on Ma Huan are J.J.L. Duyvendak, F. Hirth, Paul Pelliot, Feng Chengjun, Xiang Da, J.V.G. Mills.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "90791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90791", "title": "Marassa Jumeaux", "text": "Marassa Jumeaux\n\nMarassa Jumeaux are the divine twins in Vodou. They are children, but more ancient than any other loa. \"Love, truth and justice. Directed by reason. Mysteries of liaison between earth and heaven and they personify astronomic-astrological learning. They synthesize the vodou Loa as personification of divine power and the human impotence. Double life, they have considerable power which allow them manage people through the stomach. They are children mysteries.\"\n\nThe Marassa are somewhat different from standard Loa, both on a level above them, and counted in their number, they are both twins, and yet they number three, they are male and female, and both male and both female - an example of the Haitian worldview's capacity to retain two seemingly contradictory concepts. In some houses they are not channelled through possession in Vodou ritual, but served first after Legba. \n\nThe Marassa are commonly syncretised with the Catholic Saints Cosmas and Damian.\n"}
{"id": "26401118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26401118", "title": "Matthew Ladner", "text": "Matthew Ladner\n\nMatthew Ladner (born September 1, 1967 in Port Arthur, Texas) is the Senior Advisor for Policy and Research at the Foundation for Excellence in Education (FEE). Ladner focuses on various school choice issues including school vouchers, charter schools, race and special education.\n\nLadner received his Bachelor of Arts Degree from the University of Texas at Austin in 1990. He received his master's degree in 1994 and his Doctorate in 1996, both from the University of Houston.\n\nPrior to working at FEE, Ladner was Vice President of Research for the Goldwater Institute, Vice President of Policy and Communications at Children First America and Director of State Projects at the Alliance for School Choice. In addition to his position as the Vice President of Research, Ladner was the Director for Economic Prosperity at Goldwater. Ladner is also a Friedman Fellow at EdChoice, and a Senior Fellow at the Texas Public Policy Foundation and the Goldwater Institute.\n\nLadner has testified before various state legislatures and the U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce and the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. Ladner's writing and work was featured in several newspapers across the United States including National Review Online and The New Republic.\n\nCurrently, Ladner has a book in development with the American Legislative Exchange Council on K-12 education.\n\n"}
{"id": "14534074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14534074", "title": "Meratus Dayak", "text": "Meratus Dayak\n\nThe Meratus Dayak inhabit the Meratus Mountains of South Kalimantan, Indonesia. The Banjar Kuala people would refer the Meratus people as Urang Baiju or Dayak Baiju, as they consider them to be the same as the Ngaju people. While the Banjar Hulu Sungai people would call the Meratus people as Urang Bukit, Dayak Bukit or Dayak Buguet.\n\nA Meratus Dayak's name changes over the course of his or her life. Children have \"body names\" (\"ngaran badan\") that are not usually used after adolescence. When they have children, men and women acquire teknonyms (\"ngaran ba'anak\"). For a man this name is \"Ma\" X or \"Pa'an\" X, where X is the name of one of his children, or sometimes another word. For a woman it is \"Induan\" X or \"Dun\" X, depending on which part of the Meratus area she lives in. Older men become \"Awat\" X (grandfather of X) and older women become \"Apih\" X.\n\nLocal Meratus Dayak dialects are closely related linguistically to both Indonesian (the national language), and to the Banjar language. Most Meratus Dayak can speak Banjar and Indonesian since government administrators conduct business in Indonesian and trade with the Banjar people is conducted in Banjar.\n\nThe Meratus people are divided into several sub-ethnics including:-\n\n\n\nMeratus Dayak are primarily farmers, and rice is the main crop. Rice cultivation occurs in swiddens (cleared portions of the forest). Swiddens are usually cultivated for a few years, then the forest is allowed to regenerate when the farmers move to a different swidden location to farm. The farmers may return to a swidden, although there is usually at least 15 years between leaving and returning to a swidden.\n\nMeratus people also collect forest products and trade with Banjar at markets outside the mountains. In these transactions Banjar typically act as middle men between the Meratus and other traders.\n\nMost Meratus live and farm in \"umbun\" which are also considered the primary social units among the Meratus Dayak. \"Umbun\" are founded by a man and a woman, usually a married couple, but sometimes also a brother and sister, a widow and her adult son, or other male-female pairs. \"Umbun\" also embrace a variety of dependents who have not yet founded their own \"umbun\", including children and recently married, disabled, and widowed adults. The founding pair is responsible for the \"umbun\".\nSome Meratus have also been moved into villages by government resettlement programs. The Meratus are classified as a \"semi-nomadic\" isolated tribe, and are the target of government development programs as such.\n"}
{"id": "7982105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7982105", "title": "Mohammed Bashar al-Faidi", "text": "Mohammed Bashar al-Faidi\n\nMuhammad Bashar al-Faidi is the spokesman for Harith Sulayman al-Dhari, the chairman of the Association of Muslim Scholars.\n\nOn November 16, 2006, the interior minister of Iraq, Jawad al-Bolani, a Shi'ite, announced that Dhari was wanted on a charge of inciting violence. \"The government's policy is that anyone who tries to spread division and strife among the Iraq people will be chased by our security agencies.\" Muhammad replied on Al Jazeera television and stated, \"The decisions of this government are worthless because it only rules the Green Zone.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54561573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54561573", "title": "Nani filmography", "text": "Nani filmography\n\nNani is an Indian film actor and producer who works predominantly in Telugu cinema and appears in a few Tamil language films. He made his acting debut with Mohan Krishna Indraganti 2008 comedy film \"Ashta Chamma\", an Indian adaptation of Oscar Wilde play \"The Importance of Being Earnest\". After \"Ashta Chamma\" commercial success, Nani played the lead roles in three Telugu films in the next two years: \"Ride\" (2009), \"Snehituda...\" (2009) and \"Bheemili Kabaddi Jattu\" (2010). In 2011, Nani collaborated with B. V. Nandini Reddy on the romantic comedy film \"Ala Modalaindi\" which was profitable. The same year, he made his Tamil cinema debut with Anjana Ali Khan's \"Veppam\", a crime drama set in the backdrop of North Chennai. The following year, Nani collaborated with S. S. Rajamouli and Gautham Menon on the Telugu-Tamil bilingual \"Eega\" and the romance film \"Yeto Vellipoyindhi Manasu\" respectively. The former, which was about a murdered man reincarnating as a housefly and avenging his death, earned Nani an award in the Best Hero category at the 2013 Toronto After Dark Film Festival. He received the Nandi Award for Best Actor for his performance in \"Yeto Vellipoyindhi Manasu\".\n\nNani ventured into film production in 2013 as a co-producer for the film \"D for Dopidi\". He faced three box office failures in the upcoming years: \"Paisa\" (2013), \"Aaha Kalyanam\" (2014) and \"Janda Pai Kapiraju\" (2015). Nani termed it a \"low phase\" in his career and worked on the \"planning of films and the timing of their release\". He then played the lead role in Nag Ashwin \"Yevade Subramanyam\" (2015), a film focusing on a businessperson's journey to the Himalayas seeking self exploration. Nani later starred in Maruthi Dasari comedy film \"Bhale Bhale Magadivoy\" (2015), in which he played an absent minded scientist easily prone to distraction. It was the actor's first blockbuster success, and earned him the Critics Award for Best Actor - South at the 63rd Filmfare Awards South ceremony. With his subsequent releases, the profitable ventures \"Krishna Gaadi Veera Prema Gaadha\" (2016) and \"Gentleman\" (2016), he gained stardom in Telugu cinema. Nani later played the lead in the commercially successful Telugu films \"Majnu\" (2016), \"Nenu Local\" (2017) and \"Ninnu Kori\" (2017).\n"}
{"id": "6132091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6132091", "title": "Nina Bracewell-Smith", "text": "Nina Bracewell-Smith\n\nBorn Nina Kakkar in Bonn, she is the daughter of an Indian diplomat. In 1996 she married Sir Charles Bracewell-Smith, 4th Baronet (of Keighley in the County of Yorkshire) at Westminster Register Office. Her husband is the younger son of the former Arsenal director Sir George Bracewell-Smith, 2nd Baronet , who was on the Arsenal board of directors from May 1953 to September 1976. Sir George was in turn the son of the former Arsenal director Sir Bracewell Smith, 1st Baronet, who was chairman from 1948 to 1962.\n\nLady Bracewell-Smith's share in Arsenal comes from the estate of Sir Bracewell Smith, which was split among his grandchildren, Sir Charles Bracewell-Smith, Clive Carr, Richard Carr and Sarah Carr, now Lady Phipps-Bagge. Sir Charles Bracewell-Smith transferred ownership of his shares to his wife, Lady Bracewell-Smith, and she was made a non-executive director of Arsenal in 2005; her appointment increased the membership of Arsenal's Board of Directors to ten.\n\nAs of September 2007, Lady Bracewell-Smith owned a 15.9% stake in the club and was the third largest shareholder in the club following Danny Fiszman, with 24.11%, and Red and White Holdings, which is co-owned by Farhad Moshiri and Alisher Usmanov, which owns 24.0% of the equity. In April 2007, she joined with the other board members, her husband’s cousins, as well as Danny Fiszman and the chairman, Peter Hill-Wood, in resisting a take-over by Usmanov, which was believed to have the support of former vice-chairman David Dein. On 17 December 2008 Arsenal Holdings PLC made this announcement: \"Lady Nina Bracewell-Smith will be leaving the Boards of the Company and the Club with immediate effect.\"\n\nOn 11 April 2011, she sold her Arsenal shares amounting to 15.9% of club's stake to Stan Kroenke.\n\nOn 1 March 2012, she was appointed Honorary Vice-President of the Club.\n\nLady Bracewell-Smith was also formerly a director of the Park Lane Sheraton Hotel. The Bracewell-Smith family has strong connections to hotels having previously owned the Ritz Hotel in London, which they sold in 1976, together with a large share of the Paris Ritz; they also held the majority of the shares in the Park Lane Hotel (built by Sir Bracewell Smith in 1920) until its £44m sale in 1996.\n\nShe and her husband were ranked 657th in the Sunday Times Rich List 2009 with an estimated family fortune of £85m. She is also 44th on \"The Sunday Times\" UK Asian rich list, 72nd on the women list and is in the European Rich List.\n\n"}
{"id": "57201761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57201761", "title": "Omar Sakr", "text": "Omar Sakr\n\nOmar Sakr (born 8 January 1996) is a Giza based football agent who is working as an agent for Piramide sport management. He is considered the youngest football agent in the Middle East. He founded his own football academy at his hometown Giza which is called Pirámide Academy.\n\nOmar was a passionate football player before starting his career as a football agent. He was just a young, promising Egyptian talent trying to prove himself as a player in Europe, but instead, he returned from Europe to start his career as a football agent and sports entrepreneur.\n\nOn 12 December 2016, he opened a football academy known as Pirámide (English: Pyramids), the only football academy in Egypt that provides marketing for the players in the domestic clubs all over the world free of charge. The academy also provides diplomas for refereeing and coaching for individuals. It aims to discover and help Egyptian football talents.\n\nOn 10 July 2017, Pirámide Academy field hosted a tryout for Extremadura UD, a Spanish football team. It was the first foreign football tryouts to happen in Egypt.\n\n"}
{"id": "4620394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4620394", "title": "Political views of Rabindranath Tagore", "text": "Political views of Rabindranath Tagore\n\nBengali author and statesman Rabindranath Tagore was a poet, Brahmo philosopher, and cultural reformer. He lived during the long period of Indian independence and was acquainted with several political leaders in Asia.\n\nTagore's politics exhibited a marked ambivalence—on the one hand, he denounced European imperialism, occasionally voicing full support for Indian nationalists; on the other hand, he also shunned the Swadeshi movement, denouncing it in his acrid September 1925 essay \"The Cult of the Charkha\" (an allusion to elements of Gandhism and the Non-Cooperation Movement). For example, in reaction to a July 22, 1904 suggestion by the British that Bengal should be partitioned, an upset Tagore took to delivering a lecture—entitled \"Swadeshi Samaj\" (\"The Union of Our Homeland\")—that instead proposed an alternative solution: a self-help based comprehensive reorganization of rural Bengal. In addition, he viewed British control of India as a \"political symptom of our social disease\", urging Indians to accept that \"there can be no question of blind revolution, but of steady and purposeful education\".\n\nIn line with this, Tagore denounced nationalism, deeming it among humanity's greatest problems. \"A nation,\" he wrote, \"... is that aspect which a whole population assumes when organized for a mechanical purpose\", a purpose often associated with a \"selfishness\" that \"can be a grandly magnified form\" of personal selfishness. During his extensive travels, he formed a vision of East-West unity. Subsequently, he was shocked by the rising nationalism found in Germany and other nations prior to the World War II. Tagore thus delivered a series of lectures on nationalism; although well-received throughout much of Europe, they were mostly ignored or criticized in Japan and the United States.\n\nYet Tagore wrote songs lionizing the Indian independence movement. On 30 May 1919, he renounced the knighthood that had been conferred upon him by Lord Hardinge in 1915 in protest against the Amritsar massacre (Jallianwallah Bagh), when British soldiers killed at least 379 unarmed civilians. He was also instrumental in resolving a dispute between Gandhi and Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar; it involved Ambedkar's insistence on separate electorates for untouchables and Gandhi's announcement—in protest against the concession—of a fast \"unto death\" beginning on 20 September 1932.\n\nTagore also lashed out against the orthodox rote-oriented educational system introduced in India under the Raj. He lampooned it in his short story \"The Parrot's Training\", where a bird—which ultimately dies—is caged by tutors and force-fed pages torn from books. These views crystallised in his experimental school at Santiniketan, (শান্তিনিকেতন, \"Abode of Peace\"), founded in 1901 on the site of a West Bengal estate inherited from his father. Established in the traditional \"brahmacharya\" structure—whereby students live under a \"guru\" in a self-sustaining community—became a magnet for talented scholars, artists, linguists, and musicians from diverse backgrounds. Tagore spent prodigious amounts of energy fundraising for Santiniketan, even contributing all his Nobel Prize money. Today, Tagore's school is a Central University under the Government of India.\n\n     λ.    Indeed, Tagore stated that “I suppose it was fortunate for me that I never in my life had what is called an education, that is to say, the kind of school and college training which is considered proper for a boy from a respectable family\".\n</div>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25992152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25992152", "title": "Ron Prosor", "text": "Ron Prosor\n\nRon Prosor (; born 11 October 1958) is an Israeli diplomat, writer, and columnist. He is the Head of the Abba Eban Institute for International Diplomacy in IDC Herzliya Lauder School of Government, Diplomacy & Strategy since. He served as Israel's Permanent Representative to the United Nations from 2011 to 2015. He has previously served as Israel's Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Director-General of Israel's Foreign Ministry and political consul at the Israeli embassy in Washington.\n\nBorn in October 11 1958 in Kfar Saba (Israel). Prosor is a graduate of the IDF Battalion Commanders. As an officer in the Artillery Division of the IDF, Prosor attained the rank of Major and he is a graduate of the IDF Battalion Commanders. He holds a Bachelor and a Masters degree in Political Science from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, graduating with distinction. Prosor and his wife Hadas have three children – Lior, Tomer and Oren – and two grandchildren, Amit and Daniel.\n\nWith almost three decades of experience at the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Prosor has carved out an international reputation as one of Israel’s most distinguished diplomats. His overseas service also includes roles in Washington, Bonn, and London.\n\nIn 1986, he joined the staff of the Foreign Ministry and began fulfilling his duties in Israel's diplomatic missions throughout the world. During his service as a spokesman for the embassy in Bonn, he was one of the first Israeli representatives to establish ties with East Germany and, after its unification with West Germany, he worked to establish relations with the new federal states in its territory. He later served as the spokesman for the Israeli embassy in London. \n\nHe became a political advisor to the Israeli Embassy in Washington (1998–2002) and participated in the Israeli delegation to the negotiations prior to the signing of the Wye Agreement and took part in the Camp David delegation in 2000. \n\nIn the headquarters of the Foreign Ministry, he worked in the Western European Division, served as the spokesman for the ministry and served as the Head of the Foreign Ministry's diplomatic staff, as well as the Deputy Director-General of the Foreign Ministry.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2007 Prosor served as the Director General of the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, overseeing the work of the Foreign Ministry during the disengagement from Gaza in 2005.\n\nFrom 2007 and 2011, he served as Israel’s Ambassador to the United Kingdom, where he earned plaudits for his articulate and forthright defense of Israel's position, publishing numerous articles throughout the British press and appearing on television outlets including the BBC and Sky News. He also addressed a wide range of audiences throughout the country, including universities and think tanks.\n\nFinally, Prosor served as Israel's Permanent Representative to the United Nations from 2011 to 2015. \n\nAs Israel’s 16 Ambassador to the UN, Prosor has held a series of notable positions, including Vice President of the General Assembly (June 8 2012) and Chair of the United Nations Human Rights Committee. Prosor called for the first-ever General Assembly session on Antisemitism and oversaw the adoption of two landmark resolutions on entrepreneurship and agriculture that passed with an overwhelming majority.\n\nProsor is known as an outspoken diplomat and delivers speeches on a wide range of topics. He frequently publishes articles on a variety of international publications on Israel’s domestic policy and international status. He often attacks Hamas and seeks to raise awareness among the international community on the necessity to stop funding Hamas terrorist activities. In summer 2014, during the most recent conflict in Gaza, Prosor publicly accused Qatar of supporting terrorism.\n\nHe faults the Palestinian Authority for being unwilling to negotiate with Israel, as well as the European states which unilaterally recognized a Palestinian state, thus sending the message that \"the Palestinian Authority can sit in a government with terrorists and incite violence against Israel without paying any price.\"\n\nMoreover, Prosor defends a two-state solution and calls on the international community to \"encourage the Palestinians to enter into direct negotiations without preconditions in order to achieve a historical peace process in which a demilitarized Palestinian state will recognizes the Jewish state.\"\n\nOn several occasions, Prosor has framed the recognition of Israel's statehood as an existential right for Israel and the Jewish people. According to Prosor, failing to recognize Israel is the greatest obstacle to peace in the region. Therefore, he stressed the necessity for Arab states and the Palestinian Authority to recognize Israel.\n\nIn his speech to the UN General Assembly in November 2014, Prosor accused the international community of fueling the Israeli-Palestinian conflict by not understanding the history of the region. He also blamed the Arab States for their wars against Israel, and concluded his address by acknowledging the necessity for the international community to choose between recognizing Israel as the nation-state of the Jewish people or allowing Palestine to deny Israel’s rightful claim to its land.\n\nIn an op-ed published in the \"New York Times\" in March 2015, Prosor faulted the UN for singling out Israel on a variety of issues, for example, human rights, while not addressing more oppressive regimes. He indeed accused the UN of tolerating \"repressive regimes that violate human rights and undermine international security\" to control the organization. \n\nProsor condemns Hamas’ brutal practices – from jailing women who remove their veils, to throwing political opponents from buildings, and promoting genocide in school and on TV, while pretending to be \"moderate\" and \"reforming.\" He also complains about weapons smuggling over the Egyptian border, as well as other black market items. Each of his commentaries lambastes Hamas for its use of rocket attacks and small-arms fire, which frequently kill civilians and destroy homes and buildings.\n\nIn an article that appeared on \"The Telegraph\" in 2009, Prosor emphasized the failure of the international community to counter Hamas’ fundamentalism and violence against both Palestinians and Israelis. He further argued that extremist regimes like Hamas pose a threat to the prosperity and stability of the Middle East.\n\nInterviewed in July 2014 by CBS reporter Pamela Falk on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in Gaza, Prosor claimed that Hamas’ \"terror tunnels\" were funded by Qatari money, and stressed the necessity to demilitarize the military infrastructure of Hamas towards the reconstruction of Gaza. Prosor compared Qatar’s support for Hamas to Iranian military support of terrorism against Israel and more generally in the Middle East. He further noted that Qatar’s and Egypt's support for Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood stood in contrast to other Arab nations and deepened cleavages in the region.\n\nFurthermore, in his \"Club Med for Terrorists\" op-ed published in August 2014 in the \"New York Times\" entitled, \"Club Med for Terrorists\" Prosor alleged that Qatar sought to improve its global image by funding prominent foreign universities in Doha and hosting the 2022 World Cup while simultaneously supporting Hamas, al-Qaeda, and the Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nHe claimed that \"hundreds of millions of dollars\" of Qatari funds \"funneled\" to Gaza have ended up in the hands of Hamas, and noted that Qatar \"harbors leading Islamist radicals,\" including Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi (spiritual leader of the Muslim Brotherhood), Abdul Rahman Omeir al-Naimi (designated by the US as a terrorist financier of al-Qaeda), and Khaled Meshal (the leader of Hamas).\n\nIn particular, Prosor denounced Qatar’s intention to play \"a starring role in any cease-fire agreement between Hamas and Israel\". In fact, the diplomat argued that Qatar threatened to expel Khaled Meshal – whose uncompromising refusal to recognize Israel has been an obstacle to reaching a peace deal – if \"Hamas accepted Egyptian proposals for a long-term cease-fire in Gaza.\"\nProsor concluded the op-ed by calling on Western nations to confront Qatar and demand that it stops financing Hamas.\n\n"}
{"id": "21149910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21149910", "title": "Salama Hegazi", "text": "Salama Hegazi\n\nSalama Hijazi (الشيخ سلامة حجازي), born 1852, died October 4, 1917 was an Egyptian singer. He was a pioneer of musical theatre in Egypt in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nBorn Salama Ibrahim Hijazi, he was known as Sheikh Salama. In 1852 in Shiben El Kom, El Mnofia, he recited the Qur'an, after memorising the entire book.\n\nMany famous singers in Egypt, such as Munira Mahdia and Mohamed Abdel Wahab, have sung his music. He promoted Sayed Darwish, who considered him an inspiration.\n\nIskandar Farah and Salama founded a theater company in 1891.\n\nIn 1914, with George Abiad, he helped in the formation of a new group and they worked together until his death, despite being paralyzed at the end of his days he continued to appear on stage. He has been credited with many forms of musical theatre and operetta music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52305092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52305092", "title": "Shea Gopaul", "text": "Shea Gopaul\n\nShea Gopaul is the Founder and Executive Director of the Global Apprenticeship Network, a coalition of companies and organizations addressing the skills mismatch and youth unemployment crisis since 2013.\n\nShea Gopaul is an Institute for the Study of Labor Policy Fellow and a recipient of an Honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters\n\nWith over 20 years of experience within the United Nations system, Gopaul has worked in Director positions at the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), the World Health Organization and the International Labour Organization in the areas of humanitarian affairs, youth employment and administration, before establishing the GAN.\n\nShea Gopaul is also a member of the B20 Employment Taskforce, a Sherpa of the European Pact for Youth within CSR Europe and an International Gender Champion, a network for gender equality.\n\nAn accomplished classical ballet dancer, she remains active in the art world and is on the Board of Directors of Battery Dance Company in New York, which uses dance to foster intercultural exchange and understanding.\n\nIn early 2013, Shea Gopaul led and authored an International Labour Organization (ILO) feasibility study to gather information from businesses about their apprenticeship programs and to seek their views on how an international business network on apprenticeships could add value for them. In collaboration with the International Organisation of Employers (IOE) and members of the World Economic Forum’s Global Agenda Council on Youth Unemployment, the feasibility study collected information from multi-stakeholders on country and company apprenticeship practices; and, explored the interest and eventual commitment of companies to join forces to promote apprenticeship through a Global Apprenticeships Network. Shea Gopaul has coauthored several articles on apprenticeships, jobs,and other reskilling programs. She has been a regular voice on youth training at Davos and other B20 programs.\n"}
{"id": "55917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55917", "title": "Simón Bolívar", "text": "Simón Bolívar\n\nSimón José Antonio de la Santísima Trinidad Bolívar Palacios Ponte y Blanco (; 24 July 1783 – 17 December 1830), generally known as Simón Bolívar and also colloquially as \"El Libertador\", was a Venezuelan military and political leader who liberated what are currently the republics of Venezuela, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru as sovereign states, independent of the Spanish Empire.\n\nBolívar was born into a wealthy, aristocratic Criollo family and, as was common for the heirs of upper-class families in his day, was sent to be educated abroad at a young age, arriving in Spain when he was 16 and later moving to France. While in Europe, he was introduced to the ideas of the Enlightenment, which later motivated him to overthrow the reigning Spanish in colonial South America. Taking advantage of the disorder in Spain prompted by the Peninsular War, Bolívar began his campaign for independence in 1808. The campaign for the independence of New Granada was consolidated with the victory at the Battle of Boyacá on 7 August 1819. Later he established an organized national congress within three years. Despite a number of hindrances, including the arrival of an unprecedentedly large Spanish expeditionary force, the revolutionaries eventually prevailed, culminating in the patriot victory at the Battle of Carabobo in 1821, which effectively made Venezuela an independent country.\n\nFollowing this triumph over the Spanish monarchy, Bolívar participated in the foundation of the first union of independent nations in Latin America, Gran Colombia, of which he was president from 1819 to 1830. Through further military campaigns, he ousted Spanish rulers from Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia, the last of which was named after him. He was simultaneously president of Gran Colombia (present-day Venezuela, Colombia, Panama and Ecuador) and Peru, while his second-in-command, Antonio José de Sucre, was appointed president of Bolivia. Bolívar aimed at a strong and united Spanish America able to cope not only with the threats emanating from Spain and the European Holy Alliance but also with the emerging power of the United States. At the peak of his power, Bolívar ruled over a vast territory from the Argentine border to the Caribbean Sea.\n\nBolívar is viewed as a national icon in much of modern South America, and is considered one of the great heroes of the Hispanic independence movements of the early 19th century, along with José de San Martín, Francisco de Miranda and others. Towards the end of his life, Bolívar despaired of the situation in his native region, with the famous quote \"all who served the revolution have plowed the sea\". In an address to the Constituent Congress of the Republic of Colombia, Bolívar stated \"Fellow citizens! I blush to say this: Independence is the only benefit we have acquired, to the detriment of all the rest.\"\n\nThe surname \"Bolívar\" originated with aristocrats from La Puebla de Bolívar, a small village in the Basque Country of Spain. Bolívar's father came from the female line of the Ardanza family. His maternal grandmother was descended from families from the Canary Islands.\n\nThe Bolívars settled in Venezuela in the 16th century. Bolívar's first South American ancestor was Simón de Bolívar (or Simon de Bolibar; the spelling was not standardized until the 19th century), who lived and worked in Santo Domingo (the present-day Dominican Republic) from 1559 to 1560 and where his son Simón de Bolívar y Castro was born. When the governor was reassigned to Venezuela by the Spanish Crown in 1569, Simón de Bolívar went with him. As an early settler in Spain's Venezuela Province, he became prominent in the local society, and he and his descendants were granted estates, encomiendas, and positions in the local cabildo.\n\nWhen Caracas Cathedral was built in 1569, the Bolívar family had one of the first dedicated side chapels. The majority of the wealth of Simón de Bolívar's descendants came from the estates. The most important was a sugar plantation with an encomienda that provided the labor needed to run the estate. Another portion of the Bolívars' wealth came from silver, gold, and copper mines. Small gold deposits were first mined in Venezuela in 1669, leading to the discovery of much more extensive copper deposits. From his mother's side (the Palacios family), Bolívar inherited the Aroa copper mines at Cocorote. Native American and African slaves provided the majority of the labor in these mines.\n\nToward the end of the 17th century, copper mining became so prominent in Venezuela that the metal became known as \"cobre Caracas\" (\"Caracas copper\"). Many of the mines became the property of the Bolívar family. Bolívar's grandfather, Juan de Bolívar y Martínez de Villegas, paid 22,000 ducats to the monastery at Santa Maria de Montserrat in 1728 for a title of nobility that had been granted by King Philip V of Spain for its maintenance. The crown never issued the patent of nobility, and so the purchase became the subject of lawsuits that were still in progress during Bolívar's lifetime, when independence from Spain made the point moot. (If the lawsuits had been successful, Bolívar's older brother, Juan Vicente, would have become the Marquess of San Luis and Viscount of Cocorote.) Bolívar ultimately devoted his personal fortune to the revolution. Having been one of the wealthiest persons within the Spanish American world at the beginning of the revolution, he died in poverty.\n\nBolívar's family tree has many relatives from two branches: the Palacios family and the Bolívar family. Enrique de la Concha Arnal, a genealogist at the \"Instituto Venezolano de Genealogía\", researched his ancestry, which can be summarized as follows:\n\nSimón Bolívar was born in a house in Caracas, Captaincy General of Venezuela, on 24 July 1783. He was baptized as Simón José Antonio de la Santísima Trinidad Bolívar y Palacios. His mother was María de la Concepción Palacios y Blanco, and his father was Colonel Don Juan Vicente Bolívar y Ponte. He had two older sisters and a brother: María Antonia, Juana, and Juan Vicente. Another sister, María del Carmen, died at birth.\n\nWhen Bolívar was an infant, he was cared for by Doña Ines Manceba de Miyares and the family's slave, Hipólita. A couple of years later, he returned to the care of his parents, but this experience would have a major effect on his life. His father died before Bolívar's third birthday, and his mother died when he was almost nine.\n\nAfter his mother's death, Bolívar was placed in the custody of an instructor, Miguel José Sanz, but this relationship did not work out and he was sent back home. He went on to receive private lessons from the renowned professors Andrés Bello, Guillermo Pelgrón, Jose Antonio Negrete, Fernando Vides, Father Andújar, and Don Simón Rodríguez, formerly known as Simón Carreño. Don Simón Rodríguez became Bolívar's teacher, friend and mentor. He taught him how to swim and ride horses, as well as about liberty, human rights, politics, history, and sociology. Later in life, Rodríguez was pivotal in Bolívar's decision to start the revolution, instilling in him the ideas of liberty, enlightenment, and freedom. In the meantime, Bolívar was mostly cared for by his nurse, the slave Hipólita, whom he later called \"the only mother I have known\".\n\nWhen Bolívar was fourteen, Don Simón Rodríguez was forced to leave the country after being accused of involvement in a conspiracy against the Spanish government in Caracas. Bolívar then entered the military academy of the Milicias de Aragua. In 1800, he was sent to Spain to follow his military studies in Madrid, where he remained until 1802. Back in Europe in 1804, he lived in France and traveled to different countries. While in Paris, Bolívar witnessed the coronation of Napoleon in Notre Dame, an event that left a profound impression on him. Even if he disagreed with the crowning, he was highly sensitive to the popular veneration inspired by the hero.\n\nBolívar returned to Venezuela in 1804. After a coup on 19 April 1810, Venezuela achieved \"de facto\" independence when the Supreme Junta of Caracas was established and the colonial administrators deposed. The Supreme Junta sent a delegation to Great Britain to get British recognition and aid. This delegation presided by Bolívar also included two future Venezuelan notables Andrés Bello and Luis López Méndez. The trio met with Francisco de Miranda and persuaded him to return to his native land.\n\nIn 1811, a delegation from the Supreme Junta, also including Bolívar, and a crowd of commoners enthusiastically received Miranda in La Guaira. During the insurgence war conducted by Miranda, Bolívar was promoted to colonel and was made commandant of Puerto Cabello the following year, 1812. As Royalist Frigate Captain Domingo de Monteverde was advancing into republican territory from the west, Bolívar lost control of San Felipe Castle along with its ammunition stores on 30 June 1812. Bolívar then retreated to his estate in San Mateo.\n\nMiranda saw the republican cause as lost and signed a capitulation agreement with Monteverde on 25 July, an action that Bolívar and other revolutionary officers deemed treasonous. In one of Bolívar's most morally dubious acts, he and others arrested Miranda and handed him over to the Spanish Royal Army at the port of La Guaira. For his apparent services to the Royalist cause, Monteverde granted Bolívar a passport, and Bolívar left for Curaçao on 27 August. It must be said, though, that Bolívar protested to the Spanish authorities about the reasons why he handled Miranda, insisting that he was not lending a service to the Crown but punishing a defector. In 1813, he was given a military command in Tunja, New Granada (modern-day Colombia), under the direction of the Congress of United Provinces of New Granada, which had formed out of the juntas established in 1810.\n\nThis was the beginning of the Admirable Campaign. On 24 May, Bolívar entered Mérida, where he was proclaimed \"El Libertador\" (\"The Liberator\"). This was followed by the occupation of Trujillo on 9 June. Six days later, and as a result of Spanish massacres on independence supporters, Bolívar dictated his famous \"Decree of War to the Death\", allowing the killing of any Spaniard not actively supporting independence. Caracas was retaken on 6 August 1813, and Bolívar was ratified as \"El Libertador\", establishing the Second Republic of Venezuela. The following year, because of the rebellion of José Tomás Boves and the fall of the republic, Bolívar returned to New Granada, where he commanded a force for the United Provinces.\n\nHis forces entered Bogotá in 1814 and recaptured the city from the dissenting republican forces of Cundinamarca. Bolívar intended to march into Cartagena and enlist the aid of local forces in order to capture the Royalist town of Santa Marta. In 1815, however, after a number of political and military disputes with the government of Cartagena, Bolívar fled to Jamaica, where he was denied support. After an assassination attempt in Jamaica, he fled to Haiti, where he was granted protection. He befriended Alexandre Pétion, the president of the recently independent southern republic (as opposed to the Kingdom of Haiti in the north), and petitioned him for aid.\n\nIn 1816, with Haitian soldiers and vital material support, Bolívar landed in Venezuela and fulfilled his promise to Pétion to free Spanish America's slaves on 2 June 1816.\n\nIn July 1817, on a second expedition, he captured Angostura after defeating the counter-attack of Miguel de la Torre. However, Venezuela remained a captaincy of Spain after the victory in 1818 by Pablo Morillo in the Second Battle of La Puerta ().\n\nOn 15 February 1819, Bolívar was able to open the Venezuelan Second National Congress in Angostura, in which he was elected president and Francisco Antonio Zea was elected vice president. Bolívar then decided that he would first fight for the independence of New Granada, to gain resources of the vice royalty, intending later to consolidate the independence of Venezuela.\n\nThe campaign for the independence of New Granada was consolidated with the victory at the Battle of Boyacá on 7 August 1819. Bolívar returned to Angostura, where congress passed a law forming a greater Republic of Colombia on 17 December, making Bolívar president and Zea vice president, with Francisco de Paula Santander vice president on the New Granada side, and Juan Germán Roscio vice president on the Venezuela side.\n\nMorillo was left in control of Caracas and the coastal highlands. After the restoration of the Cádiz Constitution, Morillo ratified two treaties with Bolívar on 25 November 1820, calling for a six-month armistice and recognizing Bolívar as president of the republic. Bolívar and Morillo met in San Fernando de Apure on 27 November, after which Morillo left Venezuela for Spain, leaving La Torre in command.\n\nFrom his newly consolidated base of power, Bolívar launched outright independence campaigns in Venezuela and Ecuador. These campaigns concluded with the victory at the Battle of Carabobo, after which Bolívar triumphantly entered Caracas on 29 June 1821. On 7 September 1821, Gran Colombia (a state covering much of modern Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, and Venezuela) was created, with Bolívar as president and Santander as vice president.\n\nBolívar followed with the Battle of Bombona and the Battle of Pichincha, after which he entered Quito on 16 June 1822. On 26 and 27 July 1822, Bolívar held the Guayaquil Conference with the Argentine General José de San Martín, who had received the title of \"Protector of Peruvian Freedom\" in August 1821 after partially liberating Peru from the Spanish. Thereafter, Bolívar took over the task of fully liberating Peru.\n\nThe Peruvian congress named him dictator of Peru on 10 February 1824, which allowed Bolívar to reorganize completely the political and military administration. Assisted by Antonio José de Sucre, Bolívar decisively defeated the Spanish cavalry at the Battle of Junín on 6 August 1824. Sucre destroyed the still numerically superior remnants of the Spanish forces at Ayacucho on 9 December 1824.\n\nWriting to United States Secretary of State John Quincy Adams in 1824, United States Consul in Peru William Tudor stated:\n\nEven though Bolívar condemned the corrupt practices of the Spanish, he ordered some churches being stripped of their decorations. On March 19, 1824, José Gabriel Pérez wrote to Antonio José de Sucre about the orders given to him by Bolívar; Pérez talked about \"all the ordinary and extraordinary means\" that should be applied to assure the subsistence of the patriot army. Indeed, Pérez said that Bolívar issued instructions to take from churches \"all golden and silver jewels\" in order to coin them and pay war expenditures. Days later, Bolívar himself said to Sucre that there would be a complete lack of resources, unless severe actions would be taken against \"the jewels of the churches, everywhere\".\n\nIn addition, Lieutenant Juan Pablo Santa Cruz, an associate of General Antonio Gutiérrez de la Fuente, illegally appropriated the livestock and goods of citizens for his own gain. Prefect of Cusco, Agustín Gamarra, used loot to present Bolívar 80 gold and 500 silver medals honoring him.\n\nOn 6 August 1825, at the Congress of Upper Peru, the \"Republic of Bolivia\" was created. Bolívar is thus one of the few people to have a country named after him. Bolívar returned to Caracas on 12 January 1827, and then back to Bogotá.\n\nBolívar had great difficulties maintaining control of the vast Gran Colombia. In 1826, internal divisions sparked dissent throughout the nation, and regional uprisings erupted in Venezuela. The new South American union had revealed its fragility and appeared to be on the verge of collapse. To preserve the union, an amnesty was declared and an arrangement was reached with the Venezuelan rebels, but this increased the political dissent in neighboring New Granada. In an attempt to keep the nation together as a single entity, Bolívar called for a constitutional convention at Ocaña in March 1828.\n\nBolívar thought that a federation like the one founded in the United States was unworkable in the Spanish America. For this reason, and to prevent a break-up, Bolívar sought to implement a more centralist model of government in Gran Colombia, including some or all of the elements of the Bolivian constitution he had written, which included a lifetime presidency with the ability to select a successor (although this presidency was to be held in check by an intricate system of balances).\n\nThis move was considered controversial in New Granada and was one of the reasons for the deliberations, which met from 9 April to 10 June 1828. The convention almost ended up drafting a document which would have implemented a radically federalist form of government, which would have greatly reduced the powers of a central administration. The federalist faction was able to command a majority for the draft of a new constitution which has definite federal characteristics despite its ostensibly centralist outline. Unhappy with what would be the ensuing result, pro-Bolívar delegates withdrew from the convention, leaving it moribund.\n\nTwo months after the failure of this congress to write a new constitution, Bolívar was declared president-liberator in Colombia's \"Organic Decree\". He considered this a temporary measure, as a means to reestablish his authority and save the republic, although it increased dissatisfaction and anger among his political opponents. An assassination attempt on 25 September 1828 failed (in Spanish it is indeed known as the \"Noche Septembrina\"), thanks to the help of his lover, Manuela Sáenz. Bolívar afterward described Manuela as \"Liberatrix of the Liberator\". Dissent continued, and uprisings occurred in New Granada, Venezuela, and Ecuador during the next two years.\n\nBolivar initially tried to forgive those who were considered conspirators, members of the \"Santander\" faction. Eventually it was decided to submit them to martial justice, after which those accused of being directly involved were executed, some without having their guilt fully established. Santander, who had known in advance of the conspiracy and had not directly opposed it because of his differences with Bolivar, was condemned to death. Bolivar, though, commuted the sentence.\n\nAfter the facts, Bolivar, who suffering from tuberculosis, continued to govern in a rarefied environment, cornered by fractional disputes. Uprisings occurred in New Granada, Venezuela, and Ecuador during the following two years. The separatists accused him of betraying republican principles and of wanting to establish a permanent dictatorship. Gran Colombia declared war against Peru when president General La Mar invaded Guayaquil. He was later defeated by Marshall Antonio José de Sucre in the Battle of the Portete de Tarqui, 27 February 1829. Sucre was killed on 4 June 1830. General Juan José Flores wanted to separate the southern departments (Quito, Guayaquil, and Azuay), known as the District of Ecuador, from Gran Colombia to form an independent country and become its first President. Venezuela was proclaimed independent on 13 January 1830 and José Antonio Páez maintained the presidency of that country, banishing Bolivar.\n\nFor Bolívar, Hispanic America was the fatherland. He dreamed of a united Spanish America and in the pursuit of that purpose he not only created Gran Colombia but also the Confederation of the Andes whose aim was to unite the aforementioned with Peru and Bolivia. Moreover, he promoted a network of treaties keeping the newly liberated South American countries together. Nonetheless, he was unable to control the centrifugal process which pushed outwards all directions.\n\nOn 20 January 1830, as his dream fell apart, Bolívar delivered his final address to the nation, announcing that he would be stepping down from the presidency of Gran Colombia. In his speech, a distraught Bolívar urged the people to maintain the union and to be wary of the intentions of those who advocated for separation. (At the time, \"Colombians\" referred to the people of Gran Colombia (Venezuela, New Granada, and Ecuador), not modern-day Colombia):\n\nBolívar ultimately failed in his attempt to prevent the collapse of the union. Gran Colombia was dissolved later that year and was replaced by the republics of Venezuela, New Granada, and Ecuador. Ironically, these countries were established as centralist nations, and would be governed for decades this way by leaders who, during Bolívar's last years, had accused him of betraying republican principles and of wanting to establish a permanent dictatorship. These separatists, among them José Antonio Páez and Francisco de Paula Santander, had justified their opposition to Bolívar for this reason and publicly denounced him as a monarch. Some of them had in the past been accused of plotting against Bolívar's life (Santander, who governed the second centralist government of New Granada, was associated with the ).\n\nJosé María Obando, who led the first dictatorship of New Granada, had been linked to the assassination of Antonio José de Sucre in 1830. Sucre was regarded by some as a political threat because of his popularity after he led a resounding patriot victory at the Battle of Ayacucho, ending the war against the Spanish Empire in South America. Bolívar also considered him his direct successor and had attempted to make him vice president of Gran Colombia after Francisco de Paula Santander was exiled in 1828.\n\nFor the rest of the 19th century and into the early 20th century, the political environment of Latin America was fraught with civil wars and characterized by a sociopolitical phenomenon known as \"caudillismo\", which became very common in Venezuela, especially after 1830.\n\nIndeed, such struggles already existed shortly after the patriot victory over the loyalists because the former Spanish colonies created new nations that proclaimed their own autonomous states, which produced military confrontations with political conspirations that sent some of the former independence heroes into exile. Moreover, there were attempts by the Spanish monarchy to reconquer their former settlements in the Americas through expeditions that would help the remaining loyalist forces and advocates. However, the attempts generally failed in Venezuela, Perú and Mexico; thus, the loyalist resistance forces against the republic were finally defeated.\n\nThe main characteristic of \"caudillismo\" was the arrival of authoritarian but charismatic political figures who would typically rise to power in an unconventional way, often legitimizing their right to govern through undemocratic processes. These \"caudillos\" maintained their control primarily on the basis of their personalities, as well as skewed interpretations of their popularity and what constituted a majority among the masses. On his deathbed, Bolívar envisaged the emergence of countless \"caudillos\" competing for the pieces of the great nation he once dreamed about.\n\nSaying that \"all who served the revolution have plowed the sea\", Bolívar finally resigned the presidency on 27 April 1830, intending to leave the country for exile in Europe. He had already sent several crates containing his belongings and writings ahead of him to Europe, but he died before setting sail from Cartagena.\n\nOn 17 December 1830, at the age of 47, Simón Bolívar died of tuberculosis in the Quinta de San Pedro Alejandrino in Santa Marta, Gran Colombia (now Colombia). On his deathbed, Bolívar asked his aide-de-camp, General Daniel F. O'Leary, to burn the remaining extensive archive of his writings, letters, and speeches. O'Leary disobeyed the order and his writings survived, providing historians with a wealth of information about Bolívar's liberal philosophy and thought, as well as details of his personal life, such as his long love affair with Manuela Sáenz. Shortly before her own death in 1856, Sáenz augmented this collection by giving O'Leary her own letters from Bolívar.\n\nBolívar's remains were buried in the cathedral of Santa Marta. Twelve years later, in 1842, at the request of President José Antonio Páez, they were moved from Santa Marta to Caracas, where they were buried in the cathedral of Caracas together with the remains of his wife and parents. In 1876, he was moved to a monument set up for his interment at the National Pantheon of Venezuela. The \"Quinta\" near Santa Marta has been preserved as a museum with numerous references to his life. In 2010, symbolic remains of Bolívar's later-years lover, Manuela Sáenz, were also interred in Venezuela's National Pantheon.\n\nOn January 2008, then-President of Venezuela Hugo Chávez set up a commission to investigate theories that Bolívar was the victim of an assassination. On several occasions, Chávez has claimed that Bolívar was in fact poisoned by \"New Granada traitors\". In April 2010, infectious diseases specialist Paul Auwaerter studied records of Bolívar's symptoms and concluded that he might have suffered from chronic arsenic poisoning, but that both acute poisoning and murder were unlikely. In July 2010, Bolívar's body was ordered to be exhumed to advance the investigations. In July 2011, international forensics experts released their report, claiming there was no proof of poisoning or any other unnatural cause of death.\n\nIn 1799, following the early deaths of his father Juan Vicente (dead since 1786) and his mother Concepción (who died in 1792), Bolívar traveled to Mexico, France, and Spain, at the age of 16 years, to complete his education. While in Madrid during 1802 and after a two-year courtship, he married , who was to be his only wife. She was related to the aristocratic families of the of Caracas and the marquis de Inicio of Madrid.\n\nEight months after returning to Venezuela with him, she died from yellow fever on 22 January 1803. Bolívar was so devastated by this loss that his relatives feared for his life. He swore never to marry again, a promise he kept. Many years later Bolívar would refer to the death of his wife as the turning point of his life. Indeed, in 1828, he told Luis Perú de Lacroix the following words:\n\nNot surprisingly, Spanish historian Salvador de Madariaga refers to the death of Bolivar's wife as one of the key moments in Hispanic America's history. In 1804, he traveled again to Europe in an attempt to ease his pain and began falling into a dissolute life. It was then that he met again with his old teacher Simón Rodríguez in Paris, who little by little was able to transform his acute depression into a sense of commitment towards a greater cause: the independence of Venezuela. He lived in Napoleonic France for a while and undertook the Grand Tour. During this time in Europe, Bolívar met Alexander von Humboldt in Rome. Humboldt later wrote: \"I was wrong back then, when I judged him a puerile man, incapable of realizing so grand an ambition.\"\n\nIt is well known that Bolívar had several love affairs during his lifetime; most of them were ephemeral and did not last long. Some of them were during his presence in Europe, after his short marriage that ended in 1803. Historians, scholars and biographers often agree with the names of the most prominent women who stood with Bolívar, either at war or at peace: Josefina \"Pepita\" Machado, Fanny du Villars and Manuela Sáenz.\n\nManuela Sáenz was the most important of those women, mainly because she was Bolívar's lover in later life during his presidency in Gran Colombia, but also due the fact that she became a trustworthy confidant and advisor. Moreover, Manuela saved Bolívar's life during the September Conspiracy of 1828, in which the Libertador was close to being killed in Bogotá. That is, Manuela managed to divert the assassins by urging Simón to leap through the window thus giving Bolívar time to escape from his room safely.\n\nBolívar and Manuela met in Quito, on June 22, 1822. They had a long-term relationship that was controversial at the time due the fact that Manuela was already married to James Thorne although she had been estranged from him since 1822 because of their irreconcilable differences . Thus Manuela was emotionally tied to Bolívar, whose death in 1830 made her try to commit suicide when she learned of the Libertador's physical disappearance.\n\nNotwithstanding this mutual love, Bolívar and Manuela did not always have a face to face relationship although they sometimes lived in the same South American cities, for example, in Bogota during his political issues in 1828. They did show their romance through written correspondence. A few of their letters to each other have been found, but most of them have been denounced as forgeries by Heinz Dieterich, Carlos Álvarez Saá, and a book edited by \"Fundación Editorial El Perro y la Rana\" publishing house in 2007 .\n\nIn his \"Memoirs of Simón Bolívar\", Henri La Fayette Villaume Ducoudray Holstein (who himself has been called a \"not-always-reliable and never impartial witness\") described the young Bolívar as he was attempting to seize power in Venezuela and New Granada in 1814–1816. Ducoudray Holstein joined Bolívar and served on his staff as officer and Bolívar's confident during this period.\n\nHe describes Bolívar as a coward who repeatedly abandoned his military commission in front of the enemy, and also as a great lover of women, being accompanied at all times by two or more of his mistresses during the military operations. He would not hesitate to stop the fleet transporting the whole army and bound for Margarita Island during two days in order to wait for his mistress to join his ship. According to Ducoudray Holstein, Bolívar behaved essentially as an opportunist preferring intrigues and secret manipulation to an open fight. He was also deemed incompetent in military matters, systematically avoiding any risks and permanently anxious for his own safety.\n\nIn the \"Diario de Bucaramanga\", Bolívar's opinion of Ducoudray is presented when Louis Peru de Lacroix asked who had been Bolívar's \"aides-de-camp\" since he had been general; he mentioned Charles Eloi Demarquet and Ducoudray. Bolívar confirmed the first but denied the second, saying that he had met him in 1815 and accepted his services, even admitting him to his General Staff, but \"I never trusted him enough to make him my \"aide-de-camp\"; to the contrary, I had a very unfavorable idea of his person and his services\", and that Ducoudray's departure after only a brief stay had been a \"real pleasure.\"\n\nIn an unsympathetic biography titled \"Bolívar y Ponte, Simón\", published in the New American Cyclopedia, Karl Marx criticized much of Bolívar's life. Marx begins by saying that Bolívar was born to a family of \"creole nobility in Venezuela\" and that similar to the \"custom of wealthy Americans of those times, at the early age of 14 he was sent to Europe\". At several points in Marx's piece, he complains that Bolívar abandoned his troops multiple times. Marx also explains how Bolívar had to be persuaded by his cousin Ribas to return to fight against the Spanish after staying at Cartagena. Marx then explains that after arriving in Caracas in 1813, Bolívar's \"dictatorship soon proved a military anarchy, leaving the most important affairs in the hands of favorites, who squandered the finances of the country, and then resorted to odious means in order to restore them\". At the conclusion of the biography, Marx uses Ducoudray Holstein's description of Bolívar.\n\nAccording to Beddow and Thibodeaux, Marx dismissed Bolívar as a \"falsifier, deserter, conspirator, liar, coward and looter\", and a \"false liberator who merely sought to preserve the power of the old Creole nobility to which he belonged\".\n\nBolívar had no children, possibly because of infertility caused by having contracted measles and mumps as a child. His closest living relatives descend from his sisters and brother. One of his sisters died in infancy. His sister Juana Bolívar y Palacios married their maternal uncle, Dionisio Palacios y Blanco, and had two children, Guillermo and Benigna. Guillermo Palacios died fighting alongside his uncle Simón in the battle of La Hogaza on 2 December 1817. Benigna had two marriages, the first to Pedro Briceño Méndez and the second to Pedro Amestoy. Their great-grandchildren, Bolívar's closest living relatives, Pedro, and Eduardo Mendoza Goiticoa lived in Caracas as of 2009.\n\nHis eldest sister, María Antonia, married Pablo Clemente Francia and had four children: Josefa, Anacleto, Valentina, and Pablo. María Antonia became Bolívar's agent to deal with his properties while he served as president of Gran Colombia and she was an executrix of his will. She retired to Bolívar's estate in Macarao, which she inherited from him.\n\nHis older brother, Juan Vicente, who died in 1811 on a diplomatic mission to the United States, had three children born out of wedlock whom he recognized: Juan, Fernando Simón, and Felicia Bolívar Tinoco. Bolívar provided for the children and their mother after his brother's death. Bolívar was especially close to Fernando and in 1822 sent him to study in the United States, where he attended the University of Virginia. In his long life, Fernando had minor participation in some of the major political events of Venezuelan history and also traveled and lived extensively throughout Europe. He had three children, Benjamín Bolívar Gauthier, Santiago Hernández Bolívar, and Claudio Bolívar Taraja. Fernando died in 1898 at the age of 88.\n\nSimón Bolívar was an admirer of both the American and the French Revolutions. Bolívar even enrolled his nephew, Fernando Bolívar, in a private school in Philadelphia, Germantown Academy, and paid for his education, including attendance at Thomas Jefferson's University of Virginia. Bolívar differed, however, in political philosophy from the leaders of the revolution in the United States on two important matters. First of all, he was staunchly anti-slavery, despite coming from an area of Spanish America that relied heavily on slave labor. Second, while he was an admirer of the American independence, he did not believe that its governmental system could work in Latin America. Thus, he claimed that the governance of heterogeneous societies like Venezuela \"will require a firm hand\".\n\nBolívar felt that the U.S. had been established in land especially fertile for democracy. By contrast, he referred to Spanish America as having been subject to the \"triple yoke of ignorance, tyranny, and vice\". If a republic could be established in such a land, in his mind, it would have to make some concessions in terms of liberty. This is shown when Bolívar blamed the fall of the first republic on his subordinates trying to imitate \"some ethereal republic\" and in the process, not paying attention to the gritty political reality of South America.\n\nAmong the books accompanying him as he traveled were Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\", Voltaire's \"Letters\" and, when he was writing the Bolivian constitution, Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\". His Bolivian constitution placed him within the camp of what would become Latin American conservatism in the later nineteenth century. The Bolivian constitution intended to establish a lifelong presidency and a hereditary senate, essentially recreating the British unwritten constitution, as it existed at the time.\n\nSimilarly to some others in the history of American Independence (George Washington, Miguel Hidalgo, José de San Martín, Bernardo O'Higgins, Toussaint L'Ouverture, Francisco de Paula Santander, Antonio Nariño, and Francisco de Miranda), Simón Bolívar was a Freemason. He was initiated in 1803 in the Masonic Lodge Lautaro, which operated in Cádiz, Spain., becoming involved with the Knights Templar. It was in this lodge that he first met some of his revolutionary peers, such as José de San Martín. In May 1806 he was conferred the rank of Master Mason in the \"Scottish Mother of St. Alexander of Scotland\" in Paris. During his time in London, he frequented \"The Great American Reunion\" lodge in London, founded by Francisco de Miranda. In April 1824, Simón Bolívar was given the 33rd degree of Inspector General Honorary.\n\nHe founded the Masonic Lodge No. 2 of Peru, named \"Order and Liberty\".\n\nDue to the historical relevance of Bolívar as a key element during the process of independence in Hispanic America, his memory has been strongly attached to sentiments of nationalism and patriotism, being a recurrent theme of rhetoric in politics. Since the image of Bolívar became an important part to the national identities of Venezuela, Colombia, Panama, Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia, his mantle is often claimed by Hispanic American politicians all across the political spectrum.\n\nIn Venezuela, Bolívar left behind a militarist legacy with multiple governments utilizing the memory, image and written legacy of Bolívar as important parts of their political messages and propaganda. Bolívar disapproved the excesses of \"party spirit\" and \"factions\", which lead to an anti-political environment in Venezuela. For much of the 1800s, Venezuela was ruled by \"caudillos\", with six rebellions occurring to take control of Venezuela between 1892 and 1900 alone. The militarist legacy was then used by the nationalist dictatorship of Marcos Pérez Jiménez and more recently the socialist political movement led by Hugo Chávez Much of the modern political movement behind the Fifth Republic of Venezuela, ruled by the Bolivarian government established by Chávez, was built on the following of Bolívar and such militaristic ideals.\n\nThe nations of Bolivia and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, and their respective currencies (the Bolivian boliviano and the Venezuelan bolívar), are all named after Bolívar. Additionally, most cities and towns in Venezuela are built around a main square known as Plaza Bolívar, as is the case with Bogotá. In this example, most governmental buildings and public structures are located on or around the plaza, including the National Capitol and the Palace of Justice. Besides Quito and Carácas, there are monuments to Bolívar in the Latin American capitals of Lima, Buenos Aires, Havana, México City, Panama City, Paramaribo, San José, Santo Domingo and Sucre. In Bogotá, the Simón Bolívar Park has hosted many concerts.\n\nOutside of Latin America, the variety of monuments to Simón Bolívar are a continuing testament to his legacy. These include statues in many capitals around the world, including Algiers, Ankara, Bucharest, London, Minsk, New Delhi, Ottawa, Paris, Prague, Port-au-Prince, Rome, Sofia, Tehran, Vienna and Washington. Several cities in Spain, especially in the Basque Country, have constructed monuments to Bolívar, including a large monument in Bilbao and a comprehensive Venezuelan government-funded museum in Cenarruza-Puebla de Bolívar, his ancestral hometown. An imposing bronze equestrian statue of Simón Bolívar at the entrance to Central Park at the Avenue of the Americas in New York City also celebrates Bolívar's contributions to Latin America. The Bolivar Peninsula in Texas, Bolivar County, Mississippi, Bolivar, New York, Bolivar, West Virginia and Bolivar, Tennessee are also named in his honor.\n\nMonuments to Bolívar's military legacy also comprise one of Venezuelan Navy's sail training barques, which is named after him, and the , a \"Benjamin Franklin\"-class fleet ballistic missile submarine which served with the U.S. Navy between 1965 and 1995.\n\nMinor planet 712 Boliviana discovered by Max Wolf is named in his honor. The name was suggested by Camille Flammarion.\n\nBolívar has been depicted or mentioned in countless works of literature, film, and other media, and continues to be a part of the popular culture in many countries. He is the central character in Gabriel García Márquez's 1989 novel \"The General in His Labyrinth\", in which he is portrayed in a less heroic but more humane manner than in most other parts of his legacy. Bolívar's life was also the basis of the 2013 film \"Libertador\", starring Édgar Ramírez and directed by Alberto Arvelo. In an episode of The Ministry of Time, \"Tiempo de ilustrados (Time of the Enlightened)\", the time agents help him win the heart of his future wife. Later in the second season (episode 10) the time agents will find him again in 1828 (two years before his death) to avoid his murder, planned by Santander’s followers.\n\n\nCited sources\n\n"}
{"id": "24090596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24090596", "title": "Sir William Gore, 3rd Baronet", "text": "Sir William Gore, 3rd Baronet\n\nSir William Gore, 3rd Baronet PC (Ire) (died 1700) was an Anglo-Irish baronet and magistrate.\n\nHe was the oldest son of Sir Ralph Gore, 2nd Baronet and his wife Anne Caulfeild, second daughter of William Caulfeild, 2nd Baron Caulfeild. In 1661, he succeeded his father as baronet. Gore was appointed Custos Rotulorum of Leitrim in 1684, an office he held until his death in 1700. He was sworn off the Privy Council of Ireland.\n\nHe married Hannah Hamilton, daughter of James Hamilton and niece of Gustavus Hamilton, 1st Viscount Boyne, and had by her three sons and five daughters. Gore died in 1700 and was succeeded in the baronetcy by his oldest son Ralph.\n"}
{"id": "27106170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27106170", "title": "Tameka Foster", "text": "Tameka Foster\n\nTameka J. Foster (born January 1, 1971) is an American wardrobe stylist and the ex-wife of singer Usher. Tameka has worked as a personal stylist for Lauryn Hill, Jay-Z, Usher, Toni Braxton, Ciara, Patti LaBelle, Nas and more.\n\nFoster attended the Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising in 1994, followed by a Merchandising Marketing major in Los Angeles. Her professional career started with her employment as a salesperson; she has also worked in management.\nDuring her attendance at the Fashion Institute, Foster worked for Armani in the retail store and since then, has styled numerous international celebrities including Jay-Z, Ciara, Nas and Mary J. Blige.\n\nFoster's work as a stylist gained attention of network cables MTV, E! and Access Hollywood. She has also been featured in In Style, People Weekly, Glamour, Vibe, Essence and the covers of Essence, Sister 2 Sister and Upscale Magazine.\n\nFoster is credited as the founder of charity organization The Lost Ones Foundation, founded in 2009. The non-profit organization is a motivational group for teenage girls. She also runs Kile's World, a non-profit organization focused on remembering her son, Kile.\n\nOn August 18, 2014 Foster joined the cast of VH1 spin-off show Atlanta Exes. Foster stars in the VH-1 reality series \"Atlanta Exes\" which aired August 18, 2014 alongside Christina Johnson, Torrei Hart, Sheree Buchanan and Monyetta Shaw.\n\nShe has five children, Darren (b. 1991), Ryan (b. 1999), Kile (2001–2012), Usher V (b. 2007), Naviyd Eli (b. 2008); two of whom are with Atlanta-based clothier Ryan Glover, whom she had been dating since 1998. They married in 2002 and separated and divorced on March 13, 2007\n\nIn 2006, Foster became involved romantically with singer Usher, who had hired her as a stylist. He proposed to her in January 2007 and announced their engagement in February. They married on August 3, 2007 in a private ceremony.\nFoster and Usher's first child, son Usher Raymond V, was born in November 2007. In December 2008, Foster gave birth to their second son, Naviyd Ely Raymond.\n\nIn February 2009, Foster suffered from cardiac arrest in a São Paulo, Brazil hospital. She had flown to Brazil to get liposuction and she was put in a medically induced coma to aid her recovery.\n\nIn June 2009, Usher filed for divorce, citing irreconcilable differences when claiming to have lived separately from Foster for nearly a year. Foster's family spoke against the claims, stating Usher had been living in their Atlanta home until March 2009. The divorce was finalized on November 4 of that same year. \n\nOn July 6, 2012, Foster's 11-year-old son Kile was critically injured after he and a teenage friend, riding on an inner tube on Lake Lanier near Atlanta, were hit by a Jet Ski operated by family friend Jeffrey S. Hubbard. Shortly afterward he was declared brain dead, and died July 21, 2012, of heart failure, after initial reports had said he was taken off life support.\n\nOn August 24, 2012, ex-husband Usher was awarded primary physical custody of their two sons, with the couple to share legal custody.\n\nJust over a year later, on August 5, 2013, Usher's eldest son, Usher V, was hospitalized in the ICU after he became stuck in a drain while swimming in a pool at Usher's home. The next day, Foster filed a request for an emergency custody hearing in Fulton County Superior Court, seeking temporary primary custody and citing Usher V's \"near-death accident\" as evidence of a lack of supervision of the children. At the hearing on August 9, 2013, the case was dismissed and Usher retained primary custody of their two sons.\n"}
{"id": "1741036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1741036", "title": "Thiota", "text": "Thiota\n\nThiota (died after 847) was a heretical Christian prophetess of the ninth century. She was originally from Alemannia and in 847 she began prophesying that the world would end that year.\n\nHer story is known from the \"Annales Fuldenses\" which record that she disturbed the diocese of Bishop Salomon, that is, the Diocese of Constance, before arriving in Mainz. A large number of men and women were persuaded by her \"presumption\" as well as even some clerics. In fear, many gave her gifts and sought prayers. Finally, the bishops of Gallia Belgica ordered her to attend a synod in St Alban's church in Mainz. She was eventually forced to confess that she had only made up her predictions at the urging of a priest and for lucrative gain. She was publicly flogged and stripped of her ministry, which the Fuldensian annalist says she had taken up \"unreasonably ... against the customs of the church.\" Shamed, she ceased to prophesy thereafter. \n\n"}
{"id": "49680982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49680982", "title": "Thomas William Barker", "text": "Thomas William Barker\n\nThomas William Barker (1861–1912) was a Carmarthenshire solicitor, and Registrar of the Diocese of St David's. His father, J. H. Barker, was also a solicitor, and they worked together as partners of the firm Barker, Morris, and Barker.\n\nIn 1897 Thomas was appointed Secretary to the Bishop of St David's, and in 1899 was appointed Registrar of the Diocese of St. David's, remaining in the position until his death in 1912.\n"}
{"id": "1633668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1633668", "title": "Tim Green", "text": "Tim Green\n\nTimothy John Green (born December 16, 1963) is a former American football player, a radio and television personality, and a best-selling author. He was a linebacker and defensive end with the Atlanta Falcons of the National Football League, a commentator for National Public Radio, and the former host of the 2005 revival of \"A Current Affair\" on Fox.\n\nGreen graduated from Liverpool High School in 1982 and attended nearby Syracuse University. He graduated \"summa cum laude\" in 1986, and from SU's College of Law in 1994. He was named a two-time Academic All-American. Green was a first round selection in the 1986 NFL Draft, taken 17th overall by the Atlanta Falcons. Following his eight-year playing career, he was a commentator for the NFL on Fox and a co-host of \"Find My Family\" with Lisa Joyner on ABC Television in 2009.\n\nIn December 2011, Green was named a winner of the NCAA Silver Anniversary Award, given annually to six former NCAA student-athletes for distinguished career accomplishment on the 25th anniversary of their college graduation.\n\nGreen's book \"Football Genius\" made \"The New York Times\" best-seller list of children's chapter books. He serves on the National Writer's Project Writing Council and has written over thirty novels in the adult suspense and youth sports genres.\n\nAs an attorney, Green has been counsel with the law firm Barclay Damon LLP in New York State since February 1999. He has assisted in growing and developing the firm's client base focusing in energy and intellectual property. In May 2014, Green partnered with former Assistant District Attorney Scott Brenneck. Their firm, Team Green Lawyers, PLLC, is composed of former prosecutors that are now working privately and offering criminal defense services.\n\nGreen lives in Upstate New York with his wife, Illyssa, five children, and three dogs.\n\nOn November 14, 2018, Green announced in a Facebook post that he has a slow-progressing form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. On November 18, he was featured on \"60 Minutes\", discussing his life and struggles with the disease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19259304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19259304", "title": "Tom Wark", "text": "Tom Wark\n\nTom Wark is an American wine blogger, a public relations professional in the California wine industry, and founder of the American Wine Blog Awards.\n\nIn 2011 Wark's blog was named Best Industry Wine Blog and Best Overall Wine Blog at the Wine Blog Awards in Charlottesville, VA. In 2014 Wark's blog won Best Industry/Business Blog at the Wine Blog Awards held in Santa Barbara, California.\n\nHe has been described by Mike Steinberger as the wine world's first wine muckraker, using his blog \"to expose the absurdity of america’s three-tiered distribution system and the money politics that perpetuates it\". His blogging may explore interstate wine shipping laws, restrictions on what is allowed to be labeled champagne or “old vines”, or feature interviews other wine bloggers, though some find its appeal in its unpredictability.\n\nWark is also executive director of the Specialty Wine Retailers Association (SWRA), a role which has positioned him in a public dispute with the Wine and Spirits Wholesalers of America (WSWA) over the three-tier alcohol distribution system.\n\nIn 2013 Wark become one of the founders of the American Wine Consumer Coalition, a national organization that advocates on behalf of the rights of wine consumers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5235818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5235818", "title": "Vasilisa the Beautiful", "text": "Vasilisa the Beautiful\n\nVasilisa () is a Russian fairy tale collected by Alexander Afanasyev in \"Narodnye russkie skazki\".\n\nBy his first wife, a merchant had a single daughter, who was known as Vasilisa the Beautiful. When the girl was eight years old, her mother died. On her deathbed, she gave Vasilisa a tiny wooden doll with instructions to give it a little to eat and a little to drink if she were in need, and then it would help her. As soon as her mother died, Vasilisa gave it a little to drink and a little to eat, and it comforted her.\n\nAfter a time, her father remarried; the new wife was a woman with two daughters. Vasilisa's stepmother was very cruel to her, but with the help of the doll, she was able to perform all the tasks imposed on her. When young men came wooing, the stepmother rejected them all because it was not proper for the younger to marry before the older, and none of the suitors wished to marry Vasilisa's stepsisters.\n\nOne day the merchant had to embark on a journey. His wife sold the house and moved them all to a gloomy hut by the forest. One day she gave each of the girls a task and put out all the fires except a single candle. Her older daughter then put out the candle, whereupon they sent Vasilisa to fetch light from Baba Yaga's hut. The doll advised her to go, and she went. While she was walking, a mysterious man rode by her in the hours before dawn, dressed in white, riding a white horse whose equipment was all white; then a similar rider in red. She came to a house that stood on chicken legs and was walled by a fence made of human bones. A black rider, like the white and red riders, rode past her, and night fell, whereupon the eye sockets of the skulls began to glow. Vasilisa was too frightened to run away, and so Baba Yaga found her when she arrived in her mortar.\n\nBaba Yaga said that Vasilisa must perform tasks to earn the fire, or be killed. She was to clean the house and yard, wash Baba Yaga's laundry, and cook her a meal. She was also required to separate grains of rotten corn from sound corn, and separate poppy seeds from grains of soil. Baba Yaga left, and Vasilisa despaired, as she worked herself into exhaustion. When all hope of completing the tasks seemed lost, the doll whispered that she would complete the tasks for Vasilisa, and that the girl should sleep.\n\nAt dawn, the white rider passed; at or before noon, the red. As the black rider rode past, Baba Yaga returned and could complain of nothing. She bade three pairs of disembodied hands seize the corn to squeeze the oil from it, then asked Vasilisa if she had any questions.\n\nVasilisa asked about the riders's identities and was told that the white one was Day, the red one the Sun, and the black one Night. But when Vasilisa thought of asking about the disembodied hands, the doll quivered in her pocket. Vasilisa realized she should not ask, and told Baba Yaga she had no further questions. In return, Baba Yaga enquired as to the cause of Vasilisa's success. On hearing the answer \"by my mother's blessing\", Baba Yaga, who wanted nobody with any kind of blessing in her presence, threw Vasilisa out of her house, and sent her home with a skull-lantern full of burning coals, to provide light for her step-family.\n\nUpon her return, Vasilisa found that, since sending her out on her task, her step-family had been unable to light any candles or fire in their home. Even lamps and candles that might be brought in from outside were useless for the purpose, as all were snuffed out the second they were carried over the threshold. The coals brought in the skull-lantern burned Vasilisa's stepmother and stepsisters to ashes, and Vasilisa buried the skull according to its instructions, so no person would ever be harmed by it. \n\nLater, Vasilisa became an assistant to a maker of cloth in Russia's capital city, where she became so skilled at her work that the Tsar himself noticed her skill; he later married Vasilisa.\n\nIn some versions, the tale ends with the death of the stepmother and stepsisters, and Vasilisa lives peacefully with her father after their removal. This lack of a wedding is unusual in a tale with a grown heroine, although some, such as \"Jack and the Beanstalk\", do feature it.\n\nThe white, red, and black riders appear in other tales of Baba Yaga and are often interpreted to give her a mythological significance.\n\nIn common with many folklorists of his day, Alexander Afanasyev regarded many tales as primitive ways of viewing nature. In such an interpretation, he regarded this fairy tale as depicting the conflict between the sunlight (Vasilisa), the storm (her stepmother), and dark clouds (her stepsisters).\n\nClarissa Pinkola Estés interprets the story as a tale of female liberation, Vasilisa's journey from subservience to strength and independence. She interprets Baba Yaga as the \"wild feminine\" principle that Vasilisa has been separated from, which, by obeying and learning how to nurture, she learns and grows from.\n\nEdith Hodgetts included an English translation of this story in her 1890 collection \"Tales and Legends from the Land of the Tzar.\"\n\nAleksandr Rou made a film entitled \"Vasilisa the Beautiful\" in 1939, however, it was based on a different tale – \"The Frog Tsarevna\". American author Elizabeth Winthrop wrote a children's book – \"Vasilissa the Beautiful: a Russian Folktale\" (HarperCollins, 1991), illustrated by Alexander Koshkin. There is also a Soviet cartoon – \"Vasilisa the Beautiful\", but it is also based on the Frog Tsarevna tale.\n\nVasilisa appears in the 2007 comic book \"\" to assist Hellboy against Koschei the Deathless with her usual story of the Baba Yaga . The book also includes other characters of slavic folklore, such as a Domovoi making an appearance.\n\nThe novel \"Vassa in the Night\" by Sarah Porter is based on this folktale with a modern twist.\n\nThe book Vasilisa the Terrible: A Baba Yaga Story flips the script by painting Vasilisa as a villain and Baba Yaga as an elderly woman who is framed by the young girl.\n\nLaura Frankos' short story \"Slue-Foot Sue and the Witch in the Woods\" (1998) is a satirical pastiche of the story of Vasilisa, subverting convention by supplanting Vasilisa with the Texan fakelore heroine Slue-Foot Sue.\n\n"}
{"id": "30738400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30738400", "title": "Wael Ghonim", "text": "Wael Ghonim\n\nWael Ghonim (. born 23 December 1980) is an Internet activist and computer engineer with an interest in social entrepreneurship.\n\nIn 2011, he became an international figure and energized pro-democracy demonstrations in Egypt after his emotional interview following 11 days of secret incarceration by Egyptian police—during which he was interrogated regarding his work as one of two administrators of the Facebook page, \"We are all Khaled Saeed\", which helped spark the revolution. \"Time\" magazine included him in its \"Time 100\" list of 100 most influential people of 2011, and the World Economic Forum have selected him as one of the Young Global Leaders in 2012.\n\nWael is the author of \"Revolution 2.0: The power of people is greater than the people in power\" (2013). In 2012, he founded Tahrir Academy, a technology focused NGO that aims at fostering education in Egypt. In 2015, Ghonim co-founded Parlio, a social media platform that was acquired by Quora in March 2016. He is currently a non-resident senior fellow at Harvard's Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation.\n\nWael Ghonim was born to a middle-class family on 23 December 1980 in Cairo, Egypt, and grew up in Abha, Saudi Arabia, until he was 13 years old. He then moved back to live in Cairo.\n\nHe earned a BS in computer engineering from Cairo University in 2004 and an MBA, with honors, in marketing and finance from the American University in Cairo in 2007.\n\nBetween 2002 and 2005, Ghonim was Marketing and Sales Manager of Gawab. In 2005, Wael left Gawab to establish Mubasher.info a financial portal serving the Middle East region. Wael joined Google Middle East and North Africa as their Regional Marketing Manager in 2008 based at Google Egypt. In January 2010, Wael became Head of Marketing of Google Middle East and North Africa based at Google's UAE office in Dubai Internet City in Dubai. During the Egyptian Revolution of 2011, Wael took leave from Google to focus on his work in Egypt and the Middle East. In 2014, Wael joined Google Ventures as an Entrepreneur in Residence. In December 2014, he announced his resignation from Google Ventures, in order to work at a start-up company.\n\nGhonim's memoir \"Revolution 2.0\", was published in January 2012 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt in the U.S. and by HarperCollins in the UK. A reviewer at \"The New York Times\" called the book \"a touchstone for future testimonials about a strengthening borderless digital movement that is set to continually disrupt powerful institutions, be they corporate enterprises or political regimes\".\n\nIn 2010, Wael Ghonim founded a Facebook page titled \"We Are All Khaled Said\", supporting Khaled Said, a young Egyptian who was tortured to death by police in Alexandria. Wael Ghonim used this page in moving and integrating the anti-government protests of the 25th of Jan revolution. He first made an announcement on the page on 14 January, asking members if they were going to plan on taking to the streets on 25 January and do what Tunisia did? In less than 2 hours he published an event titled \"25 يناير على التعذيب والفساد والظلم والبطالة\" [\"January 25: Revolution against Torture, Corruption, Unemployment and Injustice\"]. This was the first invitation and many others followed. He anonymously collaborated with activists on the ground to announce the locations for the protest.\n\nThe page also organized interesting activities such as the Silent Stands and the Police Communication Campaign.\n\nIn January 2011, Ghonim persuaded Google to allow him to return to Egypt, citing \"personal issues\". He came to Egypt to partake in the Egyptian revolution, but he disappeared on 27 January during the nationwide unrest in Egypt. His family told Al-Arabiya and other international media that he was missing. Google also issued a statement confirming the disappearance. Many bloggers like Chris DiBona and Habib Haddad campaigned in an attempt to identify his whereabouts.\n\nOn 5 February 2011, Mostafa Alnagar, a major Egyptian opposition figure, reported that Wael Ghonim was alive and detained by the authorities and to be released \"within hours\". On 6 February 2011, Amnesty International demanded that the Egyptian authorities disclose where Ghonim was and to release him.\n\nOn 7 February, Ghonim was released after 11 days in detention. Upon his release, he was greeted with cheers and applause when he stated: \"We will not abandon our demand and that is the departure of the regime.\"\n\nThe same day, Ghonim appeared on the Egyptian channel DreamTV on the \"10:00 pm\" programme hosted by Mona El-Shazly. In the interview he praised the protesters and mourned the dead as the host read their names and showed their pictures, eventually rising, \"overwhelmed\", and walking off camera. The host followed. In the interview, he also urged that they deserved attention more than he did, and calling for the end of the Mubarak regime, describing it again as \"rubbish\". Becoming a symbol of the revolution in Egypt, Ghonim stated that he is \"ready to die\" for the cause.\n\nAt the end, he gathered himself for a few seconds and tried to make the most of the platform [El-Shazly] had given him. \"I want to tell every mother and every father who lost a child, I am sorry, but this is not our mistake,\" he said. \"I swear to God, it's not our mistake. It's the mistake of every one of those in power who doesn't want to let go of it.\"\n\nOn 9 February, Ghonim addressed the crowds in Tahrir Square, telling the protesters: \"This is not the time for individuals, or parties, or movements. It's a time for all of us to say just one thing: Egypt above all.\"\n\nWael Ghonim also made an appearance on \"60 Minutes\", sitting down with Harry Smith. During his interview he said:\n\n\"Our revolution is like Wikipedia, okay? Everyone is contributing content, [but] you don't know the names of the people contributing the content. This is exactly what happened. Revolution 2.0 in Egypt was exactly the same. Everyone contributing small pieces, bits and pieces. We drew this whole picture of a revolution. And no one is the hero in that picture.\"\n\nThe scholar Fouad Ajami writes about the revolution:\n\"No turbaned ayatollah had stepped forth to summon the crowd. This was not Iran in 1979. A young Google executive, Wael Ghonim, had energized this protest when it might have lost heart, when it could have succumbed to the belief that this regime and its leader were a big, immovable object. Mr. Ghonim was a man of the modern world. He was not driven by piety. The condition of his country—the abject poverty, the crony economy of plunder and corruption, the cruelties and slights handed out to Egyptians in all walks of life by a police state that the people had outgrown and despaired of—had given this young man and others like him their historical warrant.\"\n\nIn 2012, following a book deal he signed, Ghonim decided to donate its proceeds, worth $2.5 million USD, to charity work in Egypt. He founded Tahrir Academy, a nonprofit online collaborative learning platform, which aims at transforming young Egyptians' characters. The goal is future leaders who are critical thinkers. He currently serves as the Chairperson of the foundation. In 2015, the Academy halted its activities because it was no longer able to secure funding.\nWael Ghonim attended the International Monetary Fund (IMF) meeting in 2011, stating that \"I feel like Joe the Plumber\", referring to the conservative activist who became a shorthand for populist outrage during the 2008 U.S. presidential election. \"When I was coming here, a lot of people were criticizing me for it. The perception is that the IMF was part of the problem. It made these regimes survive and put these countries into debt.\" Ghonim said he had come to the IMF to represent \"people like me who don't understand economics\", to which IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn replied, \"Wael, you understand a lot more than you say.\"\n\nAccording to Ghonim, the kind of macroeconomic discussions at the panel were far from the mindset of activists in Tahrir Square:\n\"Honestly, we were just thinking of how to get rid of the nightmare, not to start dreaming. I went to the street because of two things: I hate it when I see people eating from the trash. I work for a corporation, I'm well paid, and a lot of us just sympathized with those people, but they're not willing to pay the price of really helping them out. It's not just me; it's thousands of Egyptians. One of my friends who lost his eye [during the protests] actually drives a Ferrari. He went on the day of 25th. The second was dignity. We wanted our dignity back. And dignity does have an economic aspect.\"\n\nHe also took issue with Strauss-Kahn's characterization of \"mistakes\" made by the international community during the Mubarak era:\nIt's such an understatement to say mistake. To me, what was happening was a crime. The way the international community was dealing with the injustice and dictators in the region was basically a crime—partners in crime.\n\nGhonim continued his criticism of the IMF's aid to the Mubarak regime and expressed a hope that the days of Egypt relying on international aid would soon be over.\n\nIn April 2011 Ghonim announced he was taking a \"long term sabbatical\" from Google in order to start a \"technology focused NGO to help fight poverty & foster education in Egypt\".\n\nIn May 2011 Ghonim said that he has signed a \"Revolution 2.0\" book deal.<ref>\n"}
