{"id": "33480552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33480552", "title": "Alcohol use among college students", "text": "Alcohol use among college students\n\nCollege drinking is the consumption of alcohol by students on the campus of any college or university. The age at which it is legal to drink varies by country and affects whether college drinking is considered illegal (e.g., as in the United States, where it is illegal for those under the age of 21 to drink).\n\nBinge drinking occurs when students drink large amounts of alcohol in a relatively short space of time in order to feel the full effects of alcohol consumption. The National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism defines binge drinking as a pattern of drinking that brings a person's blood alcohol concentration, also known as BAC, to 0.08 grams percent or above. This is usually seen when men consume five or more drinks, and when women consume four or more drinks in a two-hour time period.\n\nYoung adults who participate in binge drinking experience higher rates of physical and sexual assault, and unwanted, unplanned, and unprotected sexual activity. There are also links between heavy alcohol consumption and depression.\n\nThe motivations among young students have changed as well. In recent years, more students are drinking with the intended purpose of getting drunk.\n\nThere are many health hazards that are caused from drinking. When students drink too much, the alcohol affects one's brain and ability to comprehend what is going on. One such problem is alcohol poisoning. After drinking too much, the alcohol and toxins in alcoholic drinks cause complications in one's brain and respiratory system. This causes mental and physical issues in one's body and could be very dangerous for one's health. Other hazardous health issues could arise from a drug called Rohypnol, nicknamed roofies. This is a toxic drug that could potentially be slipped into one’s drink which cause one to lose sight of what one thinks and does. This will also cause complications within one's body.\n\nIn certain countries, the drinking age of 18 or 21 is enforced. At certain U.S colleges, campus police will conduct bar raids by taking a certain number of people from the bar to catch underage students drinking. For example, at the University of Illinois, police will give tickets for underage students for just being an arms length distance from an alcoholic beverage. At other big universities, such as University of Wisconsin-Madison, students have to pay a ticket of about $250 and also pay for classes about the problems of drinking. Another major consequence is one's chances for college admission. If an individual has pictures on social media of them drinking or has a record with the police for underage drinking, this will cause a bad image of them and will cause issues when applying to schools.\n\nThough not necessarily legal, college drinking has become so common that there are less legal consequences for students caught drinking as compared to non-campus drinking events. Students are encouraged to prioritize safe drinking over non-drinking. Many schools have transportation services that are specific to drinking so the students are transported safely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5569142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569142", "title": "American Physical Therapy Association", "text": "American Physical Therapy Association\n\nThe American Physical Therapy Association (APTA) is a U.S-based individual membership professional organization representing more than 100,000 member physical therapists, physical therapist assistants, and students of physical therapy. The nonprofit association, based in Alexandria, Virginia, seeks to improve the health and quality of life of individuals in society by advancing physical therapist practice, education, and research, and by increasing the awareness and understanding of physical therapy's role in the nation's health care system.\n\nAPTA annually holds two large conferences and publishes the Physical Therapy Journal, the leading international journal for research in physical therapy and related fields, and PT in Motion, a professional issues magazine providing legislative, health care, human interest, and association news.\n\nAPTA also advocates on behalf of the profession and for issues which impact the health and well being of society such as funding for health research and for an adequate health care workforce. It lobbies for health care reform to improve access to health care.\n\nAPTA originally formed in 1921 as the American Women's Physical Therapeutic Association. The association was first led by President Mary McMillan, and an executive committee of elected officers governed the Association, which included 274 charter members. In 1922, the association changed its name to the American Physiotherapy Association, and men were admitted. Membership grew to just under 1,000 in the late 1930s.\n\nWith the advent of World War II and a nationwide polio epidemic during the 1940s and 1950s, physical therapists were in greater demand. The Association's membership swelled to 8,000, and the number of physical therapy education programs across the U.S. increased from 16 to 39.\n\nDuring the mid-1940s, the association adopted its current name, hired a full-time staff, and opened its first national office in New York City. A House of Delegates representing chapter members was established to set policies. The House elected a board of directors, previously the Executive Committee, to manage the association. In addition, sections were created to promote and develop specific objectives of the profession. Among the early sections were Schools (now the Education Section) and Self-Employed (now the Private Practice Section).\n\nIn the 1960s, APTA membership reached 15,000, and the number of education programs nationwide grew to 52. Currently, 242 institutions offer physical therapy education programs and 364 institutions offer physical therapist assistant education programs in the United States. These numbers will change significantly in the coming years to encompass 17 developing PT programs and 18 developing PTA programs.\n\nIn 1976, the association launched an annual Combined Sections Meeting, informally known as \"CSM,\" that is attended by physical therapists from around the United States. It's so named because all of the sections of APTA meet at this time.\n\nAPTA has chapters in most U.S. states as well as sections covering special interests. Sections are: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30510373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30510373", "title": "Avahan", "text": "Avahan\n\nAvahan is an initiative sponsored by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to reduce the spread of HIV in India. It began in 2003. As of 2009 the Gates Foundation had pledged to the programme. The programme aims to reduce HIV transmission and the prevalence of STIs in vulnerable high-risk populations, notably female sex workers, MSM, and transgender people, through prevention education and services such as condom promotion, STI management, behaviour change communication, community mobilisation, and advocacy. Avahan works in six states, whilst India HIV/AIDS Alliance is the state lead partner in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation launched Avahan in 2003 for the purpose of developing a model HIV prevention system in India and promoting others in India and worldwide to adapt and adopt their model.\n\nRather than staffing HIV prevention workers on its own, Avahan provides government health organisations and NGOs with the tools they need to conduct HIV prevention on their own. Avahan's primary prevention techniques include the following:\n\nIn 2005 an internal report determined that local people and even peer outreach workers had difficulty understanding the nature of Avahan's funded community partners. Specifically, local people had trouble understanding what services Avahan clinics and educators were offering.\n\nIn October 2011 a study published in The Lancet concluded that between 2003-8 in areas where the Avahan project was active the program lowered community rates of HIV acquisition with an increase in protection relative to increased funding per person.\n\n"}
{"id": "35245461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35245461", "title": "Birth Control Review", "text": "Birth Control Review\n\nBirth Control Review was a lay magazine established and edited by Margaret Sanger in 1917, three years after her friend, Otto Bobsein, coined the term \"birth control\" to describe voluntary motherhood or the ability of a woman to space children \"in keeping with a family's financial and health resources.\". Sanger published the first issue while imprisoned with Ethel Byrne, her sister, and Fannie Mindell for giving contraceptives and instruction to poor women at the Brownsville Clinic in New York. Sanger remained editor-in-chief until 1928, when she turned it over to the American Birth Control League The last issue was published in January 1940.\n\nIn October 1916 opened a family planning and birth control clinic in Brownsville, New York. Sanger was arrested twice while in operation for the illegal distribution of contraceptives and for being a public nuisance1. Sanger was charged with 30 days in jail where she began publishing the Birth Control Review (1917). The predecessor to the Birth Control Review was Sanger’s previous publication titled “Woman Rebel,” a seven issue periodical running March- October 1914. This journal was the first to publish the term “birth control” in print (coined by Otto Bobsien). This would subsequently lead to the Sanger use of the term to immobilize the Birth Control movement of the 20th century.\nSanger’s brief stay in prison and its surrounding publicity launched her into martyrdom and sparked a revitalized interest in the birth control moment earning her numerous donors to support her periodical. Sanger remained editor-in-chief until 1928 when she stepped down and the American Birth Control League took over1.\n\nThe main goal of the Review was to increase public support for birth control by attracting the support of doctors, legislators, academics, and the middle class and wealthy society women. The BCR urged its readers join groups such as American Birth Control League (which spanned 10 different branches and later became Planned Parenthood).\nContent included news of birth control activities, articles by scholars, activists, and writers on birth control, and reviews of books and other publications. The Review also included art and fiction in the form of cartoons, poetry and short stories as well as, case studies and first hand account/ testimonies from women often lower class POCs4.\n\nThe Comstock Act of 1873 made mailing information about birth control and contraceptives illegal. Fourteen states prohibited the verbal transmission of information about contraception or abortion, while eleven others made possession of instructions for the prevention of pregnancy a criminal offense5.\nSanger took decisive steps in order to circumvent these laws. Primarily by hand distributing the magazine and also by manipulated the language to suit a political stance on Eugenics6.\n\n“Eugenic theory developed in the United States during the early twentieth century. Individuals, including Margaret Sanger, believed that there were certain ways to promote a healthier population. Sanger, in particular, established ideas on when women should avoid giving birth. These ideas included women being at least 22 years old so that she can “attain a ripe physical and mental development” and when she is working since “society remains indifferent to the needs of her offspring and forces them to toil in mills and factories”7\nThe BCR often featured topics concerned the strengthening of gene pools and the controlling of overpopulation. That the inclusion of Neo-Malthusian ideals was a way to reach a broader range of supporters. \n\nControversy surrounds the tactics Sanger used to promote reproductive rights by way of birth control/ eugenics; specifically Sanger is often criticized heavily by POC communities for race and class driven eugenics. The language employed by Sanger in combination with underlying themes of eugenics often suggest that Sanger sought to apply the idea of birth control to limiting African American populations. She presented at a Ku Klux Klan rally in 1926 in Silver Lake, N.J8. “I accepted an invitation to talk to the women’s branch of the Ku Klux Klan … I saw through the door dim figures parading with banners and illuminated crosses … I was escorted to the platform, was introduced, and began to speak … In the end, through simple illustrations I believed I had accomplished my purpose. A dozen invitations to speak to similar groups were proffered” 9, 10\nIn a letter to Clarence Gable in 1939, Sanger wrote: “We do not want word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population, and the minister is the man who can straighten out that idea if it ever occurs to any of their more rebellious members”\n\n"}
{"id": "11745975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11745975", "title": "Caldicott guardian", "text": "Caldicott guardian\n\nThe Caldicott Committee's December 1997 \"Report on the Review of Patient-Identifiable Information\", usually referred to as the Caldicott Report (named after its author Dame Fiona Caldicott), identified weaknesses in the way parts of NHS handled confidential patient data. The report made several recommendations, one of which was the appointment of Caldicott guardians, members of staff with a responsibility to ensure patient data is kept secure:\nRecommendation 3: A senior person should be nominated in each NHS organisation, including the Department of Health and associated agencies, to act as a \"guardian\". The \"guardian\" should normally be a senior health professional or be closely supported by such a person. The NHS IM&T Security Manual (Section 18.4) requires each organisation to designate a senior medical officer to oversee all procedures affecting access to person-identifiable health data. This role and that of the \"guardian\" may be combined, providing there is no conflict of interest. The Department of Health should take the development of this role forward in partnership with interested parties.\nIt is now a requirement for every NHS organisation to have a Caldicott guardian. The Guardians are responsible for ensuring that their organisation adheres to the Caldicott principles.\n"}
{"id": "237721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237721", "title": "Cochrane (organisation)", "text": "Cochrane (organisation)\n\nCochrane is a British charity formed to organise medical research findings so as to facilitate evidence-based choices about health interventions faced by health professionals, patients, and policy makers. Cochrane includes 53 review groups that are based at research institutions worldwide. Cochrane has approximately 30,000 volunteer experts from around the world.\n\nThe group conducts systematic reviews of health-care interventions and diagnostic tests and publishes them in the Cochrane Library. According to the Library articles are available via one-click access but some require paid subscription or registration before reading. A few reviews, in occupational health for example, incorporate results from non-randomised observational studies, as well as controlled before–after (CBA) studies and interrupted time-series studies.\n\nCochrane, previously known as the Cochrane Collaboration, was founded in 1993 under the leadership of Iain Chalmers. It was developed in response to Archie Cochrane's call for up-to-date, systematic reviews of all relevant randomised controlled trials of health care.\n\nIn 1998, the Cochrane Economics Methods Group (CEMG) was set up to facilitate the process of decisions being based on health economics, evidence-based medicine and systematic.\n\nCochrane's suggestion that the methods used to prepare and maintain reviews of controlled trials in pregnancy and childbirth should be applied more widely was taken up by the Research and Development Programme, initiated to support the United Kingdom's National Health Service. Through the NHS R&D programme, led by the first Director of Research and Development Professor Michael Peckham, funds were provided to establish a \"Cochrane Centre\", to collaborate with others, in the UK and elsewhere, to facilitate systematic reviews of randomised controlled trials across all areas of health care.\n\nIn 2004, the Campbell Collaboration joined the CEMG and it became the Campbell & Cochrane Economics Methods Group (CCEMG).\n\nIn 2013 the organization published an editorial describing its efforts to train people in the developing world how to do Cochrane reviews. A 2017 editorial briefly discussed the history of Cochrane methodological approaches, such as including studies that use methodologies in lieu of randomised control trials and the challenge of having evidence adopted in practice.\n\nIn 2018, during its annual meeting, the Cochrane board expelled Peter Gøtzsche, a board member and director of Cochrane's Nordic center, from the organization, telling \"Nature\" that it had received “numerous complaints” about Gøtzsche after he co-authored an article in BMJ Evidence-Based Medicine alleging bias in Cochrane's May 2018 review of HPV vaccines. Gøtzsche's expulsion led four elected board members to resign in protest, which in turn led the board to cut two appointed members in order to comply with the ratio of elected to appointed members required by the organization's charter. Gøtzsche announced that this had happened via an open letter, in which he said there is a “growing top-down authoritarian culture and an increasingly commercial business model” taking root at Cochrane that “threaten the scientific, moral and social objectives of the organization”﻿. Gøtzsche has also been an outspoken critic of Cochrane’s relationship with the pharmaceutical industry. Cochrane's board said that Gøtzsche was expelled due to his behavior, which had been reviewed by an independent counsel hired by Cochrane.\n\nThe Cochrane logo represents a meta-analysis of data from seven randomised controlled trials (RCTs), comparing one health care treatment with a placebo in a blobbogram or forest plot. The diagram shows the results of a systematic review and meta-analysis on inexpensive course of corticosteroid given to women about to give birth too early – the evidence on effectiveness that would have been revealed had the available RCTs been reviewed systematically around 1982. This treatment reduces the odds of the babies of such women dying from the complications of immaturity by 30–50%. Because no systematic review of these trials was published until 1990, most obstetricians had not realised that the treatment was so effective and therefore many premature babies probably suffered or died unnecessarily.\n\nAn editorial in the \"Canadian Medical Association Journal\" in 2004 noted that Cochrane reviews appear to be more updated and of better quality than other reviews and due to their standardised methodologies, was \"the best single resource for methodologic research and for developing the science of meta-epidemiology.\" Their work has also led to methodological improvements in the medical literature. However, the editorial also noted areas for improvement remained, including adequately assessing potential harms from medical interventions and providing a more user-friendly format as well as promoting international collaboration.\n\nStudies comparing the quality of Cochrane meta-analyses in the fields of infertility, physiotherapy and orthodontics, to those published by other sources have concluded that Cochrane reviews incorporate superior methodological rigor. A broader analysis across multiple therapeutic areas reached similar conclusions but was performed by Cochrane authors.\nCompared to non-Cochrane reviews, those from Cochrane are less likely to reach a positive conclusion about the utility of medical interventions. Key criticisms that have been directed at Cochrane's studies include a failure to include a sufficiently large number of unpublished studies, failure to pre-specify or failure to abide by pre-specified rules for endpoint or trial inclusion, insufficiently frequent updating of reviews, an excessively high percentage of inconclusive reviews, and a high incidence of ghostwriting and honorary authorship. In some cases Cochrane's internal structure may make it difficult to publish studies that run against the pre-conceived opinions of internal subject matter experts.\n\nCochrane has been in official relations with the World Health Organization since 2011. This collaboration includes the right to appoint a representative to participate, without vote, in WHO's meetings, including at the World Health Assembly, the WHO's decision-making body. Participation in that assembly allows Cochrane to make statements on WHO health resolutions.\n\nIn October 2013, Wikipedia and Cochrane announced a collaborative venture, the announced goals of which include increasing the incorporation of Cochrane research in Wikipedia articles and providing Wikipedia editors with additional resources and assistance in interpreting medical data. Cochrane and John Wiley and Sons, the publisher of the Cochrane reviews, provide financial support for the collaboration in the form of 100 free Cochrane accounts made available to Wikipedia medical editors, the financial value of which has been estimated by Cochrane at $30,000 to $80,000 dollars per annum. Other support includes a nominal stipend and travel expenses for a Wikipedian in Residence at Cochrane.\n\nIn 2014 the Cochrane blog hosted a rebuttal written by four Wikipedia medical editors, in response to an article critical of the accuracy of Wikipedia medical content published in the Journal of the American Osteopathic Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "41400785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41400785", "title": "Contract farming", "text": "Contract farming\n\nContract farming involves agricultural production being carried out on the basis of an agreement between the buyer and farm producers. Sometimes it involves the buyer specifying the quality required and the price, with the farmer agreeing to deliver at a future date. More commonly, however, contracts outline conditions for the production of farm products and for their delivery to the buyer’s premises. The farmer undertakes to supply agreed quantities of a crop or livestock product, based on the quality standards and delivery requirements of the purchaser. In return, the buyer, usually a company, agrees to buy the product, often at a price that is established in advance. The company often also agrees to support the farmer through, e.g., supplying inputs, assisting with land preparation, providing production advice and transporting produce to its premises. The term \"outgrower scheme\" is sometimes used synonymously with contract farming, most commonly in Eastern and Southern Africa. Contract farming can be used for many agricultural products, although in developing countries it is less common for staple crops such as rice and maize.\n\nContract farming has been used for agricultural production for decades but its popularity appears to have been increasing in recent years. The use of contracts has become attractive to many farmers because the arrangement can offer both an assured market and access to production support. Contract farming is also of interest to buyers, who seek supplies of products for sale further along the value chain or for processing. Processors constitute the main users of contracts, as the guaranteed supply enables them to maximise utilization of their processing capacity. Contracts with farmers can also reduce risk from disease or weather and facilitate certification, which is being increasingly demanded by advanced markets. There are also potential benefits for national economies as contract farming leads to economies of scale, which, as Collier and Dercon argue, are \"bound to provide for a more dynamic agricultural sector.\n\nAlthough contract farming must first and foremost be considered as a commercial proposition, it has also come to be viewed as an effective approach to help solve many of the market access and input supply problems faced by small farmers. A guide published by GIZ in 2013 seeks to advise on ways in which contract farming can be developed to maximise such benefits for smallholders in developing countries. Effective linkages between companies and thousands of farmers often require the involvement of formal farmer associations or cooperatives or, at least, informal farmer groups. However, empirical evidence of the best way of achieving this is not yet available.\n\nEaton and Shepherd identify five different contract farming models. Under the centralized model a company provides support to smallholder production, purchases the crop, and then processes it, closely controlling its quality. This model is used for crops such as tobacco, cotton, sugar cane, banana, tea, and rubber. Under the Nucleus Estate model, the company also manages a plantation in order to supplement smallholder production and provide minimum throughput for the processing plant. This approach is mainly used for tree crops such as oil palm and rubber. The Multipartite model usually involves a partnership between government bodies, private companies and farmers. At a lower level of sophistication, the Intermediary model can involve subcontracting by companies to intermediaries who have their own (informal) arrangements with farmers. Finally, the Informal model involves small and medium enterprises who make simple contracts with farmers on a seasonal basis. Although these are usually just seasonal arrangements they are often repeated annually and usually rely for their success on the proximity of the buyer to the seller.\n\nAs with any contract, there are a number of risks associated with contract farming. Common problems include farmers selling to a buyer other than the one with whom they hold a contract (known as side selling, extra-contractual marketing or, in the Philippines, “pole vaulting”), or using inputs supplied by the company for purposes other than intended. From the other side, a company sometimes fails to buy products at the agreed prices or in the agreed quantities, or arbitrarily downgrades produce quality.\n\nThe existence of an adequate legal framework is thus crucial for the successful implementation and long-term sustainability of contract farming operations. A system of law is essential to assist farmers and their buyers in the negotiation and drafting of contracts. It is also important to protect them from risks that may occur during contractual execution, such as abuse of power by the stronger bargaining party or breach of contract. Strengthening farmer organisations to improve their contract negotiating skills can redress the potential for subsequent misunderstandings.\nDifferent countries have enacted policies and legislation to ensure fair contractual practices and offer remedies for dispute resolution. A “Legal Guide on Contract Farming” was developed in 2013–15 by the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT) in partnership with FAO.\nEven apparently successful contracts from a legal point of view can face other difficulties. For example, family relationships can be threatened. Work for contracts is often done by women but the contracts are invariably in the name of the man who also receives the payment. Men attend meetings and training courses but women often get no training. Land used by women for food crops or commercial production may be taken over for contract production. This can affect not only food production but also the status of the women. Contracts can break down because of poor management by the company or as a result of unrealistic expectations about the capacity of farmers or about the yields that can be achieved. This has been a particular problem with attempts to promote contract farming for biofuel crops.\n\nContract farming has to be commercially viable. To maximise profitability companies need to choose the best available farmers. Once suitable farmers have been identified it is then necessary to develop trust, as contracts will only work when both parties believe they are better off by engaging in them. To achieve this requires a willingness to collaborate and share information. Disagreements over product grading, for example, can be avoided by providing clear, simple specifications in a contract and by ensuring that farmers or their representatives are present when the produce is graded. Late payment can immediately cause a breakdown of trust and must be avoided. Contracts should be flexible to take into account the possibility of extreme events such as high open market prices or bad weather. Finally, however hard the parties try, disagreements are inevitable. Contracts should ideally make provision for arbitration by someone acceptable to both the company and the farmers. FAO's \"Guiding Principle for Responsible Contract Farming Operations\" provides concise advice on how to maximise the chances of success for both companies and farmers. Of particular importance here is the role of producer organisations in bargaining for smallholders' interests.\n\nNumerous studies have been conducted on contract farming ventures and many are listed in the Food and Agriculture Organization's (FAO) Contract Farming Resource Centre. The Asian Development Bank Institute (ADBI) in Tokyo has conducted a series of case studies in selected Asian countries to assess the conditions for benefits to be achieved by marginal rice farmers. In Lao PDR, the research suggested that contracted farmers earned significantly higher profits than non-contracted farmers. This facilitated the transition of subsistence farmers to commercial agriculture, offering potential to reduce rural poverty. A study in Cambodia on organic rice for export assessed the effect of contract farming on farmers’ performance. This suggested that younger and more educated farmers with larger families and fewer assets were more likely to join the contract. However, farmers with access to good road communications often left the contract, indicating that contract farming had helped them to develop into independent farmers.\n\nA set of papers on the role of contract farming in promoting inclusive market access, published by FAO in 2013, covers contractual arrangements in Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Honduras, South Africa, Tanzania and Thailand. The editors conclude that despite a preference for procurement from large farmers, factors other than farm size contribute to a company’s decision and that contract farming will not, therefore, necessarily lead to the exclusion of small farmers from supply chains. Geographical factors are important, both in terms of how they impact on production and in terms of factors such as land rights, gender and ethnic relationships. The editors identify a gradual convergence in clauses and conditions used in contracts and note that the two most common contract provisions, those involving technical assistance and pre-financing of inputs, may be essential for small farmer inclusion. The publication considers the role of third parties, such as NGOs, in coordinating farmers. The editors also identify potential roles for third parties in providing independent quality certification and in certifying contracting companies in order to reduce the risk for farmers.\n\nIn considering the subject of “side selling” the FAO publication advocates a combination of favourable incentives and explicit penalties for farmers. It also notes that in some circumstances the costs of full avoidance of contractual breaches can be much greater than losses from side-selling, and that companies may therefore learn to live with side-selling. This will depend on the size of the firm and the amount invested in farmers. Drawing in detail from the case studies, the publication reiterates the importance of a suitable enabling environment. However, it also concludes that in certain cases the lack of such an environment is not necessarily a binding constraint to contract farming, particularly where flexibility and non-conventional contractual clauses can be used. Although an enabling environment is important, the editors caution against government incentives and subsidies to promote inclusion as these may give a misleading impression of profitability and jeopardize sustainability. They also note that the costs to the firm of pursuing an inclusive strategy are rarely considered by proponents of the concept.\n\nProwse (2012) provides an accessible and comprehensive review of current issues in contract farming in developing countries. Several studies offer a positive message on the inclusion of smallholders and the benefits they accrue from participation. For example, in a study published in 2014, Wang, Wang and Delgado review a large number of empirical studies of contract farming. They conclude that contract farming has had a significant impact on improving farm efficiency and productivity, and farmer incomes.\nin a synthetic review of econometric studies, Minot and Ronchi (2015) suggest that participants’ incomes increase by 25-75%. A more measured approach is taken in Ton et al’s (2017) systematic review of contract farming, which argues that such figures need to take publication and survivor bias into account. In other words, such estimates need to be revised downwards to accept that studies that show negative or no ‘impact’ are less likely to be published, and that the calculation of the impact of contract farming may neglect schemes that do not improve incomes for smallholders and collapse and thus are not available for evaluation.\n\nA 2015 episode of the US television show \"Last Week Tonight with John Oliver\" documented contract farming for poultry in the USA, arguing that many of the farmers were below the poverty line.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3064410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3064410", "title": "DNA Bioscience", "text": "DNA Bioscience\n\nDNA Bioscience is a DNA testing company offering a DNA paternity testing service in the United Kingdom. It was founded in 2003 and ended within two years.\n\nThe company gained much press in 2005 when the UK politician David Blunkett bought shares in the company, shortly after which he became Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. He failed to declare his interest in the company, which ultimately led to his resignation from the Cabinet in November 2005.\n\nThe company went into liquidation on 8 December 2005 and was bought by an American-based DNA testing laboratory.\n\n"}
{"id": "33891507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33891507", "title": "David H. Rosen", "text": "David H. Rosen\n\nDavid H. Rosen (born February 25, 1945 in Port Chester, New York) is an American psychiatrist, Jungian analyst, and author, who was the first holder of the McMillan Professorship in Analytical Psychology, Professor of Psychiatry & Behavioral Science, and Professor of Humanities in Medicine at Texas A&M University. Although retired, he edited The Soul of Art (2017) by Christian Gaillard, which is the twentieth volume in the Fay Book Series in Analytical Psychology. The new editor of the Fay Book Series is Michael Escamilla who was named the McMillan scholar at The C.G. Jung Educational Center in Houston, Texas.\n\nHe currently lives in Eugene, Oregon, and is a member of the Pacific Northwest Society of Jungian Analysts and an Affiliate Professor of Psychiatry at Oregon Health & Science University. His research interests include analytical psychology, psychology of religion, psychology of humor, positive psychology, depression, suicidology, children's literature, social medicine and psychiatry; epidemiology, healing, ethics, peace, creativity, and the psychosocial, psychiatric, and human aspects of medicine.\n\nRosen graduated from the University of California in Berkeley with an individual major in Psychological-Biological Sciences, and then went to medical school at the University of Missouri. He did his internship at the University of California Service at San Francisco General Hospital. and his psychiatric residency at the Langley Porter Institute at the University of California Medical Center.\n\nHe was appointed first lecturer and then Assistant Professor of Psychiatry at the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco . He then moved at the bequest of Dr. George Engel to the University of Rochester Medical Center in New York as Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Medicine. Following that, he spent 25 years as the McMillan Professor of Analytical Psychology, Professor of Psychiatry, and Professor of Humanities in Medicine at Texas A&M University.\n\nRosen did post-graduate training in Analytical Psychology at the C.G. Jung Institute of San Francisco, California and became certified as a member of the Inter-Regional Society of Jungian Analysts and the International Association for Analytical Psychology.\n\nHe is best known for his research involving interviews of survivors of jumps off the Golden Gate Bridge and the therapeutic approach of egocide & transformation in treating suicidally depressed individuals (see \"Transforming Depression: Healing the Soul through Creativity\").\n\nHe edited a book, Less is More: A Collection of Ten-Minute Plays, which contains two plays of his own: \"Leap for Life\" and \"Thanatos Calling.\" The first concerns survivors of jumps off the Golden Gate Bridge, and the other is about an elderly suicidal woman.\n\nWhile at UCSF, Rosen received the Henry F. Albronda Memorial Award, the Academic Senate's Award for Distinction in Teaching, the Kaiser Award for Excellence in Teaching, and was selected to attend the National Endowment for the Humanities summer seminar for health professionals. He was also awarded the Outstanding Young Physician Award by the Medical Alumni Organization (University of Missouri), and was elected to Fellowship in the American Psychiatric Association. In 2003, he was designated Distinguished Fellow in the American Psychiatric Association and was elected to Fellowship in the American Academy of Psychoanalysis. He was the recipient of the Psychiatric Excellence Award by the Texas Society of Psychiatric Physicians in 2004. Rosen was named the Distinguished Life Fellow by the American Psychiatric Association in 2006. He and his co-authors received the Article-of-the-Year Award by AcademyHealth for their paper “Two-minute mental health care for elderly patients: Inside primary care visits.\" Rosen was the recipient of a Glasscock Center for Humanities Research Stipendiary Fellowship at TAMU for 2009-2010.\n\nRosen has published over a hundred peer reviewed articles and chapters and has authored and edited over twenty books. Additionally, he was the editor for twenty volumes of the Fay Book Series in Analytical Psychology (Texas A&M University Press) from 1991-2017. See http://www.tamupress.com/Catalog/ProductSearch.aspx?sf=ss=Carolyn%20and%20Ernest%20Fay%20Series%20in%20Analytical%20Psychology. \nHe is also the author of over a hundred Haiku including the books \"Clouds and More Clouds,\" published by Lily Pool Press (2013), \"Spelunking Through Life\" (2016), \"Living with Evergreens\" (2017), and \"White Rose, Red Rose\" (2017) with Johnny Baranski. Most recently, he co-authored \"Patient-Centered Medicine: A Human Experience\" with Uyen Hoang, published by Oxford University Press (2017).\n\nRosen is a painter utilizing watercolor and acrylic. Some of his paintings are for sale. See http://people.tamu.edu/~David-Rosen/artwork.htm.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66554", "title": "Dietary fiber", "text": "Dietary fiber\n\nDietary fiber or roughage is the portion of plant-derived food that cannot be completely broken down by digestive enzymes. It has two main components:\n\nDietary fiber consists of non-starch polysaccharides and other plant components such as cellulose, resistant starch, resistant dextrins, inulin, lignins, chitins, pectins, beta-glucans, and oligosaccharides.\nDietary fibers can act by changing the nature of the contents of the gastrointestinal tract and by changing how other nutrients and chemicals are absorbed. Some types of soluble fiber absorb water to become a gelatinous, viscous substance which may or may not be fermented by bacteria in the digestive tract. Some types of insoluble fiber have bulking action and are not fermented. Lignin, a major dietary insoluble fiber source, may alter the rate and metabolism of soluble fibers. Other types of insoluble fiber, notably resistant starch, are fermented to produce short-chain fatty acids, which are physiologically active and confer health benefits.\nFood sources of dietary fiber have traditionally been divided according to whether they provide soluble or insoluble fiber. Plant foods contain both types of fiber in varying amounts, according to the plant's characteristics of viscosity and fermentability. Advantages of consuming fiber depend upon which type of fiber is consumed and which benefits may result in the gastrointestinal system. Bulking fibers – such as cellulose, hemicellulose and psyllium – absorb and hold water, promoting regularity. Viscous fibers – such as beta-glucan and psyllium – thicken the fecal mass. Fermentable fibers – such as resistant starch and inulin – feed the bacteria and microbiota of the large intestine, and are metabolized to yield short-chain fatty acids, which have diverse roles in gastrointestinal health.\n\nDietary fiber is defined to be plant components that are not broken down by human digestive enzymes. In the late 20th century, only lignin and some polysaccharides were known to satisfy this definition, but in the early 21st century, resistant starch and oligosaccharides were included as dietary fiber components.\n\nOfficial definition of dietary fiber varies among different institutions:\n\nDietary fibers are found in fruits, vegetables and whole grains. The amount of fiber contained in common foods are in the following table:\n\nDietary fiber is found in plants, typically eaten whole, raw or cooked, although fiber can be added to make dietary supplements and fiber-rich processed foods. Grain bran products have the highest fiber contents, such as crude corn bran (79 g per 100 g) and crude wheat bran (43 g per 100 g), which are ingredients for manufactured foods. Medical authorities, such as the Mayo Clinic, recommend adding fiber-rich products to the Standard American Diet (SAD) which is rich in processed and artificially sweetened foods, with minimal intake of vegetables and legumes.\n\nSome plants contain significant amounts of soluble and insoluble fiber. For example, plums and prunes have a thick skin covering a juicy pulp. The skin is a source of insoluble fiber, whereas soluble fiber is in the pulp. Grapes also contain a fair amount of fiber.\n\nSoluble fiber is found in varying quantities in all plant foods, including:\n\nSources of insoluble fiber include:\n\nThese are a few example forms of fiber that have been sold as supplements or food additives. These may be marketed to consumers for nutritional purposes, treatment of various gastrointestinal disorders, and for such possible health benefits as lowering cholesterol levels, reducing risk of colon cancer, and losing weight.\n\nSoluble fiber supplements may be beneficial for alleviating symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome, such as diarrhea or constipation and abdominal discomfort. Prebiotic soluble fiber products, like those containing inulin or oligosaccharides, may contribute to relief from inflammatory bowel disease, as in Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and \"Clostridium difficile\", due in part to the short-chain fatty acids produced with subsequent anti-inflammatory actions upon the bowel. Fiber supplements may be effective in an overall dietary plan for managing irritable bowel syndrome by modification of food choices.\n\nOne insoluble fiber, resistant starch from high-amylose corn, has been used as a supplement and may contribute to improving insulin sensitivity and glycemic management as well as promoting regularity and possibly relief of diarrhea. One preliminary finding indicates that resistant corn starch may reduce symptoms of ulcerative colitis.\n\nChemically defined as oligosaccharides occurring naturally in most plants, inulins have nutritional value as carbohydrates, or more specifically as fructans, a polymer of the natural plant sugar, fructose. Inulin is typically extracted by manufacturers from enriched plant sources such as chicory roots or Jerusalem artichokes for use in prepared foods. Subtly sweet, it can be used to replace sugar, fat, and flour, is often used to improve the flow and mixing qualities of powdered nutritional supplements, and has significant potential health value as a prebiotic fermentable fiber.\n\nInulin is advantageous because it contains 25–30% the food energy of sugar or other carbohydrates and 10–15% the food energy of fat. As a prebiotic fermentable fiber, its metabolism by gut flora yields short-chain fatty acids (see below) which increase absorption of calcium, magnesium, and iron, resulting from upregulation of mineral-transporting genes and their membrane transport proteins within the colon wall. Among other potential beneficial effects noted above, inulin promotes an increase in the mass and health of intestinal \"Lactobacillus\" and \"Bifidobacterium\" populations.\n\nInulin's primary disadvantage is its tolerance. As a soluble fermentable fiber, it is quickly and easily fermented within the intestinal tract, which may cause gas and digestive distress at doses higher than 15 grams/day in most people. Individuals with digestive diseases have benefited from removing fructose and inulin from their diet. While clinical studies have shown changes in the microbiota at lower levels of inulin intake, some of the health effects require higher than 15 grams per day to achieve the benefits.\n\nVegetable gum fiber supplements are relatively new to the market. Often sold as a powder, vegetable gum fibers dissolve easily with no aftertaste. In preliminary clinical trials, they have proven effective for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. Examples of vegetable gum fibers are guar gum and gum arabic.\n\nMany molecules that are considered to be \"dietary fiber\" are so because humans lack the necessary enzymes to split the glycosidic bond and they reach the large intestine. Many foods contain varying types of dietary fibers, all of which contribute to health in different ways.\n\nDietary fibers make three primary contributions: bulking, viscosity and fermentation. Different fibers have different effects, suggesting that a variety of dietary fibers contribute to overall health. Some fibers contribute through one primary mechanism. For instance, cellulose and wheat bran provide excellent bulking effects, but are minimally fermented. Alternatively, many dietary fibers can contribute to health through more than one of these mechanisms. For instance, psyllium provides bulking as well as viscosity.\n\nBulking fibers can be soluble (i.e., psyllium) or insoluble (i.e., cellulose and hemicellulose). They absorb water and can significantly increase stool weight and regularity. Most bulking fibers are not fermented or are minimally fermented throughout the intestinal tract.\n\nViscous fibers thicken the contents of the intestinal tract and may attenuate the absorption of sugar, reduce sugar response after eating, and reduce lipid absorption (notably shown with cholesterol absorption). Their use in food formulations is often limited to low levels, due to their viscosity and thickening effects. Some viscous fibers may also be partially or fully fermented within the intestinal tract (guar gum, beta-glucan, glucomannan and pectins), but some viscous fibers are minimally or not fermented (modified cellulose such as methylcellulose and psyllium).\n\nFermentable fibers are consumed by the microbiota within the large intestines, mildly increasing fecal bulk and producing short-chain fatty acids as byproducts with wide-ranging physiological activities (discussion below). Resistant starch, inulin, fructooligosaccharide and galactooligosaccharide are dietary fibers which are fully fermented. These include insoluble as well as soluble fibers. This fermentation influences the expression of many genes within the large intestine, which affect digestive function and lipid and glucose metabolism, as well as the immune system, inflammation and more.\n\nDietary fibers can change the nature of the contents of the gastrointestinal tract and can change how other nutrients and chemicals are absorbed through bulking and viscosity. Some types of soluble fibers bind to bile acids in the small intestine, making them less likely to re-enter the body; this in turn lowers cholesterol levels in the blood from the actions of cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation of cholesterol.\n\nInsoluble fiber is associated with reduced risk of diabetes, but the mechanism by which this is achieved is unknown. One type of insoluble dietary fiber, resistant starch, may increase insulin sensitivity in healthy people, in type 2 diabetics, and in individuals with insulin resistance, possibly contributing to reduced risk of type 2 diabetes.\n\nNot yet formally proposed as an essential macronutrient, dietary fiber has importance in the diet, with regulatory authorities in many developed countries recommending increases in fiber intake.\n\nDietary fiber has distinct physicochemical properties. Most semi-solid foods, fiber and fat are a combination of gel matrices which are hydrated or collapsed with microstructural elements, globules, solutions or encapsulating walls. Fresh fruit and vegetables are cellular materials.\n\nFollowing a meal, the stomach and upper gastrointestinal contents consist of\nMicelles are colloid-sized clusters of molecules which form in conditions as those above, similar to the critical micelle concentration of detergents.\nIn the upper gastrointestinal tract, these compounds consist of bile acids and di- and monoacyl glycerols which solubilize triacylglycerols and cholesterol.\n\nTwo mechanisms bring nutrients into contact with the epithelium:\nThe multiple physical phases in the intestinal tract slow the rate of absorption compared to that of the suspension solvent alone.\n\nAdding viscous polysaccharides to carbohydrate meals can reduce post-prandial blood glucose concentrations. Wheat and maize but not oats modify glucose absorption, the rate being dependent upon the particle size. The reduction in absorption rate with guar gum may be due to the increased resistance by viscous solutions to the convective flows created by intestinal contractions.\n\nDietary fiber interacts with pancreatic and enteric enzymes and their substrates. Human pancreatic enzyme activity is reduced when incubated with most fiber sources. Fiber may affect amylase activity and hence the rate of hydrolysis of starch. The more viscous polysaccharides extend the mouth-to-cecum transit time; guar, tragacanth and pectin being slower than wheat bran.\n\nThe colon may be regarded as two organs,\nThe presence of bacteria in the colon produces an ‘organ’ of intense, mainly reductive, metabolic activity, whereas the liver is oxidative.\nThe substrates utilized by the cecum have either passed along the entire intestine or are biliary excretion products.\nThe effects of dietary fiber in the colon are on\nEnlargement of the cecum is a common finding when some dietary fibers are fed and this is now believed to be normal physiological adjustment. Such an increase may be due to a number of factors, prolonged cecal residence of the fiber, increased bacterial mass, or increased bacterial end-products.\nSome non-absorbed carbohydrates, e.g. pectin, gum arabic, oligosaccharides and resistant starch, are fermented to short-chain fatty acids (chiefly acetic, propionic and n-butyric), and carbon dioxide, hydrogen and methane. Almost all of these short-chain fatty acids will be absorbed from the colon. This means that fecal short-chain fatty acid estimations do not reflect cecal and colonic fermentation, only the efficiency of absorption, the ability of the fiber residue to sequestrate short-chain fatty acids, and the continued fermentation of fiber around the colon, which presumably will continue until the substrate is exhausted.\nThe production of short-chain fatty acids has several possible actions on the gut mucosa. All of the short-chain fatty acids are readily absorbed by the colonic mucosa, but only acetic acid reaches the systemic circulation in appreciable amounts. Butyric acid appears to be used as a fuel by the colonic mucosa as the preferred energy source for colonic cells.\n\nDietary fiber may act on each phase of ingestion, digestion, absorption and excretion to affect cholesterol metabolism, such as the following:\n\nAn important action of some fibers is to reduce the reabsorption of bile acids in the ileum and hence the amount and type of bile acid and fats reaching the colon. A reduction in the reabsorption of bile acid from the ileum has several direct effects.\nThe fibers that are most effective in influencing sterol metabolism (e.g. pectin) are fermented in the colon. It is therefore unlikely that the reduction in body cholesterol is due to adsorption to this fermented fiber in the colon.\n\nFeces consist of a plasticine-like material, made up of water, bacteria, lipids, sterols, mucus and fiber.\n\nWater is distributed in the colon in three ways:\nFecal weight is dictated by:\nWheat bran is minimally fermented and binds water and when added to the diet increases fecal weight in a predictable linear manner and decreases intestinal transit time. The particle size of the fiber is all-important, coarse wheat bran being more effective than fine wheat bran. The greater the water-holding capacity of the bran, the greater the effect on fecal weight. For most healthy individuals, an increase in wet fecal weight, depending on the particle size of the bran, is generally of the order of 3–5 g/g fiber.\nThe fermentation of some fibers results in an increase in the bacterial content and possibly fecal weight. Other fibers, e.g. pectin, are fermented and have no effect on stool weight.\n\nResearch has shown that fiber may benefit health in several different ways. Lignin and probably related materials that are resistant to enzymatic degradation, diminish the nutritional value of foods.\n\nColor coding of table entries:\n\nFiber does not bind to minerals and vitamins and therefore does not restrict their absorption, but rather evidence exists that fermentable fiber sources improve absorption of minerals, especially calcium. Some plant foods can reduce the absorption of minerals and vitamins like calcium, zinc, vitamin C, and magnesium, but this is caused by the presence of phytate (which is also thought to have important health benefits), not by fiber.\n\nA study of 388,000 adults ages 50 to 71 for nine years found that the highest consumers of fiber were 22% less likely to die over this period. In addition to lower risk of death from heart disease, adequate consumption of fiber-containing foods, especially grains, was also associated with reduced incidence of infectious and respiratory illnesses, and, particularly among males, reduced risk of cancer-related death.\n\nAn experiment designed with a large sample and conducted by NIH-AARP Diet and Health Study studied the correlation between fiber intake and colorectal cancer. The analytic cohort consisted of 291,988 men and 197,623 women aged 50–71 years. Diet was assessed with a self-administered food-frequency questionnaire at baseline in 1995–1996; 2,974 incident colorectal cancer cases were identified during five years of follow-up. The result was that total fiber intake was not associated with colorectal cancer.\n\nAlthough many researchers believe that dietary fiber intake reduces risk of colon cancer, one study conducted by researchers at the Harvard School of Medicine of over 88,000 women did not show a statistically significant relationship between higher fiber consumption and lower rates of colorectal cancer or adenomas. Similarly, a 2010 study of 58,279 men found no relationship between dietary fiber and colorectal cancer.\n\nDietary fiber has many functions in diet, one of which may be to aid in energy intake control and reduced risk for development of obesity. The role of dietary fiber in energy intake regulation and obesity development is related to its unique physical and chemical properties that aid in early signals of satiation and enhanced or prolonged signals of satiety. Early signals of satiation may be induced through cephalic- and gastric-phase responses related to the bulking effects of dietary fiber on energy density and palatability, whereas the viscosity-producing effects of certain fibers may enhance satiety through intestinal-phase events related to modified gastrointestinal function and subsequent delay in fat absorption. In general, fiber-rich diets, whether achieved through fiber supplementation or incorporation of high fiber foods into meals, have a reduced energy density compared with high fat diets. This is related to fiber’s ability to add bulk and weight to the diet. There are also indications that women may be more sensitive to dietary manipulation with fiber than men. The relationship of body weight status and fiber effect on energy intake suggests that obese individuals may be more likely to reduce food intake with dietary fiber inclusion.\n\nCurrent recommendations from the United States National Academy of Sciences, Institute of Medicine, state that for Adequate Intake, adult men ages 14–50 consume 38 grams of dietary fiber per day, men 51 and older 30 grams, women ages 19–50 to consume 25 grams per day, women 51 and older 21 grams.\n\nThe AND (Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, previously ADA) recommends a minimum of 20–35 g/day for a healthy adult depending on calorie intake (e.g., a 2000 Cal/8400 kJ diet should include 25 g of fiber per day). The AND's recommendation for children is that intake should equal age in years plus 5 g/day (e.g., a 4 year old should consume 9 g/day). No guidelines have yet been established for the elderly or very ill. Patients with current constipation, vomiting, and abdominal pain should see a physician. Certain bulking agents are not commonly recommended with the prescription of opioids because the slow transit time mixed with larger stools may lead to severe constipation, pain, or obstruction.\n\nAs of 2018, the British Nutrition Foundation has recommended a minimum fiber intake of 30 grams per day for healthy adults.\n\nOn average, North Americans consume less than 50% of the dietary fiber levels recommended for good health. In the preferred food choices of today's youth, this value may be as low as 20%, a factor considered by experts as contributing to the obesity levels seen in many developed countries. Recognizing the growing scientific evidence for physiological benefits of increased fiber intake, regulatory agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States have given approvals to food products making health claims for fiber. The FDA classifies which ingredients qualify as being \"fiber\", and requires for product labeling that a physiological benefit is gained by adding the fiber ingredient. As of 2008, the FDA approved health claims for qualified fiber products to display labeling that regular consumption may reduce blood cholesterol levels – which can lower the risk of coronary heart disease – and also reduce the risk of some types of cancer.\n\nViscous fiber sources gaining FDA approval are:\n\nOther examples of bulking fiber sources used in functional foods and supplements include cellulose, guar gum and xanthan gum. Other examples of fermentable fiber sources (from plant foods or biotechnology) used in functional foods and supplements include resistant starch, inulin, fructans, fructooligosaccharides, oligo- or polysaccharides, and resistant dextrins, which may be partially or fully fermented.\n\nConsistent intake of fermentable fiber may reduce the risk of chronic diseases. Insufficient fiber in the diet can lead to constipation.\n\nIn 2018, the British Nutrition Foundation issued a statement to define dietary fiber more concisely and list the potential health benefits established to date, while increasing its recommended daily intake to 30 grams for healthy adults. Statement: 'Dietary fibre' has been used as a collective term for a complex mixture of substances with different chemical and physical properties which exert different types of physiological effects.\n\nThe use of certain analytical methods to quantify dietary fiber by nature of its indigestibility results in many other indigestible components being isolated along with the carbohydrate components of dietary fiber. These components include resistant starches and oligosaccharides along with other substances that exist within the plant cell structure and contribute to the material that passes through the digestive tract. Such components are likely to have physiological effects.\n\nDiets naturally high in fiber can be considered to bring about several main physiological consequences:\n\nFiber is defined by its physiological impact, with many heterogenous types of fibers. Some fibers may primarily impact one of these benefits (i.e., cellulose increases fecal bulking and prevents constipation), but many fibers impact more than one of these benefits (i.e., resistant starch increases bulking, increases colonic fermentation, positively modulates colonic microflora and increases satiety and insulin sensitivity). The beneficial effects of high fiber diets are the summation of the effects of the different types of fiber present in the diet and also other components of such diets.\n\nDefining fiber physiologically allows recognition of indigestible carbohydrates with structures and physiological properties similar to those of naturally occurring dietary fibers.\n\nThe American Association of Cereal Chemists has defined soluble fiber this way:\n\"the edible parts of plants or similar carbohydrates resistant to digestion and absorption in the human small intestine with complete or partial fermentation in the large intestine.\" In this definition:\n\n\nAs an example of fermentation, shorter-chain carbohydrates (a type of fiber found in legumes) cannot be digested, but are changed via fermentation in the colon into short-chain fatty acids and gases (which are typically expelled as flatulence).\n\nAccording to a 2002 journal article,\nfiber compounds with partial or low fermentability include:\n\nfiber compounds with high fermentability include:\n\nWhen fermentable fiber is fermented, short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) are produced. SCFAs are involved in numerous physiological processes promoting health, including:\n\nSCFAs that are absorbed by the colonic mucosa pass through the colonic wall into the portal circulation (supplying the liver), and the liver transports them into the general circulatory system.\n\nOverall, SCFAs affect major regulatory systems, such as blood glucose and lipid levels, the colonic environment, and intestinal immune functions.\n\nThe major SCFAs in humans are butyrate, propionate, and acetate, where butyrate is the major energy source for colonocytes, propionate is destined for uptake by the liver, and acetate enters the peripheral circulation to be metabolized by peripheral tissues.\n\nThe United States FDA allows manufacturers of foods containing 1.7 g per serving of psyllium husk soluble fiber or 0.75 g of oat or barley soluble fiber as beta-glucans to claim that regular consumption may reduce the risk of heart disease.\n\nThe FDA statement template for making this claim is: \"Soluble fiber from foods such as [name of soluble fiber source, and, if desired, name of food product], as part of a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol, may reduce the risk of heart disease. A serving of [name of food product] supplies __ grams of the [necessary daily dietary intake for the benefit] soluble fiber from [name of soluble fiber source] necessary per day to have this effect.\"\n\nEligible sources of soluble fiber providing beta-glucan include:\n\nThe allowed label may state that diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and that include soluble fiber from certain of the above foods \"may\" or \"might\" reduce the risk of heart disease.\n\nAs discussed in FDA regulation 21 CFR 101.81, the daily dietary intake levels of soluble fiber from sources listed above associated with reduced risk of coronary heart disease are:\n\nSoluble fiber from consuming grains is included in other allowed health claims for lowering risk of some types of cancer and heart disease by consuming fruit and vegetables (21 CFR 101.76, 101.77, and 101.78).\n\nIn December 2016, FDA approved a qualified health claim that consuming resistant starch from high-amylose corn may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes due to its effect of increasing insulin sensitivity. The allowed claim specified: \"High-amylose maize resistant starch may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. FDA has concluded that there is limited scientific evidence for this claim.\"\n"}
{"id": "3220692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3220692", "title": "Dine and dash", "text": "Dine and dash\n\nA dine and dash is a form of theft by fraud, in which a patron orders and consumes food and beverages from a restaurant or similar establishment with the intent not to pay. The act may involve the customer leaving the restaurant with the intent of evading payment, or, less commonly, of the patron eating the food and then stating that they do not have any money.\n\nThere are numerous slang variations for this act, such as\"dine and ditch\", \"eat and run\", \"eat it and beat it\", \"lick it and split it\", \"bite and bolt\", \"doing a runner\", \n\nIn English law, \"dine and dash\" falls under the crime of making off without payment introduced in 1978; the law was later copied in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Simply failing to pay a bill when due is generally not a crime in most United States circumstances or jurisdictions. It is a contract debt, and the act is civil rather than criminal in nature. However, there are often laws that apply specifically to restaurants, hotels, and other circumstances, where the presumption is that the customer intended to never pay their bill in advance and therefore obtained the valuable services under false pretenses, a form of criminal fraud. In certain states, dining and dashing is not labelled as a criminal issue. For example, in California, it is considered a petty theft, while in Mississippi, it is a felony offense to refuse to pay a bill over $25.00.\n\nOften, the establishment may make their employees pay the cost of customer theft to give them an incentive to police their customers. They may do so explicitly by deducting unpaid meals from wages or tips, or implicitly through an end-of-shift reconciliation system whereby the server is expected to provide enough cash and credit card receipts to cover the cost of their customers' meals, and keeps any surplus as tips. This is an illegal form of wage theft, and if the server is held responsible for tabs that are not paid, the employer is liable for paying the server back his or her stolen wages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1895422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1895422", "title": "Dry sex", "text": "Dry sex\n\nDry sex is the sexual practice of having sexual intercourse without vaginal lubrication. Vaginal lubrication can be removed by using herbal aphrodisiacs, household detergents, antiseptics, by wiping out the vagina, or by placing leaves in the vagina besides other methods. Dry sex is associated with increased health risks.\n\nRemoving or preventing vaginal lubrication through practices associated with dry sex increases friction during intercourse, which may be perceived as increased vaginal tightness, and enhanced sexual pleasure for the male partner. Some men who insist on dry sex regard \"wet\" women to be unchaste. Dry sex can be painful for men and women. Dry sex is common in Sub-Saharan Africa and it has also been reported in Suriname among Afro-Surinamese women.\n\nThe practice has been linked to the high incidence of HIV/AIDS infection in Sub-Saharan Africa. The practice is regarded as increasing the risk of transmitting sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) for both partners, including HIV in a number of ways. Increased friction during intercourse may cause lacerations in vaginal tissue. Drying the vagina also removes the natural antiseptic lactobacilli which can combat sexually transmitted diseases. Furthermore, dry sex increases the risk that a condom will break because of the increased friction. It may also result in vaginal inflammation and/or traumatic lesions which in turn may increase the transmission of STDs in other ways.\n\n"}
{"id": "7784862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7784862", "title": "Fluid deprivation test", "text": "Fluid deprivation test\n\nA fluid or water deprivation test is a medical test which can be used to determine whether the patient has diabetes insipidus as opposed to other causes of polydipsia (a condition of excessive thirst that causes an excessive intake of water). The patient is required, for a prolonged period, to forgo intake of water completely, to determine the cause of the thirst.\n\nThis test measures changes in body weight, urine output, and urine composition when fluids are withheld. Sometimes measuring blood levels of ADH (a synonym for vasopressin) during this test is also necessary.\n\nIf there is no change in the water loss despite fluid deprivation, desmopressin may be administered to distinguish between the two types of diabetes insipidus which are central & nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.\n\nThe time of deprivation may vary from 4 to 18 hours.\n\nThe serum osmolality and urine osmolality are both measured in the test.\n\nThe conditions can be distinguished in the following way:\n\n"}
{"id": "85697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85697", "title": "Fufluns", "text": "Fufluns\n\nIn Etruscan religion, Fufluns or Puphluns was a god of plant life, happiness, wine, health, and growth in all things. He is mentioned twice among the gods listed in the inscriptions of the Liver of Piacenza, being listed among the 16 gods that rule the Etruscan astrological houses. He is the 9th of those 16 gods. He is the son of Semla and the god Tinia. He was worshipped at Populonia (Etruscan \"Fufluna\" or \"Pupluna\") and is the namesake of that town.\n\nHis Greek equivalent is Dionysus (Latin Bacchus), whereas his Roman equivalent is Liber. For this reason he was also called Fufluns Pachies or Pacha. He was adopted by the Romans but was quickly meshed with Bacchus and his rituals were changed heavily by the influence of Dionysian frenzies.\n\nFufluns is usually depicted as a beardless youth, but is sometimes rarely shown as an older, bearded man. Fufluns was shown in art with the thyrsus, satyrs, maenads, and other apotropaic symbols.\n\nFufluns is associated with several other deities in art, including Apulu (Apollo) who is considered his brother and his mother Semla. In association with them, Fufluns was sometimes seen as a chthonic deity associated with the underworld and a psychopomp that guided and protected souls. Fufluns was additionally associated with a purely Etruscan goddess named Catha.\nFufluns shares many myths with Dionysus, including the story of his birth, which parallels the story of Zeus and Semele. Like that myth, the pregnant Semla is killed by Tinia in the form of lightning bolt, who then continues to bear Fufluns by sewing the infant into his thigh and later giving birth to him. However, Semla continues to appear in artwork in association with an adult Fufluns after her death, indicating either a resurrection or immortalization of his mother.\n\nAdditionally, Fufluns’s connection to his mother is sometimes cast as romantic, as seen in artwork that shows them in an embrace used elsewhere in Etruscan artwork to indicate erotic entanglement.\n\nAnother depiction of a lost myth regarding Fufluns depicts his relationship with Areatha, the Etruscan form of Ariadne. The bronze mirror shows Fufluns and Areatha but also includes additional figures that are not part of the Greek version of the myth, namely Castur (the Etruscan Castor), a male figure called Eiasun (Jason) and a small winged figure identified as Aminth, who is attributed as the personification of love. The implications of the scene are based on a myth that is no longer recorded, but indicate some disagreement between Eiasun and Fufluns in which Areatha is involved. The myth of Fuflun and Areatha itself follows the traditional Greek myth, in which Areatha is abandoned by Theseus after helping him escape the labyrinth of Minos. Fufluns then finds Areatha and falls in love with her, and they later marry.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53155326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53155326", "title": "General Practice Extraction Service", "text": "General Practice Extraction Service\n\nThe General Practice Extraction Service (GPES or GP Extraction Service) is a British health service outcomes research computer database that collates statistical aggregated data (demographic cohorts) from individual medical records of GPs in England, for purposes independent of an individual's immediate health, such as public health research. It may conflict with sensitive medical confidentiality. It is similar to bioinformatics, epidemiology, and a health information exchange.\n\nWith advances in computing technology and databases, many more types of public health research, including time-consuming cohort studies, are now possible; sifting through health data is quicker. Medical conditions can be cross-referenced with lifestyle. \n\nThe GPES began in 2007. The NHS has not had a good record for computer systems. The NHS National Programme for IT, a complete digital overhaul of the NHS's medical records, became NHS Connecting for Health, and then partly by the Health and Social Care Information Centre; a lot of money was effectively lost on NHS Connecting for Health, sometimes quoted at £12 billion. GPES was meant to cost £14m but has cost £40m. The system was discussed by the Public Accounts Committee (United Kingdom) (PAC) in 2015, who said the system has begun five years later than planned, being planned to start in 2009. \n\nThe purpose of the GPES is not dissimilar to the Office for National Statistics (ONS) in how it collates data. It consists of the query tool GPET-Q, and the extraction tool GPET-E. GPET-Q is designed by Paris-based Atos, a large IT services company. \n\nThe data extracted from the GPES database will help medical research in the United Kingdom, and possible disease prevention at an individual level and at the public level - such as health campaigns. It will find where diseases are prevalent, and in which age groups and geographic areas, and possibly which social class. Social class has a large effect on long-term health outcomes. \n\nIt is part of the GP Collections of NHS Digital, formerly the Health and Social Care Information Centre or HSCIC. Another part is the Calculating Quality Reporting Service (CQRS).\n\nOther similar UK databases include the Clinical Practice Research Datalink and The Health Improvement Network. It pursues similar work to UK public health observatories\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34810345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34810345", "title": "Gestaltzerfall", "text": "Gestaltzerfall\n\nGestaltzerfall (German for \"shape decomposition\") refers to a type of visual agnosia and is a psychological phenomenon where delays in recognition are observed when a complex shape is stared at for a while as the shape seems to decompose into its constituting parts. With regards to kanji, a study has shown that delays are most significant when the characters are of the same size. When characters to recognize are of different sizes, delays are observed only when they are of different patterns.\n\nThe phenomenon was first described and named by C. Faust in 1947 as a symptom of the bilateral region of the parieto-occipital sulcus after a through and through bullet wound of this region. Afterwards, when the subject stared at a truck for a while the truck seemed to decompose into its motor, chassis, driver cab and the person could only focus on one of these parts until he briefly closed his eyes or looked away which reset the shape to the complete truck again.\n\nThe characteristic of orthographic satiation as opposed to semantic satiation is that meaning remains intact. It was suggested that this is different from semantic satiation and from the stimulus familiarization effect because orthographic satiation occurs after the perceivers have access to lexical meaning.\n\n"}
{"id": "12040006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12040006", "title": "Gingival margin", "text": "Gingival margin\n\nThe free gingival margin is the interface between the sulcular epithelium and the epithelium of the oral cavity. This interface exists at the most coronal point of the gingiva, otherwise known as the crest of the marginal gingiva.\n\nBecause the short part of gingiva existing above the height of the underlying Alveolar process of maxilla, known as the free gingiva, is not bound down to the periosteum that envelops the bone, it is moveable. However, due to the presence of gingival fibers such as the dentogingival and circular fibers, the free gingiva remains pulled up against the surface of the tooth unless being pushed away by, for example, a periodontal probe or the bristles of a toothbrush.\n\n\"Gingival retraction\" or \"gingival recession\" is when there is lateral movement of the gingival margin away from the tooth surface. It is usually termed \"gingival retraction\" as an intentional procedure, and in such cases it is performed by mechanical, chemical, or electrical means in order to perform certain dental surgery procedures. It is usually referred to as gingival recession as a spontaneous or non-intentional presentation, and in such cases it may indicate an underlying inflammation, a pocket formation or displacement of the marginal gingivae away from the tooth by mechanical, chemical, or surgical means. It may expose the roots of the teeth, similarly to gingival recession.\n\nUse of gingival retraction paste has been demonstrated to be most successful in providing a dry field and imposing minimal injury on the surrounding periodontium. It has a decreased ability to retract gingival tissues however, in comparison to a retraction cord.\n\nA retraction cord, although more damaging to the gingival tissues, has proven to displace gingival tissues more effectively and is therefore recommended in instances where thick periodontium is present. Without any chemical additions, such as epinephrine or sulphate compounds, the cord on its own does not produce haemostasis at the sulcus.\n"}
{"id": "20962627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20962627", "title": "Global Hunger Index", "text": "Global Hunger Index\n\nThe Global Hunger Index (GHI) is tool that measures and tracks hunger globally, by region, and by country. The GHI is calculated annually, and its results appear in a report issued in October each year. \n\nCreated in 2006, the GHI was initially published by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) and Welthungerhilfe. In 2007, the Irish NGO Concern Worldwide also became a co-publisher. In 2018, the GHI was a joint project of Welthungerhilfe and Concern Worldwide, with IFPRI stepping aside from its involvement in the report. \n\nThe 2018 Global Hunger Index (GHI) report—the 13th in the annual series—presents a multidimensional measure of national, regional, and global hunger by assigning a numerical score based on several aspects of hunger. It then ranks countries by GHI score and compares current scores with past results. The 2018 report shows that in many countries and in terms of the global average, hunger and undernutrition have declined since 2000; in some parts of the world, however, hunger and undernutrition persist or have even worsened. Since 2010, 16 countries have seen no change or an increase in their GHI levels. \n\nBesides presenting GHI scores, each year the GHI report includes an essay addressing one particular aspect of hunger. The 2018 report considers the issue of forced migration and hunger.\n\nIn previous years, topics included: \n\n\nIn addition to the yearly GHI, the Hunger Index for the States of India (ISHI) was published in 2008 and the Sub-National Hunger Index for Ethiopia was published in 2009. \n\nAn interactive map allows users to visualize the data for different years and zoom into specific regions or countries.\n\nThe Index ranks countries on a 100-point scale, with 0 being the best score (no hunger) and 100 being the worst, although neither of these extremes is reached in practice. Values from 0 to 9.9 reflect low hunger, values from 10.0 to 19.9 reflect moderate hunger, values from 20.0 to 34.9 indicate serious hunger, values from 35.0 to 49.9 reflect alarming hunger, and values of 50.0 or more reflect extremely alarming hunger levels.\n\nThe GHI combines 4 component indicators: \n1) the proportion of the undernourished as a percentage of the population; \n2) the proportion of children under the age of five suffering from wasting;\n3) the proportion of children under the age of five suffering from stunting; \n4) the mortality rate of children under the age of five.\n\nThe data and projections used for the 2017 GHI are for the period from 2011 to 2016—the most recent available data for the four components of the GHI. The data on the proportion of undernourished come from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO) and include authors' estimates. Data on child wasting and stunting are collected from UNICEF, the World Health Organization, the World Bank, WHO, MEASURE DHS, the Indian Ministry of Women and Child Development, and also include the authors’ own estimates. Data on child mortality are from the UN Inter-agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation.\n\nAlthough the 2017 GHI shows long-term progress in the reduction of hunger worldwide, millions are still experiencing chronic hunger and any places are suffering acute food crises and even famine. The 2017 GHI overall score is 27 percent lower than the 2000 score. Of the 119 countries assessed in this year's report, one falls in the extremely alarming range on the GHI Severity Scale; 7 are in the alarming range; 44 in the serious range; and 24 in the moderate range. Only 43 countries have scores considered low.\n\nThe regions of the world struggling most with hunger are South Asia and Africa south of the Sahara, with scores in the serious range (30.9 and 29.4, respectively). The scores of East and Southeast Asia, the Near East and North Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States range from low to moderate (between 7.8 and 12.8). These averages conceal some troubling results within each region, however, including scores in the serious range for Tajikistan, Guatemala, Haiti, and Iraq, and alarming in the case of Yemen, as well as scores in the serious range for half of all countries in East and Southeast Asia, whose average benefits from China's low score of 7.5.\n\nBecause data on the prevalence of undernourishment and, in some cases, data or estimates on child stunting and child wasting were unavailable, 2017 GHI scores could not be calculated for 13 countries. Yet the countries with missing data may be the ones suffering most. Based on the available data and information from international organizations that specialize in hunger and undernutrition, 9 of the 13 countries that lack sufficient data for calculating 2017 GHI scores still raise significant concern—Burundi, Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Eritrea, Libya, Papua New Guinea, Somalia, South Sudan, and Syria.\n\nThe essay in the 2018 GHI report examines forced migration and hunger—two closely intertwined challenges that affect some of the poorest and most conflict-ridden regions of the world. Globally, there are an estimated 68.5 million displaced people, including 40.0 million internally displaced people, 25.4 million refugees, and 3.1 million asylum seekers. For these people, hunger may be both a cause and a consequence of forced migration. Support for food-insecure displaced people needs to be improved in four key areas:\n• recognizing and addressing hunger and displacement as political problems;\n• adopting more holistic approaches to protracted displacement settings involving development support;\n• providing support to food-insecure displaced people in their regions of origin; and\n• recognizing that the resilience of displaced people is never entirely absent and should be the basis for providing support.\n\nThe 2018 Global Hunger Index report presents recommendations for providing a more effective and holistic response to forced migration and hunger. These include focusing on those countries and groups of people who need the most support, providing long-term solutions for displaced people, and engaging in greater responsibility sharing at an international level.\n\nThe 2017 highlights the uneven nature of progress made in reducing hunger worldwide and the ways in which inequalities of power lead to unequal nourishment.\n\nAchieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals’ aim of “leaving no one behind” demands approaches to hunger and malnutrition that are both more sensitive to their uneven distribution and more attuned to the power inequalities that intensify the effects of poverty and marginalization on malnutrition. The report emphasizes the importance of using power analysis to name all forms of power that keep people hungry and malnourished; the significance of designing interventions strategically focused on where power is exerted; the need to empower the hungry and malnourished to challenge and resist loss of control over the food they eat.\n\nThe 2016 Global Hunger Index (GHI) presents a multidimensional measure of national, regional, and global hunger, focusing on how the world can get to Zero Hunger by 2030.\n\nThe developing world has made substantial progress in reducing hunger since 2000. The 2016 GHI shows that the level of hunger in developing countries as a group has fallen by 29 percent. Yet this progress has been uneven, and great disparities in hunger continue to exist at the regional, national, and subnational levels.\n\nThe 2016 GHI emphasizes that the regions, countries, and populations most vulnerable to hunger and undernutrition have to be identified, so improvement can be targeted there, if the world community wants to seriously Sustainable Development Goal 2 on ending hunger and achieving food security.\n\nThe chapter on hunger and conflict shows that the time of the great famines with more than 1 million people dead is over. There is, however, a clear connection between armed conflict and severe hunger. Most of the countries scoring worst in the 2015 GHI, are experiencing armed conflict or have in recent years. Still, severe hunger exists also without conflict present as the cases of several countries in South Asia and Africa show.\n\nSince 2005 and increase in armed conflict can be seen. Unless armed conflicts can be reduced there is little hope for overcoming hunger.\n\nHidden hunger concerns over 200 million people worldwide. This micronutrient deficiency develops when humans do not take in enough micronutrients such as zinc, folate, iron and vitamins, or when their bodies cannot absorb them. Reasons include an unbalanced diet, a higher need for micronutrients (e.g. during pregnancy or while breast feeding) but also health issues related to sickness, infections or parasites.\n\nThe consequences for individuals can be devastating: these often include mental impairment, bad health, low productivity and death caused by sickness. In particular, children are affected if they do not absorb enough micronutrients in the first 1000 days of their lives (beginning with conception).\n\nMicronutrient deficiencies are responsible for an estimated 1.1 million of the yearly 3.1 million death caused by undernutrition in children. Despite the magnitude of the problem, it is still not easy to get precise data on the spread of hidden hunger. Macronutrient and micronutrient deficiencies cause a loss in global productivity of 1.4 to 2.1 billion US Dollars per year.\n\nDifferent measures exist to prevent hidden hunger. It is essential to ensure that humans maintain a diverse diet. The quality of produce is as important as the caloric input. This can be achieved by promoting the production of a wide variety of nutrient-rich plants and the creation of house gardens.\n\nOther possible solutions are the industrial enrichment of food or biofortification of feedplants (e.g. vitamin A rich sweet potatoes).\nIn the case of acute nutrient deficiency and in specific life phases, food supplements can be used. In particular, the addition of vitamin A leads to a better child survival rate.\n\nGenerally, the situation concerning hidden hunger can only be improved when many measures intermesh. In addition to the direct measures described above, this includes the education and empowerment of women, the creation of better sanitation and adequate hygiene, and access to clean drinking water and health services.\n\nMany of the countries, in which the hunger situation is \"alarming\" or \"extremely alarming\", are particularly prone to crises: In the African Sahel people experience yearly droughts. On top of that, they have to deal with violent conflict and natural calamities. At the same time, the global context becomes more and more volatile (financial and economic crises, food price crises).\n\nThe inability to cope with these crises leads to the destruction of many development successes that had been achieved over the years. In addition, people have even less resources to withstand the next shock or crises. 2.6 billion people in the world live with less than 2 USD per day. For them, a sickness in the family, crop failure after a drought or the interruption of remittances from relatives who live abroad can set in motion a downward spiral from which they cannot free themselves on their own.\n\nIt is therefore not enough to support people in emergencies and, once the crises is over, to start longer term development efforts. Instead, emergency and development assistance has to be conceptualized with the goal of increasing resilience of poor people against these shocks.\n\nThe Global Hunger Index differentiates three coping strategies. The lower the intensity of the crises, the less resources have to be used to cope with the consequences:\n\n\nBased on this analysis the authors present several policy recommendations:\n\nIncreasingly, Hunger is related to how we use land, water and energy. The growing scarcity of these resources puts more and more pressure on food security.\nSeveral factors contribute to an increasing shortage of natural resources:\nSigns for an increasing scarcity of energy, land and water resources are for example: growing prices for food and energy, a massive increase of large-scale investment in arable land (so-called land grabbing), increasing degradation of arable land because of too intensive land use (for example, increasing desertification), increasing number of people, who live in regions with lowering ground water levels, and the loss of arable land as a consequence of climate change.\nThe analysis of the global conditions lead the authors of the GHI 2012 to recommend several policy actions:\n\nThe report cites 3 factors as the main reasons for high volatility, or price changes, and price spikes of food:\n\nVolatility and prices increases are worsened according to the report by the concentration of staple foods in a few countries and export restrictions of these goods, the historical low of worldwide cereal reserves and the lack of timely information on food products, reserves and price developments. Especially this lack of information can lead to overreactions in the markets. Moreover, seasonal limitations on production possibilities, limited land for agricultural production, limited access to fertilizers and water, as well as the increasing demand resulting from population growth, puts pressure on food prices.\n\nAccording to the Global Hunger Index 2011 price trends show especially harsh consequences for poor and under-nourished people, because they are not capable to react to price spikes and price changes. Reactions, following these developments, can include: reduced calorie intake, no longer sending children to school, riskier income generation such as prostitution, criminality, or searching landfills, and sending away household members, who cannot be fed anymore. In addition, the report sees an all-time high in the instability and unpredictability of food prices, which after decades of slight decrease, increasingly show price spikes (strong and short-term increase).\n\nAt a national level, especially food importing countries (those with a negative food trade balance, are affected by the changing prices.\n\nUnder-nutrition among children has reached terrible levels. About 195 million children under the age of five in the developing world—about one in three children—are too small and thus underdeveloped. Nearly one in four children under age five—129 million—is underweight, and one in 10 is severely underweight. The problem of child under-nutrition is concentrated in a few countries and regions with more than 90 percent of stunted children living in Africa and Asia. 42% of the world's undernourished children live in India alone.\n\nThe evidence presented in the report\n\nIFPRI is a partner in Compact2025, a partnership that develops and disseminates evidence-based advice to politicians and other decision-makers aimed at ending hunger and undernutrition in the coming 10 years. The Compact2025 uses GHI data.\n\n\nvon Grebmer, Klaus; Bernstein, Jill; Nabarro, David; Prasai, Nilam; Amin, Shazia; Yohannes, Yisehac; Sonntag, Andrea; Patterson, Fraser; Towey, Olive; and Thompson, Jennifer. 2016. 2016 Global hunger index: Getting to zero hunger. Bonn Washington, DC and Dublin: Welthungerhilfe, International Food Policy Research Institute, and Concern Worldwide.\nK. von Grebmer, J. Bernstein, A. de Waal, N. Prasai, S. Yin, Y. Yohannes: 2015 Global Hunger Index - Armed Conflict and the Challenge of Hunger. Bonn, Washington D. C., Dublin: Welthungerhilfe, IFPRI, and Concern Worldwide. October 2015.\nK. von Grebmer; A. Saltzman; E. Birol; D. Wiesmann; N. Prasai; S. Yin; Y. Yohannes; P. Menon; J. Thompson; A. Sonntag. 2014. 2014 Global Hunger Index: The challenge of hidden hunger. Bonn, Washington, DC, and Dublin: Welthungerhilfe, IFPRI, and Concern Worldwide. \nPrasai, Nilam. 2014. Global Hunger Index 2014: Interactive Tool Web application created with Tableau software 8.2. Retrieved from http://www.ifpri.org/tools/2014-ghi-map (access date).\n\nvon Grebmer, Klaus; Headey, Derek; Béné, Christophe; Haddad, Lawrence; Olofinbiyi, Tolulope; Wiesmann, Doris; Fritschel, Heidi; Yin, Sandra; Yohannes, Yisehac; Foley, Connell; von Oppeln, Constanze; and Iseli, Bettina. 2013. 2013 Global Hunger Index: The challenge of hunger: Building resilience to achieve food and nutrition security. Bonn, Washington, DC, and Dublin: Welthungerhilfe, IFPRI, and Concern Worldwide. \nKlaus von Grebmer, Claudia Ringler, Mark W. Rosegrant, Tolulope Olofinbiyi, Doris Wiesmann, Heidi Fritschel, Ousmane Badiane, Maximo Torero, Yisehac Yohannes (IFPRI); Jennifer Thompson (Concern Worldwide); Constanze von Oppeln, Joseph Rahall (Welthungerhilfe and Green Scenery): 2012 Global Hunger Index - The challenge of hunger: Ensuring sustainable food security under land, water, and energy stresses. Washington, DC. October 2012.\nKlaus von Grebmer, Maximo Torero, Tolulope Olofinbiyi, Heidi Fritschel, Doris Wiesmann, Yisehac Yohannes (IFPRI); Lilly Schofield, Constanze von Oppeln (Concern Worldwide und Welthungerhilfe): 2011 Global Hunger Index - The challenge of hunger: Taming Price Spikes and Excessive Food Price Volatility. Bonn, Washington D. C., Dublin. October 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "634686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634686", "title": "Greg Rucka", "text": "Greg Rucka\n\nGregory \"Greg\" Rucka is an American comic book writer and novelist, known for his work on such comics as \"Action Comics\", \"Batwoman\", \"Detective Comics\", and the miniseries \"Superman: World of New Krypton\" for DC Comics, and for novels such as his \"Atticus Kodiak\" series.\n\nGreg Rucka was born on November 29, 1969 in San Francisco and raised on the Monterey Peninsula of California, in an area known to the locals as \"Steinbeck Country\". He first discovered comics at the Nob Hill Market in Salinas, California, where at age five, he first saw digest-sized black and white reprints of Stan Lee and Jack Kirby's work on \"The Incredible Hulk\", which he convinced his mother to buy. He began writing at a young age, and at age 10, he won a county-wide short story contest. He graduated from Vassar College with an A.B. in English. He then enrolled in the University of Southern California's Master of Professional Writing program, graduating with a Master of Fine Arts. He names Douglas Adams as his biggest influence.\n\nBefore becoming a professional fiction writer he worked in a number of other occupations, including house painting, restaurant work, emergency medical technician, security guard, technical writer and fight choreographer.\n\nRucka's writing career began with the Atticus Kodiak series. Kodiak is a bodyguard whose jobs are rarely as uncomplicated as they at first appear. The series to date consists of \"Keeper\", \"Finder\", \"Smoker\", \"Shooting at Midnight\", \"Critical Space\", \"Patriot Acts\", and \"Walking Dead\". These works garnered Rucka much critical acclaim and comparisons to the elite writers of crime/suspense fiction. The \"Atticus\" novels are notable for their realism and attention to detail, which are partly a product of Rucka's fight training and experience as an EMT. He has written six non-Atticus books: \"Fistful of Rain,\" \"Alpha,\" \"Bravo,\" \"A Gentleman's Game,\" \"Private Wars,\" and \"The Last Run\"; the latter three are tie-ins to his comic book series \"Queen & Country\".\n\nIn 1998, Rucka entered the comics industry with \"Whiteout\", published through Oni Press. \"Whiteout\" focuses on a murder in an Antarctic base. It was followed by a sequel, \"\".\n\nThe majority of Rucka's work throughout the 2000s was for DC Comics, where he was involved with their main trinity of characters: Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman. Rucka wrote Batman on a regular basis in the \"Detective Comics\" series following the events of \"No Man's Land'\". He wrote the novelization of the year-long arc. While writing \"Detective Comics\", he created a number of background characters that led to the co-creation of \"Gotham Central\" with co-writer Ed Brubaker. His Batman work includes such story arcs as \"Bruce Wayne: Murderer?\" and \"\". as well as the \"Batman: Death and the Maidens\" limited series. From October 2003 to April 2006 he wrote \"Wonder Woman\" after having previously written the character in the \"\" original graphic novel.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2004, he did some work for Marvel, including the start of the third volume of \"Wolverine\", \"Elektra\" and the mini-series \"Ultimate Daredevil and Elektra\". He has worked for Image Comics. The first volume of his series \"Queen & Country\" concluded in July 2007 with issue #32.\n\nHe co-wrote \"Countdown to Infinite Crisis\", a one-shot and the official start of the \"Infinite Crisis\" storyline, with Geoff Johns and Judd Winick. Rucka's work on both \"Wonder Woman\" and \"Gotham Central\" ended in 2006. Although he was not involved in the main storyline of \"Infinite Crisis\", he did write The OMAC Project which built towards the event, focusing on Batman's distrust of other superheroes. This led to the revival of \"Checkmate\", a UN authority that oversaw superheroes including Sasha Bordeaux, an integral character of The OMAC Project. He was a co-writer on the weekly series \"52\", which he co-wrote with Geoff Johns, Grant Morrison, and Mark Waid. This series chronicled in real-time the year following \"Infinite Crisis\", and saw Rucka focus on Renee Montoya of \"Gotham Central\" and the creation of the new Batwoman, Kate Kane. Rucka returned to the Batwoman character frequently over the years in a \"52\" sequel \"The Crime Bible\" and \"\" before by returning to \"Detective Comics\" with artist J. H. Williams III.\n\nRucka wrote the screenplay for the \"\" segment in the direct-to-DVD anime \"\", in which Crispus Allen, a character he created, appears. In 2009, Rucka and artist Eddy Barrows took over \"Action Comics\" as the title moved its focus from Superman to Kryptonian heroes Nightwing and Flamebird in the aftermath of the \"\" story arc. As well as writing \"Action Comics\", Rucka co-wrote the main \"New Krypton\" 12 part series with \"Superman\" writer James Robinson.\n\nAt Wondercon 2010 Rucka announced he would part ways with DC Comics to focus on his own projects, in part because of DC's failure to keep him on as writer of \"Wonder Woman: Earth One\" as promised. Rucka then wrote \"The Punisher\" for Marvel Comics.\n\nOn July 11, 2011, Rucka launched the webcomic \"Lady Sabre and the Pirates of the Ineffable Aether\", a steampunk adventure series illustrated by Rick Burchett. New installments appear every Monday and Thursday. In May 2013, Rucka launched a Kickstarter campaign to fund the publication of a print edition of \"Lady Sabre\", and achieved their initial funding goal of $27,500 within eight hours.\n\nHe wrote the creator-owned series, \"Black Magick\", which was drawn by Nicola Scott and published by Image Comics. The Rucka/Scott creative team produced a new \"Wonder Woman\" series for DC Comics in June 2016 as part of the DC Rebirth relaunch. Rucka concluded his run on \"Wonder Woman\" as of issue #25.\n\nRucka was featured as a character in the \"\" comic book miniseries \"\", as someone who accidentally killed a comics gossip columnist while attempting to kill Joe Quesada over his perceived role in the cancellation of \"Gotham Central\".\n\nRucka, his wife, author Jen Van Meter, and their two children, lived in Eugene, Oregon, and today live in Portland, Oregon.\n\nRucka's best friend, David Hale Smith, is also his literary agent.\n\nRucka names \"The Conversation\", \"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\" and \"The Silence of the Lambs\" as his favorite films. He enjoys the music of Dexter Gordon, Lester Bowie, Joe Jackson, Warren Zevon, and Melissa Ferrick. His other hobbies include roleplaying games, computer games, playing the guitar and collecting action figures. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1804194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1804194", "title": "Health and Care Professions Council", "text": "Health and Care Professions Council\n\nThe Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC, formerly the Health Professions Council, HPC) is a statutory regulator of over 344,000 professionals from 16 health and care professions in the United Kingdom. The Council reports its main purpose is to protect the public. It does this by setting and maintaining standards of proficiency and conduct for the professions it regulates. Its key functions include approving education and training programmes which health and care professionals must complete before they can register with the HCPC; and maintaining and publishing a Register of health and care providers who meet pre-determined professional requirements and standards of practice.\n\nThe Health Professions Council was set up in 2003 under the National Health Service Reform and Health Care Professions Act 2002, to replace the Council for Professions Supplementary to Medicine (CPSM).\n\nBy 2005, thirteen protected titles were regulated by the HPC: arts therapists; biomedical scientists; chiropodists/podiatrists; clinical scientists; dieticians; occupational therapists; operating department practitioners; orthoptists; paramedics; physiotherapists; prothetists and orthotists; radiographers; and speech and language therapists.\n\nOn 1 August 2012, the organisation took over the regulation of social workers in England from the General Social Care Council. The HPC was renamed the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), reflecting its new responsibilities. These changes were made by the UK Government as part of the Health and Social Care Act 2012. The strap line that they use was also changed to \"Regulating health, psychological and social work professionals\" which was considered better suited to describe the diversity of professionals that they regulate. The HCPC has also reported it was being accorded new powers to set up voluntary registers for unregulated professions or related professions, including students seeking to enter a regulated or unregulated profession or related occupation.\n\nThe work of the HCPC and other health professions regulators in the UK (e.g. General Medical Council, Nursing and Midwifery Council, General Dental Council, etc.) is overseen by the Professional Standards Authority (PSA).\n\nThe HCPC regulates 16 categories of health and care professionals. They are:\n\nAll of these professions have at least one professional title that is protected by law, including those shown above. Anyone using these titles must be registered with the HCPC. It is a criminal offence for someone to claim that they are registered with the HCPC when they are not or to use a protected title that they are not entitled to use.\n\nIf a professional who is registered with them does not meet the standards which are set, the HCPC can take action which might include stopping an individual from practising.\n\nThe Professional Standards Authority for Health and Social Care (PSA), is an independent body accountable to the UK Parliament, which promotes the health and wellbeing of the public and oversees the nine UK healthcare regulators. These are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1810614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810614", "title": "Health equity", "text": "Health equity\n\nHealth equity refers to the study and causes of differences in the quality of health and healthcare across different populations. Health equity is different from health equality, as it refers only to the absence of disparities in controllable or remediable aspects of health. It is not possible to work towards complete equality in health, as there are some factors of health that are beyond human influence. Inequity implies some kind of social injustice. Thus, if one population dies younger than another because of genetic differences, a non-remediable/controllable factor, we tend to say that there is a health inequality. On the other hand, if a population has a lower life expectancy due to lack of access to medications, the situation would be classified as a health inequity. These inequities may include differences in the \"presence of disease, health outcomes, or access to health care\" between populations with a different race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or socioeconomic status.\n\nHealth equity falls into two major categories: horizontal equity, the equal treatment of individuals or groups in the same circumstances; and vertical equity, the principle that individuals who are unequal should be treated differently according to their level of need. Disparities in the quality of health across populations are well-documented globally in both developed and developing nations. The importance of equitable access to healthcare has been cited as crucial to achieving many of the Millennium Development Goals.\n\nSocioeconomic status is both a strong predictor of health, and a key factor underlying health inequities across populations. Poor socioeconomic status has the capacity to profoundly limit the capabilities of an individual or population, manifesting itself through deficiencies in both financial and social capital. It is clear how a lack of financial capital can compromise the capacity to maintain good health. In the UK, prior to the institution of the NHS reforms in the early 2000s, it was shown that income was an important determinant of access to healthcare resources. Because one's job or career is a primary conduit for both financial and social capital, work is an important, yet under represented, factor in health inequities research and prevention efforts. Maintenance of good health through the utilization of proper healthcare resources can be quite costly and therefore unaffordable to certain populations.\n\nIn China, for instance, the collapse of the Cooperative Medical System left many of the rural poor uninsured and unable to access the resources necessary to maintain good health. Increases in the cost of medical treatment made healthcare increasingly unaffordable for these populations. This issue was further perpetuated by the rising income inequality in the Chinese population. Poor Chinese were often unable to undergo necessary hospitalization and failed to complete treatment regimens, resulting in poorer health outcomes.\n\nSimilarly, in Tanzania, it was demonstrated that wealthier families were far more likely to bring their children to a healthcare provider: a significant step towards stronger healthcare. Some scholars have noted that unequal income distribution itself can be a cause of poorer health for a society as a result of \"underinvestment in social goods, such as public education and health care; disruption of social cohesion and the erosion of social capital\".\n\nThe role of socioeconomic status in health equity extends beyond simple monetary restrictions on an individual's purchasing power. In fact, social capital plays a significant role in the health of individuals and their communities. It has been shown that those who are better connected to the resources provided by the individuals and communities around them (those with more social capital) live longer lives. The segregation of communities on the basis of income occurs in nations worldwide and has a significant impact on quality of health as a result of a decrease in social capital for those trapped in poor neighborhoods. Social interventions, which seek to improve healthcare by enhancing the social resources of a community, are therefore an effective component of campaigns to improve a community's health. A 1998 epidemiological study\" \"showed that community healthcare approaches fared far better than individual approaches in the prevention of heart disease mortality.\n\nUnconditional cash transfers for reducing poverty used by some programs in the developing world appear to lead to a reduction in the likelihood of being sick.<ref name=\"doi10.1002/14651858.CD011135.pub2\"></ref> Such evidence can guide resource allocations to effective interventions.\n\nEducation is an important factor in healthcare utilization, though it is closely intertwined with economic status. An individual may not go to a medical professional or seek care if they don’t know the ills of their failure to do so, or the value of proper treatment. In Tajikistan, since the nation gained its independence, the likelihood of giving birth at home has increased rapidly among women with lower educational status. Education also has a significant impact on the quality of prenatal and maternal healthcare. Mothers with primary education consulted a doctor during pregnancy at significantly lower rates (72%) when compared to those with a secondary education (77%), technical training (88%) or a higher education (100%). There is also evidence for a correlation between socioeconomic status and health literacy; one study showed that wealthier Tanzanian families were more likely to recognize disease in their children than those that were coming from lower income backgrounds.\n\nFor some populations, access to healthcare and health resources is physically limited, resulting in health inequities. For instance, an individual might be physically incapable of traveling the distances required to reach healthcare services, or long distances can make seeking regular care unappealing despite the potential benefits. Costa Rica, for example, has demonstrable health spatial inequities with 12–14% of the population living in areas where healthcare is inaccessible. Inequity has decreased in some areas of the nation as a result of the work of healthcare reform programs, however those regions not served by the programs have experienced a slight increase in inequity.\n\nChina experienced a serious decrease in spatial health equity following the Chinese economic revolution in the 1980s as a result of the degradation of the Cooperative Medical System (CMS). The CMS provided an infrastructure for the delivery of healthcare to rural locations, as well as a framework to provide funding based upon communal contributions and government subsidies. In its absence, there was a significant decrease in the quantity of healthcare professionals (35.9%), as well as functioning clinics (from 71% to 55% of villages over 14 years) in rural areas, resulting in inequitable healthcare for rural populations. The significant poverty experienced by rural workers (some earning less than 1 USD per day) further limits access to healthcare, and results in malnutrition and poor general hygiene, compounding the loss of healthcare resources. The loss of the CMS has had noticeable impacts on life expectancy, with rural regions such as areas of Western China experiencing significantly lower life expectancies.\n\nSimilarly, populations in rural Tajikistan experience spatial health inequities. A study by Jane Falkingham noted that physical access to healthcare was one of the primary factors influencing quality of maternal healthcare. Further, many women in rural areas of the country did not have adequate access to healthcare resources, resulting in poor maternal and neonatal care. These rural women were, for instance, far more likely to give birth in their homes without medical oversight.\n\nAlong with the socioeconomic factor of health disparities, race is another key factor. The United States historically had large disparities in health and access to adequate healthcare between races, and current evidence supports the notion that these racially centered disparities continue to exist and are a significant social health issue. The disparities in access to adequate healthcare include differences in the quality of care based on race and overall insurance coverage based on race. A 2002 study in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" identifies race as a significant determinant in the level of quality of care, with blacks receiving lower quality care than their white counterparts. This is in part because members of ethnic minorities such as African Americans are either earning low incomes, or living below the poverty line. In a 2007 Census Bureau, African American families made an average of $33,916, while their white counterparts made an average of $54,920. Due to a lack of affordable health care, the African American death rate reveals that African Americans have a higher rate of dying from treatable or preventable causes. According to a study conducted in 2005 by the Office of Minority Health—a U.S. Department of Health—African American men were 30% more likely than white men to die from heart disease. Also African American women were 34% more likely to die from breast cancer than their white counterparts.\n\nThere are also considerable racial disparities in access to insurance coverage, with ethnic minorities generally having less insurance coverage than non-ethnic minorities. For example, Hispanic Americans tend to have less insurance coverage than white Americans and as a result receive less regular medical care. The level of insurance coverage is directly correlated with access to healthcare including preventative and ambulatory care. A 2010 study on racial and ethnic disparities in health done by the Institute of Medicine has shown that the aforementioned disparities cannot solely be accounted for in terms of certain demographic characteristics like: insurance status, household income, education, age, geographic location and quality of living conditions. Even when the researchers corrected for these factors, the disparities persist. Slavery has contributed to disparate health outcomes for generations of African Americans in the United States.\n\nEthnic health inequities also appear in nations across the African continent. A survey of the child mortality of major ethnic groups across 11 African nations (Central African Republic, Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, Mali, Namibia, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Uganda, and Zambia) was published in 2000 by the WHO. The study described the presence of significant ethnic parities in the child mortality rates among children younger than 5 years old, as well as in education and vaccine use. In South Africa, the legacy of apartheid still manifests itself as a differential access to social services, including healthcare based upon race and social class, and the resultant health inequities. Further, evidence suggests systematic disregard of indigenous populations in a number of countries. The Pygmys of Congo, for instance, are excluded from government health programs, discriminated against during public health campaigns, and receive poorer overall healthcare.\n\nIn a survey of five European countries (Sweden, Switzerland, the UK, Italy, and France), a 1995 survey noted that only Sweden provided access to translators for 100% of those who needed it, while the other countries lacked this service potentially compromising healthcare to non-native populations. Given that non-natives composed a considerable section of these nations (6%, 17%, 3%, 1%, and 6% respectively), this could have significant detrimental effects on the health equity of the nation. In France, an older study noted significant differences in access to healthcare between native French populations, and non-French/migrant populations based upon health expenditure; however this was not fully independent of poorer economic and working conditions experienced by these populations.\n\nA 1996 study of race-based health inequity in Australia revealed that Aborigines experienced higher rates of mortality than non-Aborigine populations. Aborigine populations experienced 10 times greater mortality in the 30–40 age range; 2.5 times greater infant mortality rate, and 3 times greater age standardized mortality rate. Rates of diarrheal diseases and tuberculosis are also significantly greater in this population (16 and 15 times greater respectively), which is indicative of the poor healthcare of this ethnic group. At this point in time, the parities in life expectancy at birth between indigenous and non-indigenous peoples were highest in Australia, when compared to the US, Canada and New Zealand. In South America, indigenous populations faced similarly poor health outcomes with maternal and infant mortality rates that were significantly higher (up to 3 to 4 times greater) than the national average. The same pattern of poor indigenous healthcare continues in India, where indigenous groups were shown to experience greater mortality at most stages of life, even when corrected for environmental effects.\n\nSexuality is a basis of health discrimination and inequity throughout the world. Homosexual, bisexual, transgender, and gender-variant populations around the world experience a range of health problems related to their sexuality and gender identity, some of which are complicated further by limited research.\n\nIn spite of recent advances, LGBT populations in China, India, and Chile continue to face significant discrimination and barriers to care. The World Health Organization (WHO) recognizes that there is inadequate research data about the effects of LGBT discrimination on morbidity and mortality rates in the patient population. In addition, retrospective epidemiological studies on LGBT populations are difficult to conduct as a result of the practice that sexual orientation is not noted on death certificates. WHO has proposed that more research about the LGBT patient population is needed  for improved understanding of its  unique health needs and barriers to accessing care.\n\nRecognizing the need for LGBT healthcare research, the Director of the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services designated sexual and gender minorities (SGMs) as a health disparity population for NIH research in October 2016. For the purposes of this designation, the Director defines SGM as \"encompass[ing] lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender populations, as well as those whose sexual orientation, gender identity and expressions, or reproductive development varies from traditional, societal, cultural, or physiological norms\". This designation has prioritized research into the extent, cause, and potential mitigation of health disparities among SGM populations within the larger LGBT community.\n\nWhile many aspects of LGBT health disparities are heretofore uninvestigated, at this stage, it is known that one of the main forms of healthcare discrimination  LGBT individuals face is discrimination from healthcare workers or institutions themselves. A systematic literature review of publications in English and Portuguese from 2004–2014 demonstrate significant difficulties in accessing care secondary to discrimination and homophobia from healthcare professionals. This discrimination can take the form of verbal abuse, disrespectful conduct, refusal of care, the withholding of health information,  inadequate treatment, and outright violence. In a study analyzing the quality of healthcare for South African men who have sex with men (MSM), researchers interviewed a cohort of individuals about their health experiences, finding that MSM who identified as homosexual felt their access to healthcare was limited due to an inability to find clinics employing healthcare workers who did not discriminate against their sexuality. They also reportedly faced \"homophobic verbal harassment from healthcare workers when presenting for STI treatment\". Further, MSM who did not feel comfortable disclosing their sexual activity to healthcare workers failed to identify as homosexuals, which limited the quality of the treatment they received.\n\nAdditionally, members of the LGBT community contend with health care disparities due, in part, to lack of provider training and awareness of the population’s healthcare needs. Studies regarding patient-provider communication in the LGBT patient community show that providers themselves report a significant lack of awareness regarding the health issues LGBT-identifying patients face. As a component of this fact, medical schools do not focus much attention on LGBT health issues in their curriculum; the LGBT-related topics that are discussed tend to be limited to HIV/AIDS, sexual orientation, and gender identity.\n\nAmong LGBT-identifying individuals, transgender individuals face especially significant barriers to treatment. Many countries still do not have legal recognition of transgender or non-binary gender individuals leading to placement in mis-gendered hospital wards and medical discrimination. Seventeen European states mandate sterilization of individuals who seek recognition of a gender identity that diverges from their birth gender. In addition to many of the same barriers as the rest of the LGBT community, a WHO bulletin points out that globally, transgender individuals often also face a higher disease burden. A 2010 survey of transgender and gender-variant people in the United States revealed that transgender individuals faced a significant level of discrimination. The survey indicated that 19% of individuals experienced a healthcare worker refusing care because of their gender, 28% faced harassment from a healthcare worker, 2% encountered violence, and 50% saw a doctor who was not able or qualified to provide transgender-sensitive care. In Kuwait, there have been reports of transgender individuals being reported to legal authorities by medical professionals, preventing safe access to care. An updated version of the U.S. survey from 2015 showed little change in terms of healthcare experiences for transgender and gender variant individuals. The updated survey revealed that 23% of individuals reported not seeking necessary medical care out of fear of discrimination, and 33% of individuals who had been to a doctor within a year of taking the survey reported negative encounters with medical professionals related to their transgender status.\n\nThe stigmatization represented particularly in the transgender population  creates a health disparity for LGBT individuals with regard to mental health. The LGBT community is at increased risk for psychosocial distress, mental health complications, suicidality, homelessness, and substance abuse, often complicated by access-based under-utilization or fear of health services. Transgender and gender-variant individuals have been found to experience higher rates of mental health disparity than LGB individuals. According to the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey, for example, 39% of respondents reported serious psychological distress, compared to 5% of the general population.\n\nThese mental health facts are informed by a history of anti-LGBT bias in health care. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) listed homosexuality as a disorder until 1973; transgender status was listed as a disorder until 2012. This was amended in 2013 with the DSM-5 when \"gender identity disorder\" was replaced with \"gender dysphoria\", reflecting that simply identifying as transgender is not itself pathological and that the diagnosis is instead for the distress a transgender person may experience as a result of the discordance between assigned gender and gender identity.\n\nLGBT health issues have received disproportionately low levels of medical research, leading to difficulties in assessing appropriate strategies for LGBT treatment. For instance, a review of medical literature regarding LGBT patients revealed that there are significant gaps in the medical understanding of cervical cancer in lesbian and bisexual individuals it is unclear whether its prevalence in this community is a result of probability or some other preventable cause. For example, LGBT people report poorer cancer care experiences. It is incorrectly assumed that LGBT women have a lower incidence of cervical cancer than their heterosexual counterparts, resulting in lower rates of screening.  Such findings illustrate the need for continued research focused on the circumstances and needs of LGBT individuals and the inclusion in policy frameworks of sexual orientation and gender identity as social determinants of health.\n\nA June 2017 review sponsored by the European commission as part of a larger project to identify and diminish health inequities, found that LGB are at higher risk of some cancers and that LGBTI were at higher risk of mental illness, and that these risks were not adequately addressed. The causes of health inequities were, according to the review, \"i) cultural and social norms that preference and prioritise heterosexuality; ii) minority stress associated with sexual orientation, gender identity and sex characteristics; iii) victimisation; iv) discrimination (individual and institutional), and; v) stigma.\"\n\nBoth gender and sex are significant factors that influence health. Sex is characterized by female and male biological differences in regards to gene expression, hormonal concentration, and anatomical characteristics. Gender is an expression of behavior and lifestyle choices. Both sex and gender inform each other, and it is important to note that differences between the two genders influence disease manifestation and associated healthcare approaches. Understanding how the interaction of sex and gender contributes to disparity in the context of health allows providers to ensure quality outcomes for patients. This interaction is complicated by the difficulty of distinguishing between sex and gender given their intertwined nature; sex modifies gender, and gender can modify sex, thereby impacting health.  Sex and gender can both be considered sources of health disparity; both contribute to men and women’s susceptibility to various health conditions, including cardiovascular disease and autoimmune disorders.\n\nAs sex and gender are inextricably linked in day-to-day life, their union is apparent in medicine. Gender and sex are both components of health disparity in the male population. In non-Western regions, males tend to have a health advantage over women due to gender discrimination, evidenced by infanticide, early marriage, and domestic abuse for females. In most regions of the world, the mortality rate is higher for adult men than for adult women; for example, adult men suffer from fatal illnesses with more frequency than females. The leading causes of the higher male death rate are accidents, injuries, violence, and cardiovascular diseases. In a number of countries, males also face a heightened risk of mortality as a result of behavior and greater propensity for violence.\n\nPhysicians tend to offer invasive procedures to male patients more than female patients. Furthermore, men are more likely to smoke than women and experience smoking-related health complications later in life as a result; this trend is also observed in regard to other substances, such as marijuana, in Jamaica, where the rate of use is 2–3 times more for men than women. Lastly, men are more likely to have severe chronic conditions and a lower life expectancy than women in the United States.\n\nGender and sex are also components of health disparity in the female population. The 2012 World Development Report (WDR) noted that women in developing nations experience greater mortality rates than men in developing nations. Additionally, women in developing countries have a much higher risk of maternal death than those in developed countries. The highest risk of dying during childbirth is 1 in 6 in Afghanistan and Sierra Leone, compared to nearly 1 in 30,000 in Sweden—a disparity that is much greater than that for neonatal or child mortality.\n\nWhile women in the United States tend to live longer than men, they generally are of lower socioeconomic status (SES) and therefore have more barriers to accessing healthcare. Being of lower SES also tends to increase societal pressures, which can lead to higher rates of depression and chronic stress and, in turn, negatively impact health. Women are also more likely than men to suffer from sexual or intimate-partner violence both in the United States and worldwide. In Europe, women who grew up in poverty are more likely to have lower muscle strength and higher disability in old age.\n\nWomen have better access to healthcare in the United States than they do in many other places in the world. In one population study conducted in Harlem, New York, 86% of women reported having privatized or publicly assisted health insurance, while only 74% of men reported having any health insurance. This trend is representative of the general population of the United States.\n\nIn addition, women's pain tends to be treated less seriously and initially ignored by clinicians when compared to their treatment of men's pain complaints. Historically, women have not been included in the design or practice of clinical trials, which has slowed the understanding of women's reactions to medications and created a research gap. This has led to post-approval adverse events among women, resulting in several drugs being pulled from the market. However, the clinical research industry is aware of the problem, and has made progress in correcting it.\n\nHealth disparities are also due in part to cultural factors that involve practices based not only on sex, but also gender status. For example, in China, health disparities have distinguished medical treatment for men and women due to the cultural phenomenon of preference for male children. Recently, gender-based disparities have decreased as females have begun to receive higher-quality care. Additionally, a girl’s chances of survival are impacted by the presence of a male sibling; while girls do have the same chance of survival as boys if they are the oldest girl, they have a higher probability of being aborted or dying young if they have an older sister.\n\nIn India, gender-based health inequities are apparent in early childhood. Many families provide better nutrition for boys in the interest of maximizing future productivity given that boys are generally seen as breadwinners. In addition, boys receive better care than girls and are hospitalized at a greater rate. The magnitude of these disparities increases with the severity of poverty in a given population.\n\nAdditionally, the cultural practice of female genital mutilation (FGM) is known to impact women's health, though is difficult to know the worldwide extent of this practice. While generally thought of as a Sub-Saharan African practice, it may have roots in the Middle East as well. The estimated 3 million girls who are subjected to FGM each year potentially suffer both immediate and lifelong negative effects. Immediately following FGM, girls commonly experience excessive bleeding and urine retention. Long-term consequences include urinary tract infections, bacterial vaginosis, pain during intercourse, and difficulties in childbirth that include prolonged labor, vaginal tears, and excessive bleeding. Women who have undergone FGM also have higher rates of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and herpes simplex virus 2 (HSV2) than women who have not.\n\nMinority populations have increased exposure to environmental hazards that include lack of neighborhood resources, structural and community factors as well as residential segregation that result in a cycle of disease and stress. The environment that surrounds us can influence individual behaviors and lead to poor health choices and therefore outcomes. Minority neighborhoods have been continuously noted to have more fast food chains and fewer grocery stores than predominantly white neighborhoods. These food deserts affect a family’s ability to have easy access to nutritious food for their children. This lack of nutritious food extends beyond the household into the schools that have a variety of vending machines and deliver over processed foods. These environmental condition have social ramifications and in the first time in US history is it projected that the current generation will live shorter lives than their predecessors will.\n\nIn addition, minority neighborhoods have various health hazards that result from living close to highways and toxic waste factories or general dilapidated structures and streets. These environmental conditions create varying degrees of health risk from noise pollution, to carcinogenic toxic exposures from asbestos and radon that result in increase chronic disease, morbidity, and mortality. The quality of residential environment such as damaged housing has been shown to increase the risk of adverse birth outcomes, which is reflective of a communities health. Housing conditions can create varying degrees of health risk that lead to complications of birth and long-term consequences in the aging population. In addition, occupational hazards can add to the detrimental effects of poor housing conditions. It has been reported that a greater number of minorities work in jobs that have higher rates of exposure to toxic chemical, dust and fumes.\n\nRacial segregation is another environmental factor that occurs through the discriminatory action of those organizations and working individuals within the real estate industry, whether in the housing markets or rentals. Even though residential segregation is noted in all minority groups, blacks tend to be segregated regardless of income level when compared to Latinos and Asians. Thus, segregation results in minorities clustering in poor neighborhoods that have limited employment, medical care, and educational resources, which is associated with high rates of criminal behavior. In addition, segregation affects the health of individual residents because the environment is not conducive to physical exercise due to unsafe neighborhoods that lack recreational facilities and have nonexistent park space. Racial and ethnic discrimination adds an additional element to the environment that individuals have to interact with daily. Individuals that reported discrimination have been shown to have an increase risk of hypertension in addition to other physiological stress related affects. The high magnitude of environmental, structural, socioeconomic stressors leads to further compromise on the psychological and physical being, which leads to poor health and disease.\n\nIndividuals living in rural areas, especially poor rural areas, have access to fewer health care resources. Although 20 percent of the U.S. population lives in rural areas, only 9 percent of physicians practice in rural settings. Individuals in rural areas typically must travel longer distances for care, experience long waiting times at clinics, or are unable to obtain the necessary health care they need in a timely manner. Rural areas characterized by a largely Hispanic population average 5.3 physicians per 10,000 residents compared with 8.7 physicians per 10,000 residents in nonrural areas. Financial barriers to access, including lack of health insurance, are also common among the urban poor.\n\nReasons for disparities in access to health care are many, but can include the following:\n\n\nHealth disparities in the quality of care exist and are based on language and ethnicity/race which includes:\n\nCommunication is critical for the delivery of appropriate and effective treatment and care, regardless of a patient’s race, and miscommunication can lead to incorrect diagnosis, improper use of medications, and failure to receive follow-up care. The patient provider relationship is dependent on the ability of both individuals to effectively communicate. Language and culture both play a significant role in communication during a medical visit. Among the patient population, minorities face greater difficulty in communicating with their physicians. Patients when surveyed responded that 19% of the time they have problems communicating with their providers which included understanding doctor, feeling doctor listened, and had questions but did not ask. In contrast, the Hispanic population had the largest problem communicating with their provider, 33% of the time. Communication has been linked to health outcomes, as communication improves so does patient satisfaction which leads to improved compliance and then to improved health outcomes. Quality of care is impacted as a result of an inability to communicate with health care providers. Language plays a pivotal role in communication and efforts need to be taken to ensure excellent communication between patient and provider. Among limited English proficient patients in the United States, the linguistic barrier is even greater. Less than half of non-English speakers who say they need an interpreter during clinical visits report having one. The absence of interpreters during a clinical visit adds to the communication barrier. Furthermore, inability of providers to communicate with limited English proficient patients leads to more diagnostic procedures, more invasive procedures, and over prescribing of medications. Poor communication contributes to poor medical compliance and health outcomes. Many health-related settings provide interpreter services for their limited English proficient patients. This has been helpful when providers do not speak the same language as the patient. However, there is mounting evidence that patients need to communicate with a language concordant physician (not simply an interpreter) to receive the best medical care, bond with the physician, and be satisfied with the care experience. Having patient-physician language discordant pairs (i.e. Spanish-speaking patient with an English-speaking physician) may also lead to greater medical expenditures and thus higher costs to the organization. Additional communication problems result from a decrease or lack of cultural competence by providers. It is important for providers to be cognizant of patients’ health beliefs and practices without being judgmental or reacting. Understanding a patients’ view of health and disease is important for diagnosis and treatment. So providers need to assess patients’ health beliefs and practices to improve quality of care. Patient health decisions can be influenced by religious beliefs, mistrust of Western medicine, and familial and hierarchical roles, all of which a white provider may not be familiar with. Other type of communication problems are seen in LGBT health care with the spoken heterosexist (conscious or unconscious) attitude on LGBT patients, lack of understanding on issues like having no sex with men (lesbians, gynecologic examinations) and other issues.\n\nProvider discrimination occurs when health care providers either unconsciously or consciously treat certain racial and ethnic patients differently from other patients. This may be due to stereotypes that providers may have towards ethnic/racial groups. Doctors are more likely to ascribe negative racial stereotypes to their minority patients. This may occur regardless of consideration for education, income, and personality characteristics. Two types of stereotypes may be involved, automatic stereotypes or goal modified stereotypes. Automated stereotyping is when stereotypes are automatically activated and influence judgments/behaviors outside of consciousness. Goal modified stereotype is a more conscious process, done when specific needs of clinician arise (time constraints, filling in gaps in information needed) to make a complex decisions. Physicians are unaware of their implicit biases. Some research suggests that ethnic minorities are less likely than whites to receive a kidney transplant once on dialysis or to receive pain medication for bone fractures. Critics question this research and say further studies are needed to determine how doctors and patients make their treatment decisions. Others argue that certain diseases cluster by ethnicity and that clinical decision making does not always reflect these differences.\n\nAccording to the 2009 National Healthcare Disparities Report, uninsured Americans are less likely to receive preventive services in health care. For example, minorities are not regularly screened for colon cancer and the death rate for colon cancer has increased among African Americans and Hispanic populations. Furthermore, limited English proficient patients are also less likely to receive preventive health services such as mammograms. Studies have shown that use of professional interpreters have significantly reduced disparities in the rates of fecal occult testing, flu immunizations and pap smears. In the UK, Public Health England, a universal service free at the point of use, which forms part of the NHS, offers regular screening to any member of the population considered to be in an at-risk group (such as individuals over 45) for major disease (such as colon cancer, or diabetic-retinopathy).\n\nThere are a multitude of strategies for achieving health equity and reducing disparities outlined in scholarly texts, some examples include:\n\n\nHealth inequality is the term used in a number of countries to refer to those instances whereby the health of two demographic groups (not necessarily ethnic or racial groups) differs despite comparative access to health care services. Such examples include higher rates of morbidity and mortality for those in lower occupational classes than those in higher occupational classes, and the increased likelihood of those from ethnic minorities being diagnosed with a mental health disorder. In Canada, the issue was brought to public attention by the LaLonde report.\n\nIn UK, the Black Report was produced in 1980 to highlight inequalities. On 11 February 2010, Sir Michael Marmot, an epidemiologist at University College London, published the \"Fair Society, Healthy Lives\" report on the relationship between health and poverty. Marmot described his findings as illustrating a \"social gradient in health\": the life expectancy for the poorest is seven years shorter than for the most wealthy, and the poor are more likely to have a disability. In its report on this study, \"The Economist\" argued that the material causes of this contextual health inequality include unhealthful lifestyles - smoking remains more common, and obesity is increasing fastest, amongst the poor in Britain.\n\nIn June 2018, the European Commission launched the Joint Action Health Equity in Europe. Forty-nine participants from 25 European Union Member States will work together to address health inequalities and the underlying social determinants of health across Europe. Under the coordination of the Italian Institute of Public Health, the Joint Action aims to achieve greater equity in health in Europe across all social groups while reducing the inter-country heterogeneity in tackling health inequalities.\n\nPoor health outcomes appear to be an effect of economic inequality across a population. Nations and regions with greater economic inequality show poorer outcomes in life expectancy, mental health, drug abuse, obesity, educational performance, teenage birthrates, and ill health due to violence. On an international level, there is a positive correlation between developed countries with high economic equality and longevity. This is unrelated to average income per capita in wealthy nations. Economic gain only impacts life expectancy to a great degree in countries in which the mean per capita annual income is less than approximately $25,000.\nThe United States shows exceptionally low health outcomes for a developed country, despite having the highest national healthcare expenditure in the world. The US ranks 31st in life expectancy. Americans have a lower life expectancy than their European counterparts, even when factors such as race, income, diet, smoking, and education are controlled for.\n\nRelative inequality negatively affects health on an international, national, and institutional levels. The patterns seen internationally hold true between more and less economically equal states in the United States. The patterns seen internationally hold true between more and less economically equal states in the United States, that is, more equal states show more desirable health outcomes. Importantly, inequality can have a negative health impact on members of lower echelons of institutions. The Whitehall I and II studies looked at the rates of cardiovascular disease and other health risks in British civil servants and found that, even when lifestyle factors were controlled for, members of lower status in the institution showed increased mortality and morbidity on a sliding downward scale from their higher status counterparts.\nThe negative aspects of inequality are spread across the population. For example, when comparing the United States (a more unequal nation) to England (a less unequal nation), the US shows higher rates of diabetes, hypertension, cancer, lung disease, and heart disease across all income levels. This is also true of the difference between mortality across all occupational classes in highly equal Sweden as compared to less-equal England.\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:Determinants of health]]\n[[Category:Healthcare quality]]\n[[Category:Health economics]]\n[[Category:Social inequality]]\n[[Category:Social problems in medicine]]\n[[Category:Public health]]"}
{"id": "16540839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16540839", "title": "Health in Tajikistan", "text": "Health in Tajikistan\n\nTajikistan health system is influenced by the former Soviet legacy. It is ranked as the poorest country within the WHO European region, including the lowest total health expenditure per capita. Tajikistan is ranked 129th as Human Development Index of 188 countries,with an Index of 0,627 in 2016. In 2016 the SDG Index value was 56. \nIn Tajikistan health indicators such as infant and maternal mortality rates are among the highest of the former Soviet republics. In the post-Soviet era, life expectancy has decreased because of poor nutrition, polluted water supplies, and increased incidence of cholera, malaria, tuberculosis, and typhoid. Because the health care system has deteriorated badly and receives insufficient funding and because sanitation and water supply systems are in declining condition, Tajikistan has a high risk of epidemic disease.\n\nMany Russian doctors left Tajikistan after 1991, leaving the country with the lowest ratio of doctors to population in the former Soviet Union. The necessity of importing all pharmaceuticals has created an acute shortage of some critical items. The shortage of facilities, materials, and personnel is especially serious in rural areas. A presidential program doubled the wages of health workers in 2005. In 2003 a constitutional amendment eliminated the right to free health care for all citizens.\n\nThe years following independence (achieved in 1991) were associated with significant deterioration of the population’s health status. This was driven by a rise in both communicable and non-communicable diseases and declining access to health services, especially for the poor.\n\nTajikistan is in the midst of an epidemiological transition and demographic transition characterized by increasing life expectancy, declining fertility, and the leading causes of death transitioning from communicable to non-communicable disease.\n\nThe figure entitled \"Population Growth and Crude Death and Birth Rates for Tajikistan between 1950 and 2015\" shows the trends in life expectancy at birth (left axis) and total fertility rate (right axis). Life expectancy increased steadily between 1960 and the late 1980s. However, life expectancy declined for men and plateaued for women during the period following independence and civil war. Life expectancy began to rise again for both groups in the late 1990s, reaching 66 for men and 73 for women by 2014. The total fertility rate was increasing between 1960 and 1970, reaching a peak of 6.9 children per woman. After this time, fertility began to decline, reaching 3.4 children per woman by 2016.\n\nThe figure entitled \"Trends in Life Expectancy at Birth and Total Fertility Rate in Tajikistan between 1960 and 2014\" shows the population growth (right axis) and crude death rate and crude birth rate (left axis). Population growth has risen steadily since 1950. During this same period the crude death rate has slowly decline while the crude birth rate has declined more rapidly and with more variability.\n\nIn 1990, the leading cause of death were communicable diseases (predominantly diarrhea and lower respiratory infections). By 2013, the leading causes of death were non-communicable diseases (predominantly stroke and ischemic heart disease). The leading health risk factor in Tajikistan is dietary risks.\n\nThe top ranked causes of Disability Adjusted Life Years lost for Tajikistan citizens as of 2016 for all ages and sexes was diarrheal/lower respiratory infections/other (accounting for 5,421.22 DALYs per 100,000 population), 2nd cardiovascular disease (accounting for 3,943.96 DALYs per 100,000 population), 3rd neonatal disorders (accounting for 3,655.69 DALYs per 100,000 population), 4th other non-communicable (accounting for 2,556.68 DALYs per 100,000 population), and 5th unintentional injuries (accounting for 2,123.43 DALYs per 100,000 population). The global scale in 2016, cardiovascular disease ranked 1st, diarrheal/lower respiratory infections/other infections ranked 2nd neoplasm ranked 3rd ,Other non- communicable diseases ranked 4th and neonatal disorders ranked 5th \n\nThe Republic of Tajikistan has some of the highest child mortality rates in the Central Asia (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan) . The under-five mortality rate (Figure 1) in 2015 was 45 for every thousand live births and while, these reductions fell short of the Millennium Development Goals set for the region for 2015 there has been some progress made towards reducing child deaths. The number of under-five deaths in Tajikistan declined from 108 deaths per live birth in 1990 to 45 in 2015. The annual rate of reduction was 3.5%. Infant mortality rates have decreased from 85 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 39 in 2015 and the neonatal mortality rate decreased from 32 deaths per 1,000 live births to 21 in 2015 (Figure 2). \nAccording to the World Health Organization, in Tajikistan, most child deaths are caused by diseases that are “readily preventable or treatable with proven, cost-effective and quality delivered interventions. Infectious diseases are responsible for the vast majority of under-five deaths globally.” “In Tajikistan, over 40 percent of the population does not have access to clean water, and only 20 percent consume water from a central water supply system. Up to 60 percent of intestinal diseases in Tajikistan are water-borne, which accounts for 16 percent of deaths in children under 5 years of age. In 2010, Tajikistan experienced the first wild polio outbreak since 2002’.\n\nIn its Millennium Development Goals Progress Report: Tajikistan The United Nations notes that maternal health is \"one of the important areas of public health and is closely connected with the status of the family its material security living conditions, and family relationships. Official statistics from the Ministry of Health show that maternal mortality has decreased significantly, from more than 110 per 100,000 live births in 1995 to 44 in 2012.\n\nIn Tajikistan, only about 33 percent of women of reproductive age use modern contraceptive methods, and nearly one in five home deliveries are not attended by a skilled birth attendant. In Tajikistan, \"maternal mortality is conditioned by poor quality of services in antenatal delivery and postnatal care the lack of a functioning referral system the lack of means of transport especially in rural areas, and inadequate access to emergency obstetric care (EOC). The leading factors are also regional disparities in human resource capacity, inadequate education and skills of health workers, combined with the lack of essential materials and equipment.\n\nAlthough, mortality rates for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are declining in the WHO European region, they are stagnating in Tajikistan. Tajikistan is currently not on target to meet the 2012 World Health Assembly’s target of a 25% reduction in premature death from NCDs by 2025 for member states.\nAccording to the World Health Organization, NCDs are estimated to account for 62 percent of total deaths in Tajikistan. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death and the largest contributor to the gap in mortality between central Asia and industrialized countries, with rates about five times higher than in western Europe. Cardiovascular diseases comprise 38% of all deaths in Tajikistan, compared to 8% for cancers, 4% for respiratory diseases, 1% for diabetes and 11% for other NCDs. \n\nFrom 1990 to 2013, the three leading causes of death from NCDs in Tajikistan have remained the same: ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, and COPD.\n\nThe main risk factors for NCD deaths in Tajikistan are dietary risks, high blood pressure and high body mass index. An estimated 40% of the population in Tajikistan is overweight and 9% is obsese. The traditional diet in Tajikistan tends to be high in fat, salt, and sugar, and low in antioxidants.\n\nIn 2012, injuries were responsible for 8% of deaths. The majority of injuries causing disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) were unintentional and related to road accidents. In 2013, State Automobile Inspectorate of Ministry of Internal Affairs, categorized deaths by road in Tajikistan to be 33% for pedestrians, 36% for passengers (all vehicles), 27% for drivers (all vehicles) and 4% for cyclists. Regarding intentional injuries, both homicides and self-harm rates have been dropping in Tajikistan since the 1990s. According to the UN Office on Drug and Crime, intentional homicides in Tajikistan dropped from over 8 per 100,000 people in 1996-1998 to less than 1.5 per 100,000 people in 2012-2013; for comparison, the average in lower middle income nations was 5.2 per 100,000 people in 2012. Since 1990, the annual mortality rate from self-harm and interpersonal violence in Tajikistan has decreased by 18.6% to 8.7 per 100,000 people; for comparison, the annual mortality rate from self-harm and interpersonal violence in nearby Kazakhstan was 50.7 per 100,000 people. Self-harm and interpersonal violence affects adolescent to middle-aged men in Tajikistan the most.\nMental health remains a challenge in Tajikistan. The country did not have a stand-alone mental health policy or plan as of 2014, although some mental health legislation around instructions, rules and standards was adopted in 2002. In 2014, the prevalence of treated cases of severe mental disorder was 81.1 per 100,000 people, which does not reflect how many mental disorders may not be diagnosed and treated, and there were only 14.8 mental health workers per 100,000 people. Among types of mental health conditions, the leading contributors to disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in 2012 were unipolar depressive disorders, followed by anxiety disorders and drug use disorders. Substance abuse is one of the major behavioral risk factors contributing to years lived with disabilities (YLDs).\n\nSince the late 1990s, the high volume of illegal narcotics trafficked through the country has caused a rapid increase in narcotics addiction, which has become a major health issue. In 2006, the number of addicts was estimated at between 60,000 and 100,000, two-thirds of whom are younger than 30 years of age. In 2013, the officially registered domestic consumption of drugs was relatively low at 7,470 addicts, but the UNODC and Red Cross estimate that up to 1.2% of the population or 100,000 people are regular opiates users. No substantial drug treatment programs are in place.\n\nAlthough reliable HIV statistics are not available, in 2005 the United Nations estimated that Tajikistan had approximately 5,000 people living with HIV/AIDS. Beginning in 2003, the incidence of new cases has increased more sharply each year. It is estimated that about 60 percent of HIV cases are drug-related. Since the late 1990s, HIV occurrence has increased rapidly in areas such as the autonomous province of Gorno–Badakhshan, where the flow of narcotics is heavy and poverty is endemic. The 2015 UNAIDS estimates are that Tajikistan has over 16,000 people living with HIV/AIDS, who are mostly adult men over age 15, and 6,000 orphans due to AIDS aged 0–17.\n\n"}
{"id": "41780165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41780165", "title": "Indigenous health in Australia", "text": "Indigenous health in Australia\n\nIndigenous Australian health and wellbeing statistics indicate Aboriginal Australians are much less healthy than the rest of the Australian community. In 1989, the National Aboriginal Health Strategy was created. In 2010–11 the most common cause of hospital admissions for Indigenous Australians in mainland Australia was for kidney dialysis treatment. A 2007 study found that the 11 largest preventable contributions to the indigenous burden of disease in Australia were tobacco, alcohol, illicit drugs, high body mass, inadequate physical activity, low intake of fruit and vegetables, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, unsafe sex, child sexual abuse and intimate partner violence. The 26% of Indigenous Australians living in remote areas experience 40% of the health gap of Indigenous Australians overall.\n\nThe effects of colonization on the health of Indigenous Australians are due to factors such as land dispossession, social marginalization, political oppression, incarceration, acculturation, and population decline. European colonization in Australia began with the arrival of the British in 1788. Their arrival introduced foreign diseases, warfare, and violence to the Indigenous population, and the immediate effect was widespread mortality and disease. By the end of the 19 century, Indigenous Australians were confined to remote reserves and missions. They were associated with disease, which led to exclusion from institutions and isolation from non-Indigenous society for fear of contamination. These colonial policies resulted in segregated oppression and a lack of access to adequate medical care, leading to further disease and mortality.\n\nThe Australian government proceeded to deny the Indigenous people of their civil rights, including property rights; the ability to work and receive wages; and access to medical care and educational institutions. Legislation also allowed for the separation of Indigenous families, with guardianship being awarded to government officials called Protectors. Indigenous children forcibly removed from their families under Protection legislation in the first half of the 20 century are referred to as the Stolen Generations. Many of these children were neglected, abused, and denied of an education. The Australian government forced the Indigenous populations to assimilate into the colonizers’ culture through schools and programs, where Indigenous languages were banned and any resistance to these practices could result in imprisonment or death. This process of acculturation has led to trauma, including historical, inter-generational, and social trauma. Issues such as anxiety, stress, grief, and sadness are produced from this trauma, which have led to higher suicide rates, violence, substance abuse and incarceration of Indigenous peoples today.\n\nSocial, political and economic factors that result from colonization present barriers to quality healthcare, health education, and health behaviours. Acculturation has produced xenophobia, which has socially marginalized Indigenous people and excluded them from society. Social inclusion is a social determinant of health, and social marginalization allows for injustices against Indigenous people to persist. Political disempowerment prevented them from accessing social services, sickness benefits, and from voting until the 1960's. Socio-economic inequality has resulted in poor employment opportunities, housing, education and healthcare. One in seven Indigenous Australians reported difficulty in accessing healthcare for their children, which include transportation costs and prescription costs. Displacement and disenfranchisement prevents access to healthcare resources such as screening programs, and results in delayed or inadequate treatment. An example of this can be seen in the high rates of cervical cancer, where a meta-analysis of Indigenous women from Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the United States attributed these rates to “socio-economic disenfranchisement resulting from colonialism”, rather than genetics. \n\nThe displacement of Indigenous Australians to reserves and the isolation from society led to generations suffering from starvation and malnutrition. This has had profound effects on physical and intellectual development; Indigenous communities today in remote locations continue to suffer from malnutrition and chronic health problems, as well as lower levels of education. The persistence of inequality in educational attainment among contemporary Indigenous communities is viewed as a product of historical, political and social factors. European colonizers believed that Indigenous people were intellectually inferior, and education was thus denied as it was considered pointless. Low levels of education increase the likelihood of engaging in high risk health behaviors, as well as lower rates of participation in health screening and treatment. However, poor health behaviours and low utilization of healthcare resources can be due to a combination of many factors. Racial discrimination towards Indigenous peoples that stems from processes of colonialism leads to a cumulative exposure to racism, and this is related to negative health outcomes. It produces feelings of anger and shame, which limits active participation in the mainstream healthcare system and society at large. \n\nIndigenous Australians go to hospital at a higher rate than non-Indigenous Australians. In 2010–11, Indigenous Australians used hospitals 2.5 times more frequently than non-Indigenous people. This rate comes from an age-standardised separation rate (hospital check-out) of 911 per 1,000 for Indigenous people.\n\nThe 2010–11 age-standardised separation rate for Indigenous people living in the NT was 1,704 per 1,000, 7.9 times the rate for non-Indigenous people. About 80% of the difference between these rates was due to higher separations for Indigenous people admitted for renal dialysis.\n\nIn 2005, the Social Justice Report reported a seventeen-year gap between the life expectancy of Indigenous Australians and non-Indigenous Australians. This prompted health and human rights activists to establish the 'Close the Gap' campaign, which focused on health equality for Indigenous Australians.\n\nAs of 2010, life expectancy for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander men was estimated to be 11.5 years less than that of non-Indigenous men – 67.2 years and 78.7 years respectively. For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander women, the 20100 figures show a difference of 9.7 years – 72.9 years for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander women and 82.6 years for non-Indigenous women. Indigenous Australians are more likely to die at a younger age than their non-indigenous counterparts due to being un-healthy.\n\nIn 2007/08, the Australian government focused mainly on decreasing 'overcrowding' within remote indigenous communities in endeavours to improve health in rural populations. The Implementation of Australian Rural Accommodation (ARIA) Programme was granted $293.6 Million over four years to induce a significant level of housing reform.\n\nIn 2010-2011, health expenditure for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people was estimated at $4.6 billion, or 3.7% of Australia's total recurrent health expenditure. The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander population comprised 2.5% of the Australian population at this time.\n\nExpenditure equated to $7,995 per Indigenous person, which was 1.47 times greater than the $5,437 spent per non-Indigenous Australian in the same year.\n\nIn 2010-2011, Governments funded 91.4% of health expenditure for Indigenous people, compared with 68.1% for non-Indigenous people.\n\nThe Council of Australian Governments has initiated the first multi-sector approach in regards to initiating strategies to overcome the large discrepancy between Indigenous and European health statistics. The plan's success is dependent on the level of collaboration between all levels of the Australian Government, Indigenous leaders/communities and the health sector.\n\nIn some areas of Australia, particular the Torres Strait Islands, the prevalence of type 2 diabetes among Indigenous Australians is between 25 and 30%. In Central Australia high incidences of type-2 diabetes has led to high chronic kidney disease rates amongst Aboriginals. The most common cause of hospital admissions for Indigenous Australians in mainland Australia was for dialysis treatment. Indigenous women experience twice the adjusted-age risk of gestational diabetes, thus leading to Indigenous women having a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes after pregnancy and birth. Compared with the general Australian population, Indigenous Australians develop type 2 diabetes at a younger age.\n\nIndigenous Australians have much higher incidence rates than other Australians of cancers of the lung, liver, and cervix.</ref> Indigenous Australians have much lower rates of cancers of the breast, colon and rectum, prostate, melanoma of skin, and lymphoma. The likelihood of death caused by cancer among Indigenous Australians was 30% higher than that of the death rates caused by cancer in non-Indigenous Australians. Although the incidence rate of lung, liver and cervical cancers are higher in the Indigenous population, only six per cent of Indigenous people over the age 65 sought hospitalization for cancer compared with ten percent of non-Indigenous people over the age of 65. Furthermore, BreastScreen Australia stated that between 2003 and 2004 only 35 per cent of 50- to 69-year-old Indigenous women took part in their breast cancer screening programs, compared to 56 per cent of non-Indigenous women in this age group.\n\nIn central Australia, Indigenous Australians have human T-lymphotropic virus 1 at a rate thousands of times higher than non-Indigenous Australians.\n\nIn 2008, 45% of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adults were current daily smokers. Smoking is one of the main factors contributing to chronic disease. Amongst Indigenous Australians 1 in 5 mortalities are caused by smoking. If the number of smoking Indigenous Australians is reduced to equal the number of non-smoking non-Indigenous individuals there is a potential decrease of 420 mortalities among Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. In 2010 the Australian Government have put in place a 10-year program aimed at improving the health of Indigenous and Torres Strait Island. Pacific types of cancer including lung and cervical cancer occurs to 52% of indigenous women due to their smoking habit.\n\nIn 2010, the rate of high or very high levels of psychological distress for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adults was more than twice that of non-Indigenous Australians. A 2007 study found that the 4 largest preventable contributions to the indigenous mental health burden of disease were – alcohol consumption contributing the most, followed by illicit drugs, child sexual abuse and intimate partner violence. Up to 15% of the 10 year life expectancy gap compared to non-Indigenous Australians has been attributed to mental health disorders. Mental health should be taken into consideration in the Aboriginal concept of health and well being. The status of the mental health issue is difficult to define as there are little sources for evidence in Aboriginal health in Australia. In the incidence of children and the elderly many problems tend to be hidden. Some of the behavioural problems encountered tend to be linked to neurodevelopment delay and a failing education system.\n\nAboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians, particularly males, are far more likely than the rest of the community to experience injury and death from accidents and violence.\n\nThe Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander infant mortality rate varies across Australia. In New South Wales, the rate was 7.7 deaths per 1,000 live births in 2006-2008, compared with the non-Indigenous infant mortality rate of 4.3 deaths per 1,000 live births. In the Northern Territory, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander infant mortality rate was over three times as high as the non-Indigenous infant mortality rate (13.6 deaths per 1,000 live births compared with 3.8 deaths per 1,000 live births).\n\nMale Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander infant mortality in the Northern Territory was about 15 deaths per 1,000 live births, while female Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander infant mortality was 12 deaths per 1,000. For non-Indigenous males the rate was 4.4 deaths per 1,000 births and for females it was 3.3 deaths per 1,000 (ABS 2009b).\n\nBetween 1998 and 2008 the Indigenous to non-Indigenous rate ratio (the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander rate divided by the rate for other Australians) for infant mortality declined in the Northern Territory an average of 1.7% per year, while the rate difference (the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander rate minus the rate for other Australians) almost halved from 18.1 to 9.8 deaths per 1,000 births, which suggests that the gap between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and non-Indigenous infant mortality in the Northern Territory has reduced (ABS 2009b).\n\nIndigenous Australians have a higher rate of Invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) than the wider Australian population. In Western Australia between 1997–2007, the IPD incidence rate was 47 cases per 100,000 population per year among Aboriginal people and 7 cases per 100,000 population per year in non-Aboriginal people.\n\nAfter the introduction of a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (7vPCV), total IPD rates among Aboriginal children decreased by 46% for those less than 2 years of age and by 40% for those 2–4 years of age. Rates decreased by 64% and 51% in equivalent age groups for non-Aboriginal children.\n\nUntil the 1980s Aboriginal children were recognised as having better oral health than non-Aboriginal children. Today, average rates of tooth decay in Aboriginal children are twice as high as non-Aboriginal children. Between 1991 and 2001, the rate of tooth decay amongst Aboriginal children living in metropolitan areas fell, going against the increase in child tooth decay in remote areas. A study performed in 2001-2002 showed that Indigenous Australian patients showed a higher ratio of missing or decayed teeth than European patients, but a lower ratio of filled teeth.\n\nA 2003 study found that complete loss of all natural teeth was higher for Aboriginal people of all age groups (16.2%) compared to non-Aboriginal people (10.2%). In remote communities, those with diabetes were found to have over three times the number of missing teeth than those without diabetes. Type 2 diabetes has been related to poor oral health.\n\nChanges in the Australian Indigenous diet away from a traditional diet, which had originally contained high levels of protein and vitamins. High in fibre and sugar and low in saturated fats – to a diet high in sugar, saturated fats and refined carbohydrates has negatively affected the oral health of Indigenous Australians.\n\nA 1999 study found that the water in rural and remote areas of Australia is less likely to be fluoridated than metropolitan areas, reducing access for many Aboriginal communities to fluoridated water. Fluoridated water has been shown to prevent dental decay.\n\nA number of factors help to explain why Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have poorer health than other Australians. In general, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people are more likely to have lower levels of education, lower health education, higher unemployment, inadequate housing and access to infrastructure than other Australians.\n\nIn particular, crowded housing has been identified as contributing to the spread of infectious diseases. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians are also more likely to smoke, have poor diets and have high levels of obesity.\n\nA 2007 study found that the 11 largest preventable contributions to the indigenous burden of disease in Australia were tobacco, alcohol, illicit drugs, high body mass, inadequate physical activity, low intake of fruit and vegetables, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, unsafe sex, child sexual abuse and intimate partner violence. The 11 risk factors considered together explain 37% of the total burden of disease experienced by Indigenous Australians. The remaining 63% consists of a range of known and unknown risk factors, yet to be identified or quantified.\n\nPoor-quality diet among the Indigenous population is a significant risk factor for three of the major causes of premature death in Indigenous Australians – cardiovascular disease, cancer and type 2 diabetes. Much of this burden of disease is due to extremely poor nutrition throughout life.\nA 2013 study of Indigenous dietary patterns in Northern Territory communities found there was a high expenditure on beverages and corresponding high intake of sugar-sweetened beverages coupled with low expenditure (and low intakes) of fruit and vegetables. Similarly high per capita consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages has been reported among Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children at the national level.\n\nStudies have found that Indigenous Australians living in remote communities consume low levels of fruit, and high amounts of white bread.\n\nAmong the factors that have been at least partially implicated in the inequality in life expectancy between Indigenous and non-Indigenous people in Australia are cultural differences resulting in poor communication between Indigenous Australians and health workers.\n\nAccording to Michael Walsh and Ghil'ad Zuckermann, Western conversational interaction is typically \"dyadic\", between two particular people, where eye contact is important and the speaker controls the interaction; and \"contained\" in a relatively short, defined time frame. However, traditional Aboriginal conversational interaction is \"communal\", broadcast to many people, eye contact is not important, the listener controls the interaction; and \"continuous\", spread over a longer, indefinite time frame.\n\nThe ngangkari are traditional healers of the Anangu, who have been invited to partner with hospitals in South Australia to offer traditional healing services.\n\n"}
{"id": "57576089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57576089", "title": "Kenneth Fearon", "text": "Kenneth Fearon\n\nProf Kenneth C. H. Fearon FRCSE FRCPSG (3 August 1960 – 3 September 2016) was a 20th-century Scottish surgeon and cancer specialist. He was Professor of Surgical Oncology at the University of Edinburgh with a special interest in Cachexia.\n\nHe was born in Glasgow on 3 August 1960 the son of Pat and Alfred Fearon. He was educated at St. Aloysius' College, Glasgow then studied medicine at the University of Glasgow winning the Brunton Medal in 1982, and graduating MB ChB. In 1983 he began specialising in cancer under Prof Kenneth Calman. He gained his doctorate (MD) in 1988.\n\nIn 1988 he began lecturing in Surgery at the University of Edinburgh under Sir David Carter, becoming a Senior Lecturer in 1993. He gained his professorship in 1999 and thereafter mainly worked at the Western General Hospital in Edinburgh. He was a founding member of the Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) Group.\n\nIn 1991 he was awarded the David Cuthbertson Medal by the Nutrition Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n\nHe oversaw multiple scholarship and bursary applications for the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh and was Chairman of their Research Committee from 2006 to 2014.\n\nHe died in Edinburgh on 3 September 2016. He was buried on 17 September 2016 following a service in St Mary's Roman Catholic Cathedral in Edinburgh. He is buried in the Grange Cemetery in south Edinburgh. The grave lies in a line of modern graves just north of the central vaults.\n\n\nHe was married to Prof Marie Fallon and together they had two children, Christopher and Katie.\n"}
{"id": "1263215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263215", "title": "Lanterman–Petris–Short Act", "text": "Lanterman–Petris–Short Act\n\nThe Lanterman–Petris–Short (LPS) Act (Cal. Welf & Inst. Code, sec. 5000 et seq.) concerns the involuntary civil commitment to a mental health institution in the State of California. The act set the precedent for modern mental health commitment procedures in the United States. The bi-partisan bill was co-authored by California State Assemblyman Frank D. Lanterman (R) and California State Senators Nicholas C. Petris (D) and Alan Short (D), and signed into law in 1967 by Governor Ronald Reagan. The Act went into full effect on July 1, 1972. It cited seven articles of intent: \n\nThe Act in effect ended all hospital commitments by the judiciary system, except in the case of criminal sentencing, \"e.g.\", convicted sexual offenders, and those who were \"gravely disabled\", defined as unable to obtain food, clothing, or housing. It did not, however, impede the right of voluntary commitments. It expanded the evaluative power of psychiatrists and created provisions and criteria for holds.\n\nPrior to 1987 it was assumed that the Act allowed involuntary treatment for those who were detained under an initial three day hold (for evaluation and treatment) and a subsequent fourteen day hospitalization (for those patients declared after the three-day hold to be dangerous to themselves or others or gravely disabled). However, in 1987 in \"Riese v. St. Mary’s Hospital and Medical Center\" the California State Court of Appeals declared that these patients had the right to exercise informed consent regarding the use of antipsychotic drugs, except in an emergency, and if they rejected medication \"a judicial determination of their incapacity to make treatment decisions\" was required before they could be involuntarily treated. This case was a class action suit brought in the name of patient Eleanor Riese by the California ACLU. Eleanor Riese's story is depicted in the movie \"55 Steps\".\nThere are many sections and subsections of the California-only LPS law. Some are commonly used in mental health settings.\n\nA 5150 is an involuntary 72-hour hold in a psychiatric facility, for evaluation. A peace officer, registered nurse, medical doctor, or certain other categories of people may place the hold. Three criteria apply to this section: a danger to themselves, a danger to others, or gravely disabled. A qualified officer, which includes any California peace officer, as well as any specifically-designated county clinician, can request the confinement after signing a written declaration stating the psychiatric diagnosis that the diagnosing medical professional believes to be the cause or reason why they believe the patient to be \"a danger to themselves or others\" or the psychiatric disorder that has rendered the patient incapable of making their own medical treatment decisions.\n\nMost 5150 actions completely disregard the protections afforded by Section 5153. They are known to be effective at de-escalating the contact. This section was added in 1969 when the Section 5150 enacted in 1967 was determined to be inadequate at serving the needs of the mentally ill. For decades, Police and Sheriff's offices had seasoned detectives and others in plain clothes and unmarked car who were effective at de-escalating the contact and saving lives.\nSection 5153.\n\nWhenever possible, officers charged with apprehension of persons pursuant to this article shall dress in plain clothes and travel in unmarked vehicles. \n\nIn informal usage, \"5150\" (pronounced \"fifty-one-fifty\") can refer to the person being confined (\"e.g.\", \"I have a possible 5150 here\"), the declaration, or the act of committing someone (as in \"(Someone) was 5150ed\").\n\n\nSection 5250 allows a qualified officer or clinician to involuntarily confine a person deemed to have certain mental disorders for up to 14 days, following being involuntarily held for 72 hours under a Section 5150 hold. \n\nThe hold is placed by psychiatric staff who determine a person deemed to have a mental disorder that makes them a danger to him or her self, and/or others and/or gravely disabled, and deemed to need more than a 72-hour hold for treatment. If the person is not a danger to him or her self or others, the person cannot be held if there are responsible family members, friends, or others who are voluntarily willing and able to care for the person.\n\nOtherwise known as a T-Con (under W&I Code § 5352.1), may be initiated at any time while a patient is on hold, but usually occurs during the time in which a patient is on a 14-day hold for Grave Disability. Once the patient is on a T-Con, the patient is no longer legally on a \"hold,\" but is temporarily conserved pending the actual conservatorship hearing. Although initially established for a 30-day period, T-Cons can be extended for up to one year as a general conservatorship. When a patient is detained on either a 5250 (14-day hold) or a 30-day hold, they are entitled to a Probable Cause Hearing in which a determination is made whether the hold meets legal criteria (if the hold is not legal, the patient may be discharged if he or she wishes.) Once a patient is on a T-Con or an actual conservatorship, the person is no longer on a 14-day or 30-day hold, and therefore, has no right to a Probable Cause Hearing. If the patient wishes, while on a T-Con, he or she may request a writ of habeas corpus. The individual will then be allowed to present a case in court, with the aid of a public defender, as to why he or she should not be on a T-Con and in the hospital.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43529375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43529375", "title": "List of Australian rules footballers who died during their careers", "text": "List of Australian rules footballers who died during their careers\n\nThis is a list of Australian rules football players who have died either during their respective playing careers or due to career-ending injury or disease incurred during their playing career. It includes both on-field and off-field deaths. People who had announced their retirement from playing despite still being at an age when they could still have been active, or who only continued to play in low-level amateur or exhibition matches are not listed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2435143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2435143", "title": "List of serial killers before 1900", "text": "List of serial killers before 1900\n\nThe following is a list of known serial killers active before 1900, in roughly chronological order.\nThe existence of the following serial killers is dubious or contradicts the accepted historical record:\n\n"}
{"id": "39198650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39198650", "title": "Midwifery in the Middle Ages", "text": "Midwifery in the Middle Ages\n\nMidwifery in the Middle Ages was important to women's lives and health prior to the professionalization of medicine. During the Middle Ages in Western Europe, the medical knowledge and understanding that people relied on was from the Roman and Greek understanding of medicine, specifically Galen, Hippocrates, and Aristotle. These medical minds avoided women's health issues, specifically pregnancy because they believed that women handled women's issues; as William L. Minkowski explains, \"men believed their dignity and self-esteem were diminished by the manual nature of care for the pregnant patient.\" Myriam Greilsammer notes that medieval \"society's reluctance to let men deal with women is largely bound up with the taboos surrounding the 'secret' parts of their bodies,\" and the prevalence of this mindset allowed women to continue the art of midwifery throughout most of the Medieval era with little or no male influence on their affairs. Minkowski writes that in Guy de Chauliac's fourteenth-century work \"Chirurgia magna\", \"he wrote that he was unwilling to discourse on midwifery because the field was dominated by women.\" However, changing views of medicine would cause the women's role as midwife to be pushed aside as the professionalization of medical practitioners began to rise.\n\nMost midwives came from the lower classes and were illiterate. Monica H. Green writes that \"if midwives were literate, it seems to have been coincidental rather than a prerequisite of their work.\" Green notes that unlike \"female surgeons and barbers... [midwives] do not seem to be regularly married to men in the medical trades.\" During the late Middle Ages a few books were written for teaching midwifery for both women and men. Prior to this point, midwife manuals were not written by practitioners or their teachers but by people who knew medical theory or outdated information.\n\nMidwives learned their craft from other women and from having their own children. Minkowski writes that \"without formal training, and because texts on midwifery were ancient and rare, midwives learned their skills as a craft from family or friends.\" From the time they were small girls, women who would later become midwives would have been present at the births of other siblings and would have been able to see what was done during the birthing process by the midwife or other female family members. Greilsammer writes that the midwife in Medieval art was \"often portrayed in the act of setting out the instruments of her profession, the symbols of her qualifications – scissors, linens, a tray which she places in a box or wraps in a large basket, a birthing stool.\" Men were not allowed to view this birthing process. Greilsammer notes Belgian historian Louis Théo Maes' record of a fifteenth-century fine: \"One Henne Vanden Damme, for having hid behind a staircase to eavesdrop upon his wife, she being in labour of childbirth, which thing doth not befit a man, for the said eavesdropping was fined 15 livres.\"\n\nMidwives were involved with births from all social classes to various degrees. The poorest women were typically helped by the women in their family and their neighbors more than the midwives from the towns. In towns and cities the midwives were more prevalent which placed a lot of emphasis on reputation. Minkowski elaborates that \"many midwives served communities in a semiofficial capacity, delivering newborns, guarding access to their profession, and protecting its standards. Their usefulness was partially compensated by special privileges, such as a tax-exempt status or a small pension.\" Beginning in the early fourteenth century, town officials started recording some midwife activities in municipal account books; for example, Greilsammer cites a 1312 record from Bruges stating \"Communal expenses – Item, by Copp. Voers. Two midwives who were called to see a newborn infant found in front of the city walls on Christmas Eve, 20 solidi.\" In more exceptional situations, if the midwife had a much respected reputation, they may also serve as court midwife. Green writes that in France in the early fifteenth century, \"Bourgot L'Oubliere... served as both midwife and gardener to the French queen.\"\n\nMidwives did not participate in guilds or attempt to organize themselves on their own like male medical practitioners did. Green writes that such organization and \"licensing, which apparently began in the mid-fifteenth century (the earliest known example is from Regensburg in 1452), was imposed on midwives from the outside, either by local municipal or ecclesiastical authorities, or by both.\" Minkowski writes that through the late Middle Ages, \"the medical community throughout Europe was organizing into a strict hierarchy, with male doctors at the top.\" Greilsammer notes that the early fifteenth century saw towns introducing \"laws aimed at regulating the professions and incorporating midwives within official structures. In principle, the aim was to prevent the delivery of an infant by unqualified people or charlatans.\" Greilsammer further notes that \"Brussels was in 1424 the first town in Europe to enact detailed regulations regarding the functions of midwives,\" with \"similar measures... enacted in Bruges in 1509 and in Mechelen in 1536.\"\n\nRegulation of midwifery was also an ecclesiastical concern: Kathryn Taglia writes that \"by the fourteenth century legislators from dioceses in central and eastern regions of northern France were issuing instructions about how to baptize correctly specifically to midwives.\" This reflected, Taglia notes, \"the increasing interest that ecclesiastical authorities showed in pastoral care and the education of clergy and the laity\" and the laity's understanding of the sacrament of baptism, \"the one sacrament in the Middle Ages that could be performed by anyone - cleric or lay person, man or woman.\" Such ecclesiastical and secular regulatory introductions, Greilsammer writes, led to a \"reduction in the status and role of the midwives\" that \"was part of a more general degradation of attitudes toward women, and women in command of some knowledge and power in particular.\" Greilsammer notes that this change in perception can \"be placed in its urban context and related to the general decline in women’s employment throughout Europe at the end of the Middle Ages.\" Such developments forced many midwives out of the craft and were replaced by men.\n\nOnly a handful of medieval midwives have thus far been identified for whom we have anything more than a name. Besides Bourgot L'Obliere noted above, for example, Green has identified such women as Asseline Alexandre, who attended the births of the Duchess of Burgundy in the 1370s, or several women identified in English poll taxes records from the later 14th century, such as Matilda Kembere and Marg[ery?]\nJosy in Reading and Felicia Tracy in Canterbury. Although often referred to as a midwife, the 12th-century Salernitan medical writer Trota of Salerno was rather a general medical practitioner, who, while specializing in women's conditions and describing postpartum repairs, seems to have seen the supervision of normal birth as the province of others. The practice of licensing of midwives in northern cities in Europe is known from the 14th century, but no extant written licenses from this period have yet been identified. Rather, much of what we know of individual midwives comes from legal records and court proceedings. Thus, for example, we know of the Muslim midwives Blanca and Xenci who were brought from Toledo to serve at the court of King Carlos III of Navarre (r. 1387-1425), as well as a mother and daughter “dynasty” of Muslim midwives, doña Fatima and doña Haxa, who attended the births of, respectively, Catalina, the queen of Castille, and Blanca, daughter of Carlos of Navarre and herself queen of Navarre by 1425. In late 15th- and early 16th-century Brie (a suburb of Paris), midwives can be found using the ecclesiastical courts to secure or confirm their professional advantages. For example, we learn of the midwife Isabelle Rougemaille who brought suit in 1500/1501 against a potential client because that woman had allowed another birth attendant to assist her in a recent delivery. Although midwives were occasionally chastened for such offenses as baptizing fetuses that seem to have been born dead (likely because of Christian parental concerns for the child's immortal soul), thus far the only known case of a midwife being prosecuted for the death of a woman under her care is the 1403 trial of a Jewish midwife in the French city of Marseille, Floreta d'Ays. That case involves a level of anti-Semitism otherwise undocumented in Marseille in this period.\n\nGreen notes that \"the timing of these midwifery regulations, which coincide with the first stirrings of the early modern wave of witch persecutions, has prompted several theses that argue for a direct connection between the two phenomena.\" Several historians have engaged in what Kathryn Taglia describes as \"the debate around the issue of witchcraft and midwives.\" On one side of this debate, citing Thomas R. Forbes' \"The Midwife and the Witch\", Minkowski writes that \"there is little question that Western European countries shared a deep concern for the potential of witchcraft practice by midwives,\" elaborating that \"by the late Middle Ages, the church and civil authorities mandated close supervision of midwives, as expressed in required professional and religious instruction and in oaths that explicitly renounced past and present resort to the black arts.\" Greilsammer cites \"recent research on the ointments used by midwives\" that \"shows that in the Middle Ages they were truly expert herbalists\" to argue that \"accusations of witchcraft were aimed directly at the knowledge of folk medicine possessed by women.\" On the other side of this issue, Taglia argues that ecclesiastical legislation in France referencing childbirth and midwives came not out of \"concern about midwives performing\" witchcraft, but due the legislators' \"concern over whether midwives understood when to perform an emergency baptism and how to perform one.\" David Harley notes that \"although the midwife-witch can be found in the writings of some demonologists, influenced by the \"Malleus Maleficarum\", in few of the vast numbers of trials were midwives accused,\" arguing that \"a few spectacular cases have been mistaken for a general pattern and midwife-witches have been seen where none exist.\"\n\nAfter the Medieval era, midwifery became more structured and professionalized from the influence of legislation passed during the later part of the era and the influence of the medical profession. Over time it became the profession that we know today.\n\n"}
{"id": "411682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411682", "title": "Molluscum contagiosum", "text": "Molluscum contagiosum\n\nMolluscum contagiosum (MC), sometimes called water warts, is a viral infection of the skin that results in small, raised, pink lesions with a dimple in the center. They may occasionally be itchy or sore. They may occur singly or in groups. Any area of the skin may be affected, with abdomen, legs, arms, neck, genital area, and face being most common. Onset of the lesions is around 7 weeks after infection. It usually goes away within a year without scarring.\nMC is caused by a poxvirus called the \"molluscum contagiosum virus\" (MCV). The virus is spread either by direct contact including sexual activity or via contaminated objects such as towels. The condition can also be spread to other areas of the body by the person themselves. Risk factors include a weak immune system, atopic dermatitis, and crowded living conditions. Following one infection, it is possible to get reinfected. Diagnosis is typically based on the appearance.\nPrevention includes hand washing and not sharing personal items. While treatment is not necessary some may wish to have the lesions removed for cosmetic reasons or to prevent spread. Removal may occur with freezing, opening up the lesion and scraping the inside, or laser therapy. Scraping the lesion can, however, result in scarring. The medication cimetidine by mouth or podophyllotoxin cream applied to the skin may also be used.\nApproximately 122 million people globally were affected by molluscum contagiosum as of 2010 (1.8% of the population). It is more common in children between the ages of one and ten years old. The condition has become more common in the United States since 1966. MC is not a reason to keep a child out of school or daycare.\n\nMolluscum contagiosum lesions are flesh-colored, dome-shaped, and pearly in appearance. They are often 1–5 mm in diameter, with a dimpled center. Molluscum lesions are most commonly found on the face, arms, legs, torso, and armpits in children. Adults typically have molluscum lesions in the genital region and this is considered to be a sexually transmitted infection; because of this, if genital lesions are found on a child, sexual abuse should be suspected. These lesions are generally not painful, but they may itch or become irritated. Picking or scratching the bumps may lead to a spread of the viral infection responsible for molluscum contagiosum, an additional bacterial infection, and scarring. In about 10% of the cases, eczema develops around the lesions.\n\nIndividual molluscum lesions may go away on their own within two months and generally clear completely without treatment or scarring in six to twelve months. Mean durations for an outbreak are variously reported from 8 to about 18 months, but durations are reported as widely as 6 months to 5 years, lasting longer in immunosuppressed individuals.\n\nMolluscum contagiosum is extremely contagious. Transmission of the molluscum contagiosum virus can occur many different ways including direct skin contact (e.g., contact sports or sexual activity), contact with an infected surface (fomite), or autoinoculation (self-infection) by scratching or picking molluscum lesions and then touching other parts of the skin not previously affected by the virus. Children are particularly susceptible to autoinoculation and may have widespread clusters of lesions.\n\nThe viral infection is limited to a localized area on the topmost layer of the superficial layer of the skin. Once the virus-containing head of the lesion has been destroyed, the infection is gone. The central waxy core contains the virus.\n\nDiagnosis is made on the appearance; the virus cannot routinely be cultured. The diagnosis can be confirmed by excisional biopsy.\n\nHistologically, molluscum contagiosum is characterized by molluscum bodies in the epidermis, above the stratum basale, which consist of large cells with abundant granular eosinophilic cytoplasm (accumulated virions) and a small peripheral nucleus.\n\nBecause molluscum contagiosum usually resolves without treatment and treatment options can cause discomfort to children, initial recommendations are often to simply wait for the lesions to resolve on their own. Of the treatments available, a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials suggested that there is no difference between treatments in short term improvement, and no single treatment is significantly better than natural resolution of the condition.\n\nBumps located in the genital area may be treated in an effort to prevent them from spreading. When treatment has resulted in elimination of all bumps, the infection has been effectively cured and will not reappear unless the person is reinfected.\n\nFor mild cases, over-the-counter wart medicines, such as salicylic acid may shorten infection duration. Daily topical application of tretinoin cream may also trigger resolution. \n\nStudies have found cantharidin to be an effective and safe treatment for removing molluscum contagiosum. This medication is usually well-tolerated though mild side effects such as pain or blistering are common. \nThere is no high-quality evidence for cimetidine. However, oral cimetidine has been used as alternative treatment for pediatric population as it is more difficult to use more invasive and discomforting application.\n\nImiquimod is a form of immunotherapy initially proposed as a treatment for molluscum based on promising results in small case series and clinical trials. However, two large randomized controlled trials, specifically requested by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration under the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act both demonstrated that imiquimod cream applied three times per week was no more effective than placebo cream for treating molluscum after 18 weeks of treatment in a total of 702 children aged 2–12 years. In 2007, results from those trials—which remain unpublished—were incorporated into FDA-approved prescribing information for imiquimod, which states: \"Limitations of Use: Efficacy was not demonstrated for molluscum contagiosum in children aged 2–12.\" In 2007, the FDA also updated imiquimod's label concerning safety issues raised in the two large trials and an FDA-requested pharmacokinetic study (the latter of which was published). The updated safety label reads as follows:\n\nSurgical treatments include cryosurgery, in which liquid nitrogen is used to freeze and destroy lesions, as well as scraping them off with a curette. Application of liquid nitrogen may cause burning or stinging at the treated site, which may persist for a few minutes after the treatment. With liquid nitrogen, a blister may form at the treatment site, but it will slough off in two to four weeks. Cryosurgery and curette scraping can be painful procedures and can result in residual scarring.\n\nA 2014 systematic review of case reports and case series concluded that the limited available data suggest pulsed dye laser therapy is a safe and effective treatment for molluscum contagiosum and is generally well-tolerated by children. Side effects seen with pulsed dye laser therapy included mild temporary pain at the site of therapy, bruising (lasting up to 2–3 weeks), and temporary discoloration of the treated skin (as long as 1–6 months). No cases of permanent scarring have been reported. As of 2009, however, there is no evidence for genital lesions.\n\nMost cases of molluscum contagiosum will clear up naturally within two years (usually within nine months). So long as the skin growths are present, there is a possibility of transmitting the infection to another person. When the growths are gone, the possibility of spreading the infection is ended.\n\nUnlike herpesviruses, which can remain inactive in the body for months or years before reappearing, molluscum contagiosum does not remain in the body when the growths are gone from the skin and will not reappear on their own.\n\nApproximately 122 million people were affected worldwide by molluscum contagiosum as of 2010 (1.8% of the population).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40917623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40917623", "title": "Mr. Gold", "text": "Mr. Gold\n\nRumplestiltskin is a fictional character in ABC's television series \"Once Upon a Time\". As an immortal, Rumple gains multiple aspects and aliases as the series progresses, most notably: Dark One (\"Enchanted Forest\"); Mr. Gold (\"Storybrooke\"); Detective Weaver (\"Hyperion Heights\"). He is an antihero, and the main antagonist of the fourth season. Mr. Gold is portrayed by Robert Carlyle.\n\nIn the Enchanted Forest, Mr. Gold was originally known as Rumplestiltskin, a whimsical yet sinister sorcerer who delights in making devilish deals with desperate people, warning them \"all magic comes with a price.\" He is also known as the \"Dark One,\" the Beast and the crocodile that cost Captain Hook his left hand. He is the son of Fiona/Black Fairy and Malcolm/Peter Pan, the true love of Belle, father to Baelfire/Neal Cassidy and Gideon, grandfather to Neal and Emma Swan's biological son Henry and great-grandfather of Lucy.\n\nOn a dark winter night shortly after his birth, the Blue Fairy and Tiger Lily, the newborn's fairy godmother, visit to deliver a prophecy about the child's destiny to become the Savior and die fighting a great evil. After Fiona becomes obsessed with changing her child's destiny, she transforms herself into a Fairy to protect her son. Fiona takes the infant with her as she searches for the great evil prophesied to be born the same winter. Fiona and Tiger Lily are unable to find the great evil and take the child to the sacred fairy vault. Eventually, Tiger Lily wants to stop Fiona, when she realizes the latter wants to cast a dark curse. Fiona takes the fairy's heart to stop her, turning her into the Black Fairy, but the Blue Fairy returns it. Then, Tiger Lily wants to give the Shears of Destiny to Fiona to cut away her powers, so she is no longer the great evil that her son would be supposed to face. Fiona insists that she needs her powers to protect her son, so she uses the shears to sever his destiny as the Savior. Fiona is then banished to the Dark Realm by the Blue Fairy, vowing to do everything in her power to one day get back to her son. Later, the Blue Fairy and Tiger Lily take the infant and return him to his father, Malcolm. The two fairies pretend that Fiona died in an accident while protecting their son. With great bitterness, and thinking his son is responsible for the death of Fiona, Malcolm announces that he has a fitting name to bestow on the infant: Rumplestiltskin.\nLater, as a boy, Malcolm left him with two spinners, from whom he receives a magic bean to create a portal to another world. Malcolm uses the bean to take them to Neverland, though he forces Rumplestiltskin to be returned to the Enchanted Forest, realizing his son was preventing him from becoming a boy again. Rumplestiltskin witnesses his father transforms into Peter Pan.\n\nAs an adult Rumplestiltskin becomes a poor spinner who deserts from the Ogre Wars, to the disgust of his wife Milah, who leaves him for the pirate Killian Jones. Rumplestiltskin is then tricked into becoming the Dark One, later killing Milah and cutting off Killian's hand.\n\nHe prevents his son Baelfire from being forced to join the wars, though Bae wants rid of his powers, creating a portal to transport them to a world without magic. Rumplestiltskin fears losing his powers, leaving Bae to cross over alone; he vows to find his son. He trains Zelena, the Wicked Witch of the West, until she becomes jealous of his continued teaching of her half-sister, the Evil Queen Regina, who he chooses to cast his dark curse. As part of a deal to save her town, Belle becomes the caretaker of his estate and the two form a romantic bond until Rumplestiltskin forces her to leave forever, mistaking her for working with Regina, who later claims that Belle committed suicide. Soon afterwards, Prince Charming and Snow White use squid ink to immobilize Rumplestiltskin, and place him in a magical jail. Regina enacts his curse, and he requests that she give him a place of comfort in the world that they will be sent to. He also asks that Regina does what he says, as long as he says please.\n\nIn Storybrooke, he is Mr. Gold, the owner of a pawn shop and the town's wealthiest resident. Like everyone else except Regina, he does not remember his true identity until Emma comes to town and tells him her name. He owns most of the town. He finds Regina a baby whom she names Henry, only for her to later learn that he is Emma Swan's biological son. He helps Emma become sheriff, and offers his legal services to Mary Margaret Blanchard (Snow White). Emma breaks the curse and Gold is reunited with Belle, bringing magic back to Storybrooke. He is enraged when he learns that leaving the town will remove residents' magical memories, as he had planned to search for Baelfire. Gold eventually creates a potion to leave and tracks Bae to Manhattan, learning he is Neal Cassidy, Henry's father. Gold begins to die after he is poisoned by Hook with Dreamshade and the group return to Storybrooke, where Mary Margaret heals him by crusbing Cora's heart. Regina blames him for her mother's demise until she realizes Mary Margaret is the real culprit. Gold comes to Regina's mausoleum to pay his respects at Cora's coffin. He states Cora has a place in his heart, too, but she doesn't believe his words and accuses him of exchanging her mother's life to save his own. He tries to deter her from the path of revenge against Mary Margaret, but Regina promises she will pay for Cora's death. Gold notifies David and Emma of Regina's plans. As he moves to leave directly after delivering the news, David persuades him to help them stop Regina since he owes Mary Margaret for saving his life. After Regina leaves the mausoleum, Gold and David search and find missing spell ingredients. Gold concludes Regina wants to cast the curse of the empty-hearted. The spell requires sacrificing the heart of the person she hates most—Mary Margaret. Gold suggests ending this feud by killing Regina; an idea Henry objects to, though David and Emma don't see any other choice. Upset, the boy flees the building as Emma follows. Gold warns David that while Cora was dangerous for not having a heart, Regina is more of a menace for having one. While David is gone, Gold stands guard over Mary Margaret, especially when Regina attempts to steal her heart. Later, Gold receives a phone call notifying him that Regina destroyed the curse. Suddenly, Mary Margaret asks him how he is able to live with himself after all the evil things he has done. Gold says it's best to keep clinging to the belief he did the right thing, and to keep thinking so until the mantra becomes reality.\nIn a dream, Gold celebrates Henry's birthday in the pawnshop along with David, Emma, Mary Margaret and Neal. He allows his grandson to pick out a present from the shop. Henry chooses a wand, which Gold then demonstrates for him. As the boy watches the movement, of the wand, Gold turns him into a statue. Henry's parents and grandparents react with shock, but Gold states that he has no choice since the boy will be his undoing. Brusquely, he takes his cane and smashes the statue. Only then, Gold awakes from the nightmare.\n\nThe next day, Gold watches from a distance as Henry and Neal play at the park. Regina stops by, inquiring why his son is with hers, to which Gold replies Neal is Henry's father. She accuses him of orchestrating it, though he stresses this was fate's doing. Nonetheless, she knows he won't ever be accepted by others since he always chooses darkness. Surprising Belle at the hospital, Mr. Gold professes his love for her is real, which she believes. Belle thinks whatever past she did have, he was a part of it. Since she brings out the good in him, he will help her remember herself for his and her sake. After signing Belle's discharge papers, he finds her missing. Upon further inspection, a card of The Rabbit Hole. Mr. Gold discovers Belle, with false memories, calling herself Lacey. Furious, he confronts Regina, but she declares it's impossible to undo what has been done. Setting out to win Lacey's heart, Mr. Gold receives help from David to ask her out. During the date, Lacey expresses surprise that Mr. Gold is different from his fearsome reputation. She believes no one can truly know what's in a person's heart until you truly know someone. Shocked to hear words she once said in the past, he spills wine on her dress. Lacey leaves to clean up at the bathroom, but when she doesn't return, he finds her in the alley with Keith. Mistaking their rendezvous for a sexual assault, he scares off Keith. Lacey admits she only accepted his date out of pity for him, and that she is not Belle. Later, he takes out his anger by ripping out Keith's tongue and beating him up. Lacey, witnessing his actions, becomes drawn to Mr. Gold dark self. Sensing her acceptance of him, he continues to hit Keith as Lacey watches with a mischievous smile. That same night, after Mr. Gold is done with Keith, he and Lacey stroll out into the parking lot side-by-side while chatting animatedly. Unbeknownst to either, Hook sees them from the clock tower. \nOutside the Rabbit Hole, Mr. Gold allegedly catches Dr. Whale looking at Lacey. After forcing him to the ground, he tries to make Dr. Whale to kiss his foot as punishment when Neal stops the altercation. As tensions rise, Mr. Gold sends Lacey to the shop so he can talk privately with Neal. His son is upset that Mr. Gold apparently doesn't care about meeting his fiancée, Tamara. Mr. Gold believes the relationship won't work since Neal still have feelings for Emma. His son, however, is disappointed his father has not changed from the past. Neal then permanently cuts off contact with him; stating that the only person he's in Storybrooke for is Henry. While spending time with Lacey at the pawnshop, he is approached by David and Mary Margaret. Again, Mr. Gold asks Lacey to leave so he can take care of business. The pair ask for a way to locate Regina, and he helps them due to being indebted to Mary Margaret after she saved his life. Bringing out a bottle containing one of Regina's tears, Mr. Gold collects Mary Margaret's tear and mixes the two. Afterwards, he instructs she must put the liquid into her eye so a temporary bodily connection with Regina can be breached. After they are gone, Lacey curiously asks him about his magical abilities. Conjuring a necklace, he then helps her put it on. As Lacey learns more about his inability to age as the Dark One, she, too, wishes to be immortal so they can be together forever. He says it's possible, but mentions it doesn't keep a person immune from dying. Mr. Gold goes on to tell her about a prophecy a seer gave him a long time ago that someone will be his undoing, which he takes to mean his death will occur because of this person. Puzzled, Lacey questions why he doesn't just get rid of the obstacle in his way as he's the kind of man who won't let anything stand in his way. \nAt a distance, Mr. Gold deliberately tries to sabotage the swing Henry is playing on, but a car door slam startles him. From a truck, Emma and her parents step out. When questioned by a suspicious David, Mr. Gold lies and states that he's spending time with his grandson. Grimly, David and Mary Margaret tell him about Neal's sudden death at Tamara's hands. Hastily, they also fill Mr. Gold in on Greg and Tamara's plans of setting off a trigger to obliterate every person in Storybrooke who was not born in the Land Without Magic. They ask for his help to stop it, but he refuses. Blaming himself for Neal's death, after bringing magic to this land in order to find him, Mr. Gold is prepared to die once the trigger self-destructs. Later on, he receives a potion from Leroy to restore Lacey's memories. As the demise of Storybrooke nears, Mr. Gold drinks scotch with Lacey. She accidentally spills some and uses Baelfire's shawl as a wiping rag. Outraged, he snatches it back and angrily exclaims it belonged to someone very important to him, and that she would not understand. Mr. Gold recognizes, in this instance, that the person he needs most is Belle. Magically reconstructing the chipped cup, he pours the potion into it. With one sip, Lacey's memories as Belle return. As they reunite, Mr. Gold apologizes for waking her up only to die on the same day. Soon, destruction is alleviated when Emma and Regina's combined powers stop the trigger. At the dock, Mr. Gold and Belle learn Henry has been taken to another world by Greg and Tamara. Hook, possessing the last magic bean, agrees to help them pursue Henry's kidnappers. Mr. Gold persuades Belle into enacting a cloaking spell to keep outsiders from entering town. Mr. Gold intends this to be the last time they meet as it is his duty to save Henry for Neal's sake. Hopeful as ever, Belle believes the future isn't always what it seems, and they will see each other again. Parting with a kiss, Belle walks away, and then assures him that Neal would be proud. Aboard the Jolly Roger, Mr. Gold conjures the magic globe and pricks a drop of blood onto it, which pinpoints Henry in Neverland. After Hook opens a portal with the bean, he, Mr. Gold, David, Emma, Mary Margaret and Regina set sail for the land.\n\nWhen Henry is kidnapped to Neverland, Gold travels with Emma, her parents, Regina and Hook to rescue him from his father's plot to steal Henry's heart. Returning to Storybrooke, Pan attempts to kill his loved ones, though Gold uses his dagger to sacrifice both himself and his father. However, Pan's curse is enacted, and when Regina destroys her curse to end Pan's curse, the inhabitants are returned to the Enchanted Forest.\n\nNeal and Belle travel to Rumplestiltskin's castle and are located to the Dark One's vault where Neal resurrects Rumplestiltskin but kills himself. Before he dies, Rumplestiltskin merges Neal's body with his own. When Snow White and Prince Charming enact a curse to stop Zelena, Mr. Gold is returned to Storybrooke under Zelena's control. Emma later finds him, only to find that Neal is trapped within him, thus causing Gold to lose his mind. Neal asks for Emma to free Gold to defeat Zelena, though he will die; she reluctantly agrees. Mr. Gold proposes to Belle, also giving her his dagger. Unknown to her, it is a fake, and Gold uses the original to kill Zelena. He later marries Belle with her father's blessing, secretly returning the real dagger to Belle. Gold soon discovers the Sorcerer Merlin's magical hat in Storybrooke and once again defies Belle to take back the original blade. Attempting to cleave himself from his dagger and have ultimate power and control by killing Hook, Belle stops him and banishes him from the town. Gold finds Ursula and Cruella and enlists them to help in returning to Storybrooke, later teaming with Maleficent to find the Author of Henry's book and retrieve their own happy endings at the expense of Emma who's savior status must be removed. As Mr. Gold's darkened heart affliction worsens, he uses the Author to create an alternate universe in which villains get their happy endings. However, Henry undoes Isaac's work, and Belle finds an unconscious Mr. Gold back in Storybrooke. The Apprentice removes the Dark One's powers from Gold's heart and keeps him in a preservation spell. The darkness is then taken in by Emma, who becomes the new Dark One.\n\nHe is then left under the spell during the Camelot Quest. Shortly after the heroes' return, he is awoken by Emma and forced to become a hero via protection of Belle in order to pull Excalibur from its stone. After succeeding, Gold threatens to ensure Emma's defeat, because as a former Dark One, he knows better than anyone how to defeat one. After Hook was revealed to be the true villain, Gold engaged in a duel with him for the first time as a human since their first meeting. Despite the reversed circumstances – with Hook as the Dark One and Gold as the mortal – Gold still managed to defeat Hook in combat, purposefully allowing him to live, believing it would haunt Hook that he had been defeated by his \"cowardly\" nemesis. Though Gold hoped to resume his relationship with Belle, she ended the relationship due to the numerous times he lied and hurt her.\n\nAfter Hook unleashed the dead Dark Ones into Storybrooke, Gold was among those whose souls were claimed and were to be taken to the Underworld in place of the Dark Ones. Though Gold claimed it was pointless to resist, Emma continued to look for a way to stop Hook. Taking advantage of Emma's decision to use Excalibur to destroy the Darkness once and for all, Gold enchanted the blade so that the Darkness would be transferred back into him. Indeed, following Hook's redemptive sacrifice, Gold was revealed to not only be the Dark One again, but to embody the power of every Dark One before, including Emma Swan. Upon discovering this fact, Emma used this to blackmail Gold into helping the heroes journey to the Underworld to resurrect Hook. When he arrived, he is tempted by his father, who must live out his soul as Peter Pan, an offer to trade a living soul for his, and was tempted by Hades to leave only to betray Gold by forcing him to kill Milah just as they were hoping for her to make peace with Baelfire. Hades then uses the contract that gave the healer their second child, as payback by amending it in order to do Hades' bidding. When he created a portal for Hades in order to bring Zelena's daughter to the Underworld, the portal also bought Belle as well, and he confessed to her about his reclaiming his role as the Dark One and her pregnancy, explaining that she cannot merely love him for the man she sees inside the beast, since the beast is also a part of him. Upset with Belle going into a sleep to protect their child, Gold decides to resort to using dark magic again, and with the help of Pan to act as a \"Loophole,\" he kidnapped Zelena, as she was responsible for giving Belle the spindle that put her under in the first place. After getting Hades to rip up the contract for his and Belle's baby, he rips Robin's heart out to give it to Pan so he can live again but Rumple double crosses him and puts Robin's heart back and puts a glamoured wineskin filled with water from the River of Souls. He later puts Belle in the Underworld Pandora's Box and leaves back to Storybrooke and goes to Belle's father to get him to wake her up but he refuses until Rumple is gone from Belle's life. After Hades's death, Gold uses the Olympian Crystal to steal Storybrooke's magic to help free Belle from her sleeping curse but when Henry steals it to destroy magic believing it to be nothing but trouble, Gold lies to everyone and says if he destroys magic he will destroy us. After finding Henry in New York, he steals the crystal back and plans to use its magic to wake Belle up but Mr. Hyde uses The Sorcerer's wand to open a portal and steal Pandora's Box which contains Belle after Rumple decided to save the crystal instead. When Henry destroys magic Rumple suggests they visit a man called \"The Dragon\", who might tell them where to find any magic left in the world and when they discover the fountain in New York contains magic they get random people to help make wishes to get their family back and after Snow, David, Hook, Zelena, and Dr. Jekyll return Gold travels to the Land of Untold Stories to confront Hyde and get Belle. Hyde later makes a deal with Gold to give him info about how to free Belle from her sleeping curse in exchange for Storybrooke in which Gold agrees.\n\nRumple uses the Sands of Morpheus to wake Belle, at the same time, meeting the consciousness of his unborn son in the dream world. Due to his son encouraging Belle not to let Rumple ruin their lives, she leaves him to stay on the \"Jolly Roger\". Rumple attempts to show Belle he does love her and their son, but fails numerous times. At the same time, the Evil Queen tries seducing him into help her; pretending to fall for her wiles, Rumple instead manipulates her. Tired of the man he sees in the mirror, Gold cuts his hair short, hoping a new look would help. Eventually, the Evil Queen frames him for accelerating Belle's pregnancy to make her give birth; to keep their son safe, Belle asks Mother Superior to take him somewhere else. Rumple is left saddened as Belle refused to tell him the name of their son, telling her he would never have hurt her or him. To his horror later, Rumple finds himself unable to find their son with magic; he tells Belle to ask Mother Superior, with both learning a terrible truth: the Black Fairy kidnapped their son. Rumple reveals to Belle that the Black Fairy is corrupting their son, Gideon, as they speak. A short time later, a hooded figure arrives at the shop, and to their horror, it is a grown-up Gideon, now poisoned with evil by the Black Fairy; he is the one destined to kill Emma.\n\nGideon explains to his parents that he has arrived in Storybrooke to kill the Savior and take her powers for himself in order to defeat the Black Fairy and free the Dark Realm. Belle agrees to work with Rumple in order to save their son from the darkness growing inside of him and to prevent the looming \"war\" in Storybrooke. Rumple later learn that Gideon has been under the control of the Black Fairy, who has stolen his heart. He was ready to annihilate Storybrooke, if that meant destroying her. He learned the truth about how he separated with his mother, when Blue Fairy had sent her to Dark Realm, was destined to be Savoir and kill his mother. After Rumple secretly forges an alliance with his mother in order to retrieve Gideon's heart, he returns the heart and Gideon happily reunites with his parents. Hook prevented Gold from interrupting his wedding with Emma and knocked him with poison from Neverland. The Black Fairy arrives to aid her son, and after Mr. Gold is awake again, he steals a potion that Regina created to freeze the Black Fairy's Dark Curse. With it, Mr. Gold uses it on Regina, Zelena, Snow, and David, which helps the Black Fairy's plan to isolate Emma from her family and friends.\n\nUnder the Black Fairy's Dark Curse, Mr. Gold somehow manages to retain his true memories as he had suspicions that his mother could not be trusted. His son, Gideon, works with him in the pawnshop, and has cursed memories of his mother Belle abandoning him after his birth. Mr. Gold plays along with this, especially when Fiona pays the father-son pair a visit, but in secret, he searches for Belle's book and attempts to use it to change Gideon's opinion of the mother who supposedly left him. He suggests that Belle isn't the heartless person that Gideon believes her to be, but Gideon is fed up with his father refusing to accept that Belle left them and reasons that they could be happy if he would just let the past go. Still unconvinced, Mr. Gold asks Fiona to reopen the investigation into Belle's disappearance. Fiona admits she has been withholding information, however, since he is adamant to know everything, she shows him photographic evidence of Belle happily living overseas. She persuades him to let go of Belle since he could never be the man that she wanted him to be, but he still can be the man that his son needs. Later, Mr. Gold tries to stop Henry from entering the shop backroom and even pretends to not know the boy is his grandson, however, Henry goes in anyway to unveil hidden bottles of magic as proof that Mr. Gold does indeed remember. Mr. Gold admits his distrust in Fiona's story about Belle and his plans to find her. Although he refuses to help Henry save Emma's family who are all trapped in the Enchanted Forest, he allows him to take something from the shop to use against Fiona. Mr. Gold goes on to use Belle's book to track her to a house in Storybrooke, where she lives in seclusion and is too fearful of going outside. He returns to the pawnshop and confronts his mother with the truth. Fiona insists she did it for his own good since Belle would have turned him away from his darker instincts, but she promises that once the final battle ends, her magic will reach uncharted levels that will allow her to make his family love him without him having to give up his Dark One powers. She even offers to revive his deceased firstborn, Baelfire, but as tempting as it is, Mr. Gold declines, no longer wanting to pay the price of magic. Mr. Gold grabs her wand, using it to magically choke her until she falls to her knees, while vowing to make her suffer for what she's done to his family. Fiona mocks him for thinking that stopping her will end the final battle and instead reveals the message in Henry's Author symbols, in that only light magic can defeat light magic. As Mr. Gold realizes she has ordered Gideon to kill Emma, Fiona boasts that not even her death can undo the command, to which Mr. Gold decides to test if she is right by killing her anyway.\nRumple kills the Black Fairy, the Dark Curse is lifted and he and Belle happily reunite. Together, they venture into the mines to search for Gideon's heart. Together they enter the mines to once again retrieve Gideon's heart and stop him before he can kill Emma. Upon finding the heart and considering the power he could gain from Emma's death, Rumple makes the decision to ignore his dark impulses and commands Gideon to let Emma live. after locating the heart, Mr. Gold is holding it in his palm when Rumplestiltskin, a manifestation of his darker instincts, appears to entice him with the possibility of allowing Emma to die at Gideon's hands so that his own magic can reach unprecedented levels and he can have both love and power. Mr. Gold refuses out of loyalty to his family, stating that he doesn't want to betray them and that he was destined to be a Savior. Rumplestiltskin still tries to sway him by suggesting he's destined to change magic with all the unlimited things he could do in this new world, but Mr. Gold declines again because none of it would be real for him. Holding up Gideon's heart, Mr. Gold speaks into it to order his son to stop but to his shock, it doesn't work because the Black Fairy's spell is too powerful. He reveals his failure to Belle, and as she comforts him with a hug, they hear a baby's cry. Upon further investigation of the baby, they realize Gideon has returned to them as a newly restored infant. Mr. Gold, overcome with emotion, believes they now have a fresh start, though Belle heartily corrects him by saying it's a happy beginning.\n\nBelle and Rumple celebrate their \"happy beginning\" together with the Charmings, Emma, Hook, Regina, and Zelena at Granny's Diner.\n\nRumple, Belle and Gideon go on a tour of the realms. Gideon is accepted into Elphame Academy when he turns 18 and Belle translates a fairy prophecy which she believes will enable Rumple to be free of the dagger, that after the Dark One finds eternal love, his dark powers can be removed only when the sun is at its brightest and that it sets in the Edge of Realms where time is frozen. They travel to the Edge of Realms and build a house there, knowing it may take years for the sun to set. Finally Belle grows old while Rumple does not age. As she is dying Belle confesses the \"sun\" in the prophecy that is meant to set is not one in the sky, but her. She passes away and Rumple begins searching for the Guardian, who he can surrender the dagger and his powers to, enabling him to die and be reunited with Belle.\n\nThe Wish Realm Rumple uses the power of the author's pen through Sir Henry to strip Rumple of his powers. Rumple finds some magic his counterpart kept and charms his hand, intending to rip out their heart. He believes he will not be reunited with Belle but determines to do the right thing without reward. When Hook's poisoned heart begins killing him, Rumple removes his own heart and puts it into Hook, healing Hook and killing him and his Wish Realm counterpart. He is then reunited with Belle in the afterlife.\n\nIn season 6 episode \"Wish You Were Here\", the Evil Queen used one of her genie wishes to wish that Emma Swan had never become the savior. The wish created a whole new duplicate realm, known as the Wish Realm, which consists of alternate versions of the Enchanted Forest characters that come with different backstories for the 28 years after the point in which Regina never got to cast her curse. This includes an alternate version of Rumplestiltskin, another Dark One who never sought redemption through a journey with Belle or Baelfire, as their Wish Realm equivalents had died long before Emma's visit.\n\nDuring her visit to the Wish Realm, the original Regina confronts Rumple, who has been locked up in Snow and Charming's dungeon for ages. He convinces her that there is no danger in freeing him, as at this point, Regina believes that nothing in the Wish Realm is real. She lets him out after he promises to find her a magic bean, which he indeed delivers the following day. However, a wish Robin shows up and the distraction forces Regina and Emma to miss the portal home.\n\nShortly after, when Regina and the wish Robin get into trouble with the Sheriff of Nottingham, Rumple shows up and frees them from their cage. Rumple then reveals that he had found out that his version of Belle had died in the Evil Queen's dungeon and all that was left of her was a pile of bones. He then locks Regina and Robin in his dungeon for revenge but the two are able to escape without him knowing.\n\nIt is revealed in a flashback that Wish Hook had visited Rumple in his cell many years before the original Emma and Regina's visit. He tells Rumple that he no longer seeks revenge and only wants to free his daughter Alice from her tower. Rumple instructs him to retrieve a magical fish hook from Captain Ahab. Hook is able to obtain it and brings it back to Rumple, however, when Ahab appears to taunt Hook, Rumple is forgotten and left in the cell as the two pirates head off for their duel.\n\nMany years later, just as Gothel's curse breaks over Hyperion Heights, Rumple has found his way to the neighborhood, where his original counterpart is now known as a detective named Weaver. He finds his way to Samdi's office, and when the original Rumple decides not to kill Facilier on the spot, Rumple decides to stab him with the dagger himself. Later, he approaches Henry and reveals that he has sent Ella and Lucy to the Wish Realm. He then blackmails Henry, telling him that he must deliver the original dagger to him in exchange for their return.\n\nHenry, Weaver, Regina, and Wish Hook proceed to follow Rumple to the Wish Realm, where Henry finds that Rumple has trapped his family in a frosty snowglobe. Rumple later confronts Weaver in their old hovel, where Weaver is able to temporarily freeze Rumple using squid ink. However, Regina's unexpected arrival gives Rumple the distraction needed to free himself and he leaves right after reminding Weaver of the Seer's prophecy about \"the boy\" (Henry) being his ultimate undoing. \n\nWhen Henry retrieves the Wish Realm's version of the author's pen and obtains the ink needed to activate it, Rumple appears to claim it, revealing that his grand scheme involved the pen all along, and not Weaver's dagger. Rumple then presents Sir Henry of the Wish Realm, who as Henry's counterpart is also able to harness the author's powers and he agrees to help Rumple. As Rumple wants to keep the darkness fully alive, he orders Sir Henry to get rid of the Guardian's powers. Rumple then sends Henry, Weaver, and Wish Hook into the snowglobe and leaves Regina behind for Sir Henry to deal with.\nIt’s later revealed that the Wish Realm Rumpelstiltskin is plotting to end all the characters and their stories by placing them in a eternal prison using Sir Henry’s emotions, effectively destroying all the realms. His plans were thwarted when Regina convinced Sir Henry not to give in to using his emotions to destroy everyone’s happiness, while a weakened Weaver used magic to destroy the Darkness and to save Hook by cleansing his heart, causing the Wish Realm Rumpelstiltskin to disintegrate into dust at the same time that Weaver dies.\n\nBy killing Zoso, Rumplestiltskin acquires the full powers of the Dark One, which makes him very powerful. As Dark One, he is immortal and capable of healing from all wounds. It also possesses superhuman strength and agility, the ability to partially read the future, and powerful magical powers, including telekinesis, teleportating, elementary control, metamorphosis, sleep induction, magical immobilization, energy rays, the ability to tear hearts, protect a place or object magically, or heal the wounds of anyone including himself. \n\nRumplestiltskin is also a highly skilled swordsman although helped by his magic. He was able to beat Prince Charming and Killian Jones, two competent swordsmen. Finally he is a very intelligent being and an extraordinary manipulator, even without his powers, because he was able to set up an effective plan to seize the Dark One dagger, manipulate events during centuries to be able to find his son and escape the presence of Emma Swan then in the form of Dark One.\n\nThe producers had been eyeing Carlyle as the right person to play the dual roles, even after having been written with him in mind, though the writers initially thought he would not accept the part. Horowitz recalled Carlyle's prison sequence in the pilot episode, which was the actor's first day on the set as \"mind-blowing ... You could see Ginny actually jump, the first time he did that character. It was fantastic!\" Jane Espenson has stated that no official first name has been established for him.\n\n"}
{"id": "20683907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20683907", "title": "Nemertelline", "text": "Nemertelline\n\nNemertelline is a neurotoxic tetra-pyridine compound originally found in the marine hoplonemertine worm \"Amphiporus angulatus\". These worms produce a variety of toxins which are used both in hunting their prey and in defending themselves from predators. Interest in potential application of this compound as an antifouling agent for boats and other marine installations has led to attempts to produce it synthetically by convenient routes.\n"}
{"id": "1470817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470817", "title": "Orga", "text": "Orga\n\nOrga is a Millennian that mutates after absorbing Godzilla's DNA. Orga is a hunch-backed monster with a thick, rubbery gray hide; most prominent are his massive three-clawed hands, which he uses to walk like a gorilla (though only in the movie; in all of his video game appearances, Orga walks normally). He has a short, thick tail and a short neck as well. His face has a square jaw with a prominent chin, lined with rows of serrated teeth. He can fire an energy wave from the hole in his left shoulder, and he is able to leap vast distances and heights. He also has an accelerated healing factor. Finally, Orga is able to absorb an opponent's DNA through his bite to gain their abilities and appearance; and can even detach his upper and lower jaws like a snake to unfold a hidden membrane in order to swallow an enemy whole and morph into it. Orga can also direct the Millennian UFO to attack his foes and back up his efforts. Orga is tall and weighs in this form.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48152872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48152872", "title": "PAMCA", "text": "PAMCA\n\nThe Pan-Africa Mosquito Control Association (PAMCA) is an international organization of research scientists dedicated to vector control and elimination of diseases like malaria.\nThe organization also aims to spread information on the study of mosquitoes and connect Africans from across the continent. PAMCA was first established in Kenya, and has chapter offices located in Tanzania and Nigeria.\n\nPAMCA works with organizations including KEMRI and the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) in Tanzania to form networks and collaborate on research projects.\nThey also organize conferences where entomologists discuss topics in mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria, and yellow fever.\n\n"}
{"id": "49133194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49133194", "title": "Petronėlė Lastienė", "text": "Petronėlė Lastienė\n\nPetronėlė Lastienė \"née\" Sirutytė (9 September 1897 – 30 November 1981) was a Lithuanian teacher and university professor. She was recognized as one of the Righteous Among the Nations for rescuing Jewish people from the Kaunas Ghetto during the Holocaust.\n\nLastienė was born in (Marijampolė Municipality) of the Suwałki Governorate. She was a childhood friend with Ona Matulaitytė, the future wife of Aleksandras Stulginskis. In 1914, she graduated from the Russian-language Girl's Gymnasium in Marijampolė and went on to complete nursing courses. From July 1915 to September 1916, she was a nurse with the 10th Army in the present-day Belarus. In Moscow, she completed four semesters at the history and philology section of the Poltoratskaya's Higher Courses for Women (). In 1918, she returned to Lithuania and became a teacher of history, geography, and Russian language in Marijampolė. She married poet . In 1923, she moved to Kaunas where she taught at a gymnasium for adults while studying at the Faculty of Humanities of the University of Kaunas. From 1929 to 1940, she was an editor of \"Vadovė\" journal for girl scout leaders. In 1938, she became teacher of history at the Kaunas 5th Gymnasium where she was promoted to headmistress after the Soviet occupation of Lithuania. During the Nazi occupation of Lithuania, Lastienė hid several Jews, including her former student Tamara Lazerson, from Nazi persecution. Yad Vashem recognized her as one of the Righteous Among the Nations in 2000.\n\nAfter the return of the Soviet regime in mid-1944, Lastienė briefly taught at the University of Kaunas and organized courses for workers and farmers. Together with Tadas Petkevičius and three others, she authored a memorandum addressed to Western powers on the Soviet occupation and worked with Petras Klimas to have it translated to French and smuggled abroad. For this, she was arrested in autumn 1945, convicted of counter-revolutionary activities, and sentenced to eight years in Gulag and five years in forced settlements. She was sent to the in the Komi ASSR where she worked as a nurse at the camp's hospital. She returned to Lithuania in 1953, after the death of Joseph Stalin. As a former political prisoner, she faced difficulties in finding employment, but her former student now rector of Kaunas Polytechnic Institute Kazimieras Baršauskas managed to get permission from First Secretary Antanas Sniečkus to employ her as a professor. She was prohibited from teaching history and instead taught the Russian language. She worked at the institute from autumn 1955 to retirement in 1963. Vilnius University Library stores a personal collection of her documents (Fond 161).\n\nLastienė also translated and published several fiction works: the play \"Inno del primo maggio\" by Pietro Gori (1920), the comedy \"The Wood Demon\" by Anton Chekhov (1921), the play \"Autumn Violin\" by (1922), and the novel \"Nomads of the North\" by James Oliver Curwood (1937). She also translated two history textbooks, \"History of the Middle Ages\" (1923) and \"History of the Modern Ages\" (1925) by Robert Wipper.\n"}
{"id": "28350620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28350620", "title": "Placenta (journal)", "text": "Placenta (journal)\n\nPlacenta is a peer-reviewed medical journal in the field of obstetrics and gynecology. It provides information on scientific and clinical investigations pertaining to placental research and their applications. The journal includes full length and mini reviews, original articles, book reviews, announcements and reports, abstracts of important meetings, and letters to the editor.\n\nIt is the official journal of the International Federation of Placenta Associations, which incorporates:\n\n"}
{"id": "873402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873402", "title": "Plantar fasciitis", "text": "Plantar fasciitis\n\nPlantar fasciitis is a disorder of the connective tissue which supports the arch of the foot. It results in pain in the heel and bottom of the foot that is usually most severe with the first steps of the day or following a period of rest. Pain is also frequently brought on by bending the foot and toes up towards the shin. The pain typically comes on gradually, and it affects both feet in about one third of cases.\nThe causes of plantar fasciitis are not entirely clear. Risk factors include overuse such as from long periods of standing, an increase in exercise, and obesity. It is also associated with inward rolling of the foot, a tight Achilles tendon, and a lifestyle that involves little exercise. While heel spurs are frequently found it is unclear if they have a role in causing the condition. Plantar fasciitis is a disorder of the insertion site of the ligament on the bone characterized by micro tears, breakdown of collagen, and scarring. Since inflammation plays either a lesser or no role, a review proposed it be renamed \"plantar fasciosis\". The diagnosis is typically based on signs and symptoms; ultrasound is sometimes useful. Other conditions with similar symptoms include osteoarthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, heel pad syndrome, and reactive arthritis.\nMost cases of plantar fasciitis resolve with time and conservative methods of treatment. For the first few weeks, those affected are usually advised to rest, change their activities, take pain medications, and stretch. If this is not sufficient, physiotherapy, orthotics, splinting, or steroid injections may be options. If these measures are not effective, extracorporeal shockwave therapy or surgery may be tried.\nBetween 4% and 7% of the general population has heel pain at any given time: about 80% of these are due to plantar fasciitis. Approximately 10% of people have the disorder at some point during their life. It becomes more common with age. It is unclear if one sex is more affected than the other.\n\nWhen plantar fasciitis occurs, the pain is typically sharp and usually unilateral (70% of cases). Heel pain is worsened by bearing weight on the heel after long periods of rest. Individuals with plantar fasciitis often report their symptoms are most intense during their first steps after getting out of bed or after prolonged periods of sitting. Improvement of symptoms is usually seen with continued walking. Rare, but reported symptoms include numbness, tingling, swelling, or radiating pain. Typically there are no fevers or night sweats.\n\nIf the plantar fascia continues to be overused in the setting of plantar fasciitis, the plantar fascia can rupture. Typical signs and symptoms of plantar fascia rupture include a clicking or snapping sound, significant local swelling, and acute pain in the sole of the foot.\n\nIdentified risk factors for plantar fasciitis include excessive running, standing on hard surfaces for prolonged periods of time, high arches of the feet, the presence of a leg length inequality, and flat feet. The tendency of flat feet to excessively roll inward during walking or running makes them more susceptible to plantar fasciitis. Obesity is seen in 70% of individuals who present with plantar fasciitis and is an independent risk factor.\n\nStudies have suggested a strong association exists between an increased body mass index and the development of plantar fasciitis in the non-athletic population; this association between weight and plantar fasciitis has not been observed in the athletic population. Achilles tendon tightness and inappropriate footwear have also been identified as significant risk factors.\n\nThe cause of plantar fasciitis is poorly understood and is thought to likely have several contributing factors. The plantar fascia is a thick fibrous band of connective tissue that originates from the medial tubercle and anterior aspect of the heel bone. From there, the fascia extends along the sole of the foot before inserting at the base of the toes, and supports the arch of the foot.\n\nOriginally, plantar fasciitis was believed to be an inflammatory condition of the plantar fascia. However, within the last decade, studies have observed microscopic anatomical changes indicating that plantar fasciitis is actually due to a noninflammatory structural breakdown of the plantar fascia rather than an inflammatory process.\n\nDue to this shift in thought about the underlying mechanisms in plantar fasciitis, many in the academic community have stated the condition should be renamed plantar fasciosis. The structural breakdown of the plantar fascia is believed to be the result of repetitive microtrauma (small tears). Microscopic examination of the plantar fascia often shows myxomatous degeneration, connective tissue calcium deposits, and disorganized collagen fibers.\n\nDisruptions in the plantar fascia's normal mechanical movement during standing and walking (known as the Windlass mechanism) are thought to contribute to the development of plantar fasciitis by placing excess strain on the calcaneal tuberosity. Other studies have also suggested that plantar fasciitis is not actually due to inflamed plantar fascia, but may be a tendon injury involving the flexor digitorum brevis muscle located immediately deep to the plantar fascia.\n\nPlantar fasciitis is usually diagnosed by a health care provider after consideration of a person's presenting history, risk factors, and clinical examination. Tenderness to palpation along the inner aspect of the heel bone on the sole of the foot may be elicited during the physical examination. The foot may have limited dorsiflexion due to tightness of the calf muscles or the Achilles tendon. Dorsiflexion of the foot may elicit the pain due to stretching of the plantar fascia with this motion. Diagnostic imaging studies are not usually needed to diagnose plantar fasciitis. However, in certain cases a physician may decide imaging studies (such as X-rays, diagnostic ultrasound or MRI) are warranted to rule out serious causes of foot pain.\n\nOther diagnoses that are typically considered include fractures, tumors, or systemic disease if plantar fasciitis pain fails to respond appropriately to conservative medical treatments. Bilateral heel pain or heel pain in the context of a systemic illness may indicate a need for a more in-depth diagnostic investigation. Under these circumstances, diagnostic tests such as a CBC or serological markers of inflammation, infection, or autoimmune disease such as C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, anti-nuclear antibodies, rheumatoid factor, HLA-B27, uric acid, or Lyme disease antibodies may also be obtained. Neurological deficits may prompt an investigation with electromyography to evaluate for damage to the nerves or muscles.\n\nAn incidental finding associated with this condition is a heel spur, a small bony calcification on the calcaneus (heel bone), which can be found in up to 50% of those with plantar fasciitis. In such cases, it is the underlying plantar fasciitis that produces the heel pain, and not the spur itself. The condition is responsible for the creation of the spur though the clinical significance of heel spurs in plantar fasciitis remains unclear.\n\nMedical imaging is not routinely needed as it is expensive and does not typically change how plantar fasciitis is managed. When the diagnosis is not clinically apparent, lateral view x-rays of the ankle are the recommended imaging modality to assess for other causes of heel pain such as stress fractures or bone spur development.\n\nNormally the plantar fascia has three fascicles with the central fascicle thickest at 4 mm, the lateral fascicle at 2 mm and the medial at less than a millimeter in thickness. In theory, the likeliness of fasciitis increases with increasing thickness of plantar fascia at the calcaneal insertion, with thickness of more than 4.5 mm being somewhat useful on ultrasound and 4 mm on MRI. Findings on imaging such as plantar aponeurosis thickening, however, may be absent in symptomatic individuals or present in asymptomatic individuals thereby limiting the utility of such observations.\n\n3-phase bone scan is a sensitive modality to detect active plantar fasciitis. Furthermore, 3-phase bone scan can be used to monitor response to therapy, as demonstrated by decreased uptake after corticosteroid injections.\n\nThe differential diagnosis for heel pain is extensive and includes pathological entities including, but not limited to the following: calcaneal stress fracture, calcaneal bursitis, osteoarthritis, spinal stenosis involving the nerve roots of lumbar spinal nerve 5 (L5) or sacral spinal nerve 1 (S1), calcaneal fat pad syndrome, hypothyroidism, seronegative spondyloparthopathies such as reactive arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, or rheumatoid arthritis (more likely if pain is present in both heels), plantar fascia rupture, and compression neuropathies such as tarsal tunnel syndrome or impingement of the medial calcaneal nerve.\n\nA determination about a diagnosis of plantar fasciitis can usually be made based on a person's medical history and physical examination. In cases in which the physician suspects fracture, infection, or some other serious underlying condition, an x-ray may be used to make a differential diagnosis. However, and especially for people who stand or walk a lot at work, x-rays should not be used to screen for plantar fasciitis unless imaging is otherwise indicated as using it outside of medical guidelines is unnecessary health care.\n\nAbout 90% of plantar fasciitis cases will improve within six months with conservative treatment, and within a year regardless of treatment. Many treatments have been proposed for plantar fasciitis. Most have not been adequately investigated and there is little evidence to support recommendations for such treatments. First-line conservative approaches include rest, massage, heat, ice, and calf-strengthening exercises; techniques to stretch the calf muscles, Achilles tendon, and plantar fascia; weight reduction in the overweight or obese; and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin or ibuprofen. NSAIDs are commonly used to treat plantar fasciitis, but fail to resolve the pain in 20% of people.\n\nExtracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) is an effective treatment modality for plantar fasciitis pain unresponsive to conservative nonsurgical measures for at least three months. Evidence from meta-analyses suggests significant pain relief lasts up to one year after the procedure. However, debate about the therapy's efficacy has persisted. ESWT can be performed with or without anesthesia though studies have suggested that the therapy is less effective when anesthesia is given. Complications from ESWT are rare and typically mild when present. Known complications of ESWT include the development of a mild hematoma or an ecchymosis, redness around the site of the procedure, or migraine.\n\nCorticosteroid injections are sometimes used for cases of plantar fasciitis refractory to more conservative measures. There is tentative evidence that injections may be effective for pain relief in the first month but not after that. \n\nFoot orthoses have been demonstrated as an effective method to reduce plantar fasciitis pain for up to 12 weeks. The long-term effectiveness of custom orthotics for plantar fasciitis pain reduction requires additional study. Orthotic devices and certain taping techniques are proposed to reduce pronation of the foot and therefore reduce load on the plantar fascia resulting in pain improvement.\n\nAnother treatment technique known as plantar iontophoresis involves applying anti-inflammatory substances such as dexamethasone or acetic acid topically to the foot and transmitting these substances through the skin with an electric current. Moderate evidence exists to support the use of night splints for 1–3 months to relieve plantar fasciitis pain that has persisted for six months. The night splints are designed to position and maintain the ankle in a neutral position thereby passively stretching the calf and plantar fascia overnight during sleep.\n\nPlantar fasciotomy is often considered after conservative treatment has failed to resolve the issue after six months and is viewed as a last resort. Minimally invasive and endoscopic approaches to plantar fasciotomy exist but require a specialist who is familiar with certain equipment. The availability of these surgical techniques is currently limited. A 2012 study found 76% of patients who underwent endoscopic plantar fasciotomy had complete relief of their symptoms and had few complications (level IV evidence). Heel spur removal during plantar fasciotomy has not been found to improve the surgical outcome.\n\nPlantar heel pain may occur for multiple reasons and release of the lateral plantar nerve branch may be performed alongside the plantar fasciotomy in select cases. Possible complications of plantar fasciotomy include nerve injury, instability of the medial longitudinal arch of the foot, fracture of the calcaneus, prolonged recovery time, infection, rupture of the plantar fascia, and failure to improve the pain. Coblation surgery has recently been proposed as alternative surgical approaches for the treatment of recalcitrant plantar fasciitis.\n\nBotulinum Toxin A injections as well as similar techniques such as platelet-rich plasma injections and prolotherapy remain controversial.\n\nDry needling is also being researched for treatment of plantar fasciitis. A systematic review of available research found limited evidence of effectiveness for this technique. The studies were reported to be inadequate in quality and too diverse in methodology to enable reaching a firm conclusion.\n\nPlantar fasciitis is the most common type of plantar fascia injury and is the most common reason for heel pain, responsible for 80% of cases. The condition tends to occur more often in women, military recruits, older athletes, the obese, and young male athletes.\n\nPlantar fasciitis is estimated to affect 1 in 10 people at some point during their lifetime and most commonly affects people between 40–60 years of age. In the United States alone, more than two million people receive treatment for plantar fasciitis. The cost of treating plantar fasciitis in the United States is estimated to be $284 million each year.\n"}
{"id": "1170869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170869", "title": "Public Health Agency of Canada", "text": "Public Health Agency of Canada\n\nThe Public Health Agency of Canada (\"French: Agence de la santé publique du Canada\") is an agency of the Government of Canada that is responsible for public health, emergency preparedness and response, and infectious and chronic disease control and prevention. It was formed by Order in Council in 2004 and subsequently by legislation that came into force on December 15, 2006. It is a member of the Federal Health Portfolio (along with Health Canada, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, and other organizations).\n\nThe head of the Public Health Agency is the Chief Public Health Officer of Canada; the current Chief is Dr. Theresa Tam. As the Deputy Minister responsible for the Public Health Agency of Canada, the Chief Public Health Officer reports to the Minister of Health. As the federal government's lead public health official, the Chief Public Health Officer provides advice to the Minister of Health and the Government of Canada on issues concerning the health of Canadians.\n\nIts headquarters are located in two pillars—one is in Ottawa, the other is the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg, Manitoba, the location of Canada's only Level 4 microbiology lab for human health. At the time of its creation in 1998, most of the agency's staff were located in the former Gandalf Technologies building in Nepean, south of Ottawa, and were part of Health Canada's Population and Public Health Branch.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1394840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1394840", "title": "Services and supports for people with disabilities", "text": "Services and supports for people with disabilities\n\nService and supports for people with disabilities are those government or other institutional services and supports specifically provided to enable people who have disabilities to participate in society and community life. Some such services and supports are mandated or required by law, some are assisted by technologies that have made it easier to provide the service or support and others are commercially available not only to persons with disabilities, but to everyone who might make use of them.\n\nDevelopmental disabilities, as defined by the Agency for Developmental Disabilities website, are \"severe, life-long disabilities attributable to mental and/or physical impairments which manifest themselves before the age of 22 years and are likely to continue indefinitely. They result in substantial limitations in three or more of the following areas: self-care,comprehension and language, skills (receptive and expressive language), learning, mobility, self-direction, capacity for independent living, economic self-sufficiency, or ability to function independently without coordinated services (continuous need for individually planned and coordinated services). Persons with developmental disabilities use individually planned and coordinated services and supports of their choosing (e.g., housing, employment, education, civil and human rights protection, health care) to live in and to participate in activities in the community.\" These services and supports are different in every state and there is currently no portability for many of these services state to state.\n\nThe mission of The Administration on Developmental Disabilities (ADD), as quoted from their website \"ensures that individuals with developmental disabilities and their families participate in the design of and have access to culturally-competent needed community services, individualized supports, and other forms of assistance that promote self-determination, independence, productivity, and integration and inclusion in all facets of community life.\" Though many supports and services for people with developmental disabilities are offered through other federal and state agencies as well as nonprofit organizations and for profit endeavors, some of ADD Programs/Partners are:\n\n\n\n\nThe Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 was a landmark U.S. federal government move towards providing services for the persons with disabilities in a uniform way all across the country. That legislation has been widely copied in other countries.\n\nIn the United States, services for persons with disabilities varies by state and sometimes by location within a state. While Medicaid and Social Security income, both SSI and SSDI, are federally mandated, each state is responsible for administering these programs in their state, as part of their services and supports for persons with disabilities. Each state designs its service delivery system differently and as a result, the portals for entry vary for each state. Some states administer services through a state government agency with subordinate offices throughout the state. Some states contract services out (privatize) and maintain a skeleton state government staff. Being a good advocate or self advocate is necessary to maximize services and supports.\n\n"}
{"id": "18070793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18070793", "title": "Sullivan Ordinance", "text": "Sullivan Ordinance\n\nThe Sullivan Ordinance was a municipal law passed on January 21, 1908, in New York City by the board of aldermen, barring the management of a public place from allowing women to smoke within their venue. The ordinance did not bar women from smoking in general nor did the ordinance bar women from smoking in public, only public places. Right after the ordinance was enacted, on January 22, Katie Mulcahey, the only person cited for breaking this ordinance, was fined $5 for smoking in public and arrested for refusing to pay the fine; however, the ordinance itself did not mention fines nor does it ban women from smoking in public. She was released the next day. The mayor at the time, George B. McClellan Jr., vetoed the ordinance two weeks later.\n"}
{"id": "44461854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44461854", "title": "The Mind of Mark DeFriest", "text": "The Mind of Mark DeFriest\n\nThe Mind of Mark DeFriest (also known as The Life and Mind of Mark DeFriest) is a documentary film about Mark DeFriest, a man imprisoned by the State of Florida since 1980, who spent 27 of those years in solitary confinement. His original four-year sentence, for taking his father's tools after his death, before they had been released to him by the court, and then fleeing the police, has been repeatedly extended due to numerous escape attempts, seven of which were successful, and because of infractions committed while in prison.\n\n\"If I was a rapist or a murderer, they'd let me out,\" DeFriest says in the film. \"But I'm the idiot who made them look like idiots.\"\n\nThe film won the 2014 Best Documentary Feature award at the Lone Star Film Festival. It has a score of 82% on Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "30897856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30897856", "title": "Transplant surgeon", "text": "Transplant surgeon\n\nA transplant surgeon is a surgeon who performs organ transplants. Among the many organs that can be transplanted are: kidneys. livers, hearts, lungs, the pancreas, the intestine (especially the small intestine), and recently, faces, tracheal (windpipe) tissue, and penises. At the present time, some organs, notably the brain and its constituent lobes and subdivisions, cannot be transplanted, and even if possible (recently, research has been done into the subject), would be very controversial for many. However, more extensive research into the transplantation of individual neurons and supportive brain tissue, or groups thereof (including glia, astrocytes, other neural connective tissue, and the surrounding meninges) has been done, and may be more practical and somewhat less controversial.\n\nSubstitution of whole genes or chromosomes, or large portions thereof, for the purpose of genetic therapy or engineering (which is not actually transplantation, since these are not whole organs, or even tissues) is generally not yet feasible. While the use of tissue grafts- which is much more common- is not transplantation, since an entire organ is not transferred, these two are closely related (skin, hair, and subdermal tissue, connective tissue, musculoskeletal tissue, and corneas are commonly grafted).\n\nSometimes, the separation of conjoined individuals requires transplantation of an organ or organs, especially if complications develop. End-stage renal disease (stages 5 and 6; either acute and non-reversible, or chronic), severe congestive or other heart failure or certain congenital cardiac structural defects (where the blood cannot be oxygenated or backflows, or where the ejection fraction or distribution of blood is insufficient); and advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis (when the lungs are no longer able to function), or emphysema, are possible indicators for, respectively, renal (kidney), cardiac (heart), or pulmonary (lung) transplantation.\n\nThere are distinct parameters for who is eligible for transplantation of the different organs. Broadly speaking (this is not meant to be exhaustive), these include: age, how long they have been on the waiting list, how urgently they need the organ (which is often related to how long they've been on the list, and whether they are actually in end-stage disease, which has its own laboratory and functional criteria per organ); their prognosis (how stable they are now- whether they can survive major invasive surgery and the anesthesia and post-op period, and how they have been, and how they likely will fare with and/or without the organ, versus with other therapies that are not transplantation- such as continued dialysis or getting an artificial heart or left ventricular assist device). \n\nCare must be taken when finding organs for the very young (this requires special training, or at least knowledge of, pediatric and newborn transplantation procedures), or certain very elderly patients (there may or may not be mandatory or preferred cut-off ages for receiving an organ or tissue, depending on the location, the institutions involved, the surgical team, whether the patient has any relevant co-morbidities and whether they are capable of caring for their new situation, how long and how well they might live, and the patient's and family's wishes).\n\nTransplantation rejection concerns, and the need to find willing donors or to have others give consent (for the deceased, in a cadaveric procedure), and the need to match them and to screen the needed blood products and other materials and maintain sterility and asepsis, are all very relevant issues, as is how to proceed if rejection becomes an issue (treatment, and if need be, removal), and how to deal with immune suppression post-transplant (this has become somewhat easier in recent years).\n\nThose with diabetes (particularly if it is advanced, and especially if it is not well-controlled), those who are culpably non-compliant with their medication and treatment plans, those who abuse substances (any drugs, alcohol, or tobacco), those who are uncooperative, those whose diseases or prognoses are not amenable to transplantation (or who may go on to need another of the same organ soon), those who have advanced and uncontrolled active liver or kidney disease, some prisoners, and those with advanced symptomatic AIDS or metastatic cancer with little chance of remediation are generally not candidates for transplantation (or would be low on the priority list independently of any other factors), though in certain cases exceptions can, especially recently, with better technology and better knowledge and protocols, be made, per the discretion of the organ network, the institutions, and the patient's doctor and surgical team.\n\nBecause these patients are often somewhat unstable, on some form of life support and/or life-sustaining technologies (cardiopulmonary bypass, respirator/ventilator or breathing tube, implantable cardioverter/defibrillator, some form of dialysis or other renal replacement therapy, artificial liver, parenteral nutrition, etc.), these procedures- especially if they involve the vital organs (heart, lung, liver, pancreas; kidney transplantation could be included here but is more common)- usually only take place in Level I trauma centers that usually are academic medical centers (teaching hospitals), or at least at a relatively large, well-staffed hospital with a 24-hour operating and emergency department service, 24-hour intensive and critical care available, a good hospital pharmacy, 24-hour advanced skilled nursing care available, access to the person's GP and specialist, and 24-hour easy access to anesthesia practitioners, surgeons and physicians, and nurses with expertise in the transplanted organ and in emergency, operative, and intensive care.\n\nAt smaller (Level II or III) institutions in smaller cities, it is still often possible to perform renal and corneal transplantation (especially on adults), and do skin grafts; the extent of their services varies with the personnel and the organ at stake (hearts, livers, and lungs have extensive arterial, venous, and capillary vasculature, extensive connections to muscle, fascia, and connective tissue, connections to ligaments, tendons, and other body parts, and numerous small parts and nerves and nerve junctions, require a number of anastomoses, or joining of tissues, and are near other important structures).\n\nAdmission to the specialty, like many other surgical specialties, is very competitive. There is a shortage of organs and tissues available, and more donors and more surgeons and more locations capable of these procedures are needed, in both developed and developing countries.\n\nTraining in the U.S. usually involves the four years of the undergraduate pre-medical track, four years of medical school, a rotating first year of residency (the former internship year), and then four more residency years (for a total of 5) in general surgery.\n\nAt some point during those four years, a transplant surgeon would likely train to some extent in emergency surgical procedures, vascular surgical procedures, surgical procedures involving pediatric and/or geriatric cases, and a variety of surgical cases, featuring different conditions, degrees of urgency, and age groups, that require critical and/or intensive care.\n\nDuring their first residency rotational year, they are likely to focus on the surgical field, the emergency department, and critical/intensive care and post-operative/recovery care, as well as some time with immunology, anesthesia, pediatrics, and rehabilitation, and to spend some time with a paramedic or flight crew. During their residency, they will likely be exposed to a progressively increasing number of transplant cases, with more and more degrees of difficulty, and with less oversight over time.\n\nThey can also complete another residency afterward in the specialty of the organ systems they most prefer to transplant (cardiovascular, pulmonology, gastrointestinal/hepatic, nephrology/urology, etc.). Fellowships can be done in general transplant medicine or in certain areas of transplant medicine and surgery.\n\nAmong the possible specialties are: transplantation rejection medicine/immunology, pediatric and/or neonatal transplantation of certain organs, sense organ transplantation (primarily, corneas and research into future advances), transplantation research (i.e., into neural or brain region transplantation), obstetric transplantation (of pregnant women), geriatric transplantation, trauma/burn transplantation surgery, emergency or critical care transplant surgery (for unstable cases: emergency, septic, or acute degeneration cases needing transplants), post-transplantation rehabilitation, and oncologic or diabetic transplantation cases.\n\nIt is a very stressful position demanding high accuracy in a very unforgiving surgical environment, requiring a very steady physical and motor presence and a calm, professional, and composed personality with a reasonably good bedside manner and the capacity for teamwork involving various personalities and multiple guidelines from multiple institutions, with not-uncommon failure and complication rates and with frequent transfers of patient care between facilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "26729322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26729322", "title": "Uterine tachysystole", "text": "Uterine tachysystole\n\nUterine tachysystole is a condition of excessively frequent uterine contractions during pregnancy.\n\nBecause contraction counts are often measured over periods of ten minutes but averaged over periods of thirty minutes, there can be slight differences in how the cutoff is calculated. Generally it is defined as more frequently than once every two minutes. Although definitions may vary among studies, most use the terms defined by the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (1999a) to describe increased uterine activity as follows:\n\n\nThe American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists amended these definitions in 2008. Uterine tachysystole is defined as 5 or more contractions in 10 minutes, averaged over a 30-minute period. The terms \"hypertonus\" and \"hyperstimulation\" are not recommended to be used.\n\nUterine tachysystole has been reported to follow vaginally administered Prostaglandin E2 in 1 to 5 percent of women (Brindley and Sokol, 1988; Rayburn, 1989). It can be associated with placental abruption and perhaps with uterine leiomyomas. It can also refer to hyperstimulation with oxytocin.\n"}
{"id": "17742682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17742682", "title": "Vertebrate and Genome Annotation Project", "text": "Vertebrate and Genome Annotation Project\n\nThe Vertebrate Genome Annotation (VEGA) database is a biological database dedicated to assisting researchers in locating specific areas of the genome and annotating genes or regions of vertebrate genomes. The VEGA browser is based on Ensembl web code and infrastructure and provides a public curation of known vertebrate genes for the scientific community. The VEGA website is updated frequently to maintain the most current information about vertebrate genomes and attempts to present consistently high-quality annotation of all its published vertebrate genomes or genome regions. VEGA was developed by the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and is in close association with other annotation databases, such as ZFIN (The Zebrafish Information Network), the Havana Group and GenBank. Manual annotation is currently more accurate at identifying splice variants, pseudogenes, polyadenylation features, non-coding regions and complex gene arrangements than automated methods.\n\nThe Vertebrate Genome Annotation (VEGA) database was first made public in 2004 by the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute. It was designed to view manual annotations of human, mouse and zebrafish genomic sequences, and it is the central cache for genome sequencing centers to deposit their annotation of human chromosomes. Manual annotation of genomic data is extremely valuable to produce an accurate reference gene set but is expensive compared with automatic methods and so has been limited to model organisms. Annotation tools that have been developed at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute (WTSI) are now being used to fill that gap, as they can be used remotely and so open up viable community annotation collaborations. The HAVANA and VEGA Projects were run by Dr. Jennifer Harrow of the Wellcome Sanger Institute. VEGA has been archived since February 2017 and the HAVANA team moved to EMBL-EBI in June 2017.\n\nThe Vega database is the central repository for the majority of genome sequencing centers to deposit their annotation of human chromosomes. Since the original VEGA publication, the number of human gene loci annotated has more than doubled to over 49,000 (September 2012 release), over 20,000 of which are predicted to be protein coding. The Havana Group as part of the consensus-coding sequence (CCDS) collaboration and whole-genome extension of the ENCODE project have fully manually annotated the human genome—which is available for reference, comparative analysis and sequence searches on the VEGA database.\nThe final VEGA release was in February 2017 (release 68) and VEGA is now an archived site that will no longer be updated.\n\nThe VEGA database combines the information from individual vertebrate genome databases and brings them all together to allow easier access and comparative analysis for researchers. The human and vertebrate analysis and annotation (Havana) team at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute (WTSI) manually annotate the human, mouse and zebrafish genomes using the Otterlace/ZMap genome annotation tool. The Otterlace manual annotation system comprises a relational database that stores manual annotation data and supports the graphical interface, Zmap and is based on the Ensembl schema. \nThe Zebrafish Genome, which is being fully sequenced and manually annotated. The Zebrafish genome currently has 18,454 annotated VEGA genes--of which, 16,588 are projected protein-coding genes (September 2012, release).\n\nThe Mouse genome currently has 23,322 annotated VEGA genes--of which, 14,805 are projected protein-coding genes (June 2012, release). The loci chosen for manual annotation are spread throughout the genome, but some regions have received more focus than others: Chromosomes 2, 4, 11 and X, which have been fully annotated. The annotation shown in this release of Vega is from a datafreeze taken on 19 March 2012 and the gene structures are presented in the merged mouse geneset shown in Ensembl release 67. Vega also shows artificial loci generated by the mouse Knockout programs.\n\nThe Pig genome currently has annotated 2,842 VEGA genes--of which, 2,264 are projected protein-coding genes (September 2012, release). The pig major histocompatibility complex (MHC), also known as the swine leukocyte antigen complex (SLA), spans a 2.4Mb region of submetacentric chromosome 7 (SSC7p1.1-q1.1). Implicated in the control of immune response and susceptibility to a range of diseases, the pig MHC plays a unique role in histocompatibility. Chromosomes X-WTSI and Y-WTSI are currently being annotated by Havana.\n\nThe Dog genome currently has 45 annotated VEGA genes--of which, 29 are projected protein-coding genes (February 2005, release). \nThe Chimpanzee genome currently has 124 annotated VEGA genes--of which, 52 are projected protein-coding genes (January 2012, release). \nThe Wallaby genome currently has 193 annotated VEGA genes--of which, 76 are projected protein-coding genes (March 2009, release). \nThe Gorilla genome currently has 324 annotated VEGA genes--of which, 176 are projected protein-coding genes (March 2009, release).\nThe VEGA database has a very \"user-friendly\" database, fully equipped with readily available links and pictures of every organism available on the site. Upon clicking any one of the vertebrates, a page will pop up showing a table of Statistics for that genome, as well as a chart depicting the amount of genome annotated to date. The table of Statistics gives such information as the numbers of VEGA annotated genes, protein coding genes, processed transcripts, pseudogenes, clones, total bases, and annotated transcripts. Researchers can search for this information within each vertebrate genome after getting to this page, or they can use the quick search at the top of the VEGA homepage. If information is wanted about sections of the genome which are homologous across species, search results will show in which species they have been annotated. Search results will also yield the domain and chromosome numbers specific to these vertebrates, as well as any primary literature that can be found on the gene query.\n\nIn addition to full genomes, and unlike other browsers, VEGA also displays small finished regions of interest from genomes of other vertebrates, human haplotypes and mouse strains. Currently this comprises the finished sequence and annotation of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) from different human haplotypes, and dog and pig [the latter of which is currently otherwise only available in very limited form in Ensembl Pre!. Additionally there is mouse NOD (non-obese diabetes) strain annotation of IDD (insulin-dependent diabetes) candidate regions and two more pig regions.\n\nVega contains comparative pairwise analysis between specific genomic regions from either different species or from different haplotypes / strains. This is in contrast to Ensembl where many all genome versus all genome comparisons are performed. \nThe analysis in Vega involves:\n\n1. The identification of genomic alignments using LastZ.\n2. Prediction of the orthologue pairs using the Ensembl gene tree pipeline. Note that although the pipeline generates phylogenetic genetrees, the limited scope of the Vega comparative analysis means that these will necessarily be incomplete and consequently only orthologs are shown on the website.\n3. The manual identification of alleles in either different human haplotypes or mouse strains.\n\nThere are five sets of analyses:\n\n1. The MHC region has been compared between dog, pig (two assemblies), gorilla, chimpanzee, wallaby, mouse and eight human haplotypes:\n\n\n2. Comparisons between the LRC regions of pig, gorilla and human (nine haplotypes):\n\n\n3. The regions of the CL57BL/6 reference assembly used in these comparisons are:\n\n\n4. Comparisons between three specific regions:\n\n\n5. Pairwise comparisons between three pairs of full length mouse and human chromosomes:\n\n"}
{"id": "54864244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54864244", "title": "Wasserman 9-Panel Plot", "text": "Wasserman 9-Panel Plot\n\nThe Wasserman 9-Panel Plot, often called a Nine-Panel Plot, is a standard layout for the graphical representation of data produced by a cardiopulmonary exercise test. The layout was updated in 2012.\n\nThe graphs give an overview of cardiovascular, ventilatory, and gas exchange parameters.\n\nThe Wasserman 9-Panel Plot is named for the American Physiologist Professor Karlman Wasserman MD PhD, who first displayed the data in this manner.\n\nProfessor Wasserman worked extensively on pulmonary physiology and also described the \"gear wheel model\" used for explaining results obtained from the test.\n\n"}
{"id": "35475162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35475162", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Nigeria", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Nigeria\n\nResponsibility of water supply in Nigeria is shared between three levels of government – federal, state and local. The federal government is in charge of water resources management; state governments have the primary responsibility for urban water supply; and local governments together with communities are responsible for rural water supply. The responsibility for sanitation is not clearly defined.\n\nWater supply service quality and cost recovery are low. Water tariffs are low and many water users do not pay their bills. Service providers thus rely mostly on occasional subsidies to cover their operating costs.\n\nIn 2015, 67% of the total population had access to \"at least basic water supply\". This was 82% of the urban population and 54% of the rural population. In 2015, around 60 million people lacked access to \"at least basic\" water. As for sanitation, only 33% of the total population had access to \"at least basic\" sanitation. This was 39% of the urban population and 27% of the rural population. Approximately 122 million people still lacked access to \"at least basic\" sanitation.\n\nIn urban areas, access to standpipes substituted to a large extent to piped water access.\n\nAdequate sanitation is typically in the form of septic tanks, as there is no central sewerage system, except for Abuja and some areas of Lagos. A 2006 study estimated that only 1% of Lagos households were connected to sewers. Lagos has four wastewater treatment plants which have been rehabilitated around 2010. As of 2011, the state planned to build ten new \"mega wastewater treatment plants\" over the next five years with the help of private investors. These have not yet been completed.\n\nThe statistics on access to water and sanitation are conflicting, due to divergent definitions, indicators and methodologies applied by different agencies. There is hardly any sector monitoring.\n\nAccording to a report published by Amnesty International in September, there oil company Shell and government of Rivers State, in southern Nigeria are not doing enough to provide clean water in Ogale, an area outside of the state capital. The right to drink clean water is long violated in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria. Residents are either forced to buy water at unaffordable prices or drink from wells contaminated with benzene.\n\nAccording to the World Bank, in 2010 water production facilities in Nigeria were “rarely operated to capacity due to broken down equipment, or lack of power or fuel for pumping.” The operating cost of water agencies is increased by the need to rely on diesel generators or even having to build their own power plants, since power supply is erratic. Equipment and pipes are poorly maintained, leading to intermittent supply and high levels of non-revenue water.\n\nAs of 2000, about 80% of all government-owned water systems in small towns were non-operational. Through investments and capacity building for communities, the functionality of water points can be increased in the short term. For example, in focus communities supported by UNICEF in Kwara State, functionality has improved from 53% to 98%, and in Kebbi State the functionality of boreholes has improved from 12% to 88%. However, it is not clear how well these facilities will continue to function in the long term, after international intervention has ended.\n\nWater supply and sanitation are not provided efficiently in Nigeria. For example, State Water Agencies are massively overstaffed. In 2000, there were about 70 staff per 1,000 customers in State Water Agencies, compared to a best practice ratio of 3.5. Non-revenue water often exceeds 50 percent.\n\nNigeria's capital Abuja receives part of its drinking water from the lower Usuma dam. The capacity of the plant that treats surface water from the dam’s reservoir was in the process of being increased in 2012 in order to cater for the growing population of the capital. The Guara dam, which was under construction in 2012, is expected to further increase water supply to Abuja and to mitigate against the risk of drought. Wastewater is treated in a 131,200 cubic meters per day plant at Wupa that was completed in 2007. The Federal Capital Territory, through the Abuja Environmental Protection Board, has contracted a private operator to run the plant. However, when the government apparently failed to pay the operator he walked away, confronting the area with a pollution crisis.\n\nNigeria's largest city Lagos is surrounded by water from the sea and a lagoon. Its clean water supply in the city is about 81.32%. But since the raw water in the lagoon is too polluted, the city gets its water from Ogun River and Owo River. The city's oldest water treatment plant, located in Iju on the Ogun River, was built in 1910. It was expanded in stages to 45m gallons per day. Another smaller plant was built at Ishashi on the Owo River in the 1970s. The biggest plant so far was commissioned in 1991 in Adiyan with a capacity of 70m gallons per day. It also draws from the Owo River. There are also seven mini-waterworks drawing from local sources with a combined capacity of 18m gallons per day. The Lagos Water Corporation states that the water produced in the plant meets the highest standards, and that it supplies \"safe drinking water in sufficient and regular quantity to over 12.5 million people in Lagos State\". However, water is often contaminated in the distribution network and people distrust tap water quality. Electricity supply interruptions prevent treatment plants from operating continuously. However, a dedicated 12.15 MW power plant was under construction in 2012 to supply power to the Adiyan, Iju and Akute water treatment plants.\nHouseholds also source water from numerous private shallow wells. Or households rely on street vendors, creating a thriving market for “sachet water”, purified water packaged in polyethylene pouches. Water vendors called \"Mairuwa\" sell water from tanks and drums on carts, which is sometimes sold to other vendors that carry water in buckets or gerry cans. Access to water provided by the state Water Corporation is 'metropocentric' i.e., centred around the metropolis.\n\nIn Makurdi, the capital of Benue State, only about 25-30% of the population are served and inhabitants fetch raw water in buckets from the polluted Benue river. In 2008 the construction of a water treatment plant was left unfinished and officials were unable to account for USD 6 million. As of 2012, a water treatment plant was under construction as part of the Greater Makurdi Waterworks Project. According to Nat Apir, an independent water consultant, the lack of a modern distribution network will lead pipes to burst and the capacity of the plant is at risk of not being fully utilized.\n\nKano is supplied from local rivers and from groundwater which is over-exploited. Public water supply is deficient, so that private water selling points are multiplying and generate profits for their private operators. Kaduna receives drinking water from the Kaduna River. Ibadan receives its drinking water from Eleyele dam.\n\nNigeria's National Water Supply and Sanitation Policy, approved in 2000, encourages private-sector participation and envisages institutional and policy reforms at the state level. However, little has happened in both respects. As of 2007, only four of the 37 states – Lagos, Cross River, Kaduna and Ogun States – began to introduce public-private partnerships (PPP) in the form of service contracts, a form of PPP where the responsibility of the private sector is limited to operating infrastructure without performance incentives. While the government has a decentralization policy, little actual decentralization has happened. The capacity of local governments to plan and carry out investments, or to operate and maintain systems, remains low despite efforts at capacity development. Furthermore, the national policy focuses on water supply and neglects sanitation.\n\nIn 2003 a \"Presidential Water Initiative (PWI): Water for People, Water for Life\" was launched by then-President Olusegun Obasanjo. The initiative had ambitious targets to increase access, including a 100 percent water access target in state capitals, 75 percent access in other urban areas, and 66 percent access in rural areas. Little has been done to implement the initiative and targets have not been met.\n\nIn 2011 the government voted in the United Nations in favor of a resolution making water and sanitation a human right. However, it has not passed legislation to enshrine the human right to water and sanitation in national law. The country is not on track to reach the Millennium Development Goal for water and sanitation.\n\nSince 2008 community-led total sanitation has been introduced in six states, with the support of UNICEF and the EU. While not being a national policy, apparently this grass-roots initiative has met with some success. More than 17,000 latrines have been built in 836 communities, and more than 100 of these communities have attained the goal of being declared free of open defecation.\n\nThree levels of government share responsibility for the delivery of water supply services. The responsibility for sanitation is not always clear, but urban sanitation is a responsibility of state governments.\n\nThe Federal Ministry of Water Resources, which had been part of the Ministry of Agriculture for a period until 2010, is responsible for large water resources development projects and water allocation between states. There are 12 River Basin Development Authorities under the Ministry, responsible for planning and developing water resources, irrigation work and the collection of hydrological, hydro-geological data. They also provide water in bulk to cities from dams. A Utilities Charges Commission was established in 1992 to monitor and regulate utility tariffs, including those of State Water Agencies.\n\nResponsibility for potable water supply is entrusted to State Water Agencies (SWAs) or state water departments in the 36 Nigerian states. The SWAs are responsible to their state governments, generally through a State Ministry of Water Resources. SWAs are responsible for urban water supply, and in some states also for rural water supply. As of 2000, 22 states had separate state rural water and sanitation agencies, mostly set up to implement a UNICEF program. In 2010, Lagos state set up a State Wastewater Management Office under the Lagos State Water Corporation. It took the responsibility for sanitation over from the State Ministry of Environment.\n\nThe Local Government Authorities (LGAs), of which there are 774, are responsible for the provision of rural water supplies and sanitation facilities in their areas although only a few have the resources and skills to address the problem. Only few LGAs have rural water supply divisions.\n\nIn some communities in rural areas, water and sanitation committees (WASCOs) have been formed to operate and maintain water facilities. These committees are supposed to collect their own water tariffs. Donors such as the African Development Bank have set a requirement that at least 30% of members of WASCOs must be women. In 1993 the Government committed itself to strengthen community participation in rural water supply in a policy document. As of 2000, the policy had not been disseminated or implemented in all government- or donor-financed programs.\n\nNigeria's Water and Sanitation sector has a vibrant and dynamic civil society implementing several initiatives to address sectoral crisis. The Society for Water and Sanitation (NEWSAN) is the umbrella network of WASH NGOs, while the Water and Sanitation Media Network www.wash-jn.net comprises Journalists reporting the sector. A leading non governmental organisation in the sector is Bread of Life Development Foundation which manages the eWASH webblog www.assemblyonline.info on water and sanitation news in Nigeria.\n\nFlat rates for unmetered connections. Most Nigerian water supply connections are not metered. The metering ratio varies from 7% in Katsina to 16% in Kaduna and 24% in Lagos in 2007. Unmetered customers are charged a flat rate independent of consumption. For unmetered residential customers the monthly flat rate was USD 3 in Lagos, USD 5 in Katsina and USD 11 in Kaduna. In Yobe state it was only Naira 100 (USD 0.60) per month, the lowest level in the country according to the Yobe State Water Corporation. The tariff revenues covered only 2% of the costs of supplying water.\n\nTariffs for metered connections. Metered customers are either charged a linear tariff, as it is the case in Lagos, or an increasing-block tariff, as it is the case in Katsina and Kaduna. Under the increasing-block tariff, the tariff per cubic meter increases stepwise with consumption beginning at a consumption of 30m3 per month with a total of 3 to 6 blocks. The residential tariff for the first block of consumption is USD 0.19 per m3 in Kaduna and USD 0.44 per m3 in Katsina. Tariffs for commercial and industrial users are higher. The average water tariff for metered customers was Naira 50 per m3 (USD 0.30) in Oyo state and Naira 16 per m3 (USD 0.10) in Taraba state in 2009.\n\nTariff collection. Outdated information systems and inconsistent billing practices cause additional revenue losses. The revenue collection rate is very low. In some areas it is less than 10% of billed amounts. There are significant arrears, particularly from government agencies.\n\nTariff adjustments. Each state sets its own water tariff. Tariff adjustments need to be approved by the State Executive Council through a lengthy procedure. Being unable to cover their operating costs, and unable to secure regular revisions of the tariff, the State Water Agencies receive financial assistance from the state governments.\n\nVendor prices. Surveys of street vendors in Lagos, Kaduna and Katsina show that they charge as much as 20 times more than the State Water Agencies. The amount paid, for a very limited volume of supply from private water vendors, can be four to ten times that of one month’s much larger volume of tap supply.\n\nFor Nigeria to meet the Millennium Development Goal for water supply by 2015, the country needs to invest approximately N215 billion (USD 1.3 billion) annually. Nigeria is currently investing not more than N82.5 billion (USD 0.5 billion) into the sector. Much of these investments are needed to rehabilitate infrastructure that has not been properly maintained. It is not clear if the estimate includes sanitation or not.\n\nWhile all three government levels are supposed to participate in financing water and sanitation investments, local governments often do not have the resources to do so. State and federal levels also provide only limited funding. Thus, most public water and sanitation investments in Nigeria are financed by donors.\nThe sharing of oil and tax revenues between different levels of government is a politically sensitive issue in Nigeria, which is divided between a Muslim North and a mostly Christian South and where one region in the South accounts for all oil revenues. Between 1948 and 2001, nine commissions, six military decrees, one Act of the legislature and two Supreme Court judgements have attempted to define fiscal interrelationships among the component parts of the federation without resolving the issue. Federal revenues include about 90 percent of government revenues, including oil royalties and import duties. These are pooled with the more limited state and local revenues, and the pooled resources are then shared by the three levels of government according to an agreed formula. After independence the federal government received 40% of revenues and the states 60%, an arrangement that would benefit the oil-producing region in the Niger Delta. Local governments had no share. After the Biafra War the share of federal government was increased to 80% in 1968, but was subsequently decreased again. Since the 1976 Local Government Reform, local government receives its own share of revenues. As of 1999, the share of local government was 20%, the state share was 24% and the share of the federal government and for special projects was 56%.\n\nThe most important external partners in the Nigerian water supply and sanitation sector are the African Development Bank, the European Union, Japanese JICA, UNICEF, USAID, the NGO WaterAid, Action Against Hunger (NGO) and the World Bank. The African Development Bank and the World Bank provide loans to the government; the European Union, JICA and USAID provide grants to the government; UNICEF and WaterAid receive grants from governments and donations from the public to implement their projects in cooperation with, but not through the government.\n\nIn February 2012 the African Development Bank approved a USD 100 million soft loan to improve water and sanitation in the northern city of Zaria. The project will be implemented by the Kaduna State Water Board. It also approved an Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project in the cities of Ibadan and Jalingo in Oyo and Taraba States in 2009. Both urban projects include the installation of water meters, hygiene promotion as well as the construction of toilets at schools, health clinics, market places and parks. Unlike the newer project in Zaria, the older project supports reforms at the state level to separate regulatory from operational functions, and the introduction of public-private partnerships. The AfDB also finances a Rural Water and Sanitation projects in Yobe and Osun States approved in 2007. The project aimed to increase the functionality of rural water supply and sanitation facilities in the two states, estimated to be below 50% in 2006, to 100% in 2012. The sanitation facilities built are sanplat latrines and Ventilated Improved Pit Latrines.\n\nThe AfDB finances the entire costs of these projects without requiring a contribution by the Nigerian state. The AfDB has invested USD 905 million in the sector since 1971.\n\nIn 2005 China signed a grant agreement with Nigeria to drill 598 boreholes in 18 states and the FCT. The amount of the grant and the implementing agency were not specified.\n\nThe EU supports a Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Reform Programme in six states (Anambra, Cross River, Jigawa, Kano, Osun and Yobe) with 87 million Euros grant funding. The Nigerian state, at all three levels of government, and local communities are expected to contribute another 31 million Euros.\n\nJICA provides grants for rural water supply and sanitation in three states, Oyo, Kano and Yobe.\n\nUNICEF has supported rural water supply, sanitation and hygiene in communities and schools across the country since 2002. Its interventions have been financed by DFID and the European Commission. A total of 6,960 new safe water sources (boreholes, dug wells and protected springs) and over 19,100 household latrines have been constructed. Over 400 schools have been provided with latrines with separate provision for boys and girls and hand washing facilities,\n\nUSAID supports rural water supply, sanitation and hygiene education in Northern Nigeria, in 46 communities in Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto States. USAID is partnering with Nigerian non-governmental agency Women Farmers Advancement Network (WOFAN), Action Against Hunger (NGO) and WaterAid.\n\nWaterAid, a British NGO, promoted the integration of sanitation, water supply and hygiene education using a community-based approach and low cost appropriate technologies. It works closely with Nigerian NGOs, including the Benue NGO Network (BENGONET), Society for Water and Sanitation in Nigeria (NEWSAN), Justice Development and Peace Initiative (JDPI), Community Based Development – NGO (CBD-NGO), Women Empowerment In Nigeria (WEIN) and the Bol Development Association (BOLDA). It works in over 100 communities in the stats of Bauchi, Benue and Plateau. It has developed a vulnerability ranking, based on criteria suggested by communities themselves, to help communities in selecting themselves where resources should be allocated. Such a participatory and transparent decision-making process is of particular importance in a context of low trust and poor governance.\n\nIn January 2012 it has been tasked by the government with the task of facilitating monitoring and evaluation of government water, sanitation and hygiene projects in Nigeria. According to the Minister of Water Resources, President Goodluck Jonathan is interested in an independent assessment of sector performance and NGOs are well placed to undertake this task.\n\nThe World Bank has completed seven water projects since 1985 and had three on-going projects in 2010. Total investment for the 10 projects is about US$1.4 billion. The First Urban Water Reform Project (US$120 million) targets 13 towns in the states of Kaduna, Ogun and Enugu. The project also aims to establish state water policies, and to foster the engagement with the private sector. The second Urban Water Reform Project worth US$200 million, supports the extension of the piped network in Calabar, and the rehabilitation of water treatment plants and distribution systems in Lagos as well as another three towns in Cross River State. Under a Privatization Project, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Water Board is being assisted with US$25 million. In 2012 the World Bank approved a US$400 million National Urban Water Sector Reform Project for Lagos, Kaduna, Ogun, Enugu and Cross River States.\n\n"}
{"id": "39331594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39331594", "title": "Wellness in school", "text": "Wellness in school\n\nWellness in School is offered as a unit in some K-8 elementary schools in the United States. It is defined as the quality or state of being in good health, especially as an actively sought goal. Wellness is taught in 6 or 7 dimensions: physical, social, intellectual, emotional, occupational, spiritual and environmental. Inclusion of the latter two is controversial. While the teaching of \"The Whole Child\" seems to be an antiquated philosophy with public schools trending towards high-stakes testing, there are many schools such as Montessori and other philosophies/pedagogies that value this curriculum. The following isn't an expanded definition of each, but simply what the goals and objectives are for each dimension.\n\nThe physical dimension focuses on three sub-categories: healthy eating, exercise, and the human body (digestive system, skeletal system and circulatory systems).\n\nFor K-5 the focus can be on the brain controlling the body, all the way up to studying the parts of the brain. Students are expected to understand that different parts control different body functions.\n\nStudents learn techniques to harmonize their actions with the world around them.\n\nStudents learn to identify negative and positive emotions and coping strategies.\n\nStudents learn to connect the job they want with the necessary preparation.\n\nStudents learn the importance and skills of communication.\n\nStudents learn to connect their own and their family's actions to the health of the environment around them.\n"}
{"id": "21420555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21420555", "title": "World Leprosy Day", "text": "World Leprosy Day\n\nWorld Leprosy Day is observed internationally every year on the last Sunday of January to increase the public awareness of the Leprosy or Hansen's Disease. This day was chosen in commemoration of the death of Gandhi, the leader of India who understood the importance of leprosy. Leprosy is one of the oldest recorded diseases in the world. It is an infectious chronic disease that targets the nervous system, especially the nerves in the cooler parts of the body - the hands, feet, and face.\n\n"}
{"id": "434783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=434783", "title": "Yury Bandazhevsky", "text": "Yury Bandazhevsky\n\nYury Bandazhevsky ( / Juryj Bandažeŭski, / Yuri Ivanovich Bandazhevski; born on January 9, 1957 in Belarus, former director of the Medical Institute in Gomel (Belarus), is a scientist working on sanitary consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. He was the first to create an institute in Belarus, in 1989, specially dedicated to scientific work on the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.\n\nIn 1978, Bandazhevsky married Galina Bandazhevskaja, a medical doctor specialized in pediatrics. He studied at the Medical Institute of Grodno and became a specialist of anatomic pathology. He supported his doctoral thesis in 1987, a year after the Chernobyl disaster, and named director of the Central Laboratory of Scientific Research. In 1990, he was named director of the Gomel Medical Institute.\n\nOn June 2001, Yury Bandazhevsky was sentenced to eight years imprisonment on the grounds that he had received bribes from students' parents. The institute's Deputy Director, Vladimir Ravkov, also received an eight-year prison sentence. Bandazhevsky's lawyer claimed that he had been convicted on the basis of two testimonies made under duress, without any material evidence. According to many human rights groups Dr. Bandazhevsky was a prisoner of conscience. Amnesty International has stated on their website \"His conviction was widely believed to be related to his scientific research into the Chernobyl catastrophe and his open criticism of the official response to the Chernobyl nuclear reactor disaster on people living in the region of Gomel.\" His arrest came soon after he published reports critical of the official research being conducted into the Chernobyl incident, and was issued by presidential decree \"N21 On Urgent Measures for the Combat of Terrorism\".\n\nYury Bandazhevsky was released on parole from prison on August 5, 2005, and prohibited for five months of leaving Belarus. He was afterward invited by the mayor of Clermont-Ferrand, in France, to work at the university and at the hospital on Chernobyl's consequences. Clermont-Ferrand has been since 1977 linked to Gomel where Bandazhevsky used to work. In France, he is notably supported by the \"Commission de recherche et d'information indépendantes sur la radioactivité\" (CRIIRAD).\n\nCaesium-137 levels in children's organs were examined at autopsy. The highest accumulation of \nCs-137 was found in the endocrine glands, in particular the thyroid, the adrenals and the pancreas.\nHigh levels were also found in the heart, the thymus and the spleen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34439", "title": "Zoonosis", "text": "Zoonosis\n\nZoonoses are infectious diseases that can be naturally transmitted between animals (usually vertebrates) and humans.\n\nMajor modern diseases such as Ebola virus disease and salmonellosis are zoonoses. HIV was a zoonotic disease transmitted to humans in the early part of the 20th century, though it has now mutated to a separate human-only disease. Most strains of influenza that infect humans are human diseases, although many strains of swine and bird flu are zoonoses; these viruses occasionally recombine with human strains of the flu and can cause pandemics such as the 1918 Spanish flu or the 2009 swine flu. Taenia solium infection is one of the neglected tropical diseases with public health and veterinary concern in endemic regions. Zoonoses can be caused by a range of disease pathogens such as viruses, bacteria, fungi and parasites; of 1,415 pathogens known to infect humans, 61% were zoonotic. Most human diseases originated in animals; however, only diseases that routinely involve animal to human transmission, like rabies, are considered direct zoonosis.\n\nZoonoses have different modes of transmission. In direct zoonosis the disease is directly transmitted from animals to humans through media such as air (influenza) or through bites and saliva (rabies). In contrast, transmission can also occur via an intermediate species (referred to as a vector), which carry the disease pathogen without getting infected. When humans infect animals, it is called reverse zoonosis or anthroponosis. The term is from Greek: ζῷον \"zoon\" \"animal\" and νόσος \"nosos\" \"sickness\".\n\nZoonotic transmission can occur in any context in which there is companionistic (pets), economic (farming, etc.), predatory (hunting, butchering or consuming wild game) or research contact with or consumption of non-human animals, non-human animal products, or non-human animal derivatives (vaccines, etc.).\n\nThe most significant zoonotic pathogens causing foodborne diseases are , \"Campylobacter\", \"Caliciviridae\", and \"Salmonella\".\n\nIn 2006, a conference held in Berlin was focusing on the issue of zoonotic pathogen effects on food safety, urging governments to intervene, and the public to be vigilant towards the risks of catching food-borne diseases from farm-to-dining table.\n\nMany food outbreaks can be linked to zoonotic pathogens. Many different types of food can be contaminated that have a non-human animal origin. Some common foods linked to zoonotic contaminations include eggs, seafood, meat, dairy, and even some vegetables. Food outbreaks should be handled in preparedness plans to prevent widespread outbreaks and to efficiently and effectively contain outbreaks.\n\nContact with farm animals can lead to disease in farmers or others that come into contact with infected farm animals. Glanders primarily affects those who work closely with horses and donkeys. Close contact with cattle can lead to cutaneous anthrax infection, whereas inhalation anthrax infection is more common for workers in slaughterhouses, tanneries and wool mills. Close contact with sheep who have recently given birth can lead to clamydiosis, or enzootic abortion, in pregnant women, as well as an increased risk of Q fever, toxoplasmosis, and listeriosis in pregnant or the otherwise immunocompromised. Echinococcosis is caused by a tapeworm which can be spread from infected sheep by food or water contaminated with feces or wool. Bird flu is common in chickens. While rare in humans, the main public health worry is that a strain of bird flu will recombine with a human flu virus and cause a pandemic like the 1918 Spanish flu. In 2017, free range chickens in the UK were temporarily ordered to remain inside due to the threat of bird flu. Cattle are an important reservoir of cryptosporidiosis and mainly affects the immunocompromised.\n\n\n\nPets can transmit a number of diseases. Dogs and cats are routinely vaccinated against rabies. Pets can also transmit ringworm and \"Giardia\", which are endemic in both non-human animal and human populations. Toxoplasmosis is a common infection of cats; in humans it is a mild disease although it can be dangerous to pregnant women. Dirofilariasis is caused by \"Dirofilaria immitis\" through mosquitoes infected by mammals like dogs and cats. Cat-scratch disease is caused by \"Bartonella henselae\" and \"Bartonella quintana\" from fleas which are endemic in cats. Toxocariasis is infection of humans of any of species of roundworm, including species specific to the dog (\"Toxocara canis)\" or the cat (\"Toxocara cati\"). Cryptosporidiosis can be spread to humans from pet lizards, such as the leopard gecko.\n\nOutbreaks of zoonoses have been traced to human interaction with and exposure to other animals at fairs, petting zoos, and other settings. In 2005, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued an updated list of recommendations for preventing zoonosis transmission in public settings. The recommendations, developed in conjunction with the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians, include educational responsibilities of venue operators, limiting public and non-human animal contact, and non-human animal care and management.\n\n\n\nDuring most of human prehistory groups of hunter-gatherers were probably very small. Such groups probably made contact with other such bands only rarely. Such isolation would have caused epidemic diseases to be restricted to any given local population, because propagation and expansion of epidemics depend on frequent contact with other individuals who have not yet developed an adequate immune response. To persist in such a population, a pathogen either had to be a chronic infection, staying present and potentially infectious in the infected host for long periods, or it had to have other additional species as reservoir where it can maintain itself until further susceptible hosts are contacted and infected. In fact, for many 'human' diseases, the human is actually better viewed as an accidental or incidental victim and a dead-end host. Examples include rabies, anthrax, tularemia and West Nile virus. Thus, much of human exposure to infectious disease has been zoonotic.\n\nMany modern diseases, even epidemic diseases, started out as zoonotic diseases. It is hard to establish with certainty which diseases jumped from other animals to humans, but there is increasing evidence from DNA and RNA sequencing, that measles, smallpox, influenza, HIV, and diphtheria came to humans this way. Various forms of the common cold and tuberculosis also are adaptations of strains originating in other species.\n\nZoonoses are of interest because they are often previously unrecognized diseases or have increased virulence in populations lacking immunity. The West Nile virus appeared in the United States in 1999 in the New York City area, and moved through the country in the summer of 2002, causing much distress. Bubonic plague is a zoonotic disease, as are salmonellosis, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, and Lyme disease.\n\nA major factor contributing to the appearance of new zoonotic pathogens in human populations is increased contact between humans and wildlife. This can be caused either by encroachment of human activity into wilderness areas or by movement of wild animals into areas of human activity. An example of this is the outbreak of Nipah virus in peninsular Malaysia in 1999, when intensive pig farming began on the habitat of infected fruit bats. Unidentified infection of the pigs amplified the force of infection, eventually transmitting the virus to farmers and causing 105 human deaths.\n\nSimilarly, in recent times avian influenza and West Nile virus have spilled over into human populations probably due to interactions between the carrier host and domestic animals. Highly mobile animals such as bats and birds may present a greater risk of zoonotic transmission than other animals due to the ease with which they can move into areas of human habitation.\n\nBecause they depend on the human host for part of their life-cycle, diseases such as African schistosomiasis, river blindness, and elephantiasis are \"not\" defined as zoonotic, even though they may depend on transmission by insects or other vectors.\n\nThe first vaccine against smallpox by Edward Jenner in 1800 was by infection of a zoonotic bovine virus which caused a disease called cowpox. Jenner had noticed that milkmaids were resistant to smallpox. Milkmaids contracted a milder version of the disease from infected cows that conferred cross immunity to the human disease. Jenner abstracted an infectious preparation of 'cowpox' and subsequently used it to inoculate persons against smallpox. As a result, smallpox has been eradicated globally, and mass vaccination against this disease \nceased in 1981.\n\n"}
