{"id": "42866308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42866308", "title": "1000 Days of Syria", "text": "1000 Days of Syria\n\n1000 Days of Syria is a hypertext-based historical fiction game centered on the first 1000 days of the Syrian Civil War. Created in 2014 by Mitch Swenson, it is considered to be one of the first examples of an electronic literature newsgame.\n"}
{"id": "49162018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49162018", "title": "1832 Georgian plot", "text": "1832 Georgian plot\n\n1832 Georgian plot () was a conspiracy involving Georgian royalty and nobility to restore Georgian statehood and its Bagrationi dynasty monarchy. \n\nEastern Georgia (Kartli-Kakheti) was annexed by the Russian Empire in 1801, breaking the terms of the Treaty of Georgievsk. Members of the royal Bagrationi dynasty were deported to the Russian provinces, and Russian control was acknowledged in 1813 by the Treaty of Gulistan. The Georgians, unsatisfied with the Russian rule, yearned for the removal of Russian dominance and the return of their royal dynasty. The goal of independence was kept alive principally by Prince Okropir of Georgia, a son of the last eastern Georgian monarch, George XII. Okropir and other Georgians would hold gatherings of Georgian students in Moscow and St. Petersburg, trying to inspire them with patriotic feeling towards their country under Russian rule. It resulted in creation of a secret society in Tbilisi whose main goal was the re-establishment of an independent kingdom under the dethroned Bagrationi. Okropir himself visited Georgia in 1830, and held talks with the principal conspirators, who included members of Georgian aristocrats from the Orbeliani and Eristavi princely houses, as well as the philosopher Solomon Dodashvili. The plot was also supported by the Georgians from western Georgia, i.e. from the Russian-abolished Kingdom of Imereti as well as the members of the House of Shervashidze that ruled Abkhazia.\n\nMost of the Georgian conspirators were not liberal republicans, but rather monarchists and nationalists. It was proposed to invite the Russian commander-in-chief in Georgia together with other members of their administration to a grand ball in Tbilisi and at a given signal they would all be assassinated. The Georgians would then seize the Daryal Pass to prevent Russian reinforcements, and Prince Aleksandre of Georgia, son of the Georgian king Erekle II would return from Persia to be proclaimed king of Georgia. \n\nThe ball at which the Russian officers and administration members were to be killed was scheduled for 20 November 1832, but it was unexpectedly postponed, first to 9 December, then to 20 December. Early in December the whole affair was revealed to the authorities by one of the conspirators, Prince Palavandishvili, and all of them were arrested. Ten of the accused conspirators were sentenced to death but later reprieved and deported to distant Russian provinces instead. The 1832 plot, though unsuccessful, would play an important role in the national liberation movement that Georgians would seek to organize more fruitfully. \n\n"}
{"id": "49428009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49428009", "title": "1972 Language violence in Sindh", "text": "1972 Language violence in Sindh\n\n1972 Language violence in Sindh occurred starting on 7 July, 1972 when the Sindh Assembly passed The Sind Teaching, Promotion and Use of Sindhi Language Bill, 1972 which established Sindhi language as the sole official language of the province resulting in language violence in Sindh, Pakistan.\n\nThe proclamation of Sindhi as the official language of Sindh resulted in the \"Daily Jang\", a Urdu from Karachi, publishing a full-page story on their front page surrounded by a banner with the statement \"Urdu ka janaza hai zara dhoom se nikle\" (It is the funeral of Urdu thus should be a flaunting one) by Rais Amrohvi. Due to the clashes, Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto compromised and announced that Urdu and Sindhi will both be official languages of Sindh. The making of Sindhi as an equal language to Urdu for official purposes frustrated the Urdu-speaking people as they did not speak the Sindhi language.\n\nIn 1988 thousands of Sindhi killed by Mahajir qaomi Movement (MQM) Led by Mr Altaf Hussain.\n\nIn 2018 Cheif of the Army staff start operation against this organization and arrested terrorists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31876062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31876062", "title": "2002 Klamath River fish kill", "text": "2002 Klamath River fish kill\n\nThe 2002 Klamath River fish kill occurred on the Klamath River in California in September 2002. According to the official estimate of mortality, about 34,000 fish died. Though some counts may estimate over 70,000 adult chinook salmon (\"Oncorhynchus tshawytscha\") were killed when returning to the river to spawn, making it the largest salmon kill in the history of the Western United States. Besides the chinook salmon, other fish that perished include: steelhead (\"O. mykiss\"), coho salmon (\"O. kisutch\"), sculpins (\"Cottus spp.\"), speckled dace (\"Rhinichthys osculus\"), and Klamath smallscale sucker (\"Catostomus rimiculus\").\n\nA report by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service found that the kill resulted from water diversions to Klamath Basin by farmers and ranchers during a drought year. The report found that the atypical low flow in the river along with high fish return numbers and high water temperatures allowed for a gill rot disease to kill at least 33,000 salmon in September 2002, before they could reproduce. The die-off was downstream of the Trinity inflow, and the salmon of the Trinity were impacted to a greater degree than the Klamath as the Trinity run was at its peak. The report does mention that the official fish die-off estimate of 34,056 is probably quite low and could be only half of the actual loss. Klamath River flows as measured at the river gauge in Keno show a low flow of in September 1908 (before irrigation began). During the 2002 fish kill, flows of were recorded. During September of the 2001 irrigation shut-off, an average of was recorded. These lower water flows were decided on against the suggestions of higher water flows biologists had said would be needed to keep the fish safe from a die off.\n\nIn response to a 2007 \"Washington Post\" story critical of United States Vice President Dick Cheney's role in diverting water to farmers and ranchers for political gain, the House Natural Resources Committee began an investigation into his role in instigating the fish kill.\n\nThe fish kill played an important role in stirring an effort by local American Indian peoples, in concert with environmentalists and fishers, to remove dams on the Klamath River. The Klamath Basin Restoration Agreement (KBRA) was carefully negotiated and signed by the tribes, the farmers, and PacifiCorp in 2010, but failed to pass through Congress. On April 6, 2016, the U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell, Yurok Tribal Chair Thomas P. O'Rourke Sr., Karuk Tribal Chair Russell \"Buster\" Attebery, Klamath Tribal Chair Don Gentry, the governors of Oregon and California, and dam owner PacificCorp signed the landmark agreements, which include a new piece of legislation: the Upper Klamath Basin Comprehensive Agreement. The Yurok tribe released a statement in September 2015 acknowledging their withdrawal of support from the landmark agreements due to its dilution of fishing and water rights that would have been acknowledged under KBRA.\n\nA play called \"Salmon is Everything\" was a collaboration between tribal members and Humboldt State University Theatre professor Theresa May to communicate the impact of the fish kill, featuring a cast which included people from the Hupa, Karuk, and Yurok communities. The play presents the experience of the members of the Yurok, Hoopa Valley, and Karuk tribes, as well as farmers, ranchers, and others invested in the Klamath watershed. Karuk woman, Kathleen McCovey, provided the play with a spiritual perspective through an elder character, Rose. Rose's character demonstrates to the audience the intrinsic role salmon plays in Karuk and Yurok culture:\n\n\"Rose: ...You see, to the Karuk people everything and everyone has a purpose. The spirit people taught the Karuk how to live on the land, what to do, what to eat, how to behave, and how and when to conduct ceremonies. Then when the Karuk people knew what to do the spirit people went into the sky, the earth, the trees, the animals the rocks, and into the plants. You see, when I am in the forest, I am never alone, I am surrounded by spirit people.\"\n\nThe play was first performed at Humboldt State University, and later at the University of Oregon. The book was the Book of the Year for Humboldt State University for 2015-2016.\n\nMany documentaries have arisen from the event as well due to the heavy public response to the issue and the agreements that were settled in the aftermath. \"A River Between Us\" directed by Gregori J. Martin explains the various sides of the argument and shows how one native tribe went to a potato festival held by the people on the opposite side of the argument to help understand each other better and gain common ground. From the documentary it is clear many people gained common grounds with each other over time in the aftermath of the event.\n"}
{"id": "1616827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616827", "title": "Adulterant", "text": "Adulterant\n\nAn adulterant is a pejorative term for a substance found within other substances such as food, fuels or chemicals even though it is not allowed for legal or other reasons.\n\nIt will not normally be present in any specification or declared contents of the substance, and may not be legally allowed. The addition of adulterants is called adulteration. The most common reason for adulteration is the use by manufacturers of undeclared materials that are cheaper than the correct and declared ones. The adulterants may be harmful, or reduce the potency of the product, or they may be harmless.\n\nThe term \"contamination\" is usually used for the inclusion of unwanted substances due to accident or negligence rather than intent, and also for the introduction of unwanted substances after the product has been made. Adulteration therefore implies that the adulterant was introduced deliberately in the initial manufacturing process, or sometimes that it was present in the raw materials and should have been removed, but was not.\n\nAn adulterant is distinct from, for example, permitted food additives. There can be a fine line between adulterant and additive; chicory may be added to coffee to reduce the cost or achieve a desired flavour—this is adulteration if not declared, but may be stated on the label. Chalk was often added to bread flour; this reduces the cost and increases whiteness, but the calcium actually confers health benefits, and in modern bread a little chalk may be included as an additive for this reason.\n\nIn wartime adulterants have been added to make foodstuffs \"go further\" and prevent shortages. The German word \"ersatz\" is widely recognised from such practices during World War II. Such adulteration was sometimes deliberately hidden from the population to prevent loss of morale and propaganda reasons. Some goods considered luxurious in the Communist Bloc such as coffee were adulterated to make them affordable to the general population.\n\nAdulterants added to reduce the amount of expensive product in illicit drugs are called cutting agents. Deliberate addition of toxic adulterants to food or other products for human consumption is poisoning.\n\nPast and present examples of adulteration, some dangerous, include:\n\nHistorically, the use of adulterants has been common; sometimes dangerous substances have been used. In the United Kingdom up to the Victorian era, adulterants were common; for example, cheeses were sometimes colored with lead. Similar adulteration issues were seen in industry in the United States, during the 19th century. There is dispute over whether these practices declined primarily due to government regulation or to increased public awareness and concern over the practices.\n\nIn the early 21st century, cases of dangerous adulteration occurred in the People's Republic of China.\n\nIn some African countries, it is not uncommon for thieves to break electric transformers to steal transformer oil, which is then sold to the operators of roadside food stalls to be used for deep frying. When used for frying, it is reported that transformer oil lasts much longer than regular cooking oil. The downside of this misuse of the transformer oil is the threat to the health of the consumers, due to the presence of PCBs.\n\nAdulterant use was first investigated in 1820 by the German chemist Frederick Accum, who identified many toxic metal colorings in food and drink. His work antagonized food suppliers, and he was ultimately discredited by a scandal over his alleged mutilation of books of the Royal Institution library. The physician Arthur Hill Hassall conducted extensive studies in the early 1850s, which were published in \"The Lancet\" and led to the 1860 Food Adulteration Act and other legislation. John Postgate led a further campaign, leading to another Act of 1875, which forms the basis of the modern legislation and a system of public analysts who test for adulteration.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, industrialization in the United States led to a rise in adulteration which inspired some protest. Accounts of adulteration led the New York \"Evening Post\" to parody:\n<poem>\nMary had a little lamb,\nAnd when she saw it sicken,\nShe shipped it off to Packingtown,\nAnd now it's labeled chicken.</poem>\n\nHowever, even in the 18th century, people complained about adulteration in food:\"The bread I eat in London is a deleterious paste, mixed up with chalk, alum and bone ashes, insipid to the taste and destructive to the constitution. The good people are not ignorant of this adulteration; but they prefer it to wholesome bread, because it is whiter than the meal of corn [wheat]. Thus they sacrifice their taste and their health. . . to a most absurd gratification of a misjudged eye; and the miller or the baker is obliged to poison them and their families, in order to live by his profession.\" – Tobias Smollet, \"The Expedition of Humphry Clinker\" (1771)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1108803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1108803", "title": "Akhand Bharat", "text": "Akhand Bharat\n\nAkhanda Bharata or \"Greater India\" are irredentist terms literally meaning \"Undivided India\".\n\nAt the time of the Indian Independence Movement, K.M. Munshi advocated for \"Akhand Hindustan\", a proposition that Mahatma Gandhi, believing that \"as Britain wanted to retain her empire by pursuing a policy of divide and rule, Hindu-Muslim unity could not be achieved as long as the British were there.\" In addition, Mazhar Ali Khan wrote that \"the Khan brothers [were] determined to fight for Akhand Hindustan, and challenged the League to fight the issue out before the electorate of the Province.\" On 7–8 October 1944, in Delhi, Radha Kumud Mukherjee presided over the Akhand Hindusthan Leaders' Conference.\n\nThe call for creation of the \"Akhand Bharat\" or \"Akhand Hindusthan\" has on occasions been raised by Indian Hindutvawadi cultural and political organisations such as the Hindu Mahasabha, Kakbhusundi Revolutionary Forum(KRF), Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Hindu Janajagruti Samiti, and Bharatiya Janata Party. The name of one organisation sharing this goal, the Akhand Hindustan Morcha, bears the term in its name. Other major Indian non-sectarian political parties such as the Indian National Congress, while maintain a position against the partition of India on religious grounds, do not subscribe to a call for Akhand Bharat.\n\nPre-1947 maps of pre-partition India showing the current states of Pakistan and Bangladesh as part of the territories of British India illustrate the borders of a proto-Akhand Bharat. The creation of an Akhand Bharat is also ideologically linked with the concept of \"Hindutva\" (Hinduness) and the ideas of \"sangathan\" (unity) and \"shuddhi\" (purification) that seek to focus modern Indian politics on a legendary ancient civilisation and heritage of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nWhile the leadership of the right-wing BJP wavers on the issue, the RSS has always remained a strong proponent of the idea. RSS leader H. V. Seshadri's book \"The Tragic Story of Partition\" stresses the importance of the concept of Akhand Bharat. The RSS affiliated magazine \"Organiser\" often publishes editorials by leaders such as the present SarsanghaChalak, Mohan Bhagwat, espousing the philosophy that only Akhand Bharat and \"sampoorna samaj\" (united society) can bring \"real\" freedom to the people of India.\n\nThe call for Indian reunification has been supported by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and BJP National General Secretary Ram Madhav.\nMr. K.J.Anand Leader Achchedin taken special lead to Explore the possibility.\nFormer Indian Supreme Court Judge Markandey Katju advocated in Pakistani newspaper \"The Nation\" that the only solution to the ongoing dispute between India and Pakistan is the reunification of India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh under a strong, secular, modern minded government. He expanded on the reasons for his support for an reunified India in an article for \"Newslaundry\" In a separate article, Katju advocated that such a state would be administered by a secular government.\n\n"}
{"id": "22844343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22844343", "title": "Alexander Aris", "text": "Alexander Aris\n\nAlexander Aris Myint San Aung (, ; born 12 April 1973) is an English civil rights activist. Alexander Aris is the elder son of Aung San Suu Kyi and Michael Aris. He is also a grandson of Aung San, who founded the modern Burmese army and negotiated Burma's independence from the United Kingdom in 1947 and the pioneer of democracy in Myanmar.\n\nAris was born on 12 April 1973 in London, United Kingdom, to Aung San Suu Kyi and Michael Aris. His younger brother Kim Aris was born in 1977. His family home was in Park Town, North Oxford. In March 1988, his mother returned to Burma in order to nurse her dying mother Daw Khin Kyi, the wife of Aung San. She did not return to Oxford until June 2012, having been placed under house arrest in Burma for political reasons in 1989.\n\nAris was educated at two private schools in his home city of Oxford, in southern England: at The Dragon School, a co-educational preparatory (junior) school, followed by Magdalen College School, a senior school for boys, which he left in 1990. He graduated from Northern Illinois University in the United States and received a MSc in Mathematical Sciences.\n\nIn 1989, Alexander and his brother Kim were both stripped of their Burmese citizenships by the ruling junta. The two brothers are British nationals.\n\nIn 1991, Alexander's mother Aung San Suu Kyi won the Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts in Burma. At the time, Alexander Aris (age 18) and his brother Kim Aris (age 14) accepted the Prize on their mother's behalf. The Nobel Peace Prize's 1.3 million USD prize money was used to establish a health and education trust for the Burmese people. Over the years, Alexander Aris has accepted many awards and given many speeches on behalf of his mother. They include accepting The Award of the International Human Rights Law Group; welcoming the arrival of the Olympic Torch in Spain; and accepting the Presidential Medal of Freedom.\n\nAfter his father's death in 1999, Alexander visited his mother for a short time.\n\n"}
{"id": "19261483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19261483", "title": "American Measurement Standard", "text": "American Measurement Standard\n\nThe American Measurement Standard is an authoritative measurement standard for use with single-family dwellings. The AMS C42129-2009 is a voluntary guide developed for the measurement, calculation, and communication of square footage in residential dwellings. \n\nThis standard defines eight specific categories for the reporting of all space associated with a residential dwelling. The AMS helps to establish common and logical definitions of \"finished square footage\" and \"gross living area.\" The methodology of the American Measurement Standard was compiled and edited by a consensus of real estate professionals including real estate agents, appraisers, assessors, home builders and architects, and is based on the exterior dimensions of a dwelling. The AMS contains over three times more specific home measurement details than any other square footage guideline and includes numerous illustrations and examples. The standard provides acceptable square footage calculations for use in residential mortgage appraisals, and provides acceptable measurements for mortgage lenders. The principles and practices detailed in the standard have been used for generations in professional appraisal reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "1549162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1549162", "title": "Arjun Appadurai", "text": "Arjun Appadurai\n\nArjun Appadurai (born 1949) is an Indian-American anthropologist recognized as a major theorist in globalization studies. In his anthropological work, he discusses the importance of the modernity of nation states and globalization.\n\nArjun Appadurai was born in 1949 and raised in Bombay, India, and went to the United States where he obtained a Ph.D. at the University of Chicago. He was the former University of Chicago professor of anthropology and South Asian Languages and Civilizations, Humanities Dean of the University of Chicago, director of the city center and globalization at Yale University, he was a senior tutor at New College of the Global Initiative, and the Education and Human Development Studies professor at NYU Steinhardt School of Culture. Arjun Appadurai has presided over Chicago globalization plan, as many public and private organizations (such as the Ford Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, UNESCO, the World Bank, etc.) consultant and long-term concern issues of globalization, modernity and ethnic conflicts. “Some of his most important works include \"Worship and Conflict under Colonial Rule\" (1981), \"Disjuncture and Difference in the Global Cultural Economy\" (1990), of which an expanded version is found in \"Modernity at Large\" (1996), and \"Fear of Small Numbers\" (2006). He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1997.”\n\nAppadurai held many scholarships and grants, and has received numerous academic honors, including the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (California) and the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, as well as individual research fellowship from the Open Society Institute (New York). He was elected Arts and Sciences in 1997, the American Academy of Sciences. In 2013, he was awarded an honorary doctorate Erasmus University in the Netherlands.\n\nHe also served as a consultant or adviser, extensive public and private organizations, including many large foundations (Ford, MacArthur and Rockefeller); the UNESCO; UNDP; World Bank; the US National Endowment for the Humanities; National Science Foundation; and Infosys Foundation. He currently serves as the Asian Art Program Advisory Committee members in the Solomon Guggenheim Museum, and the forum D 'Avignon Paris Scientific Advisory Board.\n\nAppadurai was born into a Tamil Brahmin family in Mumbai (Bombay), India and educated in India. He graduated from St. Xavier's High School, Fort, Mumbai, and earned his Intermediate Arts degree from Elphinstone College, Mumbai, before moving to the United States.\n\nHe then received his B.A. from Brandeis University in 1970.\n\nHe was formerly a professor at the University of Chicago where he received his M.A. (1973) and Ph.D (1976). After working there, he spent a brief time at Yale before going to the New School University. He currently is a faculty member of New York University's Media Culture and Communication department in the Steinhardt School. Some of his most important works include \"Worship and Conflict under Colonial Rule\" (1981), \"Disjuncture and Difference in the Global Cultural Economy\" (1990), of which an expanded version is found in \"Modernity at Large\" (1996), and \"Fear of Small Numbers\" (2006). In addition to his work on globalization, one of Appadurai's earlier publications, \"The Social Life of Things\" (1986), argues for the social dimension of commodities' values and meanings from an anthropological framework. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1997.\n\nHis doctoral work was based on the car festival held in the Parthasarathi temple in Triplicane, Madras. Arjun Appadurai is member of the Advisory Board of the Forum d'Avignon, international meetings of culture, the economy and the media.\n\nIn 2004, after a brief time as administrator at Yale University, Appadurai became Provost of New School University. Appadurai's resignation from the Provost's office was announced January 30, 2006 by New School President Bob Kerrey. He held the John Dewey Distinguished Professorship in the Social Sciences at New School. Appadurai became one of the more outspoken critics of President Kerrey when he attempted to appoint himself provost in 2008 .\n\nIn 2008 it was announced that Appadurai was appointed Goddard Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at the NYU Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development \n\nAppadurai is a co-founder of the academic journal \"Public Culture\"; founder of the non-profit Partners for Urban Knowledge, Action and Research (PUKAR) in Mumbai; co-founder and co-director of Interdisciplinary Network on Globalization (ING); and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He has served as a consultant or advisor to a wide range of public and private organizations, including the Ford, Rockefeller and MacArthur foundations; UNESCO; the World Bank; and the National Science Foundation.\n\nIn his best known work 'Disjuncture and Difference in the Global Cultural Economy' Appadurai lays out his meta theory of disjuncture. For him the ‘new global cultural economy has to be seen as a complex, overlapping, disjunctive order’. This order is composed of different interrelated, yet disjunctive global cultural flows, specifically the following five:\n\n\nAppadurai articulated a view of cultural activity known as the social imaginary, which is composed of the five dimensions of global cultural flows.\n\nHe describes his articulation of the imaginary as:\nThe image, the imagined, the imaginary – these are all terms that direct us to something critical and new in global cultural processes: the imagination as a social practice. No longer mere fantasy (opium for the masses whose real work is somewhere else), no longer simple escape (from a world defined principally by more concrete purposes and structures), no longer elite pastime (thus not relevant to the lives of ordinary people), and no longer mere contemplation (irrelevant for new forms of desire and subjectivity), the imagination has become an organized field of social practices, a form of work (in the sense of both labor and culturally organized practice), and a form of negotiation between sites of agency (individuals) and globally defined fields of possibility. This unleashing of the imagination links the play of pastiche (in some settings) to the terror and coercion of states and their competitors. The imagination is now central to all forms of agency, is itself a social fact, and is the key component of the new global order.\n\nAppadurai credits Benedict Anderson with developing notions of imagined communities. Some key figures who have worked on the imaginary are Cornelius Castoriadis, Charles Taylor, Jacques Lacan (who especially worked on the symbolic, in contrast with imaginary and the real), and Dilip Gaonkar. However, Appadurai's ethnography of urban social movements in the city of Mumbai has proved to be contentious with several scholars like the Canadian anthropologist, Judith Whitehead arguing that SPARC (an organization which Appadurai espouses as an instance of progressive social activism in housing) being complicit in the World Bank's agenda for re-developing Mumbai.\n\n2016 \"Banking on Words: The Failure of Language in the Age of Derivative Finance\". The University of Chicago Press.\n\n2013 \"The Future as Cultural Fact: Essays on the Global Condition\". Verso.\n\n2012 Co-editor (with A. Mack) \"India's World: The Politics of Creativity in a Globalized Society.\"\n\n2007 \"Worship and Conflict under Colonial Rule: A South Indian Case\". Cambridge University Press.\n\n2006 \"Fear of Small Numbers: An Essay on the Geography of Anger\". Durham, NC: Duke University Press.\n\n2002 \"Globalization\" (edited volume). Durham, NC: Duke University Press.\n\n2001 Deep democracy: urban governmentality and the horizon of politics. \"Environment and Urbanization\", (Vol. 13 No. 2), pp. 23–43.\n\n2001 \"La Modernidad Desbordada\". (Translation of Modernity At Large) Uruguay and Argentina: Ediciones Trilces and Fondo de Cultura Economica de Argentina.\n\n2001  \"Apres le Colonialisme: Les Consequences Culturelles de la globalisation\". (Translation of Modernity At Large) Paris: Payot.\n\n2001 \"Modernità in polvere.\" (Translation of Modernity At Large) Rome: Meltemi Editore.\n\n1996 \"Modernity At Large: Cultural Dimensions of Globalization\". Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.\n\n1991 Co-editor (with M. Mills and F. Korom, Eds.), \"Gender, Genre and Power in South Asian Expressive Traditions.\" Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.\n\n1988 Guest Editor, Special Issue of Cultural Anthropology on “Place and Voice in Anthropological Theory” (Vol. 3, No. 1).\n\n1988 \"How to Make a National Cuisine: Cookbooks in Contemporary India,\" \"Comparative Studies in Society and History\" (Vol. 31, No. 1): 3-24. \n1987 Guest Editor (with Carol A. Breckenridge), Special Annual Issue of \"The India Magazine (New Delhi)\" on “Public Culture”.\n\n1986 \"The Social Life of Things: Commodities in Cultural Perspectiv\"e (edited volume). New York: Cambridge University Press.\n\n1983 (Reprint). \"Worship and Conflict Under Colonial Rule: A South Indian Case.\" New Delhi: Orient Longman.\n\n1981 \"Worship and Conflict Under Colonial Rule: A South Indian Case.\" Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54241836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54241836", "title": "Atrocities in the Congo Free State", "text": "Atrocities in the Congo Free State\n\nIn the period from 1885 to 1908, many well-documented atrocities were perpetrated in the Congo Free State (today the Democratic Republic of the Congo) which, at the time, was a colony under the personal rule of King Leopold II of Belgium. These atrocities were sometimes collectively referred to by European contemporaries as the \"Congo Horrors\", and were particularly associated with the labour policies used to collect natural rubber for export. Together with epidemic disease, famine, and a falling birth rate caused by these disruptions, the atrocities contributed to a sharp decline in the Congolese population. The magnitude of the population fall over the period is disputed, but it is thought to be between one and 15 million people.\n\nAt the Berlin Conference of 1884–85, the European powers allocated the Congo Basin region to a private charitable organisation run by Leopold II, who had long held ambitions for colonial expansion. The territory under Leopold's control exceeded and, amid financial problems, was ruled by a tiny cadre of white administrators drawn from across Europe. Initially, the colony proved unprofitable and insufficient, with the state always close to bankruptcy. The boom in demand for natural rubber, which was abundant in the territory, created a radical shift in the 1890s—to facilitate the extraction and export of rubber, all \"uninhabited\" land in the Congo was nationalised, with the majority distributed to private companies as concessions. Some was kept by the state. Between 1891 and 1906, the companies were allowed to do whatever they wished with almost no judicial interference, the result being that forced labour and violent coercion were used to collect the rubber cheaply and maximise profit. A native paramilitary army, the \"Force Publique\", was also created to enforce the labour policies. Individual workers who refused to participate in rubber collection could be killed and entire villages razed. Individual white administrators were also free to indulge their own sadism.\n\nDespite these atrocities, the main cause of the population decline was disease. A number of pandemics, notably African sleeping sickness, smallpox, swine influenza, and amoebic dysentery, ravaged indigenous populations. In 1901 alone it was estimated that 500,000 Congolese had died from sleeping sickness. Disease, famine and violence combined to reduce the birth-rate while excess deaths rose.\n\nThe severing of workers' hands achieved particular international notoriety. These were sometimes cut off by \"Force Publique\" soldiers who were made to account for every shot they fired by bringing back the hands of their victims. These details were recorded by Christian missionaries working in the Congo and caused public outrage when they were made known to the public in the United Kingdom, Belgium, the United States and elsewhere. An international campaign against the Congo Free State began in 1890 and reached its apogee after 1900 under the leadership of the British activist E. D. Morel. In 1908, as a result of international pressure, the Belgian government annexed the Congo Free State to form the Belgian Congo, and ended many of the systems responsible for the abuses. The size of the population decline during the period is the subject of extensive historiographical debate, and there is an open debate as to whether the atrocities constitute genocide.\n\nNeither the Belgian monarchy nor the Belgian state have ever apologized for the atrocities.\n\nEven before his accession to the throne of Belgium in 1865, the future king Leopold II began lobbying leading Belgian politicians to create a colonial empire in the Far East or Africa, which would expand and enhance Belgian prestige. Politically, however, colonisation was unpopular in Belgium as it was perceived as a risky and expensive gamble with no obvious benefit to the country and his many attempts to persuade politicians met with little success.\n\nDetermined to look for a colony for himself and inspired by recent reports from central Africa, Leopold began patronising a number of leading explorers, including Henry Morton Stanley. Leopold established the International African Association (\"Association internationale africaine\"), a \"charitable\" organisation to oversee the exploration and surveying of a territory based around the Congo River, with the stated goal of bringing humanitarian assistance and civilisation to the natives. In the Berlin Conference of 1884–85, European leaders officially recognised Leopold's control over the of the notionally-independent Congo Free State on the grounds that it would be a free trade area and buffer state between British and French spheres of influence. In the Free State, Leopold exercised total personal control without much delegation to subordinates. African chiefs played an important role in the administration by implementing government orders within their communities. Throughout much of its existence, however, Free State presence in the territory that it claimed was patchy, with its few officials concentrated in a number of small and widely dispersed \"stations\" which controlled only small amounts of hinterland. In 1900, there were just 3,000 white people in the Congo, of whom only half were Belgian. The colony was perpetually short of administrative staff and officials, who numbered between 700 and 1,500 during the period.\n\nIn the early years of the colony, much of the administration's attention was focused on consolidating its control by fighting the African peoples on the colony's periphery who resisted colonial rule. These included the tribes around the Kwango river, in the south-west, and the Uélé in the north-east. Some of the violence of the period can be attributed to African groups using colonial support to settle scores or white administrators acting without state approval.\n\nThe Free State was intended, above all, to be profitable for its investors and Leopold in particular. Its finances were frequently precarious. Early reliance on ivory exports did not make as much money as hoped and the colonial administration was frequently in debt, nearly defaulting on a number of occasions. A boom in demand for natural rubber in the 1890s, however, ended these problems as the colonial state was able to force Congolese males to work as forced labour collecting wild rubber which could then be exported to Europe and North America. The rubber boom transformed what had been an unexceptional colonial system before 1890 and led to significant profits. Exports rose from 580 to 3,740 tons between 1895 and 1900.\n\nIn order to facilitate economic extraction from the colony, land was divided up under the so-called Domain System (\"régime domanial\") in 1891. All vacant land, including forests and areas not under cultivation, was decreed to be \"uninhabited\" and thus the possession of the state, leaving many of the Congo's resources (especially rubber and ivory) under direct colonial ownership. Concessions were allocated to private companies. In the north, the \"Société Anversoise\" was given , while the Anglo-Belgian India Rubber Company (ABIR) was given a comparable territory in the south. The \"Compagnie du Katanga\" and \"Compagnie des Grands Lacs\" were given smaller concessions in the south and east respectively. Leopold kept a large proportion of territory under personal rule, known as the Crown Domain (\"Domaine de la Couronne\"), of which was added to the territory he already controlled under the Private Domain (\"Domaine privé\"). \"The major economic exploitation of the Congolese interior, therefore, lay in the hands of the king and a few privileged concessionaries.\" The system was extremely profitable and ABIR made a turnover of over 100 per cent on its initial stake in a single year. The King made 70 million Belgian francs' profit from the system between 1896 and 1905. The Free State's concession system was soon copied by other colonial regimes, notably those in the neighbouring French Congo.\n\nWith the majority of the Free State's revenues derived from the export of rubber, a labour policy (known by critics as the \"Red Rubber system\") was created to maximise its extraction. Labour was demanded by the administration as taxation. This created a \"slave society\" as companies became increasingly dependent on forcibly mobilising Congolese labour for their collection of rubber. The state recruited a number of black officials, known as \"capitas\", to organise local labour. However, the desire to maximise rubber collection, and hence the state's profits, meant that the centrally-enforced demands were often set arbitrarily without considering the numbers or the welfare of workers. In the concessionary territories, the private companies which had purchased a concession from the Free State administration were able to use virtually any measures they wished to increase production and profits without state interference. The lack of a developed bureaucracy to oversee any commercial methods produced an atmosphere of \"informality\" throughout the state in regards to the operation of enterprises, which in turn facilitated abuses. Treatment of labourers (especially the duration of service) was not regulated by law and instead was left to the discretion of officials on the ground. ABIR and the \"Anversoise\" were particularly noted for the harshness with which officials treated Congolese workers. The historian Jean Stengers described regions controlled by these two companies as \"veritable hells-on-earth\".\nWorkers who refused to supply their labour were coerced with \"constraint and repression\". Dissenters were beaten or whipped with the \"chicotte\", hostages were taken to ensure prompt collection and punitive expeditions were sent to destroy villages which refused. The policy led to a collapse of Congolese economic and cultural life, as well as farming in some areas. Much of the enforcement of rubber production was the responsibility of the \"Force Publique\", the colonial military. The \"Force\" had originally been established in 1885, with white officers and NCOs and black soldiers, and recruited from as far afield as Zanzibar, Nigeria, and Liberia. In the Congo, it recruited from specific ethnic and social demographics. These included the Bangala, and this contributed to the spread of the Lingala language across the country, and freed slaves from the eastern Congo. The so-called Zappo-Zaps (from the Songye ethnic group) were the most feared. Reportedly cannibals, the Zappo-Zaps frequently abused their official positions to raid the countryside for slaves. By 1900, the \"Force Publique\" numbered 19,000 men.\n\nThe red rubber system emerged with the creation of the concession regime in 1891 and lasted until 1906 when the concession system was restricted. At its height, it was heavily localised in the Équateur, Bandundu, and Kasai regions.\n\nFailure to meet the rubber collection quotas was punishable by death. Meanwhile, the Force Publique were required to provide the hand of their victims as proof when they had shot and killed someone, as it was believed that they would otherwise use the munitions (imported from Europe at considerable cost) for hunting. As a consequence, the rubber quotas were in part paid off in chopped-off hands. Sometimes the hands were collected by the soldiers of the Force Publique, sometimes by the villages themselves. There were even small wars where villages attacked neighboring villages to gather hands, since their rubber quotas were too unrealistic to fill. A Catholic priest quotes a man, Tswambe, speaking of the hated state official Léon Fiévez, who ran a district along the river north of Stanley Pool:\n\nAll blacks saw this man as the devil of the Equator ... From all the bodies killed in the field, you had to cut off the hands. He wanted to see the number of hands cut off by each soldier, who had to bring them in baskets ... A village which refused to provide rubber would be completely swept clean. As a young man, I saw [Fiévez's] soldier Molili, then guarding the village of Boyeka, take a net, put ten arrested natives in it, attach big stones to the net, and make it tumble into the river ... Rubber causes these torments; that's why we no longer want to hear its name spoken. Soldiers made young men kill or rape their own mothers and sisters.\n\nOne junior officer described a raid to punish a village that had protested. The officer in command \"ordered us to cut off the heads of the men and hang them on the village palisades ... and to hang the women and the children on the palisade in the form of a cross\". After seeing a Congolese person killed for the first time, a Danish missionary wrote, \"The soldier said 'Don't take this to heart so much. They kill us if we don't bring the rubber. The Commissioner has promised us if we have plenty of hands he will shorten our service. In Forbath's words:\n\nThe baskets of severed hands, set down at the feet of the European post commanders, became the symbol of the Congo Free State. ... The collection of hands became an end in itself. \"Force Publique\" soldiers brought them to the stations in place of rubber; they even went out to harvest them instead of rubber ... They became a sort of currency. They came to be used to make up for shortfalls in rubber quotas, to replace ... the people who were demanded for the forced labour gangs; and the \"Force Publique\" soldiers were paid their bonuses on the basis of how many hands they collected.\n\nIn theory, each right hand proved a killing. In practice, to save ammunition soldiers sometimes \"cheated\" by simply cutting off the hand and leaving the victim to live or die. More than a few survivors later said that they had lived through a massacre by acting dead, not moving even when their hands were severed, and waiting till the soldiers left before seeking help. In some instances a soldier could shorten his service term by bringing more hands than the other soldiers, which led to widespread mutilations and dismemberment. Other practices used to force workers to collect rubber were taking women and family members hostage.\n\nAside from rubber collection, violence in the Free State chiefly occurred in connection with wars and rebellions. Native states, notably Msiri's Yeke Kingdom, the Zande Federation, and Swahili-speaking territory in the eastern Congo under Tippu Tip, refused to recognise colonial authority and were defeated by the \"Force Publique\" with great brutality, during the Congo Arab war. In 1895, a military mutiny broke out among the Batetela in Kasai, leading to a 4-year insurgency. The conflict was particularly brutal and caused a great number of casualties.\n\nLeopold II was reported to have disapproved of the dismemberments, not on human rights grounds but because it harmed his economic interests. He was quoted as saying \"Cut off hands - that's idiotic. I'd cut off all the rest of them, but not hands. That's the one thing I need in the Congo.\"\n\nHistorians generally agree that a dramatic reduction in the overall size of the Congolese population occurred during the two decades of Free State rule in the Congo. It is argued that the reduction in the Congo was atypical and can be attributed to the direct and indirect effects of colonial rule and especially to disease and falling birthrate.\n\nThe historian Adam Hochschild argued that the dramatic fall in the Free State population was the result of a combination of \"murder\", \"starvation, exhaustion and exposure\", \"disease\" and \"a plummeting birth rate\". Roger Casement, concurs with this view. Sleeping sickness was also a major cause of fatality at the time. Opponents of Leopold's rule stated, however, that the administration itself was to be considered responsible for the spreading of the epidemic. Although it is impossible to be sure in the absence of records, violence and murder represented only a portion of the total. In a local study of the Kuba and Kete peoples, the historian Jan Vansina estimated that violence accounted for the deaths of less than five percent of the population.\nDiseases imported by Arab traders, European colonists and African porters ravaged the Congolese population and \"greatly exceeded\" the numbers killed by violence. Smallpox, sleeping sickness, amoebic dysentery, venereal diseases (especially syphilis and gonorrhea), and swine influenza were particularly severe. Sleeping sickness, in particular, was \"epidemic in large areas\" of the Congo and had a high mortality rate. In 1901 alone, it is estimated that as many as 500,000 Congolese died from sleeping sickness. Vansina estimated that five percent of the Congolese population perished from swine influenza. In areas in which dysentery became endemic, between 30 and 60 percent of the population could die. Vansina also pointed to the effects of malnutrition and food shortages in reducing immunity to the new diseases. The disruption of African rural populations may have helped to spread diseases further. Nevertheless, historian Roger Anstey wrote that \"a strong strand of local, oral tradition holds the rubber policy to have been a greater cause of death and depopulation than either the scourge of sleeping sickness or the periodic ravages of smallpox.\"\n\nIt is also widely believed that birth rates fell during the period too, meaning that the growth rate of the population fell relative to the natural death rate. Vansina, however, notes that precolonial societies had high birth and death rates, leading to a great deal of natural population fluctuation over time. Among the Kuba, the period 1880 to 1900 was actually one of population expansion.\n\nA reduction of the population of the Congo is noted by all who have compared the country at the beginning of Leopold's control with the beginning of Belgian state rule in 1908, but estimates of the death toll vary considerably. Estimates of some contemporary observers suggest that the population decreased by half during this period. According to Edmund D. Morel, the Congo Free State counted \"20 million souls\". Hence, Mark Twain mentioned the number of ten million deaths. Other estimates of the size of the overall population decline (or mortality displacement) range between two and 13 million. Ascherson cites an estimate by Casement of a population fall of three million, although he notes that it is \"almost certainly an underestimate\".\n\nIn the absence of a census providing even an initial idea of the size of population of the region at the inception of the Congo Free State (the first was taken in 1924), it is impossible to quantify population changes in the period. Despite this, Forbath more recently claimed the loss was at least five million. Adam Hochschild and Jan Vansina use the number 10 million. Hochschild cites several recent independent lines of investigation, by anthropologist Jan Vansina and others, that examine local sources (police records, religious records, oral traditions, genealogies, personal diaries), which generally agree with the assessment of the 1919 Belgian government commission: roughly half the population perished during the Free State period. Since the first official census by the Belgian authorities in 1924 put the population at about 10 million, these various approaches suggest a rough estimate of a total of 10 million dead. Jan Vansina returned to the issue of quantifying the total population decline, and revised his earlier position, he concluded that the Kuba population (one of the many Congolese populations) was rising during the first two decades of Leopold II's rule, and declined with 25 percent from 1900 to 1919, mainly due to sickness. Others argued a decrease of 20 percent over the first forty years of colonial rule (up to the census of 1924). According to the Congolese historian Isidore Ndaywel è Nziem 13 million died. To put these population changes in context, sourced references state that in 1900 Africa as a whole had between 90 million and 133 million people. However, no verifiable records exist. Louis and Stengers state that population figures at the start of Leopold's control are only \"wild guesses\", while calling E. D. Morel's attempt and others at coming to a figure for population losses \"but figments of the imagination\". However, authors that point out the lack of reliable demographic data are questioned by others calling the former minimalists and agnosticists, proving that these questions remain the object of heated debate.\n\nSince the first census of the Congolese population was made in 1924, there is a consensus among historians that accurate predictions of the population fall or number of deaths is impossible.\n\nEventually, growing scrutiny of Leopold's regime led to a popular campaign movement, centered in the United Kingdom and the United States, to force Leopold to renounce his ownership of the Congo. In many cases, the campaigns based their information on reports from British and Swedish missionaries working in the Congo.\n\nThe first international protest occurred in 1890 when George Washington Williams, an American, published an open letter to Leopold about abuses he had witnessed. Public interest in the abuses in the Congo Free State grew sharply from 1895, when the Stokes Affair and reports of mutilations reached the European and American public which began to discuss the \"Congo Question\". To appease public opinion, Leopold instigated a Commission for the Protection of Natives (\"Commission pour la Protection des Indigènes\"), composed of foreign missionaries, but made few serious efforts at substantive reform.\n\nIn Britain, the campaign was led by the activist and pamphleteer E. D. Morel after 1900, whose book \"Red Rubber\" (1906) reached a mass audience. Notable members of the campaign included the novelists Mark Twain, Joseph Conrad and Arthur Conan Doyle as well as Belgian socialists such as Emile Vandervelde. Campaigning groups, especially the Congo Reform Association, inspired by its founder's Casement Report, did not oppose colonialism and instead sought to end the excesses of the Free State by encouraging Belgium to annex the colony officially. This would avoid damaging the delicate balance of power between France and Britain on the continent. While supporters of the Free State regime attempted to argue against claims of atrocities, a Commission of Enquiry, appointed by the regime in 1904, confirmed the stories of atrocities and pressure on the Belgian government increased.\n\nIn 1908, as a direct result of this campaign, Belgium formally annexed the territory, creating the Belgian Congo. Conditions for the indigenous population improved dramatically with the suppression of forced labour, although many officials who had formerly worked for the Free State were retained in their posts long after annexation. Instead of mandating labour for colonial enterprises directly, the Belgian administration used a coercive tax that deliberately pressured Congolese to find work with European employers to procure the necessary funds to make the payments. For some time after the end of the Free State the Congolese were also required to provide a certain number of days of service per year for infrastructure projects. In spite of these measures, the legacy of the population decline of Leopold's reign left the colonial government with a severe labour shortage and it often had to resort to mass migrations to provide workers to emerging businesses.\n\nThe significant number of deaths under the Free State regime has led to some scholars to relate the atrocities to later genocides, though understanding of the losses under the colonial administration's rule as the result of harsh economic exploitation has led others to dispute the comparison. According to the United Nations' 1948 definition of the term \"genocide\", a genocide must be \"acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group\". Sociologist Rhoda Howard-Hassmann stated that because the Congolese were not killed in a systematic fashion according to this criterion, \"technically speaking, this was not genocide even in a legally retroactive sense.\" Historians Hochschild and Georges Nzongola-Ntalaja have rejected allegations of genocide in the Free State because there is no evidence of a policy of deliberate extermination or the desire to eliminate any specific population groups, though the latter added that nevertheless there was \"a death toll of Holocaust proportions.\"\n\nIt is generally agreed by historians that extermination was never the policy of the Free State, which benefitted from the labour provided by Congolese workers. The Free State even made some efforts to attempt to tackle the spread of infectious diseases in the Congo by seeking the support of foreign medical institutes such as the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine. According to historian David Van Reybrouck, \"It would be absurd ... to speak of an act of 'genocide' or a 'holocaust'; genocide implies the conscious, planned annihilation of a specific population, and that was never the intention here, or the result ... But it was definitely a hecatomb, a slaughter on a staggering scale that was not intentional, but could have been recognised much earlier as the collateral damage of a perfidious, rapacious policy of exploitation\". According to Hochschild, \"while not a case of genocide, in the strict sense\", the atrocities in the Congo were \"one of the most appalling slaughters known to have been brought about by human agency\".\nHistorians have argued that comparisons drawn in the press by some between the death toll of the Free State atrocities and the Holocaust during World War II have been responsible for creating undue confusion over the issue of terminology. In one incident, the Japanese newspaper \"Yomiuri Shimbun\" used the word \"genocide\" in the title of a 2005 article by Hochschild. Hochschild himself criticised the title as \"misleading\" and stated that it had been chosen \"without my knowledge\". Similar criticism was echoed by other historians, including Jean-Luc Vellut.\n\nAllegations of genocide in the Free State have become common over time. According to historian Timothy J. Stapleton, \"Those who easily apply the term genocide to Leopold's regime seem to do so purely on the basis of its obvious horror and the massive numbers of people who may have perished.\"\nOne of the few historians to use the term is Robert Weisbord who argued, in a 2003 article, that there does not have to be intent to exterminate all members of a population in a genocide. He posited that \"an endeavor to eliminate a portion of a people would qualify as genocide\" according to the UN standards and asserted that the Free State did as much. Jeanne Haskin and Yaa-Lengi Meema Ngemi also refer to the atrocities as a genocide. Raphael Lemkin, coiner of the term \"genocide\", authored a manuscript in the 1950s (it was not published) that asserted the occurrence of \"an unambiguous genocide\" in the Free State, attributing most of the population decline to the repressive actions of colonial troops. In 2005, an early day motion before the British House of Commons, introduced by Andrew Dismore, called for the recognition of the Congo Free State's atrocities as a \"colonial genocide\" and called on the Belgian government to issue a formal apology. It was supported by 48 MPs.\n\nThe term \"Congolese Genocide\" is often used in an unrelated sense to refer to the mass murder and rape committed in the eastern Congo in the aftermath of the Rwandan Genocide (and the ensuing Second Congo War) between 1998 and 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7758340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7758340", "title": "Audit Commission (Hong Kong)", "text": "Audit Commission (Hong Kong)\n\nThe Audit Commission () is one of the oldest government departments of the Government of Hong Kong, known as Audit Department before July 1, 1997. The Director of Audit is appointed by the Chief Executive (previously the Governors of Hong Kong). The Director reports to the Chief Executive, not the Legislative Council. Its main functions are \"to provide independent, professional and quality audit services to the Legislative Council and public sector organisations in order to help the Government enhance public sector performance and accountability in Hong Kong.\" According to the Audit Ordinance (Cap. 122) the Director of Audit “has wide powers of access to the records of departments”, “can require any public officer to give an explanation and to furnish such information as he thinks fit to enable him to discharge his duties” and “is not subject to the direction or control of any other person or authority in performing his duties and when exercising his powers under the Ordinance.”\n\nThe Director of Audit submits three reports each year to the President of the Legislative Council: One on the Accounts of the Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region under section 12 of the Audit Ordinance and two on the results of value for money audits.\n\nRecently, concerns have been raised as the Department has been used as a governmental tool to “deal with” departments that have not been “cooperative” to the government. Controversies have been drawn towards how the accounts of the Radio Television Hong Kong have been audited.\n\n"}
{"id": "36032909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36032909", "title": "Bangsamoro peace process", "text": "Bangsamoro peace process\n\nIn the late 1960s, an independence movement was founded in Mindanao, the Philippines to separate the Muslim majority-Moro areas from the rest of the Philippines. The area is now called the Bangsamoro.\n\nIn late 1968, at least 28 Muslim volunteers from Sulu who were being trained for a covert mission to Sabah were massacred by Philippine Government troops in the Jabidah Massacre. The first organization of the independence movement was Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) founded by Nur Misuari. Subsequent break-away groups include the Moro Islamic Liberation Front or MILF and the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters or BIFF.\n\nOn March 27, 2014, a comprehensive peace deal was signed between the Government of the Republic of the Philippine, or GRP, and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. This was after two decades of negotiations started during the administration of former President Fidel V. Ramos in 1997.\n\nIn pursuit of their goal of “liberating” the Bangsamoro, the MNLF engaged the government forces in extensive armed collisions, peaking in the early 70s when the rebels’ blitz-like operations brought them control of a substantial number of municipalities surrounding Cotabato City and its airport complex. This prompted the Marcos regime to beef up military presence by deploying almost three-fourths of the army in most Muslim parts of Mindanao. Things took a different turn in 1976 when Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi brokered an agreement that led to the signing of the Tripoli Agreement that introduced the concept of an autonomous Muslim region in Mindanao. On August 1, 1989, under the mandate of the new 1987 Constitution, Congress enacted Republic Act 6734 authorizing the creation of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM). However, out of the 13 provinces and 9 cities that participated in the plebiscite, only the provinces of Lanao del Sur, Maguindanao, Sulu and Tawi-Tawi opted to become part of the ARMM. The ARMM was formally established on 6 November 1990.\n\nInstead of bringing the Muslim leaders together, this agreement further fragmented the MNLF because some factions within the group preferred independence over autonomy. Thus, a group of officers led by Hashim Salamat broke away and formed the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) to continue their armed struggle for an independent Bangsamoro (Moro nation) in Mindanao.\n\nThough the combined strength of these two rebel forces has not reached a point of posing any real threat to the government in Manila, their existence—and the reasons for their resilience—certainly brings lots of headaches for the government. For nearly five decades, five presidents have tried to completely end these two rebellions, utilizing both force and diplomacy. So far, no combination has succeeded.\n\nPerhaps the most remarkable effort to bring closure to these movements was that of the Ramos Administration, which tried to reach out to both the communist and Muslim rebels through peaceful means. Ramos sat down with the rebel leaders in an attempt to solve both problems at their roots.\n\nEven before being elected president, Fidel V. Ramos had actively pursued the assistance of foreign Muslim leaders to solve the problem in Mindanao. Thus, he strongly sought the intercession of Gaddafi because of his instrumental role in the signing of the Tripoli Agreement earlier in 1976. Indeed, with Gaddafi’s assistance, the Philippine government was able to sign the Final Peace Agreement with the MNLF in 1996 in what was supposed to be the end of the Moro armed struggle in Mindanao. Misuari was elected governor of the ARMM and was tasked to supervise the implementation of the peace pact.\n\nUnfortunately, other factions within the MNLF were not satisfied with this peace pact and saw this as a deviation from the framework of the Tripoli Agreement. Their desire for complete secession from Philippine sovereignty led to the establishment of the MILF, which will be another challenge to Ramos’ efforts to bring peace in Mindanao after two decades of negotiations with the MNLF.\n\nThe exploratory and preparatory talks between the government and the MILF started in August 1996, followed by low-level negotiations commencing January the following year. An Agreement on General Cessation of Hostilities between the two parties was signed in July 1997.\n\nRamos’ term as president ended in June 1998, but the low-level negotiations continued under the new administration of President Joseph Ejercito-Estrada. By October 1999 formal peace talks would commence, only to be suspended by Estrada’s sudden policy-shift by declaring an \"all-out war\" against the MILF. Subsequently, the MILF's chairman Salamat declared jihad against Estrada's administration.\n\nEstrada’s all-out war policy led to the capture of Camp Abubakar, MILF’s main headquarters. The president himself led the military in raising the Philippine flag in the erstwhile rebel stronghold, bringing trucks of lechon (roasted pig) and beer for the triumphant soldiers in what was considered as an insult to the MILF—because pork and alcohol are both prohibited in Islam.\n\nWhen Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo assumed the presidency in January 2001, the peace process was revived with a unilateral declaration of ceasefire on the part of the government. With the assistance of the Malaysian government, Presidential Adviser on the Peace Process Eduardo Ermita and MILF Vice-Chair Al Haj Murad Ebrahim signed the Agreement for the General Framework for the Resumption of Peace Talks between the government and the MILF.\n\nOn March 31, 2001, Republic Act 9054 lapsed into law without the signature of the president. This law amended the Organic Act of the ARMM to provide for the region’s expansion from the original four provinces under its jurisdiction. The Provinces of Basilan, North Cotabato, Davao del Sur, Lanao del Norte, Palawan, Sarangani, South Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Zamboanga del Norte, Zamboanga del Sur, Zamboanga Sibugay, and the cities of Cotabato, Dapitan, Dipolog, General Santos, Iligan, Marawi, Pagadian, Puerto Princesa, Zamboanga, Digos, Koronadal, Tacurong, and Kidapawan participated in the plebiscite. However, only Marawi City and Basilan (excluding Isabela City) voted to be included in the ARMM.\n\nLater that year, the peace process fell apart when the military attacked the MILF just a day after the ancestral domain aspect of the Tripoli Agreement was signed in Libya. This attack was based on intelligence reports that the MILF has been aiding the Abu Sayyaf terrorist group, which at that time held some American and Filipino hostages in Basilan. A ceasefire would once again ensue after informal talks between the government and the MILF through the intercession of Malaysia.\n\nOn October 29, 2001, the MILF and the MNLF hold unity talks, but this would fall apart barely a month later when Nur Misuari allegedly led a rebellion in Sulu and Zamboanga City to stall the scheduled ARMM elections. A hundred people died in the incident. The government quelled this rebellion and Misuari escaped to Sabah, but the Malaysian government later on deported him back to the Philippines to face rebellion charges. On May 6, 2002, the fourth round of formal peace talks between the government and the MILF resulted in both parties agreeing to veto criminal syndicates and kidnap-for-ransom groups in Mindanao, and to implement the Humanitarian Rehabilitation and Development aspect of the Tripoli Agreement.\n\nA final draft of the peace accord was presented to the leaders of Congress on February 10, 2003, but on the next day, a setback would ensue as the military launched an offensive in Buliok Complex against the MILF which would last for more than a week. Ceasefire was enforced three weeks later. By March, the parties began exploratory talks in Malaysia with a commitment from both sides for a “mutual secession of hostilities.” The aspect of a Muslim ancestral domain was laid down as the next agenda for the peace talks. Until the end of 2008, the peace process remained in a deadlock due to constitutional and legal issues surrounding the ancestral domain aspect.\n\nThe Malaysian government on the other side have strongly condemn any terrorist activity and expressed unequivocal support for peace negotiations between Moro rebels and the Philippine government rather than helping the rebels as Malaysia did in 1968 after the Jabidah massacre. During the Conference on Regional Security Meeting held in Makati, Metro Manila on April 2003. Malaysian Defence Minister at the time Najib Razak make a speech on his country intention on the issues:\nOn July 27, 2008, a Memorandum of Agreement on the Muslim Ancestral Domain (MOA-AD) was finalized in Malaysia. Under this agreement, some 700 villages in Mindanao would hold a referendum within a year to determine if they intend to join the “Bangsamoro Juridical Entity,” an associated state which would be formed after the necessary constitutional amendments are undertaken by the government. This agreement was scheduled to be signed on August 5, with the final peace agreement set to be concluded by November.\n\nThree days before the scheduled signing of the MOA-AD, local officials of North Cotabato filed a case asking the Supreme Court to block the signing of this agreement. On October 14, the Court voted 8-7 to strike down the MOA-AD as unconstitutional. According to the decision penned by Justice Conchita Carpio Morales, “the Constitution does not recognize any state within this country other than the Philippine State, much less does it provide for the possibility of any transitory status to prepare any part of Philippine territory for independence.” Likewise, the Court held as unconstitutional the guarantees under the MOA-AD that the government will implement the necessary constitutional amendments to create a framework for its implementation. According to the Court, the peace panel and even the president do not have the authority to make such guarantees because they do not have the power to propose amendments to the Constitution, such power being vested exclusively in Congress.\n\nThe junking of the MOA-AD marked another setback for the peace process, with the armed conflicts for the year 2008 reaching a record-high of 30 incidents in Mindanao. In an effort to salvage the negotiations, Arroyo declared the suspension of military operations against the MILF on July 2009.\n\nThe administration of Benigno Aquino III resumed peace negotiations, the 20th round, with the MILF in February 2011, after the rebel group announced that they were no longer seeking secession from the Philippines. But the prospects for peace remained elusive as rogue MILF forces conducted sporadic attacks against government forces in several areas in Mindanao despite the existing ceasefire agreement. Worst of these attacks came on October 18, 2011 when MILF forces ambushed an Army contingent in Al-Barka, Basilan killing 19 young soldiers and wounding 12 others. Despite the MILF’s half-hearted efforts to make these rogue leaders answer for their attacks, the president and the military hierarchy rejected calls for an all-out-war approach to this problem.\n\nThe Al-Barka attack came just two months after Aquino’s controversial meeting with MILF chairman Al Haj Murad Ebrahim in Tokyo. This gave rise to concerns that the real reason for the stalled peace process is not just the government’s lukewarm effort to make peace, but also the lack of sincerity of the rebel groups in negotiating lasting peace with the government in Philippines military for 245.\n\nWomen played active roles in both the formal and informal negotiations in the Mindanao peace process that brought an end to open hostilities in 2014. Miriam Coronel Ferrer, who led the Filipino government’s team in peace negotiations with the MILF, made history in becoming the first woman chief negotiator to sign to a major peace accord in history. Women also held a number of meaningful positions on the negotiating teams of both parties to the conflict. Women reportedly fostered communication between different tracks of negotiations. Civil society groups and women’s groups conducted listening workshops for Bangsamoro communities and provided recommendations to the official track I negotiation process.\n\nThe resulting peace agreement includes a number of gender-specific considerations for transitional governance and women’s empowerment in the future. For example, the agreement includes provisions for women’s inclusion in new institutional mechanisms and suggests that women’s economic participation is a crucial part of a broad national strategy for growth post-conflict.\n\nOn October 15, 2012, the Philippine government signed a much-hyped document touted as the \"Framework Agreement on the Bangsamoro\", which culminates the Aquino Administration's effort to end the deadlock in the peace process. This new document, while merely providing for a general framework for the actual peace negotiations, announces that \"the status quo is unacceptable and that the Bangsamoro shall be established to replace the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM). The Bangsamoro is the new autonomous political entity (NPE) referred to in the Decision Points of Principles as of April 2012.\"\n\nAccording to President Aquino, this is the agreement that \"can finally seal genuine, lasting peace in Mindanao.\"\n\nOn January 24, 2014, Philippine government chief negotiator Miriam Coronel Ferer and MILF chief negotiator Mohagher Iqbal signed the final annex of the peace agreement in Kuala Lumpur. Two months later, on March 27, 2014, the Comprehensive Agreement on the Bangsamoro was signed in Manila and witnessed by Philippine President Benigno Aquino III, MILF Chairman Al Haj Murad Ibrahim, and Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak. The agreement would pave the way for the creation of the new Muslim autonomous entity called \"Bangsamoro\" under a law to be approved by the Philippine Congress. The government aims to set up the region by 2016. The agreement calls for Muslim self-rule in parts of the southern Philippines in exchange for a deactivation of rebel forces by the MILF. MILF forces would turn over their firearms to a third party to be selected by the MILF and the Philippine government. A regional police force would be established and the Philippine military would reduce the presence of troops and help disband private armies in the area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3180747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3180747", "title": "Bessarabian Soviet Socialist Republic", "text": "Bessarabian Soviet Socialist Republic\n\nThe Bessarabian Soviet Socialist Republic or Bessarabian SSR () was a failed attempt of the Soviet Russia to establish its control over territory of historical Bessarabia in 1919. The state with this name never came into existence, apart from a brief rebellion in September 1924. \n\nThe BeSSR was proclaimed on May 5, 1919 in Odessa at the 2nd Regional Bolshevik Conference as a \"Provisional Workers' and Peasants' Government in exile\" and established on May 11, 1919 in Tiraspol as an autonomous part of Russian SFSR. Neither Odessa not Tiraspol were part of historical Bessarabia. The planned territories included Tiraspol \"uyezd\" of Kherson Governorate and Balta and Olgopol \"uyezds\" of Podolia Governorate . The self-proclaimed government of the Bessarabian SSR never managed to control any part of Bessarabia, which on 9 April 1918 united with Romania. The Union of Bessarabia with Romania was not recognized by Soviet authorities and the proclamation of the Bessarabian SSR was a political measure aimed at preparing a future invasion of Bessarabia by the Red Army.\n\nThis \"government\" had talks with the French military authorities over the military and political settlement but was disbanded in September 1919 after Denikin's army took control of the Odessa region.\n\nThe Western European powers recognised the union of Bessarabia and Romania by the Treaty of Paris (1920). However, the United States refused to sign the Treaty on the grounds that Russia was not represented at the Conference. This aided the Soviet Union in its continued desire to retake Bessarabia, which it succeeded in doing twenty years later.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39523627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39523627", "title": "Cambodian genocide denial", "text": "Cambodian genocide denial\n\nCambodian genocide denial is the belief expressed by some Western academics that claims of atrocities by the Khmer Rouge government (1975-1979) in Cambodia were much exaggerated. Many scholars of Cambodia and intellectuals, opposed to the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, denied or minimized the human rights abuses of the Khmer Rouge, characterizing contrary information as \"tales told by refugees\" and U.S. propaganda. They viewed the assumption of power by the communist Khmer Rouge as a positive development for the people of Cambodia who had been severely impacted by the Vietnam War and the Cambodian Civil War.\n\nOn the other side of the argument, anti-Communists in the United States and elsewhere saw in the rule of the Khmer Rouge vindication of their belief that the victory of communist governments in South-East Asia would lead to a \"bloodbath\".\n\nScholar Donald W. Beachler, writing of the controversy about the range and extent of Khmer Rouge atrocities, concluded that \"much of the posturing by academics, publicists, and politicians seems to have been motivated largely by political purposes\" rather than concern for the Cambodian people.\n\nWith conclusive evidence (including the discovery of over 20,000 mass graves) of a large number of deaths—estimated at between one and three million—of Cambodians caused by the Khmer Rouge, denials, deniers, and apologists largely disappeared, although disagreements concerning the actual number of Khmer Rouge victims have continued. \n\nAgainst the background of the Vietnamese invasion and occupation of Cambodia (1978-1979), the United States practiced what the Washington Post called \"hold-your-nose diplomacy\", recognizing the Khmer Rouge as the legitimate government of Cambodia while abhoring the \"record of genocide\" of the Khmer Rouge. The U.S. policy was in solidarity with China, Thailand, and other South East Asian countries who opposed the Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge captured Phnom Penh, the capital of Cambodia, on April 17, 1975 and immediately ordered all the residents to evacuate the city. \"Between two and three million residents of Phnom Penh, Battambang, and other big towns were forced by the communists to walk into the countryside ... without organized provision for food, water, shelter, physical security or medical care.\" The evacuation probably resulted in at least 100,000 deaths. The dispossessed urban dwellers were assigned to re-education camps or \"New Settlements.\" Former government employees and soldiers were executed. Soon, according to journalists, Cambodia resembled \"a giant prison camp with the urban supporters of the former regime being worked to death on thin gruel and hard labor.\"\n\nThe Khmer Rouge guarded the border with Thailand and only a few thousand refugees were able to make their way to Thailand and safety. As virtually no Westerners were allowed to visit Cambodia, those refugees plus the official news outlets of the Khmer Rouge were the principal sources of information about conditions in Cambodia for the next four years.\n\nBeachler has described the late 1970s debate about the character of the Khmer Rouge. \"Many of those who had been opponents of U.S. military actions in Vietnam and Cambodia feared that the tales of murder and deprivation under the Khmer Rouge regime would validate the claims of those who had supported U.S. government actions aimed at halting the spread of communism. Conservatives pointed to the actions of the Khmer Rouge as proof of the inherent evils of communism and evidence that the U.S. had been right to fight its long war against communists in Southeast Asia ... \"\nDespite the eye-witness accounts by journalists prior to their expulsion during the first few days of Khmer Rouge rule, and the later testimony of refugees; many academics in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Australia and other countries portrayed the Khmer Rouge favorably or at least were skeptical about the stories of Khmer Rouge atrocities. None of them, however, were allowed to visit Cambodia until the final few days of Khmer Rouge rule (except Gunnar Bergstrom, president of the SKFA) and few actually talked to the refugees whose stories they believed to be exaggerated or false.\n\nSome Western scholars believed that the Khmer Rouge would free Cambodia from colonialism, capitalism, and the ravages of American bombing and invasion during the Vietnam War. Cambodian scholar Sophal Ear has titled the pro-Khmer Rouge academics as the \"Standard Total Academic View on Cambodia\" (STAV). The STAV, which he said included among its adherents almost all Cambodian scholars in the Western world, \"hoped for, more than anything, a socialist success story with all the romantic ingredients of peasants, fighting imperialism, and revolution.\" Author William Shawcross was another critic of the STAV academics. Shawcross's views were endorsed and summarized by human rights activist David Hawk: the West was indifferent to the atrocities taking place in Cambodia due to \"the influence of anti-war academics on the American left who obfuscated Khmer Rouge behavior, denigrated the post-1975 refugee reports, and denounced the journalists who got those stories.\"\n\nThe controversy concerning the Khmer Rouge intensified in February 1977 with the publication of excerpts from a book by John Barron and Anthony Paul in \"Reader's Digest\" magazine. Based on extensive interviews with Cambodian refugees in Thailand, Barron and Paul estimated that, out of a total population of about 7 million people, 1.2 million Cambodians had died of starvation, over-work, or execution during less than two years of Khmer Rouge rule. Published about the same time was François Ponchaud's book, \"Cambodia: Year Zero.\" Ponchaud, a French priest, had lived in Cambodia and spoke Khmer. He also painted a picture of mass deaths caused by the Khmer Rouge. French scholar, Jean Lacouture, formerly a sympathizer of the Khmer Rouge, reviewed Ponchaud's book favorably in \"The New York Review of Books\" on March 31, 1977.\n\nOn May 3, 1977, Congressman Stephen Solarz led a hearing on Cambodia in the United States House of Representatives. The witnesses were Barron and three academics who specialized in Cambodia: David P. Chandler, who would become perhaps the most prominent American scholar of Cambodia, Peter Poole, and Gareth Porter. Chandler believed that \"bloodbath\" was an accurate description of the situation and by no means an exaggeration. Porter stated that the tales of Khmer Rouge atrocities were much exaggerated. Porter was the most outspoken of the academics. He had co-authored (with George Hildebrand) \"Cambodia: Starvation and Revolution\", a highly positive book about the Khmer Rouge. Porter characterized the accounts of a million or more dead Cambodians as wildly exaggerated. He said, \"I cannot accept the premise ... that 1 million people have been murdered systematically or that the Government of Cambodia is systematically slaughtering its people.\" He described the stories by refugees of Khmer Rouge atrocities collected by Barron and others as second-hand and hearsay. Asked for his sources, Porter cited the works of another adherent of the STAV, Ben Kiernan, who as a student was an editor for a pro-Khmer Rouge publication in Australia. Porter never mentioned having spoken to any Cambodian refugees to evaluate their stories personally.\n\nSolarz, who had visited Cambodian refugee camps and listened to refugees' stories of Khmer Rouge atrocities, characterized justifications and explanations during the hearing about the Khmer Rouge as \"cowardly and contemptible\" and compared them to the justifications of the murder of Jews by Adolf Hitler during World War II.\n\nAcademics Noam Chomsky and Edward S. Herman were among those who examined the conflicting reports of the situation in Cambodia in 1977. On June 6, 1977, Chomsky and Herman published an article in \"The Nation\" which contrasted the views expressed in books by Barron and Paul, Ponchaud, and Porter and Hildebrand, and in articles and accounts by Butterfield, Bragg, Kahin, Cazaux, Shanberg, Tolgraven and others. Their conclusion was: \"We do not pretend to know where the truth lies amidst these sharply conflicting assessments; rather, we again want to emphasize some crucial points. What filters through to the American public is a seriously distorted version of the evidence available, emphasizing alleged Khmer Rouge atrocities and downplaying or ignoring the crucial U.S. role, direct and indirect, in the torment that Cambodia has suffered.\"\n\nChomsky and Herman noted the conflicting information in the various accounts, and suggested that after the \"failure of the American effort to subdue South Vietnam and to crush the mass movements elsewhere in Indochina\" there was now \"a campaign to reconstruct the history of these years so as to place the role of the United States in a more favorable light\". This rewriting of history by the establishment press was served well by \"tales of Communist atrocities, which not only prove the evils of communism but undermine the credibility of those who opposed the war and might interfere with future crusades for freedom.\" They wrote that the refugee stories of Khmer Rouge atrocities should be treated with great \"care and caution\" because \"refugees are frightened and defenseless, at the mercy of alien forces. They naturally tend to report what they believe their interlocuters wish to hear.\"\n\nIn support of their assertion, Chomsky and Herman criticized Barron and Paul's book \"Murder of a Gentle Land\" for ignoring the U.S. government's role in creating the situation, saying, \"When they speak of 'the murder of a gentle land,' they are not referring to B-52 attacks on villages or the systematic bombing and murderous ground sweeps by American troops or forces organized and supplied by the United States, in a land that had been largely removed from the conflict prior to the American attack\". They give several examples to show that Barron and Paul's \"scholarship collapses under the barest scrutiny,\" and they conclude that, \"It is a fair generalization that the larger the number of deaths attributed to the Khmer Rouge, and the more the U.S. role is set aside, the larger the audience that will be reached. The Barron-Paul volume is a third-rate propaganda tract, but its exclusive focus on Communist terror assures it a huge audience.\"\n\nChomsky and Herman had both praise and criticism for Ponchaud's book \"Year Zero\", writing that it was \"serious and worth reading\" and \"the serious reader will find much to make him somewhat wary.\" In the introduction to the American edition of his book, Ponchaud responded to a personal letter from Chomsky, saying, \"He [Chomsky] wrote me a letter on October 19, 1977 in which he drew my attention to the way it [\"Year Zero\"] was being misused by anti-revolutionary propagandists. He has made it my duty to 'stem the flood of lies' about Cambodia -- particularly, according to him, those propagated by Anthony Paul and John Barron in \"Murder of a Gentle Land.\"\"\n\nA different response appeared in the British introduction to Ponchaud's book. \"Even before this book was translated it was sharply criticized by Mr Noam Chomsky [reference to correspondence with Silvers and the review cited in note 100] and Mr Gareth Porter [reference to \"May Hearings\"]. These two 'experts' on Asia claim that I am mistakenly trying to convince people that Cambodia was drowned in a sea of blood after the departure of the last American diplomats. They say there have been no massacres, and they lay the blame for the tragedy of the Khmer people on the American bombings. They accuse me of being insufficiently critical in my approach to the refugee's accounts. For them, refugees are not a valid source ... \"After an investigation of this kind, it is surprising to see that 'experts' who have spoken to few if any refugees should reject their very significant place in any study of modern Cambodia. These experts would rather base their arguments on reasoning: if something seems impossible to their personal logic, then it doesn't exist. Their only sources for evaluation are deliberately chosen official statements. Where is that critical approach which they accuse others of not having?\" \nCambodia scholar Bruce Sharp criticized Chomsky and Herman's \"Nation\" article, as well as their subsequent work \"After the Cataclysm (1979)\", saying that while Chomsky and Herman added disclaimers about knowing the truth of the matter, and about the nature of the regimes in Indochina, they nevertheless expressed a set of views by their comments and their use of various sources. For instance, Chomsky portrayed Porter and Hildebrand's book as \"a carefully documented study of the destructive American impact on Cambodia and the success of the Cambodian revolutionaries in overcoming it, giving a very favorable picture of their programs and policies, based on a wide range of sources.\" Sharp, however, found that 33 out of 50 citations in one chapter of Porter and Hildebrand's book derived from the Khmer Rouge government and six from China, the Khmer Rouge's principal supporter.\n\nVeteran Cambodia correspondent Nate Thayer said of Chomsky and Herman's \"Nation\" article that they \"denied the credibility of information leaking out of Cambodia of a bloodbath underway and viciously attacked the authors of reportage suggesting many were suffering under the Khmer Rouge.\"\n\nJournalist Andrew Anthony in the London \"Observer\", said later that the Porter and Hildebrand's book \"cravenly rehashed the Khmer Rouge's most outlandish lies to produce a picture of a kind of radical bucolic idyll.\" Chomsky, he said, questioned \"refugee testimony\" believing that \"their stories were exaggerations or fabrications, designed for a western media involved in a 'vast and unprecedented propaganda campaign' against the Khmer Rouge government, 'including systematic distortion of the truth.'\"\n\nBeachler cited reports that Chomsky's attempts to counter charges of Khmer Rouge atrocities also consisted of writing letters to editors and publications. He said: \"Examining materials in the Documentation Center of Cambodia archives, American commentator Peter Maguire found that Chomsky wrote to publishers such as Robert Silver of the New York Review of Books to urge discounting atrocity stories. Maguire reports that some of these letters were as long as twenty pages, and that they were even sharper in tone than Chomsky’s published words.\" Journalist Fred Barnes also mentioned that Chomsky had written \"a letter or two\" to the New York Review of Books. Barnes discussed the Khmer Rouge with Chomsky and \"the thrust of what he [Chomsky] said was that there was no evidence of mass murder\" in Cambodia. Chomsky, according to Barnes, believed that \"tales of holocaust in Cambodia were so much propaganda.\"\n\nJournalist Christopher Hitchens defended Chomsky and Herman. They \"were engaged in the admittedly touchy business of distinguishing evidence from interpretations.\" Chomsky and Herman have continued to argue that their analysis of the situation in Cambodia was reasonable based on the information available to them at the time, and a legitimate critique of the disparities in reporting atrocities committed by communist regimes relative to the atrocities committed by the U.S. and its allies.\n\nMalcolm Caldwell was a British academic who wrote extensively about Cambodia, including, a few months before his death, an article in \"The Guardian\" denying reports of Khmer Rouge genocide. Caldwell was a member of the first delegation of three Western writers, two Americans, Elizabeth Becker and Richard Dudman, and Caldwell, to be invited to visit Cambodia in December 1978—nearly four years after the Khmer Rouge had taken power. The invitation was apparently an effort by Pol Pot, leader of the Khmer Rouge, to improve the image of the Khmer Rouge in the West, now questioned by some of its former academic sympathizers. On December 22, Caldwell had a private meeting with Pol Pot and returned \"euphoric\" to the guest house in Phnom Penh where the three members of the delegation were staying. During the night Becker awoke to the sound of gunfire and saw a Cambodian man with a gun in the guest house outside her room. Later that night she and Dudman were allowed by guards to venture out of their rooms and they discovered Caldwell's body. He had been shot. The body of a Cambodian man was also in his room.\nThe murder of Caldwell has never been fully explained. Four of the Cambodian guards were arrested and two \"confessed\" under torture. They said, \"We were attacking to ruin the Khmer Rouge Party's policy, to prevent the Party from gathering friends in the world ... it would be enough to attack the English guest, because the English guest had written in support of our Party ... Therefore, we must absolutely succeed in attacking this English guest, in order that the American guests would write about it.\" Whatever the motive behind Caldwell's murder, it seems highly unlikely that it could have occurred in tightly-controlled Cambodia without the involvement of high-level Khmer Rouge officials.\n\nThe impact of Caldwell's visit to Cambodia and his murder was muted by the Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia three days later on December 25, 1978, which soon ended the rule of the Khmer Rouge. Support for the Khmer Rouge in the Western academic community of Cambodian scholars quietly faded away. Peter Rodman, an American foreign policy expert and public official, stated that \"When Hanoi [Vietnam] turned publicly against Phnom Penh, it suddenly became respectable for many on the Left to 'discover' the murderous qualities of the Khmer Rouge — qualities that had been obvious to unbiased observers for years.\"\n\nIn August 1978, the Swede Gunnar Bergström, who was then president of the SKFA (Sweden-Kampuchea Friendship Association) as well as one of the Khmer Rouge's most ardent supporters, was the only Westerner allowed to visit Democratic Kampuchea together with three other Swedes. They also had dinner with Pol Pot.\n\nAt that time, Gunnar Bergström was just 27 years old and he was an idealist and a leftist, truly believing that the reports about overwork, starvation and mass killings in Cambodia were just \"Western propaganda\". They saw \"smiling peasants\", a society on its way to become \"an ideal society, ...with no oppressors\". When they came back to Sweden, they \"undertook a speaking tour and wrote articles in support of the Democratic Kampuchea regime\".\n\nEvidence that emerged after the fall of the regime shocked Bergström, forcing him to change his views. He said that it was \"like falling off the branch of the tree\" and that he had to re-identify everything he had believed in. In later interviews, he acknowledged that he had been wrong, that it was a \"propaganda tour\" and that they were brought to see what they wanted them to see.\n\nAfter then, Gunnar Bergström went back to Cambodia for a \"big forgiveness tour\". In a speech with high school students in Phnom Penh on 12 September 2016, he recommended that everybody should learn history and he stated that a peaceful communist revolution is simply not possible.\n\nWith the takeover of Cambodia by Vietnam in 1979 and the discovery of incontestable evidence of Khmer Rouge atrocities, including mass graves, the \"tales told by refugees\", which had been doubted by many Western academics, proved to be entirely accurate. Some former enthusiasts for the Khmer Rouge recanted their previous views, others diverted their interest to other issues, and a few continued to defend the Khmer Rouge.\n\nIn a caustic exchange with William Shawcross in \"The New York Review of Books\" on July 20, 1978, Gareth Porter wrote that, \"It is true, as Shawcross notes from my May 1977 Congressional testimony, that I have changed my view on a number of aspects of the Cambodian situation. I have no interest in defending everything the Khmer government does, and I believe that the policy of self-reliance has been carried so far that it has imposed unnecessary costs on the population of Cambodia. Shawcross, however, clearly does have an interest in rejecting our conclusions. It is time, I suggest, for him to examine it carefully, because it does not make for intellectual honesty.\" Shawcross responded, \"I was glad to acknowledge in my article that Mr. Porter had changed his views on the Khmer Rouge and it is a tribute to his own integrity that he now agrees that the Khmer Rouge have imposed 'unnecessary costs' on the Cambodian people. He should, however, be a little more careful before he accuses others of deliberately falsifying evidence and of intellectual dishonesty.\"\n\nIn 2010, Porter said he had been waiting many years for someone to ask him about his earlier views of the Khmer Rouge. He described how the climate of distrust of the government generated during the Vietnam War carried over to Cambodia. \"I uncovered a series of instances when government officials were propagandizing [about the Vietnam War]. They were lying,\" he explained. \"I've been well aware for many years that I was guilty of intellectual arrogance. I was right about the bloodbath in Vietnam, so I assumed I would be right about Cambodia.\"\n\nAustralian Ben Kiernan recanted after interviewing 500 Cambodian refugees in 1979. He admitted that he had been \"late in recognizing the extent of the tragedy in Cambodia ... and \"wrong about ... the brutal authoritarian trend within the revolutionary movement after 1973.\"\n\nIn the opinion of Donald W. Beachler, the genocide deniers and doubters among academics may have been motivated more by politics than a search for the truth, but conservatives who \"embraced the reports\" of Khmer Rouge atrocities had no less \"cynicism or naiveté\" in later downplaying reports of atrocities by anti-communists in Central America. He noted that the supportive attitude towards the Khmer Rouge had also been expressed by the U.S. government and politicians for a dozen years after the regime was toppled in January 1979, as part of the denigration against the Vietnamese occupation of Cambodia in the 1980s. In fact, the U.S. was one of the countries that voted for the retainment of the Democratic Kampuchea's seat at the United Nations until 1991. Bruce Sharp, who points out many errors of Chomsky's analysis, also says that \"While Chomsky's comments on Cambodia are misleading and inaccurate, one important point must be borne in mind: The actions of the United States were largely responsible for the growth of the Khmer Rouge.\"\n\nCertain authors have continued to downplay Khmer Rouge atrocities in recent years. Richard Dudman, who accompanied Caldwell to Cambodia, challenged the \"conventional wisdom that Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge are irrational fanatics who practiced deliberate genocide [and] slaughtered more than one million Cambodians\" in a 1990 \"New York Times\" editorial, arguing that \"The evidence for these fixed beliefs consists mainly of poignant though statistically inconclusive anecdotes from accounts of mass executions in a few villages. It comes mostly from those with an interest in blackening the name of the Khmer Rouge: From Cambodian refugees, largely the middle- and upper-class victims of the Pol Pot revolution, and from the Vietnamese\". In 2012, journalist Israel Shamir wrote an article titled \"Pol Pot Revisited\" for the American left-wing newsletter \"CounterPunch\" in which he argued:\n\n\"New Cambodia (or Kampuchea, as it was called) under Pol Pot and his comrades was a nightmare for the privileged, for the wealthy and for their retainers; but poor people had enough food and were taught to read and write. As for the mass killings, these are just horror stories, averred my Cambodian interlocutors. Surely the victorious peasants shot marauders and spies, but many more died of American-planted mines and during the subsequent Vietnamese takeover, they said ... Noam Chomsky assessed that the death toll in Cambodia may have been inflated 'by a factor of a thousand'...  To me, this recalls other CIA-sponsored stories of Red atrocities, be it Stalin's Terror or the Ukrainian Holodomor ... [The Vietnamese] supported the black legend of genocide to justify their own bloody intervention.\"\n\nIn 2013, the Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen passed legislation which makes illegal the denial of the Cambodian genocide and other war crimes committed by the Khmer Rouge. The legislation was passed after comments by a member of the opposition, Kem Sokha, who is the deputy president of the Cambodian National Rescue Party. Sokha had stated that exhibits at Tuol Sleng were fabricated and that the artifacts had been faked by the Vietnamese following their invasion in 1979. Sokha's party have claimed that the comments have been taken out of context.\n\nEstimates of the number of Cambodians who died during the four years of Khmer Rouge rule have been controversial and range from less than one million to more than three million. Kiernan, head of the Cambodian Genocide Project at Yale University, estimated that the Khmer Rouge were responsible for 1.5 million deaths and later raised that estimate to 1.7 million, more than 20 percent of the population. His deputy, Craig Etcheson, undertook the most complete survey of mass graves and evidence of executions in Cambodia and concluded in 1999 that the Khmer Rouge may have executed as many as 1.5 million people and as many as another 1.5 million may have died of starvation and overwork. Kiernan criticized Etcheson for \"sloppiness, exaggerating a horrific death toll\", and \"ethnic auctioneering\". Etcheson's report was removed from the web site of the Cambodian Genocide Project.\n\n"}
{"id": "34328976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34328976", "title": "Center for Engaged Democracy", "text": "Center for Engaged Democracy\n\nThe Center for Engaged Democracy is located within Merrimack College’s School of Education. The Center develops, coordinates, and supports academic programs around the country that are focused on civic and community engagement. The Center supports such academic programs through a variety of initiatives for faculty, administrators, and community partners. There are currently over fifty academic programs focused on community engagement.\n\nThe Center was founded in 2010 by Dan Sarofian-Butin. His research and academic work for over five years has been focused on the argument for the institutionalization of community engagement in higher education. He says that we need to reconceptualize the service-learning movement as an intellectual movement to make meaningful connections between colleges and communities and expand on the notion of an engaged campus. This shows the need to develop an \"academic home\" meaning academic programs such as majors, minors, certificates and interdisciplinary programs. His research is the reason for the development of this central research and action hub to develop, coordinate, and support academic programs that are focused on community engagement.\n\nThe Center is currently compiling existing research and documentation to support new and developing programs. The document repository has the following resources:\nThe repository is currently housed on the Center for Engaged Democracy website.\n\nAn outcome of the 3rd Annual Summer Institute was a working paper in the Center for Engaged Democracy's Policy Papers Series, entitled Core Competencies In Civic Engagement. Developed by individuals from seven institutions and organizations the working paper synthesizes existing program competencies and resources for the community engagement field. The goal of this initiative remains to distill common competencies and propose a suggested list of core competencies for academic programs. The Core Competencies specifically address the following questions:\n\nThe Center sponsors a yearly summer research institute for departments and academic programs. This conference brings together scholars, students, and community participants to engage critical questions of what it means in higher education to have an “academic home” for community engagement. In June 2011, the 2nd Annual Summer Research Institute hosted Keynote Speaker Benjamin Barber. The 3rd annual summer conference was held on June 23–24 at the campus of Merrimack College\n\nIn September 2011, the Center had a Call for Proposals for research on academic programs in community engagement. This request was to advance the research on academic programs in community engagement.\n\nRick Battistoni (Providence College), Arthur Keene (University of Massachusetts Amherst), Tania Mitchell (Stanford University), and John Reiff (University of Massachusetts Amherst) received the Center’s first research grant. Their research project is called Educating for Democratic Leadership in Three Multi-Year, Development, Cohort-Based Civic Engagement Programs. This project will investigate the long-term impacts of sustained, developmental community action programs at Providence College, Stanford University and the University of Massachusetts to understand how these programs influence civic identity and civic action and promote democratic leadership after college. Their findings will be presented at the 2012 summer research institute\n\n\n\nDr. Dan Sarofian-Butin is the founder of the Center for an Engaged Democracy and the founding dean of the School of Education and an Associate Professor at Merrimack College. He is also the editor and author of more than sixty academic publications. His research focuses on community engagement and also issues of education preparation and policy. Prior to working in higher education, Dr. Butin was a middle school math and science teacher and the chief financial officer of Teach for America.\n"}
{"id": "1170909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170909", "title": "Chief Public Health Officer of Canada", "text": "Chief Public Health Officer of Canada\n\nThe Chief Public Health Officer (CPHO) is the title of the senior government official on matters related to the health and safety of Canadians. The post is held by a physician who acts as the head of the Public Health Agency of Canada. The current Chief Public Health Officer is Dr. Theresa Tam.\n\nThe CPHO is responsible for:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15755234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15755234", "title": "Chief Whip of the Liberal Democrats", "text": "Chief Whip of the Liberal Democrats\n\nThe Chief Whip of the Liberal Democrats is responsible for administering the whipping system in the party which ensures that members attend and vote in parliament when the party leadership requires a majority vote. Whips, of which two are appointed in the party, a member of the House of Commons and a member of the House of Lords also help to organise their party’s contribution to parliamentary business. On some occasions, the party leadership may allow MP's to have a free vote based on their own conscience rather than party policy, of which the chief whip is not required to direct votes.\n\nThis is a list of people who have served as Chief Whip of the Liberal Democrats in the Parliament of the United Kingdom and of its predecessor parties. The Liberal Party was formed in 1859, but through its roots in the Whig Party dates back to the late 1670s. In 1988, the Liberals merged with the Social Democratic Party, formed by dissident Labour Party members in 1981, to create the Liberal Democrats.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21532163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21532163", "title": "Democratic republic", "text": "Democratic republic\n\nA democratic republic is a form of government operating on principles adopted from a republic and a democracy. Rather than being a cross between two entirely separate systems, democratic republics may function on principles shared by both republics and democracies.\n\nCommon definitions of the terms \"democracy\" and \"republic\" often feature overlapping concerns, suggesting that many democracies function as republics, and many republics operate on democratic principles, as shown by these definitions from the Oxford dictionary online:\nEugene Volokh of the UCLA School of Law notes that the United States exemplifies the varied nature of a democratic republica country where some decisions (often local) are made by direct democratic processes, while others (often federal) are made by democratically elected representatives. As with many large systems, US governance is incompletely described by any single term. It also employs the concept, for instance, of a constitutional democracy in which a court system is involved in matters of jurisprudence.\n\nAs with other democracies, not all persons in a democratic republic are necessarily citizens, and not all citizens are necessarily entitled to vote. Suffrage is commonly restricted by criteria such as voting age.\n\nIn the US, the notion that a republic was a form of democracy was common from the time of its founding, and the concepts associated with representative democracy (and hence with a democratic republic) are suggested by John Adams (writing in 1784):No determinations are carried, it is true, in a simple representative democracy, but by consent of the majority or their representatives.Historically, some inconsistency around the term is frequent. China claims to be the oldest of Asia's democratic republics, though its recent history of democratic process is largely linked only to Taiwan. Likewise, Africa's oldest democratic republic, Liberia (formed in 1822), has had its political stability rocked by periodic violence and coups.\n\nMany countries that use the term \"democratic republic\" in their official names (such as Algeria, Congo-Kinshasa, Ethiopia, North Korea, Laos, and Nepal) are considered undemocratic \"hybrid regimes\" or \"authoritarian regimes\" by the Economist Intelligence Unit's Democracy Index and \"not free\" by the U.S.-based, U.S.-government-funded non-governmental organization Freedom House. In addition, East Germany was also officially known as the German Democratic Republic, but, like the Somali Democratic Republic, the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan and the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, was controlled by a bureaucratic government espousing Marxism–Leninism.\n\nThere are also countries which use the term \"Democratic Republic\" in the name and have a good track of general election and were rated \"flawed democracy\" or \"full democracy\" in the Democracy Index, such as the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.\n\n"}
{"id": "34924738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34924738", "title": "European Civil Rights Prize of the Sinti and Roma", "text": "European Civil Rights Prize of the Sinti and Roma\n\nThe European Civil Rights Prize of the Sinti and Roma was founded in November 2007 in Heidelberg by the Central Council of German Sinti and Roma, the Documentation and Cultural Centre of German Sinti and Roma and the Manfred Lautenschläger Foundation. The international prize is endowed with 15.000 Euro by the Manfred Lautenschläger Foundation. It has been awarded for the first time in December 2008.\n\nAgainst the background of the extremely alarming human rights situation of the Sinti and Roma in many European states – especially in eastern and southeastern Europe – this prize will contribute towards the protection and assertion of the civil rights and the equality of opportunity of the members of the Sinti and Roma minorities in their respective countries of nationality. At the same time, the prize should be regarded as a signal to politicians, media and social groups in Europe to take action against deeply rooted clichés and structures of prejudice, in order to gradually overcome the everyday marginalization of the minority. The European Civil Rights Prize of the Sinti and Roma is aimed at strengthing social engagement and prompting politicians and citizens to actively call for the effective equality of treatment of Sinti and Roma and their self-evident integration into all areas of public life.\n\nThe prize supports political and social efforts for the lasting protection of people affected by discrimination, in order to enable them to live an independent life. The prize honours individuals, groups or institutions primarily from the majority, who face up to the historical responsibility and have been exemplary in calling for an improvement in the human rights situation of the Sinti and Roma.\n\nThe decision is made by an international jury consisting of eight members. Permanent members of the jury are the head of the Central Council of German Sinti and Roma and the head of the Manfred-Lautenschläger-Foundation. They also decide about the other four jury-members, who are appointed for four years. Every jury-member is able to nominate laureates, the election results from majority decision. The repeated awarding of the same individual, group or institution is impossible.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2493729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2493729", "title": "Football association", "text": "Football association\n\nA football association is a governing body for association football. Many of them are members of the sport's regional bodies such as UEFA and CONMEBOL and the world governing body, FIFA. A small number have not yet applied for or been granted entry to these higher bodies. Below is a list of football associations for which there are articles.\n\nAsian Football Confederation affiliated\n\n\nConfederation of African Football affiliated\n\nConfederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football affiliated\n\nNorth American Football Union\n\nCentral American Football Union\n\nCaribbean Football Union\n\n\nSouth American Football Confederation affiliated\n\nOceania Football Confederation affiliated\n\nUnion of European Football Associations affiliated\n"}
{"id": "18946810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18946810", "title": "Hearts of Iron III", "text": "Hearts of Iron III\n\nHearts of Iron III is a grand strategy wargame developed by Paradox Development Studio and published by Paradox Interactive.\n\nIt was released on August 7, 2009. An OS X version was released by Virtual Programming on December 7, 2009.\n\nA sequel, Hearts of Iron IV, was released on June 6, 2016.\n\n\"Hearts of Iron III\" allows the player to take control of almost any nation that existed during the period of 1936–1948, guiding it through World War II. With a variety of decisions regarding the armed forces, production, research, diplomacy, politics and espionage all being a focus of the game.\n\nThe game centers around three factions: the Axis (led by Germany), the Allies (led by Great Britain), and the Comintern (led by the Soviet Union). All other nations can slowly align with one of the factions. Nations are more likely to side with those with similar ideology, threat and proximity.\n\nResources found in the game include: energy, metal, rare materials and oil. The first three are required for industrial production and oil is converted to fuel for vehicles, planes and ships.\n\nThe scope of military organization ranges from brigades to entire theaters of operation.\n\nThe first trailer from the Games Convention in Leipzig showed new features such as 3D graphics.\n\nParadox released a series of developer diaries and video showcases.\n\nAlthough happy with the scope of \"Hearts of Iron II\", lead designer Johan Andersson wanted to improve upon every aspect of the game, starting again with a new engine. The game's artificial intelligence (AI) was designed to be able to achieve strategic objectives and control forces delegated to it, including whole theatres of operation. The AI can also remember and compare strategic possibilities as circumstances change. Changing to 3D graphics helped improve other areas, as Andersson explained:\n\nGoing 3D meant we could do another type of architecture where we could support more screen resolutions, and develop our maps in a quicker way. The biggest advantage from going 3D though was the ability to offload more to the GPU. With the machine advances during the last decade this gives us the biggest benefits in development when it comes to gameplay and AI.\n\nParadox had a vision for the style of the map, given that the player would spend the majority of their time looking at it: \"[...] to create a map that feels like a WW2 map, like it could be a map which... a commander in the War would be looking at himself\". The content of the map was also altered; the number of provinces was increased to more than 15,000 over \"Hearts of Iron II's\" 2,600. Customizable divisions were also added, each one containing two to five brigades. Each brigade increases the division's combat power and cost.\n\n\"Hearts of Iron III\" initially received a mixed reception because the game shipped with a large number of bugs in the early release. After several patches eliminated many bugs, reception improved and the game received generally positive reviews. In 2009 December it had a combined average of a 77 on Metacritic\" and a 79% on Gamerankings\".\n\nGamepro wrote, \"Perhaps the worst problem is the interface itself, or more specifically, the amount of feedback it affords the player. In contrast to the old system, there is no instant way to assess how many divisions you have in each province, nor important values like their units' organization or combat values\".\n\nOn the other hand, the game has been praised as being \"tailored for experienced strat heads and wargamers with a lot of patience, but the game is more accessible than either of its predecessors and a great jumping-on point for new players who want to make the leap into a grand strategy epic\".\n\nOn 6 June 2010, an expansion called \"Hearts of Iron III: Semper Fi\" was released. It is only available as a download. The Mac OS X version of the \"Semper Fi\" expansion pack shipped from Virtual Programming on 23 July 2010. A second expansion named \"Hearts of Iron III: For the Motherland\" was announced on 27 January 2011 and released on 28 June 2011. The Mac OS X version of the \"Hearts of Iron III: For the Motherland\" expansion pack shipped from Virtual Programming on 28 September 2011. On 22 November 2011, Paradox Interactive released the \"Hearts of Iron III Collection\", which include both expansions for \"Hearts of Iron III\" and all previously released sprite packs. On 6 June 2012, Paradox Interactive announced the third expansion called \"Hearts of Iron III: Their Finest Hour\". It was released on 29 September 2012. The Mac OS X version of the \"Hearts of Iron III: Their Finest Hour\" expansion pack shipped from Virtual Programming on November 9, 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3824009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3824009", "title": "Human rights in Eritrea", "text": "Human rights in Eritrea\n\nHuman rights in Eritrea are viewed by certain non-governmental organisations (NGOs) such as Human Rights Watch as among the worst in the world, particularly with regards to freedom of the press. Eritrea is a one-party state in which national legislative elections have been repeatedly postponed, the judiciary is weak, and constitutional provisions protecting individual freedom have yet to be fully implemented. Some Western countries, particularly the United States, accuse the Government of Eritrea of arbitrary arrest and detentions and of detaining an unknown number of people without charge for their political activism. However, the Eritrean government has continuously dismissed the accusations as politically motivated. As an attempt at reform, Eritrean government officials and NGO representatives have participated in numerous public meetings and dialogues. A new movement called Citizens for Democratic Rights in Eritrea aimed at bringing about dialogue between the government and opposition was also formed in early 2009.\n\nEritrea is a one-party state in which national legislative elections have been repeatedly postponed, and its human rights record is considered among the worst in the world. Since Eritrea's conflict with Ethiopia in 1998–2001, Eritrea's human rights record has worsened. Human rights violations are frequently committed by the government or on behalf of the government. Freedom of speech, press, assembly, and association are limited. Those that practice \"unregistered\" religions, try to flee the nation, or escape military duty are arrested and put into prison.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International Eritrea is one of the world's most repressive countries. In recent years, there have been increasing measures to prevent worshipers from practicing their faith. Some of the most prosecuted are Jehovah's Witness, and members of Evangelical congregations. The Eritrean government has shut down their churches, and persecuted many members of the congregations. After independence, President Issias Afwerki’s administration denied all basic rights to Jehovah's Witnesses. No members could receive any government assistance, or use any government services. Jehovah's Witnesses are not allowed to obtain national identification cards, without which they are not allowed to participate in the political and social sphere of Eritrea. National identification cards permit citizens to participate in everyday life, as well as in transactions with the government or any financial institution. The government began to informally allow Jehovah's Witness members to practice their faith within their home. They were still barred from practicing in any public space. Many families fled the country to seek asylum abroad due to mass persecution and imprisonment. According to Amnesty International, there are currently 250 families that have left Eritrea to seek asylum abroad. Domestic and international human rights organizations are not allowed to function in Eritrea. The registered, census-based religions are the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church (a miaphysite Oriental Orthodox denomination), the Roman Catholic Church, Eritrean Lutheran Church, and Sunni Islam. All other religions are persecuted, including other denominations of Islam, such as Shi'ism, and other denominations of Christianity, such as any of the myriad Protestant denominations (other than the Eritrean Lutheran Church) and Jehovah's Witnesses. All denominations of Christianity were given freedom of worship until 2002 when the government outlawed worship and assembly outside the 'registered' denominations. Evangelical churches in Eritrea have been some of the most persecuted religious groups. For religious groups to participate and freely practice their faith they must apply for registration with the Department of Religious Affairs. The government has seized many churches and religious buildings.\n\nIn 2003, there was a record number of arrests made on members of Evangelical churches. Law enforcements officials go to different religious gatherings or weddings to carry out mass arrests, \"Police singled out religious weddings in homes as occasions to round up believers.\" It is normal for the government to make followers recant their faith, \"The detainees were usually pressured under torture or ill-treatment, with the threat of indefinite detention, to sign a document agreeing to certain conditions of release, such as not to attend religious meetings. Some were reportedly forced to recant their faith and agree to rejoin the Orthodox Church.\" Many of these religious prisoners were often part secret trials, and secret prison sentences. There has been no known reason for the \"crackdown\" on Evangelical churches, according to Amnesty International, \"ongoing crackdown on minority religious groups was never given by the government but it appeared to be partly linked to government action against young people trying to avoid military conscription\". Religious prisoners are often tortured in Eritrea. Freedom of worship is one of the top reasons thousands of Eritreans flee the country. There are thousands of Eritreans in Ethiopia, Sudan, Israel, Europe and the West seeking asylum.\n\nFreedom of speech and the press are severely constrained while freedom of assembly, association, movement, and religion also are restricted.\n\nIn 2015, a 500-page UNHRC report detailed allegations of extrajudicial executions, torture, indefinitely prolonged national service and forced labour, and indicated that sexual harassment, rape and prolonged sexual servitude by state officials are also widespread. \"The Guardian\" cited the reports catalogue of 'a litany of human rights violations \"on a scope and scale seldom witnessed elsewhere\"'. The Council also asserted that these violations may amount to crimes against humanity. Barbara Lochbihler, of the European Parliament Subcommittee on Human Rights said the report detailed 'very serious human rights violations', and indicated that EU funding for development would not continue as at present without change in Eritrea.\n\nThe Eritrean Foreign Ministry responded by describing the Commission's report as \"wild allegations\" which were \"totally unfounded and devoid of all merit\". A statement from Eritrean Presidential Adviser Yemane Gebreab accused the panel of being \"entirely one-sided\", and indicated that \"Eritrea rejects the politically motivated and groundless accusations and the destructive recommendations of the COI. It believes they are an unwarranted attack not only against Eritrea, but also Africa and developing nations.\" The Commission of Inquiry (CoI) report was based on the testimony of 833 anonymous persons purported to be Eritrean. In reaction to this, a significant number of the Eritrean Diaspora population rejected the Commission of Inquiry report. 230,000 Eritreans signed Petitions against the paper and 45,000 Eritreans provided testimonies defending Eritrea, which did not appear in the report. 850 Eritreans asked to present themselves to appear in person in Geneva and give their testimonies to the UNHRC against the paper. In addition, more than 10,000 Eritrean demonstrated against the report in Geneva. Several countries also rejected the report's abrasive language, especially the US and China. At a drafting meeting, U.S. diplomat Eric Richardson said the Eritrea paper did not have \"the same level of sophistication and precision\" as the report on North Korea and the United States could not support the language of the text without revisions. In addition, Eritrean Presidential Advisor Yemane blamed Ethiopia for \"some of the worst human rights abuses and massacres of its people\", saying it was ironic that Ethiopia could use the council to lobby for the adoption of the resolution against Eritrea.\n\nSince Eritrea's conflict with Ethiopia in 1998–2001, the nation's human rights record has come under criticism at the United Nations. Human rights violations are allegedly frequently committed by the government or on behalf of the government. Freedom of speech, press, assembly, and association are limited. Those who practice \"unregistered\" religions, try to flee the nation, or escape military duty are arrested and put into prison. During the Struggle for Eritrean Independence, many atrocities were committed by the Ethiopian authorities against unarmed Eritrean civilians (men, women, and children). Roughly, 90,000 Eritrean civilians were killed by the Ethiopian military. During the 1998 Eritrean-Ethiopian War, the EPRDF government also deported and confiscated the private property of 77,000 Eritreans and Ethiopians. The majority of the 77,000 Eritreans and Ethiopians of Eritrean origin were considered well off by the Ethiopian standard of living. They were deported after their belongings had been confiscated.\n\nAll Eritreans between the ages of 18–40 must complete a mandatory national service, which includes military service. Between 10,000 to 25,000 high-school students spend their 12th year of education in one of the countries national service camps, most notable of which is the camp near Sawa. This national service was implemented after Eritrea gained its independence from Ethiopia, as a precautionary means to be protected against any threats on Eritrea’s sovereignty, to instill national pride, and to create a disciplined populace. Eritrea’s national service requires lengthy, indefinite conscription periods, which some Eritreans leave the country in order to avoid.\n\nEritrean government officials and NGO representatives have participated in numerous public meetings and dialogues. In these sessions they have answered questions as fundamental as, \"What are human rights?\", \"Who determines what are human rights?\", and \"What should take precedence, human or communal rights?\".\n\nIn 2007, the Eritrean government banned female genital mutilation. Regional Assemblies and religious leaders also speak out continuously against the use of female cutting. They cite health concerns and individual freedom as being of primary concern when they say this. Furthermore, they implore rural peoples to cast away this ancient cultural practice.\n\nIn early 2009, a new movement called Citizens for Democratic Rights in Eritrea aimed at bringing about dialogue between the government and opposition was formed in early 2009. The group consists of ordinary citizens and some people close to the government. The movement was launched at a two-day conference in London, after previous attempts at dialogue failed.\n\nThe following is a chart of Eritrea's ratings since 1993 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is \"free\"; 7, \"not free\".\nEritrea's stances on international human rights treaties are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6137103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6137103", "title": "Human rights in Lebanon", "text": "Human rights in Lebanon\n\nHuman rights in Lebanon refers to the state of human rights in Lebanon, which were considered to be on par with global standards in 2004. However, human rights organizations say that security forces abuse detainees and sometimes use torture. Some criminals and terrorists are said to be detained without charge for both short and long periods of time. Freedom of speech and of the press are ensured to the citizens by the Lebanese laws which protect the freedom of each citizen. Palestinians living in Lebanon are heavily deprived of basic civil rights. They cannot own homes or land, and are barred from becoming lawyers, engineers and doctors. However the Lebanese government has reduced the number of restricted jobs recently and created a national dialogue committee for the issue. When the Arab Spring arrived, Lebanon was the only country with no deaths during protests which showed that the country had the most peaceful security forces in the region.\n\nIn January 2015, the Economist Intelligence Unit, released a report stating that Lebanon ranked the 2nd in Middle East and 98th out of 167 countries worldwide for Democracy Index 2014, the report, which ranks countries according to election processes, pluralism, government functions, political participation, political cultures and fundamental freedoms.\n\nLebanon ambassador to the UN, Charles Malik took part in the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which Lebanon adopted in 1948.\n\nThere are reports that security forces may abuse detainees and, in some instances, use torture. The government acknowledged that violent abuse usually occurred during preliminary investigations conducted at police stations or military installations, in which suspects were interrogated without an attorney. Such abuse occurred despite laws that prevented judges from accepting any confession extracted under duress. Methods of torture reportedly included beatings and suspension by arms tied behind the back. Some detainees were beaten, handcuffed, blindfolded, and forced to lie face down on the ground. One person died in custody. Local journalists and human rights organizations were not given access to the Yarze prison, which is controlled by the Ministry of Defense. A French report describes the methods of torture used in this prison.\n\nAccording to Amnesty international annual report 2015- 2016, many Lebanese were subjected to torture during their detention. In June, five officers were charged with using violence against prisoners at Roumieh Prison after two videos were posted on social media showing Internal Security forces officers beating detainees. Amnesty International claimed that Lebanon failed in establishing a national monitoring body on torture despite the ratification on the optional protocol to the UN Convention against Torture in 2000.\n\nThe Syrian forces in Lebanon detained political opponents without charge for both short and long periods of time till 2005 . After Syrian forces pulled back from Lebanon during 2005, no opposer to the Syrian Government was reported detained. However, pro-Syrian security generals were detained. For example, Former Major General Jamil al Sayyed, Brigadier General Mustapha Hamdan, Major General Ali Hajj, and Brigadier General Raymond Azar were arrested in August 2005 at the request of German prosecutor Detlev Mehlis, who headed the early stages of a U.N. investigation into the killing and implicated prominent Syrian and Lebanese figures in the assassination of Rafik Hariri. No charges were ever pressed against the four generals, later progress reports have not repeated the allegations, and the four generals were never brought to trial. Yet, they remained detained for almost four years. Some international human rights organizations had described their detention as arbitrary. On April 29, 2009, following a request of prosecutor Daniel Bellemare, the tribunal ordered the immediate and unconditional release of the only four suspects arrested during the investigation, for absence of reliable proof against them.\n\nThere were big improvements since the withdrawal of 25,000 Syrian troops from Lebanon in April 2005 in what was dubbed the Cedar Revolution by the West. However, journalists and politicians known to be critical of Syria were targets through car-bomb assassinations prepared by terrorists. Waltz With Bashir, an Israeli film that criticizes aspects of the way the Israeli army handled the 1982 Lebanon War has been banned, although the film is popular among Palestinians living in Lebanon who purchased bootleg copies. Other movies are banned as well, for example \"Schindler's List\" is banned for promoting Zionist sympathy, a position justified by the fact that Lebanon remains officially at war with Israel. Other books and movies were banned for supposedly insulting religion, as the laws strictly prohibit religious insults, and protects each person from such insults, for example \"The Da Vinci Code\" and \"The Satanic Verses\" but can now be found in major bookstores.\n\nOn the morning of 16 September 2015, Lebanese security forces used excessive force in a crackdown on demonstrators protesting rampant corruption and poor public services. The protests took place near the Beirut headquarters of the Lebanese parliament. The Lebanese anti-riot police fired gas tears canisters, rubber-coated steel bullets at protesters, and arrested more than 30 activist, who were all freed in the following days. During two days, more than 175 protesters were wounded, and several journalists and photographers were assaulted.\n\nThe abuse of domestic workers in Lebanon, mainly women in their 20-30s from Ethiopia, Sri Lanka and the Philippines has brought international attention to the rights of the workers, who are often made to work long hours,abused and not paid their wages. A spate of suicides by maids over a few weeks before December 2009 by hanging themselves or falling from balconies brought international attention from CNN, LA Times and even resulted in the creation of a blog by a blogger simply identified as \"Wissam\" to the flagrant abuse in Lebanon.\n\nMigrant workers are widely discriminated against in commercial facilities such as beach resorts, where domestic workers would be denied access to the facilities. This discrimination is rooted in prejudice, and usually carried out based on racial appearance, therefore it has strong racist undertones.\n\nFollowing the influx of Syrian refugees, many municipalities have declared \"curfews\" targeting Syrian nationals. Huge banners are prominently hung in public places, declaring a curfew for \"Syrian workers\". \n\nChild labor is a problem. The minimum age for child employment is 13 years. However, 1.8 percent of children between the ages of 10 and 14 were working children, according to a report on the \"State of the Children in Lebanon 2000\" released by the Central Statistics Administration in 2002 in collaboration with UNICEF. Also, 90 percent of child laborers were not covered by any health insurance.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Labor's report on the worst forms of child labor in Lebanon in 2013, children \"engage in child labor in agriculture and in the worst forms of child labor in commercial sexual exploitation.\" Lebanese children worked in a variety of sectors and the categorical worst forms of labor included activities such as drug trafficking, armed guarding and forced begging, all of which were determined by national law as hazardous activities. Domestic service and sexual exploitation occurred sometimes as a result of human trafficking.\n\nLater in 2014, the Department's \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" reported tobacco as a good produced in such working conditions in the Lebanese agricultural sector.\n\nOver 400,000 Palestinian refugees and descendants live in Lebanon. They are not allowed to own property, and even need a special permit to leave their refugee camps. Unlike other foreigners in Lebanon, they are denied access to the Lebanese healthcare system. The Lebanese government refused to grant them permission to own land. The number of restrictions has been mounting since 1990. However, in 2010 the government of Lebanon removed work restrictions from Palestinians, enabling them to apply for work permits and work in the private sector. In a 2007 study, Amnesty International denounced the \"appalling social and economic condition\" of Palestinians in Lebanon.\n\nLebanon gave citizenship to about 50,000 Christian Palestinian refugees during the 1950s and 1960s. In the mid-1990s, about 60,000 refugees who were Sunni Muslim majority were granted citizenship. This caused a protest from Maronite authorities, leading to citizenship being given to all the Palestinian Christian refugees who were not already citizens. There are about 350,000 non-citizen Palestinian refugees in Lebanon.\n\nThe Lebanese Parliament is divided on granting Palestinian rights. While many Lebanese parties call for improving the civil rights of Palestinian refugees, others raise concerns of naturalizing the mainly Muslim population and the disruption this might cause to Lebanon’s sectarian balance.\n\nAccording to Mudar Zahran, a Jordanian scholar of Palestinian heritage, the media chose to deliberately ignore the conditions of the Palestinians living in refugee camps in Lebanon. He writes that the \"tendency to blame Israel for everything\" has provided Arab leaders an excuse to deliberately ignore the human rights of the Palestinian in their countries.\n\nAugust 2016, Human Rights Watch issued a report regarding the Syrian refugee crisis in Lebanon. As the report suggested, 1.1 million Syrian refugees- the largest number of refugees per capita in the world- have lived in Lebanon; and around half of these refugees are school-age. Although Lebanon and the international community attempted to help them to enroll in Lebanese public school without paying school fees, only 158,000 non Lebanese students are enrolled in the schools opened for Syrian refugees; and less than 3% of those who are aged 15–18 are enrolled in public secondary schools. Due to the arbitrary enrollment requirement, the harsh residency policy that makes it difficult for refugees to maintain legal status, the transportation costs that the Syrian families cannot afford and the need for additional income that encourages prioritizing child labor over receiving education, a quarter million of the Syrian children are out of school, according to the previous report published in July.\n\nThe Lebanese Constitution provides for freedom of religion and the freedom to practice all religious rites provided that the public order is not disturbed. The Constitution declares equality of rights and duties for all citizens without discrimination or preference but establishes a balance of power among the major religious groups. The Government generally respected these rights; however, the constitutional provision for apportioning political offices according to religious affiliation may be viewed as inherently discriminatory. There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or religious practice. There were, however, periodic reports of tension between religious groups, attributable to competition for political power, and citizens continued to struggle with the legacy of a 15-year civil war that was fought largely along sectarian lines. Despite sectarian tensions caused by the competition for political power, churches, mosques, and other places of worship continued to exist side-by-side, extending a centuries-long national heritage as a place of refuge for those fleeing religious intolerance. Non-religious Lebanese were subjected to abuse, which is not the case anymore, as their rights are equal to the rights of any other citizen of Lebanon, and that's granted by the country's laws.\n\nHomosexual intercourse is no longer illegal in Lebanon since 2014 as Article 534 of the criminal code was invalidated by the judiciary. This Article used to criminalize both male and female homosexuality, as well as any other sexual practice which is considered deviant and abnormal, but was never truly enforced in recent years. However, gay and lesbian individuals have no specific protections in Lebanon, but there has been several organizations and movements to improve living conditions for the gay and lesbian community.\n\nIn 2002, a gay rights organization was started in Lebanon. The group, known as Hurriyyat Khassa or Private Liberties sought to reform the Article 534 of the criminal code so that sexual relations between consenting adults in private were no longer a crime. Another gay rights organization in Lebanon is called \"Helem\" (), meaning \"Dream\" in Arabic and an acronym for the Lebanese Protection of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender community. These organizations have staged a few public demonstrations, lectures, fundraisers for AIDS education, charitable events and exhibitions of films and have been interviewed by the Lebanese media.\n\n\"Anal examinations\" were used in Lebanon on men suspected of homosexuality. On 28 July 2012, a gay venue in Beirut was raided by police and 36 men were taken into custody, where they were forced to undergo these examinations. In response, dozens demonstrated in Beirut against these \"examinations,\" calling them the \"tests of shame.\" This practice was however outlawed by the Ministry of Justice as well as for the Lebanese Doctors' association banning its members from practising it.\n\nWomen earned the right to vote in 1952, just 5 years later than men, who earned it in 1947 shortly after independence from the French mandate. In 1957 the requirement for women to have elementary education before voting was dropped.\n\nMultiple websites have been reported to be blocked, somewhat inconsistently. The Ministry of Telecommunication is known to have ordered gambling sites and a few pornographic sites to be blocked, based on judiciary decisions.\n\nLebanese law permits the censoring of pornography, as well as religious materials only when considered a threat to national security. the law doesn't prohibit individuals from accessing pornographical content (save for child porn, considered a criminal act), or any other type of content on the Internet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37999107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37999107", "title": "LGBT rights in Pará", "text": "LGBT rights in Pará\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Pará, Brazil enjoy many of the same legal protections available to non-LGBT people. Homosexuality is legal in the state.\n\n\nDecember 21, 2011 - the Justice of the city of Belém, Pará authorized the adoption of a two-year-old child by a lesbian couple.\n"}
{"id": "7283164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7283164", "title": "List of Italian religious minority politicians", "text": "List of Italian religious minority politicians\n\nThis is a list of Italian politicians belonging to a religious minority, different from the dominant Roman Catholicism.\n\nTo ensure notability, only leading politicians (ministers, deputies, senators, MEPs, regional councillors, mayors of big cities, party leaders, etc.) are included in the list. Active politicians and their current parties are shown in bold. The parties of which these people have been members are listed in chronological order.\n\nSome of the politicians included in the list are lapsed, nominal or former believers, but all have retained their ethnic-religious background.\n\nFrom 1861 to the first decades of the 20th century political parties were mostly loose parliamentary groups. \"Right\" refers both to the Historical Right (as linked, referred to also as Liberal Conservatives) of Camillo Benso di Cavour and Bettino Ricasoli and the Liberal Constitutional Party of Marco Minghetti and Sidney Sonnino. \"Left\" refers to the Historical Left (referred to also as Democrats) of Agostino Depretis and Francesco Crispi. \"Lib\" refers to the Liberals, later Liberal Union, which, under the leadership of Giovanni Giolitti and Giuseppe Zanardelli, emerged from the Historical Left and largely incorporated also elements of the Historical Right.\n\n\"Indep\" indicates a politician unaffiliated to any party and acting as an Independent.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1548081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1548081", "title": "List of anarchist musicians", "text": "List of anarchist musicians\n\nThe following is a list of anarchist musicians, which details the instruments such musicians use, musical genres they perform, and, if applicable, bands they are members of.\n\nAn anarchist is a person who rejects any form of hierarchy and supports its elimination. Anarchism is a political philosophy that advocates self-governed societies with voluntary institutions.\nThis list only deals with individual, self-identified anarchists who are musicians. Musicians who have not self-identified as anarchists are not included; nor are bands and music collectives who collectively identify as anarchist, although individual members thereof may be.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24561770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24561770", "title": "List of direct democracy parties", "text": "List of direct democracy parties\n\nThis is a list of direct democracy parties on the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Galicia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28911996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28911996", "title": "Manhae Prize", "text": "Manhae Prize\n\nThe Manhae Prize is a series of awards in the following categories: Peace, Social Service, Academic Excellence, Art, Literature, and Buddhist Missionary Work awarded by The Society for the Promotion and Practice of Manhae's Thoughts in memory of Buddhist reformer and anti-Japanese independence activist Han Yong-un (1879–1944).\n\nSelected awardees with Wikipedia entries:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11994001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11994001", "title": "Mark Maryboy", "text": "Mark Maryboy\n\nMark Maryboy (born December 10, 1955) was an American politician for San Juan County, Utah, and a former Navajo Nation Council Delegate for the Utah Navajo Section of the Navajo Tribe. He is the brother of Kenneth Maryboy who currently serves in the positions he once stood. Mark is of the Navajo Indian Tribe.\n\nMark Maryboy was also the San Juan County, Utah Commissioner for District Three who saw to the needs of the county's residents and the Utah Navajo Element. He made history when he was elected in 1986 as the first Native American county commissioner in Utah's history.\n\nRebecca M. Benally along with the former Navajo Nation Council Delegate Mark Maryboy and protesters from the Aneth Chapter Blocked the main ExxonMobil corporate office for three days in Aneth, Utah.\n\nMaryboy was born on December 10, 1955 at St. Christopher's mission near Bluff, Utah. He was the fifth of eight children, all of whom were raised in a Navajo hogan.\n\nMark attended BIA boarding schools in Kayenta and Aneth at varied times, even though it was hard for him to be separated from his parents during those periods. Government schools were difficult for him as there seemed to be a deliberate attempt to destroy the Indian person that he was. \n\nAngry and resentful because of harsh treatment, he ran away from boarding school while in third grade. His parents then enrolled him and his beloved brother, Herbert, in the public school at Bluff. They were the first reservation Navajo students to attend public school in San Juan County. \n\nUpon graduation from San Juan High School in Blanding, Utah he attended the University of Utah, majoring in history with a minor in business. He garnered a B.A. degree in 1978. \n\nSome time after graduation, he returned to the Navajo Reservation to put his talents to work to help his people. Working as the Director of Education for the Utah Navajo Development Council, he supervised Headstart, Adult Education, and vocational education programs. He created teacher training programs and a special class for teen mothers. \n\nNot alone in his endeavors, he married the engaging Rosylyn Johnson, who is also a graduate of the University of Utah and a State of Utah Social Worker on the reservation. They have one daughter who currently is attending a higher learning academy.\n\nOne hundred and thirty years after Native Americans were pushed to isolated reservations, the Navajo people of Utah reclaimed a place in the American political process. \n\nIn 1986, Maryboy, then age 31 and politically ambitious, ran for San Juan Commissioner. This was the first election after the county was divided by Justice Department decree into commissioner districts. He was elected a San Juan County Commissioner and became the first Native American to hold such a position in the state of Utah. \n\nAn elected official, he realized even greater inequities in services given to his Navajo constituents. The Navajo people were bringing in more money for the county than they were receiving back in services. He mixed it up with the other commissioners, often battling the always capable right-wing former Commissioner Calvin Black, the undisputed kingpin of San Juan County politics, during hotly contested commission meetings. \n\nMaryboy's four terms on the San Juan County Commission - particularly the first half-dozen years - were the subject of much press and the stuff of legend-making. His sword-crossing with the late commission chairman, Cal Black, spiked tensions across southern Utah as Maryboy fought for funding for roads, sanitation and water for Utah's Navajos.\n\nIn 1989 Navajo elders and other Democratic stalwarts determined to run a Navajo for every county post up for election. 56 percent of San Juan's population was Navajo at the time. The campaign aimed at getting tribal members to the polls was called \"Niha-Whol-Zhiizh\", meaning \"It's our turn.\" \n\nThe Democratic-Navajo plan fizzled. Maryboy won a second commission term, but was the only Navajo Indian elected.\n\nIn November 1990, he was elected to the Navajo Nation Council as a council delegate from the Aneth area. \n\nHe sat on the Advisory Board of the College of Social & Behavioral Science at the University of Utah. He is currently the chairman of the Navajo Nation Council Budget & Finance Committee. \n\nMaryboy met President Bill Clinton in 1992 at the Democratic National Convention at Madison Square Garden. Maryboy delivered a prayer in Navajo at one of the sessions. He was a delegate to the United Nations Conference for Indigenous peoples in Geneva, Switzerland in July 1992. He was appointed to serve on the Utah Advisory Committee for the United States Commission on Civil Rights in 1993. He was appointed by President Clinton to serve on the National Advisory Council on Indian Education in 1994.\n\nIn April 2006, Navajo Nation Council Speaker Lawrence T. Morgan faced a charge of criminal battery when he struck Council Delegate Mark.\n\nNavajo Council Speaker Morgan struck Maryboy in the chest after Maryboy made a complaint to the speaker that he didn't help Maryboy bring up legislation that had been skipped over earlier that day.\n\nThe item—formal condolences to the family of late Council Delegate \"Curley John\" of Aneth, whose family was in the gallery—was skipped because Maryboy was out of the Council Chambers dealing with Constituents.\n\nMaryboy tried later to put the item back on the agenda but was ruled out of order, the paper reported\n\nAneth Chapter members had demanded Morgan issue a public apology, following the bathroom scuffle, during one of Aneth's monthly chapter meetings in Utah. Speaker Morgan ignored the Aneth meeting, overall never presenting himself.\n\nThe Utah Navajo Commission manages revenues derived from mineral development on the Utah portion of the reservation for the Utah Navajos. The population of Utah Dine' is nearing 10,000 enrolled members. Mark Maryboy serves with this entity as well seeing to the deployment of monetary funds and the Navajo energy issues in San Juan County. \n\nIn 2002 he and the Utah Navajo Commission urged the Navajo Nation to reassert Colorado River water claims the tribe waived in the late 1960s to help facilitate a power plant near Page, Arizona.\n\nIn a resolution to the Navajo Nation Council this week, the Utah Navajo also urged the Navajo tribe's water attorney be fired and the tribe create an independent water commission to reform the tribe's water policy\n\nAccording to the Utah Navajo Commission, the tribe could claim between one and two million acre feet (2.5 km³) of Colorado River water, which potentially could be worth billions of dollars.\n\nMark always felt that it was long past time for the Navajo Nation to take aggressive and comprehensive action on the tribe's dormant water rights.\n\nThe council waived at least a portion of its rights in a 1968 agreement with the federal government and the Salt River Project, which planned to build a coal-fired power plant near Page.\n\nIn that deal, the council agreed not to demand more than of Colorado River water so that could be diverted to the plant.\n\nIn 1933, Congress created the Utah Navajo Trust Fund. It is unique in that the state was deemed the trustee-delegate for oil pumped from Navajo land. \n\nAccording to the law, 37.5 percent of royalties are supposed to go to Utah Navajos. But a 1991 report from the state found gross mismanagement. Some people were later indicted for misusing the trust fund\n\nNavajos living in nearby San Juan County in southeastern Utah have long protested the saturation of oil and gas wells around their homes. Mark and other Utah Navajos have long argued that the Navajo Nation returns little profit to Navajos living in desperate conditions in the Utah portion of tribal land. \n\nUtah Navajo allegations of corruption within the U.S. Interior gained support from an Interior whistleblower in 2003.\n\nIn 1997, local residents began the Aneth Oil Protest against Exxon-Mobil's Utah Navajo community policies. Protesters from the Aneth Chapter blocked the main ExxonMobil Corp. Office for 3 days at the McElmo Oil Plant near Aneth, Utah.\n\nFrom the start, the protest was made up of local Navajo people who were becoming increasingly angry at Exxon-Mobil's stance towards the environment and its hiring practices within the local communities. Many other national political activist organizations such as the American Indian Movement wanted to get involved with the protest. However, it was agreed to not include outside affiliates, which might result in losing the original meaning and message of the protest .\n\nFormer Navajo Nation president Albert Hale was also mobilized to the northernmost corner of the Navajo Nation where the protest was initiated. Mark, along with members of the Aneth Community, helped create a new standard for the Navajo workers working in the Aneth Oil area as well as the hiring process.\n\nHeeding to his father's wishes, he did not seek a fifth term on the council. \n\nMaryboy established Utah Navajo Health Systems in 1999 along with Donna Singer. Then he ramrodded tribal legislation that allows the agency to keep its profits, rather than return them to Window Rock. This remains a legacy for the policies Maryboy left.\n\nRecently Counsel Delegates Kenneth Maryboy, Davis Filfred, and Former Counsel Delegate Mark Maryboy have been actively working to ensure that the Aneth Oil Royalties stay with the Utah Navajo people.\n\nHowever such causes are not without competition, the Navajo Nation itself has been working counter to the Utah Navajo people in taking over the Aneth Oil Revenues. It presents a significant problem with a line of issues Kenneth is up against.\n\nOn June 16, 2008, Kenneth Maryboy, Mark Maryboy, Davis Filfred, and the honorable Phil Lyman of Blanding, Utah will travel to Washington, D.C. to present a working model of how an easy transition from the State of Utah handling Utah Navajo royalty money, to a functioning Utah Navajo organization before Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "31721472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31721472", "title": "Multicultural transruption", "text": "Multicultural transruption\n\nMulticultural transruptions are cultural differences that continue to resurface despite multiple efforts of the dominant group to acculturate minority cultures. Their mere presence challenges the hegemonic practices within mainstream national identity and creates an alternative discourse according to Barnor Hesse. Traditional notions of the definition of national identity and the cultures that are implied in this definition often deny or fail to incorporate minority cultures and ethnicities. Transruptions challenge the aspects of multiculturalism that tend to try and merge cultural differences into a single national identity. Transruptions are the result of such practices, which obscure the definition of national identity, bringing to light “the fact that racism [can be] an inherent quality of the national identity”. Transruptions are the response to dominant culture’s view of other cultures as inferior. Transruptions are “troubling and unsettling” to the national identity “because any acknowledgment of their incidence or significance within a discourse threatens the coherence or validity of that discourse”. Thus, national identity may begin to be reexamined with an awareness of the hegemonic practices it contains.\n\nIn order to understand multicultural transruptions, the distinction between multicultural and multicultural\"ism\" must be made. Multiculturalism is a political system of discourse characterized by the incorporation of differences and diverse ethnicities into one singular and absolute national identity. It has been discussed by Stuart Hall as a way to “manage diversity\". However, just as there is no one “correct” form of management, there is no one specific theory or view of multiculturalism. Some different forms of multiculturalism have been described as “conservative,” “liberal,” and “pluralist”. Each of these stems from a distinct political perspective and view of different cultures as having a positive or negative impact on society. Mainstream multiculturalism acknowledges the different cultures present yet attempts to merge them into a singular nationality that does not engage with cultural differences but erases them. The term multicultural on the other hand, refers to the actual cultural differences or “social characteristics of any culturally heterogeneous society”. Because multicultural refers to cultural differences, it automatically becomes associated with multiculturalism. The presence of cultural differences challenges multiculturalism’s attempts at managing diversity. Thus, in this sense, one can understand multicultural transruptions as challenges to multiculturalism’ s single national form through multicultural discrepancies.\n\nJean Muteba Rahier argues that the performance of the Ecuadorian national football team, which was made up of mostly Afro-Ecuadorian players, at the 2006 FIFA world cup was transruptive to the national race discourse. Ecuador’s popular national mestizaje identity, a form of multiculturalism that seeks to incorporate all races into one national identity, was challenged by the obvious presence of these black players as they became prominent representational figures of the nation through their athletic success. Afro-Ecuadorians, usually a marginalized and sometimes invisible component of Ecuadorian identity, were suddenly at the forefront of national consciousness. It “shook, for a little while, the Ecuadorian racial order and the foundation of conventional understandings of national identity and their attendant construction of Ecuadorian blacks as ultimate Others”. Though their athletic success did not ultimately change race relations in the country, it did bring the discourse of race, racism, and the construction of the Ecuadorian national identity to light, something usually obscured by popular notions of mestizaje identity.\n\nAs discussed in Suzanna Chan’s article, the Belfast-based Chinese Welfare Association decided to create two specific spaces for the Chinese diaspora. One was housing for the Chinese elderly and the other was a community and resource centre. The centre’s proposed location in the Protestant majority area of Donegall Pass was contested by many who felt that the centre would create more segregation within the community and hurt the local community centre’s use, among other things. One grave concern was that it would further shift the local identity from a Protestant ‘God’s little acre’ to ‘Belfast Chinatown’. Though the centre was eventually built in a different location, the discourse created through the proposal presented a multicultural transruption since it constituted a pursuit for an ‘ethnic space,’ challenging the Anglo concept of “neutral space”. The project transrupted the hegemonic concepts of local Protestant identity as well as national Protestant and Catholic identity by bringing to the forefront Chinese claims for a legitimate and socially acknowledged cultural space.\n"}
{"id": "240468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240468", "title": "National security", "text": "National security\n\nNational security refers to the security of a nation state, including its citizens, economy, and institutions, and is regarded as a duty of government.\n\nOriginally conceived as protection against military attack, national security is now widely understood to include non-military dimensions, including economic security, energy security, environmental security, food security, cyber security etc. Similarly, national security risks include, in addition to the actions of other nation states, action by violent non-state actors, narcotic cartels, and multinational corporations, and also the effects of natural disasters.\n\nGovernments rely on a range of measures, including political, economic, and military power, as well as diplomacy to enforce national security. They may also act to build the conditions of security regionally and internationally by reducing transnational causes of insecurity, such as climate change, economic inequality, political exclusion, and nuclear proliferation.\n\nThe concept of national security remains ambiguous, having evolved from simpler definitions which emphasised freedom from military threat and from political coercion. Among the many definitions proposed to date are the following, which show how the concept has evolved to encompass non-military concerns:\n\nPotential causes of national insecurity include actions by other states (e.g. military or cyber attack), violent non-state actors (e.g. terrorist attack), organised criminal groups such as narcotic cartels, and also the effects of natural disasters (e.g. flooding, earthquakes). Systemic drivers of insecurity, which may be transnational, include climate change, economic inequality and marginalisation, political exclusion, and militarisation.\n\nIn view of the wide range of risks, the security of a nation state has several dimensions, including economic security, energy security, physical security, environmental security, food security, border security, and cyber security. These dimensions correlate closely with elements of national power.\n\nIncreasingly, governments organise their security policies into a national security strategy (NSS); as of 2017, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States are among the states to have done so. Some states also appoint a National Security Council to oversee the strategy and/or a National Security Advisor.\n\nAlthough states differ in their approach, with some beginning to prioritise non-military action to tackle systemic drivers of insecurity, various forms of coercive power predominate, particularly military capabilities. The scope of these capabilities has developed. Traditionally, military capabilities were mainly land- or sea-based, and in smaller countries they still are. Elsewhere, the domains of potential warfare now include the air, space, cyberspace, and psychological operations. Military capabilities designed for these domains may be used for national security, or equally for offensive purposes, for example to conquer and annex territory and resources.\n\nIn practice, national security is associated primarily with managing physical threats and with the military capabilities used for doing so. That is, national security is often understood as the capacity of a nation to mobilise military forces to guarantee its borders and to deter or successfully defend against physical threats including military aggression and attacks by non-state actors, such as terrorism. Most states, such as South Africa and Sweden, configure their military forces mainly for territorial defence; others, such as France, Russia, the UK and the US, invest in higher-cost expeditionary capabilities, which allow their armed forces to project power and sustain military operations abroad.\n\nBarry Buzan, Ole Wæver, Jaap de Wilde and others have argued that national security depends on political security: the stability of the social order. Others, such as Paul Rogers, have added that the equitability of the international order is equally vital. Hence, political security depends on the rule of international law (including the laws of war), the effectiveness of international political institutions, as well as diplomacy and negotiation between nations and other security actors. It also depends on, among other factors, effective political inclusion of disaffected groups and the human security of the citizenry.\n\nEconomic security, in the context of international relations, is the ability of a nation state to maintain and develop the national economy, without which other dimensions of national security cannot be managed. In larger countries, strategies for economic security expect to access resources and markets in other countries, and to protect their own markets at home. Developing countries may be less secure than economically advanced states due to high rates of unemployment and underpaid work.\n\nEcological security, also known as environmental security, refers to the integrity of ecosystems and the biosphere, particularly in relation to their capacity to sustain a diversity of life-forms (including human life). The security of ecosystems has attracted greater attention as the impact of ecological damage by humans has grown. The degradation of ecosystems, including topsoil erosion, deforestation, biodiversity loss, and climate change, affect economic security and can precipitate mass migration, leading to increased pressure on resources elsewhere.\n\nThe scope and nature of environmental threats to national security and strategies to engage them are a subject of debate. Romm (1993) classifies the major impacts of ecological changes on national security as:\n\nResources include water, sources of energy, land and minerals. Availability of adequate natural resources is important for a nation to develop its industry and economic power. For example, in the Persian Gulf War of 1991, Iraq captured Kuwait partly in order to secure access to its oil wells, and one reason for the US counter-invasion was the value of the same wells to its own economy. Water resources are subject to disputes between many nations, including India and Pakistan, and in the Middle East.\n\nThe interrelations between security, energy, natural resources, and their sustainability is increasingly acknowledged in national security strategies and resource security is now included among the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In the US, for example, the military has installed solar photovoltaic microgrids on their bases in case of power outage.\n\nComputer security, also known as cybersecurity or IT security, refers to the security of computing devices such as computers and smartphones, as well as computer networks such as private and public networks, and the Internet. It concerns the protection of hardware, software, data, people, and also the procedures by which systems are accessed, and the field has growing importance due to the increasing reliance on computer systems in most societies. Since unauthorized access to critical civil and military infrastructure is now considered a major threat, cyberspace is now recognised as a domain of warfare.\n\nInfrastructure security is the security provided to protect infrastructure, especially critical infrastructure, such as airports, highways rail transport, hospitals, bridges, transport hubs, network communications, media, the electricity grid, dams, power plants, seaports, oil refineries, and water systems. Infrastructure security seeks to limit vulnerability of these structures and systems to sabotage, terrorism, and contamination.\n\nMany countries have established government agencies to directly manage the security of critical infrastructure usually through the Ministry of Interior/Home Affairs, dedicated security agencies to protect facilities such as United States Federal Protective Service, and also dedicated transport police such as the British Transport Police. There are also commercial transportation security units such as the Amtrak Police in the United States. Critical infrastructure is vital for the essential functioning of a country. Incidental or deliberate damage can have a serious impact on the economy and essential services. Some of the threats to infrastructure include:\n\n\nThe dimensions of national security outlined above are frequently in tension with one another. For example:\nIf tensions such as these are not managed effectively, national security policies and actions may be ineffective or counterproductive.\n\nIncreasingly, national security strategies have begun to recognise that nations cannot provide for their own security without also developing the security of their regional and international context. For example, Sweden's national security strategy of 2017 declared:\"Wider security measures must also now encompass protection against epidemics and infectious diseases, combating terrorism and organised crime, ensuring safe transport and reliable food supplies, protecting against energy supply interruptions, countering devastating climate change, initiatives for peace and global development, and much more.\"\n\nThe extent to which this matters, and how it should be done, is the subject of debate. Some argue that the principal beneficiary of national security policy should be the nation state itself, which should centre its strategy on protective and coercive capabilities in order to safeguard itself in a hostile environment (and potentially to project that power into its environment, and dominate it to the point of strategic supremacy). Others argue that security depends principally on building the conditions in which equitable relationships between nations can develop, partly by reducing antagonism between actors, ensuring that fundamental needs can be met, and also that differences of interest can be negotiated effectively. In the UK, for example, Malcolm Chalmers argued in 2015 that the heart of the UK's approach should be support for the Western strategic military alliance led through NATO by the United States, as \"the key anchor around which international order is maintained\". The Ammerdown Group argued in 2016 that the UK should shift its primary focus to building international cooperation to tackle the systemic drivers of insecurity, including climate change, economic inequality, militarisation and the political exclusion of the world's poorest people.\n\nApproaches to national security can have a complex impact on human rights and civil liberties. For example, the rights and liberties of citizens are affected by the use of military personnel and militarised police forces to control public behaviour; the use of surveillance including mass surveillance in cyberspace; military recruitment and conscription practices; and the effects of warfare on civilians and civil infrastructure. This has led to a dialectical struggle, particularly in liberal democracies, between government authority and the rights and freedoms of the general public.\n\nEven where the exercise of national security is subject to good governance and the rule of law, a risk remains that the term \"national security\" may be become a pretext for suppressing unfavorable political and social views. In the US, for example, the controversial USA Patriot Act of 2001, and the revelation by Edward Snowden in 2013 that the National Security Agency harvests the personal data of the general public, brought these issues to wide public attention. Among the questions raised are whether and how national security considerations at times of war should lead to the suppression of individual rights and freedoms, and whether such restrictions are necessary when a state is not at war.\n\nNational Security ideology as taught by the US Army School of the Americas to military personnel were vital in causing the military coup of 1964. The military dictatorship was installed on the claim by military that Leftists were an existential threat to the national interests.\n\nChina's Armed Forces are known as the People's Liberation Army (PLA). The military is sizeable with 2.3 million active troops in 2005.\n\nThe Ministry of State Security was established in 1983 to ensure “the security of the state through effective measures against enemy agents, spies, and counterrevolutionary activities designed to sabotage or overthrow China’s socialist system.”\n\nMuslim separatists in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region are China's most significant domestic threat.\n\nIn the years 1997 and 2000, Russia adopted documents titled \"National Security Concept\" that described Russia's global position, the country's interests, listed threats to national security and described the means to counter those threats. In 2009, these documents were superseded by the \"National Security Strategy to 2020\". The key body responsible for coordination of policies related to Russia's national security is the Security Council of Russia.\n\nAccording to provision 6 of the \"National Security Strategy to 2020\", national security is \"the situation in which the individual, the society and the state enjoy protection from foreign and domestic threats to the degree that ensures constitutional rights and freedoms, decent quality of life for citizens, as well as sovereignty, territorial integrity and stable development of the Russian Federation, the defense and security of the state.\"\n\nThe primary body responsible for coordinating national security policy in the UK is the National Security Council (United Kingdom). It was created in May 2010 by the new coalition government of the Conservative Party (UK) and Liberal Democrats. The National Security Council is a committee of the Cabinet of the United Kingdom and was created as part of a wider reform of the national security apparatus. This reform also included the creation of a National Security Adviser (United Kingdom) and a National Security Secretariat to support the National Security Council.\n\nThe concept of national security became an official guiding principle of foreign policy in the United States when the National Security Act of 1947 was signed on July 26, 1947 by U.S. President Harry S. Truman. As amended in 1949, this Act:\n\nNotably, the Act did \"not\" define national security, which was conceivably advantageous, as its ambiguity made it a powerful phrase to invoke whenever issues threatened by other interests of the state, such as domestic concerns, came up for discussion and decision.\n\nThe notion that national security encompasses more than just military security was present, though understated, from the beginning. The Act established the National Security Council so as to \"advise the President on the integration of domestic, military and foreign policies relating to national security\".\n\nWhile not defining the \"interests\" of national security, the Act does establish, within the National Security Council, the \"Committee on Foreign Intelligence\", whose duty is to conduct an annual review \"identifying the intelligence required to address the national security interests of the United States \"as specified by the President\"\" (emphasis added).\n\nIn Gen. Maxwell Taylor's 1974 essay \"The Legitimate Claims of National Security\", Taylor states:\n\nThe U.S. Armed Forces defines national security of the United States in the following manner :\nIn 2010, the White House included an all-encompassing world-view in a national security strategy which identified \"security\" as one of the country's \"four enduring national interests\" that were \"inexorably intertwined\":\n\nU.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has said that \"The countries that threaten regional and global peace are the very places where women and girls are deprived of dignity and opportunity\". She has noted that countries where women are oppressed are places where the \"rule of law and democracy are struggling to take root\", and that, when women's rights as equals in society are upheld, the society as a whole changes and improves, which in turn enhances stability in that society, which in turn contributes to global society.\n\nIn the United States, the Bush Administration in January 2008, initiated the Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative (CNCI). It introduced a differentiated approach, such as: identifying existing and emerging cybersecurity threats, finding and plugging existing cyber vulnerabilities, and apprehending actors that trying to gain access to secure federal information systems. President Obama issued a declaration that the \"cyber threat is one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face as a nation\" and that \"America's economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on cybersecurity.\"\n\nTo reflect on institutionalization of new bureaucratic infrastructures and governmental practices in the post-World War II period in the U.S., when a culture of semi-permanent military mobilization brought around the National Security Council, the CIA, the Department of Defense, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, national-security researchers apply a notion of a \"national security state\":\n\nConceptualising and understanding the National Security choices and challenges of African States is a difficult task. This is due to the fact that it is often not rooted in the understanding of their (mostly disrupted) state formation and their often imported process of state building.\n\nAlthough Post-Cold War conceptualizations of Security have broadened, the policies and practices of many African states still privilege national security as being synonymous with state security and even more narrowly- regime security.\n\nThe problem with the above is that a number of African states have been unable to govern their security in meaningful ways. Often failing to be able to claim the monopoly of force in their territories. A hybridity of security ‘governance’ or ‘providers’ thus exists. States that have not been able to capture this reality in official National Security strategies and policies often find their claim over having the monopoly of force and thus being the Sovereign challenged. This often leads to the weakening of the state. Examples of such states are South Sudan and Somalia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11052638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11052638", "title": "No quarter", "text": "No quarter\n\nIn war, a victor gives no quarter (or takes no prisoners) when the victor shows no clemency or mercy and refuses to spare the life of a vanquished opponent in return for their surrender at discretion (unconditional surrender). In some circumstances, the opposing forces would signal their intention to give no quarter by using a red flag; however, the use of a red flag to signal no quarter does not appear to have been universal among combatants.\n\nUnder the modern laws of war, \"it is especially forbidden ... to declare that no quarter will be given\". This was established under Article 23 (d) of the 1907 Hague Convention \"IV – The Laws and Customs of War on Land\". \n\nSince a judgment on the law relating to war crimes and crimes against humanity at the Nuremberg Trials in October 1946, the 1907 Hague Convention, including the explicit prohibition to declare that no quarter will be given, is considered to be part of the customary laws of war and binding on all parties in an international armed conflict.\n\nThe term may originate from an order by the commander of a victorious army that they \"will not quarter (house)\" captured enemy combatants. Therefore, none can be taken prisoner and all enemy combatants must be killed. A second derivation, given equal prominence in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (\"OED\"), is that quarter (n.17) can mean \"Relations with, or conduct towards, another\" as in Shakespeare Oth. II. iii. 180, \"Friends all..In Quarter, and in termes like Bride, and Groome.\" So \"no quarter\" may also mean refusal to enter into an agreement (relations) with an enemy attempting to surrender. The \"OED\" mentions a third possible derivation but says \"The assertion of De Brieux (1672 \"\", 16) that it arose in an agreement between the Dutch and Spaniards, by which the ransom of an officer or private was to be a quarter of his pay, is at variance with the constant sense of the phrases give and receive quarter.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38634466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38634466", "title": "Nubian Nile Party", "text": "Nubian Nile Party\n\nThe Nubian Nile Party is a political party that emphasizes issues that pertain to the Nubian community.\n"}
{"id": "14505361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14505361", "title": "Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question", "text": "Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question\n\nThe essay \"Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question\" was written by the Scottish essayist Thomas Carlyle about the acceptability of using black slaves and indentured servants. It was first anonymously published as an article in \"Fraser's Magazine for Town and Country\" of London in December, 1849, and was reprinted as a pamphlet four years later with the title, \"Occasional Discourse on the Nigger Question\". The essay was the spark of a debate between Carlyle and John Stuart Mill.\n\nIt was in this essay that Carlyle first introduced the phrase \"the dismal science\" to characterize the field of economics.\n\nThe article began as a devil's advocate work with the aim of challenging what Carlyle perceived to be a hypocritical philanthropic movement for the emancipation of West Indian slaves. Although the slave trade had been abolished in the British colonies by 1807, and in the British Empire by 1833, the USA, Cuba and Brazil continued to use slaves for economic advantage after 1838. In its original publication, Carlyle presented it as a speech \"delivered by we know not whom\" written down by an unreliable reporter by the name of \"Phelin M'Quirk\" (the fictitious \"Absconded Reporter\"). The manuscript was supposedly sold to the publisher by M'Quirk's landlady in lieu of unpaid rent – she found it lying in his room after he ran off.\n\nIn its 1849 publication, a fictitious speaker makes various controversial points ranging from insults about the appearance and intelligence of black Africans to radical alternative solutions to the slavery problem. These are probably opinions that Carlyle had gathered from the British under-class and from upper-class plantation owners, such as his friend John Sterling, and some of the other supporters of slavery he met in London, all fused into one. It brings the contemporary reader into the feelings and controversies of the time. The present-day reader might find some of the facts and figures hard to believe. The speaker suggests that the conditions on most slave ships are not nearly as awful as the worst reported, and that many countries aside from Britain were involved in the slave trade, so that trying to stop it would be impossible. Additionally, he proposes that rather than simply setting slaves free, into a world of which they have little understanding, slave owners should be obliged to look after them like members of their families, by caring for them into old age. \n\nThroughout the delivery of the speech to the public, M'Quirk reports that members of the audience got up and left in disgust, suggesting how Carlyle expected the essay would be received. Just as he had expected, the work met with widespread disapproval, and in the minds of many people, Carlyle's reputation was forever tarnished. Carlyle's closest friends criticized him for his stand, but rather than back down he grew contrary and isolated. In later publications, the M'Quirk framework was entirely omitted, and Carlyle expressed the opinions as if they were his own.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill's reply, in the next issue of \"Fraser's Magazine\", under the title, \"The Negro question\" was also published anonymously.\n\n"}
{"id": "3225009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3225009", "title": "Optional preferential voting", "text": "Optional preferential voting\n\nOptional preferential voting (OPV) is a type of preferential voting system under which voters may choose to mark a preference for one candidate (effectively voting as though it were a first-past-the-post election), all candidates or any number of candidates in between. Although complete numbering is not required under the OPV system (effectively full-preferential voting, also known as Instant-runoff voting (IRV)), single-preference voters may be required to use a '1' rather than a tick or cross. Some jurisdictions allow ticks or crosses as the voter's intention is clear.\n\nOPV is used in elections in New South Wales and the Northern Territory, Australia. It was used in Queensland from 1992 to 2015.\n\nIn both the Tasmanian House of Assembly and the Tasmanian Legislative Council, \"semi-optional\" voting is used, with a minimum number of preferences required to be expressed; but there is no requirement to complete the entire ballot paper. All other Australian lower house elections are use full-preferential voting, where a preference for every candidate must be indicated for the vote to be counted. \n\nIn the Victorian Legislative Council, semi-optional voting is used if a voter chooses to vote below the line.\n\nThe Australian Senate voting reform of 2016 switched from full-preferential voting to semi-optional. A minimum number is specified in the instructions on the ballot paper. Since in the past a single number '1' above the line was formal, that is still a valid vote even though voters are encouraged to number six squares.\n\nIn other countries, such as Malta, the Republic of Ireland, and Northern Ireland, full preferences are not required.\n\nThe \"ranked-choice voting\" system used by Maine, USA, can be considered optional-preferential as voters are allowed to rank just one candidate. The system also allows voters to \"skip\" one ranking (e.g. marking a first choice and a third choice, but not a second choice). In that case, the next ranking would be advanced to the next highest ranking.\n"}
{"id": "16221356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16221356", "title": "OssaTron", "text": "OssaTron\n\nThe OssaTron is a high energy shock wave system that provides a non-surgical alternative for patients diagnosed with chronic proximal plantar fasciopathy (severe heel pain), usually referred to as fasciitis. Using a unique process known as Orthotripsy, the OssaTron emits shock waves, similar to those used to treat kidney stones, in an attempt to increase blood flow and stimulate healing of the affected heel.\n\nThe OssaTron is the first shock wave unit developed especially for orthopaedic applications. The OssaTron covers a range of orthopaedic indications suitable for Shock Wave Technology. It is marketed as the only Extracorporeal Shock Wave Technology (ESWT) system approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of multiple orthopaedic conditions. The OssaTron is currently FDA approved to treat chronic plantar fasciitis (heel pain) and chronic lateral epicondylitis (tennis elbow) when these conditions have failed to respond to conservative treatments.\n\nOnce anesthesia has been administered, high viscosity ultrasound gel is applied to the area experiencing pain (target tissue). The gel promotes shock wave conductance, enhancing treatment effectiveness. The Ossatron Application Technician then activates the shock wave via the shock wave release hand piece on the console.\n\nIt is recommended after treatment that the patient restrict \"stressful activity\" such as jogging, heavy housework or yard work, and participating in sports for four weeks. Pain relief begins for patients at different times. For some patients it is immediate; for others it may take four weeks. The full effect of the OssaTron procedure may not be realized until the twelfth week following treatment. If relief has not been achieved at this point, a second OssaTron procedure may be recommended by the patient's physician.\n\nA class action lawsuit settlement approved by a federal judge suggests that the manufacturer of the Ossatron made material misrepresentations and/or omitted to make material disclosures concerning the efficiency, testing and market acceptance of the OssaTron. According to the lawsuit the manufacturer failed to disclose to investors that some of its own tests failed to support its statements that the OssaTron was more effective, safer and less costly than alternative, nonsurgical treatments for heel pain and that serious questions existed among the medical community concerning the effectiveness of extracorporeal shock wave treatment (ESWT) for heel pain. See \"Thomas v. HealthTronics Surgical Services, et al.\". US District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Civil Case No. 03-cv-2800.\n"}
{"id": "32786797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32786797", "title": "Peasants Party of Serbia", "text": "Peasants Party of Serbia\n\nThe Peasants Party of Serbia ( or \"Seljačka stranka Srbije\") was a political party in Serbia.\n\nIt was founded on 26 October 1990 in Kragujevac by Milomir Babić at which point it was called the Party of the Serbian Peasants Union. In the 1990 legislative election, it won 1,1% and 2 seats in two districts. The elected MPs were Milomir Babić in Desimirovac and Ljubomir Dodić in Milutovac. In the 1992 legislative election it won 2,7% and 3 seats.\n\nDuring 1993 the PPS was part of the DEPOS. However, it decided to run in the 1993 election alone in November 1993.\n\nIn 1996 Živko Selaković was elected party president. In the 1997 election it was part of an alliance around the Democratic Alternative headed by Nebojša Čović and won no seats. \n\nTwo splinter groups led by Radosav Drezgić from Dublje and Ljubomir Dodić from Milutovac ran in the 1997 election independently from Selaković's PPS. Drezgić's group won 0.05% running only in Šabac independently, and Dodić's group won 0.04% running only in Kruševac in coalition with Paroški's People's Party. Neither won any seats.\n\nIn the 2000 election the PPS was part of the Party of Serbian Unity list and won one seat, awarded to Živko Selaković. \n\nOn 23 January 2003 it formed a new parliamentary group \"Serbia\" with the United Pensioners' Party and three former members of New Serbia. One day later, the UPP withdrew from the parliamentary group. It was later joined by the People's Peasant Party, which was expelled from the Vojvodina Coalition. On 9 February 2003 a bomb was set outside Selaković's family home in Žarkovo. Allegedly, he had been receiving threats from Party of Serbian Unity leaders Borislav Pelević and Dragan Marković Palma. Pelević denied threatening Selaković and condemned the attack.\n\nOn 8 October 2003, after a meeting with delegates from the Democratic Party headed by Gordana Čomić, Selaković stated that the PPS supported the government in \"achieving its goals regarding reform\".\n\nIn the 2003 election, Živko Selaković ran on the Labour Party of Serbia list, led by the then Minister of Labour Dragan Milovanović. The list won 0,1% and no seats. Another fraction of the party led by Milomir Babić, under the name Peasants Party ( or \"Seljačka stranka\"), ran on the Independent Serbia list, which won 1,2% and no seats.\n\nOn 30 December 2009 the PPS merged into the Social Democratic Party of Serbia and ceased to exist.\n"}
{"id": "8116032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8116032", "title": "Primeira Linha", "text": "Primeira Linha\n\nPrimeira Linha (First Line in Galician language) was a communist organization which is part of the Galician Movement of National Liberation, which seeks, \"to overcome the concrete national and social oppression imposed by capitalism on Galicia, in order to contribute to the worldwide construction of a communist society.\"\n\nPrimeira Linha was formed in Galicia, in 1996, with the objective of organizing the independentist and communist groups which were within the Galician Nationalist Bloc (BNG). Primeira Linha remained a part of the BNG, but was in constant conflict with the current controlling power, the Galician People's Union.\n\nDuring this time, Primeira Linha was working with other militant organizations, such as ANA-ANOC and CAF, among others. In 1998, Primeira Linha held its first congress. Given the contradictions and conflicts resulting from the political work within the Galician Nationalist Bloc, Primeira Linha members resolved to leave the Nationalist Bloc in 1999, after the majority decision was made at their second congress.\n\nIn its quarterly publication, \"Abrente\", Primeira Linha explained that, \"An unbreathable climate of harassment was obstructing our political work, it was forcing us to use vast energies and resources in mere defense.\"\n\nThe second congress also set forth a policy of unity and collaboration with other independentist organizations outside the Galician Nationalist Block. They allied with the AMI and the FPG, with the goal of forming an organic whole.\n\nThey called this conglomeration the National Unit Commission of the Independentist Left, a dynamic unit which broke apart in 2000 because of differing expectations from each organization. That same year, Primeira Linha participated in the creation of \"Popular Regional Meetings\", which formed the precedent for the \"Processo Espiral\", which led to the creation, in 2001, of NÓS-Unidade Popular.\n\nPrimeira Linha has been doing political work in the heart of Nós-Unidade Popular since 2001, and has also participated in youth organizations, independent student organizations, and feminist, cultural and trade unions.\n\nIn 2002, Primeira Linha held its third congress, in which the members defined the organization's theoretical model of socialism, and worked out, \"the essential composition and working direction of the movement for Galicia's national liberation\", rejecting the traditional inter-class formula used by earlier nationalist organizations. Primeira Linha also affirmed that, \"the morphology of classes in Galicia is more similar to that of advanced capitalist societies than of the so-called Third World.\n\nGiving priority to their work within larger entities and other sectors of the Galician national left, Primeira Linha maintains several publications supporting its own initiatives. Since 1996, Primeira Linha has published its quarterly newspaper, \"Abrente\", which already exceedes fifty editions. In its editorial stamp, \"Abrente Editora\", numerous titles were published, as well some Marxist classics previously unpublished in Galicia, and other works of Galician authors.\n\nPrimeira Linha has also been organizing the annual Galician Independentist Conference for the last ten years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12178672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12178672", "title": "Sejong City", "text": "Sejong City\n\nSejong (; ), officially Sejong Special Autonomous City () and formerly known as Yeongi () County is South Korea's central administrative city. In early 2007, the South Korean government created a special administrative district from parts of South Chungcheong Province and North Chungcheong Province provinces, near Daejeon, to relocate nine ministries and four national agencies from Seoul. The new offices opened on 2 July 2012, with 36 government agencies slated to move there by 2015.\n\nSejong was named in honor of the Joseon Dynasty King Sejong the Great, the father of Korea's national alphabet. The city was originally called Yeongi County ().\n\nIn 2003, former President Roh Moo-hyun of the Democratic Party (now Together Democratic Party) sought to relocate the national capital of South Korea from the metropolitan city of Seoul to a new multifunctional administrative city in the centre of the country. The goal was to reduce the influence and dominance of Seoul on national governance and economics, whilst promoting the regional development of other areas of the country. According to former Home Administration Minister Maeng Hyung-gyu in 2012, “Sejong is a symbol of the country’s efforts toward more balanced regional development,” helping to decongest Seoul and spur investment in the country’s central region.\n\nIn October 2004, the Constitutional Court dealt a setback to President Roh's plans, ruling that the capital must remain in Seoul in response to a complaint filed by the main opposition Grand National Party (now Liberty Korea Party). As such, the Roh administration was forced to modify the project to relocate the majority of ministries and government institutes to Sejong, which would become a special administrative city instead of a new capital. The revised plan was approved by the parliament in March 2005. Challenges to the new plan were rejected by the Constitutional Court in November 2005.\n\nWhen the Conservative Grand National Party retook the presidential office in 2008, President Lee Myung-bak opposed the idea of moving government agencies, claiming that it would hurt the capital’s global competitiveness and result in inefficiency. Plans were made to make Sejong an industrial, science and education hub instead. This plan was opposed by many, including Roh’s allies and some members of the ruling Grand National Party, including Lee’s archrival and eventual successor Park Geun-hye. Defeat in the mid-2010 local elections forced Lee to present the proposal to the National Assembly, which voted them down.\n\nAs of 2014, 36 central government offices, including nine ministries, and 16 state-run organisations have moved into the city. However, the national assembly and many important government bodies are still in Seoul.\n\nIn July 2012 Sejong was created incorporating all of Yeongi County, three townships of Gongju and one township of Cheongwon County.\n\nIn April 2013 the government of Putrajaya, Malaysia signed a letter of intent (LOI) with the government of Sejong City to mark cooperation between the two cities.\n\nSejong is located between three other major Korean cities: Daejeon, Cheonan and Cheongju. It is about from Seoul, and is notably further from the DMZ in the event of a North Korean attack.\n\nAs of 2012 much of the city was under construction. The residential area, by 2012, had several high-rises built for transferees. At that time the residential area was cordoned off from much of the under-development governmental area and had some restaurants, six schools, and one grocery store.\n\nThe 9 haengjeong-dong and Jochiwon-eup is the city main urban center. Sejong is divided into 9 \"haengjeong-dong\" (administrative neighborhood), 1 \"eup\" (town) and 9 \"myeon\" (townships).\n\n\nThe city aimed to have a population of 200,000 in 2012, 300,000 by 2020 and 500,000 by 2030. As of 2017, Sejong had a population of 281,120.\n\n, Sejong had a higher proportion of children compared to the South Korean average.\n\nThe South Korean government plans to move 36 government ministries and agencies to Sejong City.\n\nGovernment Complex Sejong is located in Sejong City. The complex, on a plot of land, has seven stories and one basement. Construction began in November 2011 in what was South Chungcheong Province, and the complex was completed on November 16, 2013. The ceremony to mark the movement of several government agencies to the complex occurred on December 23, 2013.\n\nGovernment Complex Sejong includes the head offices of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport (MOLIT), the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE), the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism (MCST), the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs (MAFRA), and the Ministry of Employment and Labor (MOEL).\n\nSeveral MOLIT agencies, the Korea Office of Civil Aviation (KOCA), the Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal (KMST), and the Aviation and Railway Accident Investigation Board (ARAIB), have their headquarters in Government Complex Sejong.\n\nThe South Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare is also located in Sejong City.\n\nUniversities\n\nSenior high schools\n\nSejong is also served by Cheongju International Airport in Cheongju, the nearest airport to Sejong.\n\nSejong is centrally located on Gyeongbu Line operated by Korail. It's a 90 minute journey on the Mugunghwa-ho to Seoul and trains run approximately every 30 minutes. Also just outside Jochiwon-eup limits in Osong, Cheongwon has a new KTX station Osong Station which is a Korea Train Express bullet train that frequently travels .\n\nThe 2015 tvN television series \"Let's Eat 2\" is based in Sejong city. During the month of April, various Sejong Spring Festival festivals will be held in various places in the city such as cherry blossoms, peach blossoms, and flower arrangements. Open the 7th cherry blossom festival. On the 14th, we will hold the 'Daehwangang and Ewha Rangwang Hanmadang' on the theme of peach blossoms and flower blossoms. The 2018 Peace Spring Flower Festival of the Sejong Restoration Center will be held under the sponsorship of the Jochiwon, Peach Festival Promotion Committee. It was prepared as a five-sensory satisfaction program to enjoy and enjoy nature such as peach flower, pear flower, rape blossom, and to escape from the performance-oriented festival method.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29269", "title": "Self-determination", "text": "Self-determination\n\nThe right of a people to self-determination is a cardinal principle in modern international law (commonly regarded as a \"jus cogens\" rule), binding, as such, on the United Nations as authoritative interpretation of the Charter's norms. It states that a people, based on respect for the principle of equal rights and fair equality of opportunity, have the right to freely choose their sovereignty and international political status with no interference.\n\nThe concept was first expressed in the 1860s, and spread rapidly thereafter. During and after World War I, the principle was encouraged by both Vladimir Lenin and United States President Woodrow Wilson. Having announced his Fourteen Points on 8 January 1918, on 11 February 1918 Wilson stated: \"National aspirations must be respected; people may now be dominated and governed only by their own consent. 'Self determination' is not a mere phrase; it is an imperative principle of action.\"\n\nDuring World War II, the principle was included in the Atlantic Charter, signed on 14 August 1941, by Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States, and Winston Churchill, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, who pledged The Eight Principal points of the Charter. It was recognized as an international legal right after it was explicitly listed as a right in the UN Charter.\n\nThe principle does not state how the decision is to be made, nor what the outcome should be, whether it be independence, federation, protection, some form of autonomy or full assimilation. Neither does it state what the delimitation between peoples should be—nor what constitutes a people. There are conflicting definitions and legal criteria for determining which groups may legitimately claim the right to self-determination.\n\nBy extension the term self-determination has come to mean the free choice of one's own acts without external compulsion.\n\nThe employment of imperialism, through the expansion of empires, and the concept of political sovereignty, as developed after the Treaty of Westphalia, also explain the emergence of self-determination during the modern era. During, and after, the Industrial Revolution many groups of people recognized their shared history, geography, language, and customs. Nationalism emerged as a uniting ideology not only between competing powers, but also for groups that felt subordinated or disenfranchised inside larger states; in this situation, self-determination can be seen as a reaction to imperialism. Such groups often pursued independence and sovereignty over territory, but sometimes a different sense of autonomy has been pursued or achieved.\n\nThe world possessed several traditional, continental empires such as the Ottoman, Russian, Austrian/Habsburg, and the Qing Empire. Political scientists often define competition in Europe during the Modern Era as a balance of power struggle, which also induced various European states to pursue colonial empires, beginning with the Spanish and Portuguese, and later including the British, French, Dutch, and German.\nDuring the early 19th century, competition in Europe produced multiple wars, most notably the Napoleonic Wars. After this conflict, the British Empire became dominant and entered its \"imperial century\", while nationalism became a powerful political ideology in Europe.\n\nLater, after the Franco-Prussian War in 1870, \"New Imperialism\" was unleashed with France and later Germany establishing colonies in Asia, the Pacific, and Africa. Japan also emerged as a new power. Multiple theaters of competition developed across the world:\n\n\nThe Ottoman Empire, Austrian Empire, Russian Empire, Qing Empire and the new Empire of Japan maintained themselves, often expanding or contracting at the expense of another empire. All ignored notions of self-determination for those governed.\n\nThe revolt of New World British colonists in North America, during the mid-1770s, has been seen as the first assertion of the right of national and democratic self-determination, because of the explicit invocation of natural law, the natural rights of man, as well as the consent of, and sovereignty by, the people governed; these ideas were inspired particularly by John Locke's enlightened writings of the previous century. Thomas Jefferson further promoted the notion that the will of the people was supreme, especially through authorship of the United States Declaration of Independence which inspired Europeans throughout the 19th century. The French Revolution was motivated similarly and legitimatized the ideas of self-determination on that Old World continent.\n\nWithin the New World during the early 19th century, most of the nations of Spanish America achieved independence from Spain. The United States supported that status, as policy in the hemisphere relative to European colonialism, with the Monroe Doctrine. The American public, organized associated groups, and Congressional resolutions, often supported such movements, particularly the Greek War of Independence (1821–29) and the demands of Hungarian revolutionaries in 1848. Such support, however, never became official government policy, due to balancing of other national interests. After the American Civil War and with increasing capability, the United States government did not accept self-determination as a basis during its Purchase of Alaska and attempted purchase of the West Indian islands of Saint Thomas and Saint John in the 1860s, or its growing influence in the Hawaiian Islands, that led to annexation in 1898. With its victory in the Spanish–American War in 1899 and its growing stature in the world, the United States supported annexation of the former Spanish colonies of Guam, Puerto Rico and the Philippines, without the consent of their peoples, and it retained \"quasi-suzerainty\" over Cuba, as well.\n\nNationalist sentiments emerged inside the traditional empires including: Pan-Slavism in Russia; Ottomanism, Kemalist ideology and Arab nationalism in the Ottoman Empire; State Shintoism and Japanese identity in Japan; and Han identity in juxtaposition to the Manchurian ruling class in China. Meanwhile, in Europe itself there was a rise of nationalism, with nations such as Greece, Hungary, Poland and Bulgaria seeking or winning their independence.\n\nKarl Marx supported such nationalism, believing it might be a \"prior condition\" to social reform and international alliances. In 1914 Vladimir Lenin wrote: \"[It] would be wrong to interpret the right to self-determination as meaning anything but the right to existence as a separate state.\"\n\nWoodrow Wilson revived America's commitment to self-determination, at least for European states, during World War I. When the Bolsheviks came to power in Russia in November 1917, they called for Russia's immediate withdrawal as a member of the Allies of World War I. They also supported the right of all nations, including colonies, to self-determination.\" The 1918 Constitution of the Soviet Union acknowledged the right of secession for its constituent republics.\n\nThis presented a challenge to Wilson's more limited demands. In January 1918 Wilson issued his Fourteen Points of January 1918 which, among other things, called for adjustment of colonial claims, insofar as the interests of colonial powers had equal weight with the claims of subject peoples. The Treaty of Brest-Litovsk in March 1918 led to Soviet Russia's exit from the war and the nominal independence of Armenia, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Ukraine, Lithuania, Georgia and Poland, though in fact those territories were under German control. The end of the war led to the dissolution of the defeated Austro-Hungarian Empire and Czechoslovakia and the union of the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs and the Kingdom of Serbia as new states out of the wreckage of the Habsburg empire. However, this imposition of states where some nationalities (especially Poles, Czechs, and Serbs and Romanians) were given power over nationalities who disliked and distrusted them eventually used as a pretext for German aggression in World War II.\n\nOne of the German objections to the Treaty of Versailles was a somewhat selective application of the principle of self-determination as the majority of the people in Austria and in the Sudetenland region of Czechoslovakia wanted to join Germany while the majority of people in Danzig wanted to remain within the \"Reich\", but the Allies ignored the German objections. Wilson's 14 Points had called for Polish independence to be restored and Poland to have \"secure access to the sea\", which would imply that the German city of Danzig (modern Gdańsk, Poland), which occupied a strategic location where the Vistula river flowed into the Baltic sea, be ceded to Poland. At the Paris peace conference in 1919, the Polish delegation led by Roman Dmowski asked for Wilson to honor point 14 of the 14 points by transferring Danzig to Poland. arguing that Poland would not be economically viable without Danzig. However, as the 90% of the people in Danzig in this period were German, the Allied leaders at the Paris peace conference compromised by creating the Free City of Danzig, a city-state in which Poland had certain special rights. Through the city of Danzig was 90% German and 10% Polish, the surrounding countryside around Danzig was overwhelmingly Polish, and the ethnically Polish rural areas included in the Free City of Danzig objected, arguing that they wanted to be part of Poland. Neither the Poles nor the Germans were happy with this compromise and the Danzig issue became a flash-point of German-Polish tension throughout the interwar period.\n\nGermany lost land after WWI: Northern Schleswig voted to return to Denmark after a referendum. On 11 July 1920, the East Prussian plebiscite called for by the Treaty of Versailles led to two disputed regions between Germany and Poland choosing the former. In 1921, a plebiscite in Silesia concerning partitioning the region between Germany and Poland led to fighting breaking out between the ethnic German and ethnic Polish residents of Silesia. The defeated Ottoman empire was dissolved into the Republic of Turkey and several smaller nations, including Yemen, plus the new Middle East Allied \"mandates\" of Syria and Lebanon (future Syria, Lebanon and Hatay State), Palestine (future Transjordan and Israel), Mesopotamia (future Iraq). In 1919, a Greek attempt to add the mostly Greek-speaking western regions of Anatolia led to a war between Greece and Turkey when the Greeks occupied the largely Greek-speaking city of Smyrna (modern İzmir, Turkey) in May 1919. In 1922, the Greeks were defeated and under the terms of the 1923 Treaty of Lausanne compulsorily population exchanges led to almost all the Turks in Greece being expelled into Turkey and almost all of the Greeks in Turkey being expelled into Greece. The League of Nations was proposed as much as a means of consolidating these new states, as a path to peace.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s there were some successful movements for self-determination in the beginnings of the process of decolonization. In the Statute of Westminster the United Kingdom granted independence to Canada, New Zealand, Newfoundland, the Irish Free State, the Commonwealth of Australia, and the Union of South Africa after the British parliament declared itself as incapable of passing laws over them without their consent. Egypt, Afghanistan and Iraq also achieved independence from Britain and Lebanon from France. Other efforts were unsuccessful, like the Indian independence movement. And Italy, Japan and Germany all initiated new efforts to bring certain territories under their control, leading to World War II. In particular, the National Socialist Program invoked this right of nations in its first point (out of 25), as it was publicly proclaimed on 24 February 1920 by Adolf Hitler.\n\nIn Asia, Japan became a rising power and gained more respect from Western powers after its victory in the Russo-Japanese War. Japan joined the Allied Powers in World War I and attacked German colonial possessions in the Far East, adding former German possessions to its own empire. In the 1930s, Japan gained significant influence in Inner Mongolia and Manchuria after it invaded Manchuria. It established Manchukuo, a puppet state in Manchuria and eastern Inner Mongolia. This was essentially the model Japan followed as it invaded other areas in Asia and established the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. Japan went to considerable trouble to argue that Manchukuo was justified by the principle of self-determination, claiming that people of Manchuria wanted to break away from China and asked the Kwantung Army to intervene on their behalf. However, the Lytton commission which had been appointed by the League of Nations to decide if Japan had committed aggression or not, stated the majority of people in Manchuria who were Han Chinese who did not wish to leave China.\n\nIn 1912, the Republic of China officially succeeded the Qing Dynasty, while Outer Mongolia, Tibet and Tuva proclaimed their independence. Independence was not accepted by the government of China. By the Treaty of Kyakhta (1915) Outer Mongolia recognized China's sovereignty. However, the Soviet threat of seizing parts of Inner Mongolia induced China to recognize Outer Mongolia's independence, provided that a referendum was held. The referendum took place on October 20, 1945, with (according to official numbers) 100% of the electorate voting for independence.\n\nMany of Eastern Asia's current disputes to sovereignty and self-determination stem from unresolved disputes from World War II. After its fall, the Empire of Japan renounced control over many of its former possessions including Korea, Sakhalin Island, and Taiwan. In none of these areas were the opinions of affected people consulted, or given significant priority. Korea was specifically granted independence but the receiver of various other areas was not stated in the Treaty of San Francisco, giving Taiwan \"de facto\" independence although its political status continues to be ambiguous.\n\nIn 1941 Allies of World War II declared the Atlantic Charter and accepted the principle of self-determination. In January 1942 twenty-six states signed the Declaration by United Nations, which accepted those principles. The ratification of the United Nations Charter in 1945 at the end of World War II placed the right of self-determination into the framework of international law and diplomacy.\n\nOn 14 December 1960, the United Nations General Assembly adopted United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1514 (XV) subtitled \"Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples\", which supported the granting of independence to colonial countries and people by providing an inevitable legal linkage between self-determination and its goal of decolonisation. It postulated a new international law-based right of freedom to exercise economic self-determination. Article 5 states: Immediate steps shall be taken in Trust and Non-Self-Governing Territories, or all other territories which have not yet attained independence, to transfer all powers to the people of those territories, without any conditions or reservations, in accordance with their freely expressed will and desire, without any distinction as to race, creed or colour, in order to enable them to enjoy complete independence and freedom.\n\nOn 15 December 1960 the United Nations General Assembly adopted United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1541 (XV), subtitled \"Principles which should guide members in determining whether or nor an obligation exists to transmit the information called for under Article 73e of the United Nations Charter in Article 3\", which provided that \"[t]he inadequacy of political, economic, social and educational preparedness should never serve as a pretext for delaying the right to self-determination and independence.\" To monitor the implementation of Resolution 1514, in 1961 the General Assembly created the Special Committee referred to popularly as the Special Committee on Decolonization to ensure decolonization complete compliance with the principles of self-determination in General Assembly Resolution 1541 (XV).\n\nHowever, the charter and other resolutions did not insist on full independence as the best way of obtaining self-government, nor did they include an enforcement mechanism. Moreover, new states were recognized by the legal doctrine of uti possidetis juris, meaning that old administrative boundaries would become international boundaries upon independence if they had little relevance to linguistic, ethnic, and cultural boundaries. Nevertheless, justified by the language of self-determination, between 1946 and 1960, thirty-seven new nations in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East gained independence from colonial powers. The territoriality issue inevitably would lead to more conflicts and independence movements within many states and challenges to the assumption that territorial integrity is as important as self-determination.\n\nDecolonization in the world was contrasted by the Soviet Union's successful post-war expansionism. Tuva and several regional states in Eastern Europe, the Baltic, and Central Asia had been fully annexed by the Soviet Union during World War II. Now, it extended its influence by establishing satellite states Eastern Germany and the countries of Eastern Europe, along with support for revolutionary movements in China and North Korea. Although satellite states were independent and possessed sovereignty, the Soviet Union violated principles of self-determination by suppressing the Hungarian revolution of 1956 and the Prague Spring Czechoslovak reforms of 1968. It invaded Afghanistan to support a communist government assailed by local tribal groups. However, Marxism–Leninism and its theory of imperialism were also strong influences in the national emancipation movements of Third World nations rebelling against colonial or puppet regimes. In many Third World countries, communism became an ideology that united groups to oppose imperialism or colonization.\n\nSoviet actions were contained by the United States which saw communism as a menace to its interests. Throughout the cold war, the United States created, supported, and sponsored regimes with various success that served their economic and political interests, among them anti-communist regimes such as that of Augusto Pinochet in Chile and Suharto in Indonesia. To achieve this, a variety of means was implemented, including the orchestration of coups, sponsoring of anti-communist countries and military interventions. Consequently, many self-determination movements, which spurned some type of anti-communist government, were accused of being Soviet-inspired or controlled.\n\nIn Asia, the Soviet Union had already converted Mongolia into a satellite state but abandoned propping up the Second East Turkestan Republic and gave up its Manchurian claims to China. The new People's Republic of China had gained control of mainland China in the Chinese Civil War. The Korean War shifted the focus of the Cold War from Europe to Asia, where competing superpowers took advantage of decolonization to spread their influence.\n\nIn 1947, India gained independence from the British Empire. The empire was in decline but adapted to these circumstances by creating the British Commonwealth—since 1949 the Commonwealth of Nations—which is a free association of equal states. As India obtained its independence, multiple ethnic conflicts emerged in relation to the formation of a statehood during the Partition of India which resulted in Islamic Pakistan and Secular India. Before the advent of the British, no empire based in mainland India had controlled any part of what now makes up the country's Northeast, part of the reason for the ongoing insurgency in Northeast India. In 1971 Bangladesh obtained independence from Pakistan.\n\nBurma also gained independence from the British Empire, but declined membership in the Commonwealth.\n\nIndonesia gained independence from the Netherlands in 1949 after the latter failed to restore colonial control. As mentioned above, Indonesia also wanted a powerful position in the region that could be lessened by the creation of united Malaysia. The Netherlands retained Dutch New Guinea, but Indonesia threatened to invade and annex it. A vote was supposedly taken under the UN sponsored Act of Free Choice to allow West New Guineans to decide their fate, although many dispute its veracity. Later, Portugal relinquished control over East Timor in 1975, at which time Indonesia promptly invaded and annexed it.\n\nThe Cold War began to wind down after Mikhail Gorbachev assumed power in March 1985. With the cooperation of the American president Ronald Reagan, Gorbachev wound down the size of the Soviet Armed Forces and reduced nuclear arms in Europe, while liberalizing the economy.\n\nIn 1989 – 90, the communist regimes of Soviet satellite states collapsed in rapid succession in Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Bulgaria, Romania, and Mongolia. East and West Germany united, Czechoslovakia peacefully split into Czech Republic and Slovakia, while in 1990 Yugoslavia began a violent break up into its former 6 sub-unit republics. Kosovo, which was previously an autonomous unit of Serbia declared independence in 2008, but has received less international recognition.\n\nIn December 1991, Gorbachev resigned as president and the Soviet Union dissolved relatively peacefully into fifteen sovereign republics, all of which rejected communism and most of which adopted democratic reforms and free-market economies. Inside those new republics, four major areas have claimed their own independence, but not received widespread international recognition.\n\nAfter decades of civil war, Indonesia finally recognized the independence of East Timor in 2002.\n\nIn 1949, the Communists won the civil war and established the People's Republic of China in Mainland China. The Kuomintang-led Republic of China government retreated to Taipei, its jurisdiction now limited to Taiwan and several outlying islands. Since then, the People's Republic of China has been involved in disputes with the ROC over issues of sovereignty and the political status of Taiwan.\n\nAs noted, self-determination movements remain strong in some areas of the world. Some areas possess \"de facto\" independence, such as Taiwan, North Cyprus, Kosovo, and South Ossetia, but their independence is disputed by one or more major states. Significant movements for self-determination also persist for locations that lack \"de facto\" independence, such as Kurdistan, Catalonia, Balochistan, Chechnya, and the State of Palestine\n\nSince the early 1990s, the legitimatization of the principle of national self-determination has led to an increase in the number of conflicts within states, as sub-groups seek greater self-determination and full secession, and as their conflicts for leadership within groups and with other groups and with the dominant state become violent. The international reaction to these new movements has been uneven and often dictated more by politics than principle. The year 2000 United Nations Millennium Declaration failed to deal with these new demands, mentioning only \"the right to self-determination of peoples which remain under colonial domination and foreign occupation. \"\n\nIn an issue of \"Macquarie University Law Journal\" Associate Professor Aleksandar Pavkovic and Senior Lecturer Peter Radan outlined current legal and political issues in self-determination. These include:\n\nThere is not yet a recognized legal definition of \"peoples\" in international law. Vita Gudeleviciute of Vytautas Magnus University Law School, reviewing international law and UN resolutions, finds in cases of non-self-governing peoples (colonized and/or indigenous) and foreign military occupation \"a people\" is the entire population of the occupied territorial unit, no matter their other differences. In cases where people lack representation by a state's government, the unrepresented become a separate people. Present international law does not recognize ethnic and other minorities as separate peoples, with the notable exception of cases in which such groups are systematically disenfranchised by the government of the state they live in. Other definitions offered are \"peoples\" being self-evident (from ethnicity, language, history, etc.), or defined by \"ties of mutual affection or sentiment\", i.e. \"loyalty\", or by mutual obligations among peoples. Or the definition may be simply that a people is a group of individuals who unanimously choose a separate state. If the \"people\" are unanimous in their desire for self-determination, it strengthens their claim. For example, the populations of federal units of the Yugoslav federation were considered a people in the breakup of Yugoslavia, although some of those units had very diverse populations. Libertarians who argue for self-determination distinguish between the voluntary nation (the land, the culture, the terrain, the people) and the state, the coercive apparatus, which they have a right to choose or self-determine.\n\nAbulof suggests that self-determination entails the \"moral double helix\" of duality (personal right to align with a people, and the people's right to determine their politics) and mutuality (the right is as much the other's as the self’s). Thus, self-determination grants individuals the right to form \"a people,\" which then has the right to establish an independent state, as long as they grant the same to all other individuals and peoples.\n\nCriteria for the definition of \"people having the right of self-determination\" was proposed during 2010 Kosovo case decision of the International Court of Justice: 1. traditions and culture 2. ethnicity 3. historical ties and heritage 4. language 5. religion 6. sense of identity or kinship 7. the will to constitute a people 8. common suffering.\n\nNational self-determination appears to challenge the principle of territorial integrity (or sovereignty) of states as it is the will of the people that makes a state legitimate. This implies a people should be free to choose their own state and its territorial boundaries. However, there are far more self-identified nations than there are existing states and there is no legal process to redraw state boundaries according to the will of these peoples. According to the Helsinki Final Act of 1975, the UN, ICJ and international law experts, there is no contradiction between the principles of self-determination and territorial integrity, with the latter taking precedence.\nPavkovic and Radan describe three theories of international relations relevant to self-determination.\n\n\nAllen Buchanan, author of seven books on self-determination and secession, supports territorial integrity as a moral and legal aspect of constitutional democracy. However, he also advances a \"Remedial Rights Only Theory\" where a group has \"a general right to secede if and only if it has suffered certain injustices, for which secession is the appropriate remedy of last resort. \" He also would recognize secession if the state grants, or the constitution includes, a right to secede.\n\nVita Gudeleviciute holds that in cases of non-self-governing peoples and foreign military occupation the principle of self-determination trumps that of territorial integrity. In cases where people lack representation by a state's government, they also may be considered a separate people, but under current law cannot claim the right to self-determination. On the other hand, she finds that secession within a single state is a domestic matter not covered by international law. Thus there are no on what groups may constitute a seceding people.\n\nA number of states have laid claim to territories, which they allege were removed from them as a result of colonialism. This is justified by reference to Paragraph 6 of UN Resolution 1514(XV), which states that any attempt \"aimed at partial or total disruption of the national unity and the territorial integrity of a country is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter\". This, it is claimed, applies to situations where the territorial integrity of a state had been disrupted by colonisation, so that the people of a territory subject to a historic territorial claim are prevented from exercising a right to self-determination. This interpretation is rejected by many states, who argue that Paragraph 2 of UN Resolution 1514(XV) states that \"all peoples have the right to self-determination\" and Paragraph 6 cannot be used to justify territorial claims. The original purpose of Paragraph 6 was \"to ensure that acts of self-determination occur within the established boundaries of colonies, rather than within sub-regions\". Further, the use of the word \"attempt\" in Paragraph 6 denotes future action and cannot be construed to justify territorial redress for past action. An attempt sponsored by Spain and Argentina to qualify the right to self-determination in cases where there was a territorial dispute was rejected by the UN General Assembly, which re-iterated the right to self-determination was a universal right.\n\nIn order to accommodate demands for minority rights and avoid secession and the creation of a separate new state, many states decentralize or devolve greater decision-making power to new or existing subunits or autonomous areas. More limited measures might include restricting demands to the maintenance of national cultures or granting non-territorial autonomy in the form of national associations which would assume control over cultural matters. This would be available only to groups that abandoned secessionist demands and the territorial state would retain political and judicial control, but only if would remain with the territorially organized state.\n\nPavković explores how national self-determination, in the form of creation of a new state through secession, could override the principles of majority rule and of equal rights, which are primary liberal principles. This includes the question of how an unwanted state can be imposed upon a minority. He explores five contemporary theories of secession. In \"anarcho-capitalist\" theory only landowners have the right to secede. In communitarian theory, only those groups that desire direct or greater political participation have the right, including groups deprived of rights, per Allen Buchanan. In two nationalist theories, only national cultural groups have a right to secede. Australian professor Harry Beran's democratic theory endorses the equality of the right of secession to all types of groups. Unilateral secession against majority rule is justified if the group allows secession of any other group within its territory.\n\nMost sovereign states do not recognize the right to self-determination through secession in their constitutions. Many expressly forbid it. However, there are several existing models of self-determination through greater autonomy and through secession.\n\nIn liberal constitutional democracies the principle of majority rule has dictated whether a minority can secede. In the United States Abraham Lincoln acknowledged that secession might be possible through amending the United States Constitution. The Supreme Court in \"Texas v. White\" held secession could occur \"through revolution, or through consent of the States.\" The British Parliament in 1933 held that Western Australia only could secede from Australia upon vote of a majority of the country as a whole; the previous two-thirds majority vote for secession via referendum in Western Australia was insufficient.\n\nThe Chinese Communist Party followed the Soviet Union in including the right of secession in its 1931 constitution in order to entice ethnic nationalities and Tibet into joining. However, the Party eliminated the right to secession in later years, and had anti-secession clause written into the Constitution before and after the founding the People's Republic of China. The 1947 Constitution of the Union of Burma contained an express state right to secede from the union under a number of procedural conditions. It was eliminated in the 1974 constitution of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma (officially the \"Union of Myanmar\"). Burma still allows \"local autonomy under central leadership\".\n\nAs of 1996 the constitutions of Austria, Ethiopia, France, and Saint Kitts and Nevis have express or implied rights to secession. Switzerland allows for the secession from current and the creation of new cantons. In the case of proposed Quebec separation from Canada the Supreme Court of Canada in 1998 ruled that only both a clear majority of the province and a constitutional amendment confirmed by all participants in the Canadian federation could allow secession.\n\nThe 2003 draft of the European Union Constitution allowed for the voluntary withdrawal of member states from the union, although the State wanted to leave could not be involved in the vote deciding whether or not they can leave the Union. There was much discussion about such self-determination by minorities before the final document underwent the unsuccessful ratification process in 2005.\n\nAs a result of the successful constitutional referendum held in 2003, every municipality in the Principality of Liechtenstein has the right to secede from the Principality by a vote of a majority of the citizens residing in this municipality.\n\nIn determining international borders between sovereign states, self-determination has yielded to a number of other principles. Once groups exercise self-determination through secession, the issue of the proposed borders may prove more controversial than the fact of secession. The bloody Yugoslav wars in the 1990s were related mostly to border issues because the international community applied a version of uti possidetis juris in transforming the existing internal borders of the various Yugoslav republics into international borders, despite the conflicts of ethnic groups within those boundaries. In the 1990s indigenous populations of the northern two-thirds of Quebec province opposed being incorporated into a Quebec nation and stated a determination to resist it by force.\n\nThe border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Free State was based on the borders of existing counties and did not include all of historic Ulster. A Boundary Commission was established to consider re-drawing it. Its proposals, which amounted to a small net transfer to Northern Ireland, were leaked to the press and then not acted upon. In December 1925, the governments of the Irish Free State, Northern Ireland, and the United Kingdom agreed to accept the existing border.\n\nThere have been a number of notable cases of self-determination. For more information on past movements see list of historical autonomist and secessionist movements and lists of decolonized nations. Also see list of autonomous areas by country and list of territorial autonomies and list of active autonomist and secessionist movements.\n\nRepublic of Artsakh (Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh) declared its independence basing on self-determination rights on September 2, 1991. It successfully defended its independence in subsequent war with Azerbaijan, but remains largely unrecognized by UN states today.\n\nFrom 2003 onwards, self-determination has become the topic of some debate in Australia in relation to Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islanders. In the 1970s, the Indigenous community approached the Federal Government and requested the right to administer their own communities. This encompassed basic local government functions, ranging from land dealings and management of community centres to road maintenance and garbage collection, as well as setting education programmes and standards in their local schools.\n\nThe traditional homeland of the Tuareg peoples was divided up by the modern borders of Mali, Algeria and Niger. Numerous rebellions occurred over the decades, but in 2012 the Tuaregs succeeded in occupying their land and declaring the independence of Azawad. However, their movement was hijacked by the Islamist terrorist group Ansar Dine.\n\nThe Basque Country (, , ) as a cultural region (not to be confused with the homonym Autonomous Community of the Basque country) is a European region in the western Pyrenees that spans the border between France and Spain, on the Atlantic coast. It comprises the autonomous communities of the Basque Country and Navarre in Spain and the Northern Basque Country in France.\nSince the 19th century, Basque nationalism has demanded the right of some kind of self-determination. This desire for independence is particularly stressed among leftist Basque nationalists. The right of self-determination was asserted by the Basque Parliament in 1990, 2002 and 2006.\nSince self-determination is not recognized in the Spanish Constitution of 1978, some Basques abstained and some voted against it in the referendum of December 6 of that year. It was approved by a clear majority at the Spanish level, and with 74.6% of the votes in the Basque Country. However, the overall turnout in the Basque Country was 45% when the Spanish overall turnover was 67.9%. The derived autonomous regime for the BAC was approved by Spanish Parliament and also by the Basque citizens in referendum. The autonomous statue of Navarre (\"Amejoramiento del Fuero\": \"improvement of the charter\") was approved by the Spanish Parliament and, like the statues of 13 out 17 Spanish autonomous communities, it didn´t need a referendum to enter into force.\n\n\"Euskadi Ta Askatasuna\" or ETA (; pronounced ), is an armed Basque nationalist, separatist and terrorist organization. Founded in 1959, it evolved from a group advocating traditional cultural ways to a paramilitary group with the goal of Basque independence. Its ideology is Marxist–Leninist.\n\nThe Nigerian Civil War was fought between Biafran secessionists of the Republic of Biafra and the Nigerian central government. From 1999 to the present day, the indigenous people of Biafra have been agitating for independence to revive their country. They have registered a human rights organization known as Bilie Human Rights Initiative both in Nigeria and in the United Nations to advocate for their right to self-determination and achieve independence by the rule of law.\n\nAfter the 2012 Catalan march for independence, in which between 600,000 and 1.5 million citizens marched, the President of Catalonia, Artur Mas, called for new parliamentary elections on 25 November 2012 to elect a new parliament that would exercise the right of self-determination for Catalonia, a right not recognised under the Spanish constitution. The Parliament of Catalonia voted to hold a votee in the next four-year legislature on the question of self-determination. The parliamentary decision was approved by a large majority of MPs: 84 voted for, 21 voted against, and 25 abstained. The Catalan Parliament applied to the Spanish Parliament for the power to call a referendum to be devolved, but this was turned down. In December 2013 the President of the Generalitat Artur Mas and the governing coalition agreed to set the referendum for self-determination on 9 November 2014, and legislation specifically saying that the consultation would not be a \"referendum\" was enacted, only to be blocked by the Spanish Constitutional Court, at the request of the Spanish government. Given the block, the Government turned it into a simple \"consultation to the people\" instead.\n\nThe question in the consultation was \"Do you want Catalonia to be a State?\" and, if the answer to this question was yes, \"Do you want this State to be an independent State?\". However, as the consultation was not a formal referendum, these (printed) answers were just suggestions and other answers were also accepted and catalogued as \"other answers\" instead as null votes. The turnout in this consultation was about 2·3m people out of 6·2m people that were called to vote (this figure does not coincide with the census figure of 5·3m for two main reasons: first, because organisers had no access to an official census due to the non-binding character of the consultation, and second, because the legal voting age was set to 16 rather than 18). Due to the lack of an official census, potential voters were assigned to electoral tables according to home address and first family name. Participants had to sign up first with their full name and national ID in a voter registry before casting their ballot, which prevented participants from potentially casting multiple ballots. The overall result was 80·76% in favor of both questions, 11% in favor of the first question but not of the second questions, 4·54% against both; the rest were classified as \"other answers\". The voter turnout was around 37% (most people against the consultation didn't go to vote). Four top members of Catalonia's political leadership were barred from public office for having defied the Constitutional court's last-minute ban.\n\nAlmost three years later (1 October 2017), the Catalan government called a referendum for independence under legislation adopted in September 2017 (despite being blocked by the Constitutional Court of Spain), with the question \"Do you want Catalonia to become an independent state in the form of a Republic?\". On polling day, the Catalan police prevented voting in over 500 polling stations, without incident, while the Spanish police confiscated ballot boxes and closed down 92, with several incidents involving truncheon charges, the closure of some voting centres and the seizure of ballot boxes. The opposition parties had called for non-participation. The turnout (according to the votes that were counted) was 2·3m out of 5·3m (43·03% of the census), and 90·18% of the ballots were in favour of independence. The turnout, ballot count and results were similar to those of the 2014 \"consultation\".\n\nUnder Dzhokhar Dudayev, Chechnya declared independence as the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, using self-determination, Russia's history of bad treatment of Chechens, and a history of independence before invasion by Russia as main motives. Russia has restored control over Chechnya, but the separatist government functions still in exile, though it has been split into two entities: the Akhmed Zakayev-run secular Chechen Republic (based in Poland, the UK and the US), and the Islamic Caucasus Emirate.\n\nThere is an active secessionist movement based on the self-determination of the residents of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of eastern Ukraine, allegedly against the instability and corruption of the Ukrainian government. However, many in the international community assert that referendums held there in 2014 regarding independence from Ukraine were illegitimate and undemocratic. Similarly, there are reports that presidential elections in May 2014 were prevented from taking place in the two regions after armed gunmen took control of polling stations, kidnapped election officials, and stole lists of electors, thus denying the population the chance to express their will in a free, fair, and internationally recognised election. There are also arguments, that the de facto separation of Eastern Ukraine from the rest of the country is not in fact an expression of self-determination, but rather an invasion by neighbouring Russia, with Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko reporting to MPs on the 4th June 2015 that up to nine thousand Russian soldiers were deployed in Ukraine. Others have pointed out that Russian troops did not invade, as they were already stationed in Crimea as part of a basing agreement, and that the secessionist movements arose in response to the overthrow of the elected president of Ukraine. The overthrow was backed by western states and involved far-right or neo-Nazi forces, as documented in western media.\n\nSelf-determination is referred to in the Falkland Islands Constitution and is a factor in the Falkland Islands sovereignty dispute. The population has existed for over nine generations, continuously for over 185 years. In the 2013 referendum organised by the Falkland Islands Government, 99.8% voted to remain British. As administering power, the British Government considers since the majority of inhabitants wish to remain British, transfer of sovereignty to Argentina would be counter to their right to self-determination.\n\nArgentina states the principle of self-determination is not applicable since the current inhabitants are not aboriginal and were brought to replace the Argentine population, which was expelled by an 'act of force', forcing the Argentinian inhabitants to directly leave the occupied islands. This refers to the re-establishment of British rule in the year 1833 during which Argentina claims the existing population living in the islands was expelled. Argentina thus argues that, in the case of the Falkland Islands, the principle of territorial integrity should have precedence over self-determination. Historical records dispute Argentina's claims and whilst acknowledging the garrison was expelled note the existing civilian population remained at Port Louis and there was no attempt to colonise the islands until 1841.\n\nThe right to self-determination is referred to in the pre-amble of Chapter 1 of the Gibraltar constitution, and, since the United Kingdom also gave assurances that the right to self-determination of Gibraltarians would be respected in any transfer of sovereignty over the territory, is a factor in the dispute with Spain over the territory. The impact of the right to self-determination of Gibraltarians was seen in the 2002 Gibraltar sovereignty referendum, where Gibraltarian voters overwhelmingly rejected a plan to share sovereignty over Gibraltar between the UK and Spain. However, the UK government differs with the Gibraltarian government in that it considers Gibraltarian self-determination to be limited by the Treaty of Utrecht, which prevents Gibraltar achieving independence without the agreement of Spain, a position that the Gibraltarian government does not accept. \n\nThe Spanish government denies that Gibraltarians have the right to self-determination, considering them to be \"an artificial population without any genuine autonomy\" and not \"indigenous\". However, the Partido Andalucista has agreed to recognise the right to self-determination of Gibraltarians.\n\nBefore the United Nations's adoption of resolution 2908 (XXVII) on 2 November 1972, The People's Republic of China vetoed the former British colony of Hong Kong's right to self-determination on 8 March 1972. This sparked several nation's protest along with Great Britain's declaration on 14 December that the decision is invalid. \nDecades later, a nationalist independence movement, dubbed as the Hong Kong independence movement emerged in the now Communist Chinese controlled territory. It advocates the autonomous region to become a fully independent sovereign state.\n\nThe city is considered a special administrative region (SAR) which, according to the PRC, enjoys a high degree of autonomy under the People's Republic of China (PRC), guaranteed under Article 2 of Hong Kong Basic Law (which is ratified under the Sino-British Joint Declaration), since the transfer of the sovereignty of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom to the PRC in 1997. Since the handover, many Hongkongers are increasingly concerned about Beijing's growing encroachment on the territory's freedoms and the failure of the Hong Kong government to deliver 'true' democracy.\n\nThe 2014–15 Hong Kong electoral reform package deeply divided the city, as it allowed Hongkongers to have universal suffrage, but Beijing would have authority to screen the candidates to restrict the electoral method for the Chief Executive of Hong Kong (CE), the highest-ranking official of the territory. This sparked the 79-day massive peaceful protests which was dubbed as the \"Umbrella Revolution\" and the pro-independence movement emerged on the Hong Kong political scene. \n\nSince then, localism has gained momentum, particularly after the failure of the peaceful Umbrella Movement. Young localist leaders have led numerous protest actions against pro-Chinese policies to raise awareness of social problems of Hong Kong under Chinese rule. These include the sit-in protest against the Bill to Strengthen Internet Censorship, demonstrations against Chinese political interference in the University of Hong Kong, the Recover Yuen Long protests and the 2016 Mong Kok civil unrest. According to a survey conducted by the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) in July 2016, 17.4% of respondents supported the city becoming an independent entity after 2047, while 3.6% stated that it is \"possible\".\n\nEver since Pakistan and India’s inception in 1947 the legal state of Jammu and Kashmir, the land between India and Pakistan, has been contested as Britain was resigning from their rule over this land. Maharaja Hari Singh, the ruler residing over Kashmir at the time accession, signed the Instrument of Accession Act on October 26, 1947 as his territory was being attacked by Pakistani tribesmen. The passing of this Act allowed Jammu and Kashmir to accede to India on legal terms. When this Act was taken to Lord Mountbatten, the last viceroy of British India, he agreed to it and stated that a referendum needed to be held by the citizens in India, Pakistan, and Kashmir so that they could vote as to where Kashmir should accede to. This referendum that Mountbatten called for never took place and framed one of the legal disputes for Kashmir. In 1948 the United Nations intervened and ordered a plebiscite to be taken in order to hear the voices of the Kashmiris if they would like to accede to Pakistan or India. This plebiscite left out the right for Kashmiris to have the right of self-determination and become an autonomous state. To this date the Kashmiris have been faced with numerous human rights violations committed by both India and Pakistan and have yet to gain complete autonomy which they have been seeking through self-determination. \n\nThe insurgency in Kashmir against Indian rule has existed in various forms. A widespread armed insurgency started in Kashmir against India rule in 1989 after allegations of rigging by the Indian government in the 1987 Jammu and Kashmir state election. This led to some parties in the state assembly forming militant wings, which acted as a catalyst for the emergence of armed insurgency in the region. The conflict over Kashmir has resulted in tens of thousands of deaths.\n\nThe Inter-Services Intelligence of Pakistan has been accused by India of supporting and training both pro-Pakistan and pro-independence militants to fight Indian security forces in Jammu and Kashmir, a charge that Pakistan denies. According to official figures released in the Jammu and Kashmir assembly, there were 3,400 disappearance cases and the conflict has left more than 47,000 to 100,000 people dead as of July 2009. However, violence in the state had fallen sharply after the start of a slow-moving peace process between India and Pakistan. After the peace process failed in 2008, mass demonstrations against Indian rule, and also low-scale militancy have emerged again.\n\nHowever, despite boycott calls by separatist leaders in 2014, the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly elections saw highest voters turnout in last 25 years since insurgency erupted. As per the Indian government, it recorded more than 65% of voters turnout which was more than usual voters turnout in other state assembly elections of India. It considered as increase in faith of Kashmiri people in democratic process of India. However, activists say that the voter turnout is highly exaggerated and that elections are held under duress. Votes are cast because the people want stable governance of the state, and this cannot be mistaken as an endorsement of Indian rule.\n\nKurdistan is a historical region primarily inhabited by the Kurdish people of the middle east. The territory is currently part of 4 states Turkey, Iraq, Syria and Iran. There are Kurdish self-determination movements in each of the 4 states. Iraqi Kurdistan has to date achieved the largest degree of self-determination through the formation of the Kurdistan Regional Government, an entity recognised by the Iraqi Federal Constitution.\n\nAlthough the right of the creation of a Kurdish state was recognized following World War I in the Treaty of Sèvres, the treaty was then annulled by the Treaty of Lausanne (1923). To date two separate Kurdish republics and one Kurdish Kingdom have declared sovereignty. The Republic of Ararat (Ağrı Province, Turkey), the Republic of Mehabad (West Azerbaijan Province, Iran) and the Kingdom of Kurdistan (Sulaymaniyah Province, Iraqi Kurdistan, Iraq), each of these fledgling states was crushed by military intervention. The Patriotic Union of Kurdistan which currently holds the Iraqi presidency and the Kurdistan Democratic Party which governs the Kurdistan Regional Government both explicitly commit themselves to the development of Kurdish self-determination, but opinions vary as to the question of self-determination sought within the current borders and countries.\n\nNaga refers to a vaguely-defined conglomeration of distinct tribes living on the border of India and Burma. Each of these tribes lived in a sovereign village before the arrival of the British, but developed a common identity as the area was Christianized. After the British left India, a section of Nagas under the leadership of Angami Zapu Phizo sought to establish a separate country for the Nagas. Phizo's group, the Naga National Council (NNC), claimed that 99. 9% of the Nagas wanted an independent Naga country according to a referendum conducted by it. It waged a secessionist insurgency against the Government of India. The NNC collapsed after Phizo got his dissenters killed or forced them to seek refuge with the Government. Phizo escaped to London, while NNC's successor secessionist groups continued to stage violent attacks against the Indian Government. The Naga People's Convention (NPC), another major Naga organization, was opposed to the secessionists. Its efforts led to the creation of a separate Nagaland state within India in 1963. The secessionist violence declined considerably after the Shillong Accord of 1975. However, three factions of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) continue to seek an independent country which would include parts of India and Burma. They envisage a sovereign, predominantly Christian nation called \"Nagalim\".\n\nAnother controversial episode with perhaps more relevance was the British beginning their exit from British Malaya. An experience concerned the findings of a \"United Nations Assessment Team\" that led the British territories of North Borneo and Sarawak in 1963 to determine whether or not the populations wished to become a part of the new Malaysia Federation. The United Nation Team's mission followed on from an earlier assessment by the British-appointed Cobbold Commission which had arrived in the territories in 1962 and held hearings to determine public opinion. It also sifted through 1600 letters and memoranda submitted by individuals, organisations and political parties. Cobbold concluded that around two thirds of the population favoured to the formation of Malaysia while the remaining third wanted either independence or continuing control by the United Kingdom. The United Nations team largely confirmed these findings, which were later accepted by the General Assembly, and both territories subsequently wish to form the new Federation of Malaysia. The conclusions of both the Cobbold Commission and the United Nations team were arrived at without any referendums self-determination being held. Unlike in Singapore, however, no referendum was ever conducted in Sarawak and North Borneo. they sought to consolidate several of the previous ruled entities then there was Manila Accord, an agreement between the Philippines, Federation of Malaya and Indonesia on 31 July 1963 to abide by the wishes of the people of North Borneo and Sarawak within the context of United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1541 (XV), Principle 9 of the Annex taking into account referendums in North Borneo and Sarawak that would be free and without coercion. This also triggered the Indonesian confrontation because Indonesia opposed the violation of the agreements.\n\nCyprus was settled by Mycenaean Greeks in two waves in the 2nd millennium BC. As a strategic location in the Middle East, it was subsequently occupied by several major powers, including the empires of the Assyrians, Egyptians and Persians, from whom the island was seized in 333 BC by Alexander the Great. Subsequent rule by Ptolemaic Egypt, the Classical and Eastern Roman Empire, Arab caliphates for a short period and the French Lusignan dynasty. Following the death in 1473 of James II, the last Lusignan king, the Republic of Venice assumed control of the island, while the late king's Venetian widow, Queen Catherine Cornaro, reigned as figurehead. Venice formally annexed the Kingdom of Cyprus in 1489, following the abdication of Catherine. The Venetians fortified Nicosia by building the Walls of Nicosia, and used it as an important commercial hub.\n\nAlthough the Lusignan French aristocracy remained the dominant social class in Cyprus throughout the medieval period, the former assumption that Greeks were treated only as serfs on the island is no longer considered by academics to be accurate. It is now accepted that the medieval period saw increasing numbers of Greek Cypriots elevated to the upper classes, a growing Greek middle ranks, and the Lusignan royal household even marrying Greeks. This included King John II of Cyprus who married Helena Palaiologina.\n\nThroughout Venetian rule, the Ottoman Empire frequently raided Cyprus. In 1539 the Ottomans destroyed Limassol and so fearing the worst, the Venetians also fortified Famagusta and Kyrenia.\n\nInvaded in 1570, Turks controlled and solely governed all of the Cyprus island from 1571 till its leasing to the United Kingdom in 1878. Cyprus was placed under British administration based on Cyprus Convention in 1878 and formally annexed by Britain in 1914. While Turkish Cypriots made up 18% of the population, the partition of Cyprus and creation of a Turkish state in the north became a policy of Turkish Cypriot leaders and Turkey in the 1950s. Politically, there was no majority/minority relation between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots; and hence, in 1960, Republic of Cyprus was founded by the constituent communities in Cyprus (Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots) as a non-unitary state; the 1960 Constitution set both Turkish and Greek as the\nofficial languages. During 1963-74, the island experienced ethnic clashes and turmoil, the coup to unify the island to Greece and eventual Turkish operation in 1974. The idea of separation for peace has been amplified by a UN-implemented population exchange agreement in 1975. Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was declared in 1983 and recognized only by Turkey. Turkish Cypriots had the right of self-determination, as well as Greek Cypriots. Before the Turkey's operation in 1974, Turkish Cypriots were concentrated in Turkish Cypriot enclaves in the island.\n\nNorthern Cyprus fulfills all the classical criteria of statehood. United Nations Peace Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) operates based on the laws of Northern Cyprus in north of Cyprus island. According to European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR), the laws of Northern Cyprus is valid in the north of Cyprus. ECtHR did \"not\" accept the claim that the Courts of Northern Cyprus lacked \"independence and/or impartiality\". ECtHR directed all Cypriots to exhaust \"domestic remedies\" applied by Northern Cyprus before taking their cases to ECtHR. In 2014, United States' Federal Court qualified Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus as a \"democratic country\". In 2017, United Kingdom's High Court decided that \"There was no duty in UK law upon the UK's Government to refrain from recognising Northern Cyprus. The United Nations itself works with Northern Cyprus law enforcement agencies and facilitates cooperation between the two parts of the island.\" UK's High Court also dismissed the claim that \"cooperation between UK police and law agencies in northern Cyprus was illegal\".\n\nIn Canada, many in the province of Quebec have wanted the province to separate from Confederation. The Parti Québécois has asserted Quebec's \"right to self-determination. \" There is debate on under which conditions would this right be realized. French-speaking Quebec nationalism and support for maintaining Québécois culture would inspire Quebec nationalists, many of whom were supporters of the Quebec sovereignty movement during the late-20th century.\n\nSection 235 of the South African Constitution allows for the right to self-determination of a community, within the framework of \"the right of the South African people as a whole to self-determination\", and pursuant to national legislation. This section of the constitution was one of the negotiated settlements during the handing over of political power in 1994. Supporters of an independent Afrikaner homeland have argued that their goals are reasonable under this new legislation.\n\nThe colonization of the North American continent and its Native American population has been the source of legal battles since the early 19th century. Many Native American tribes were resettled onto separate tracts of land (reservations), which have retained a certain degree of autonomy within the United States. The federal government recognizes Tribal Sovereignty and has established a number of laws attempting to clarify the relationship among the federal, state, and tribal governments. The Constitution and later federal laws recognize the local sovereignty of tribal nations, but do not recognize full sovereignty equivalent to that of foreign nations, hence the term \"domestic dependent nations\" to qualify the federally recognized tribes.\n\nCertain Chicano nationalist groups seek to \"recreate\" an ethnic-based state to be called Aztlán, after the legendary homeland of the Aztecs. It would comprise the Southwestern United States, historic territory of indigenous peoples and their descendants, as well as colonists and later settlers under the Spanish colonial and Mexican governments. Black nationalists have argued that, by virtue of slaves' unpaid labor and the harsh experiences of African Americans under slavery and Jim Crow, African Americans have a moral claim to the black belt region of the American South. They believe this area should be the basis of forming an independent state of New Afrika, designed to have an African-American majority and political control.\n\nThere are several active Hawaiian autonomy or independence movements, each with the goal of realizing some level of political control over single or several islands. The groups range from those seeking territorial units similar to Indian reservations under the United States, with the least amount of independent control, to the Hawaiian sovereignty movement, which is projected to have the most amount of independence. The Hawaiian Sovereignty movement seeks to revive the Hawaiian nation under the Hawaiian constitution. Supporters of this concept say that Hawaii retained its sovereignty while under control of the United States.\n\nSince 1972, the U.N. Decolonization Committee has called for Puerto Rico's \"decolonization\" and for the US to recognize the island's right to self-determination and independence. In 2007 the Decolonization Subcommittee called for the United Nations General Assembly to review the political status of Puerto Rico, a power reserved by the 1953 Resolution. This followed the 1967 passage of a plebiscite act that provided for a vote on the status of Puerto Rico with three status options: continued commonwealth, statehood, and independence. In the first plebscite, the commonwealth option won with 60.4% of the votes, but US congressional committees failed to enact legislation to address the status issue. In subsequent plebiscites in 1993 and 1998, the status quo was favored.\n\nIn a referendum that took place in November 2012, a majority of Puerto Rican residents voted to change the territory's relationship with the United States, with the statehood option being the preferred option. But a large number of ballots—one-third of all votes cast—were left blank on the question of preferred alternative status. Supporters of the commonwealth status had urged voters to blank their ballots. When the blank votes are counted as anti-statehood votes, the statehood option would have received less than 50% of all ballots received. As of January 2014, Washington has not taken action to address the results of this plebiscite.\n\nMany current US state, regional and city secession groups use the language of self-determination. A 2008 Zogby International poll revealed that 22% of Americans believe that \"any state or region has the right to peaceably secede and become an independent republic.\"\n\nSince the late 20th century, some states periodically discuss desires to secede from the United States. Unilateral secession was ruled unconstitutional by the US Supreme Court in \"Texas v. White\" (1869).\n\nIn the case of Hawaii, the struggle for self-determination does not fall under secession, as it is less a break from federal administration, than a return to the process through which cession was claimed to have occurred: namely the ongoing occupation via a US imposed military coup; and/or removal from the UN list of Non-Self-Governing Territories. to educate or properly inform the citizenry of Hawaii of its options for self-determination and sidestepped guidelines laid out in UN General Assembly resolution 742 (1953).\n\nThe self-determination of the West Papuan people has been violently suppressed by the Indonesian government since the withdrawal of Dutch colonial rule under the Netherlands New Guinea in 1962.\n\nThere is an active movement based on the self-determination of the Sahrawi people in the Western Sahara region. Morocco also claims the entire territory, and maintains control of about two-thirds of the region.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11798101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11798101", "title": "Sucrose acetate isobutyrate", "text": "Sucrose acetate isobutyrate\n\nSucrose acetoisobutyrate (SAIB) is an emulsifier and has E number E444. In the United States, SAIB is categorized as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a food additive in cocktail mixers, beer, malt beverages, or wine coolers and is a potential replacement for brominated vegetable oil.\n\nSAIB can be prepared by esterification of sucrose with acetic and isobutyric anhydrides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172077", "title": "Tammany Hall", "text": "Tammany Hall\n\nTammany Hall, also known as the Society of St. Tammany, the Sons of St. Tammany, or the Columbian Order, was a New York City political organization founded in 1786 and incorporated on May 12, 1789, as the Tammany Society. It was the Democratic Party political machine that played a major role in controlling New York City and New York State politics and helping immigrants, most notably the Irish, rise up in American politics from the 1790s to the 1960s. It typically controlled Democratic Party nominations and political patronage in Manhattan from the mayoral victory of Fernando Wood in 1854 and used its patronage resources to build a loyal, well-rewarded core of district and precinct leaders; after 1850 the great majority were Irish Catholics.\n\nThe Tammany Society emerged as the center for Democratic-Republican Party politics in the city in the early 19th century. After 1854, the Society expanded its political control even further by earning the loyalty of the city's rapidly expanding immigrant community, which functioned as its base of political capital. The business community appreciated its readiness, at moderate cost, to cut through red tape and legislative mazes to facilitate rapid economic growth. The Tammany Hall ward boss or ward heeler – \"wards\" were the city's smallest political units from 1786 to 1938 – served as the local vote gatherer and provider of patronage. By 1872 Tammany had an Irish Catholic \"boss,\" and in 1928 a Tammany hero, New York Governor Al Smith, won the Democratic presidential nomination. However, Tammany Hall also served as an engine for graft and political corruption, perhaps most infamously under William M. \"Boss\" Tweed in the mid-19th century. By the 1880s, Tammany was building local clubs that appealed to social activists from the ethnic middle class. In quiet times the machine had the advantage of a core of solid supporters and usually exercised control of politics and policymaking in Manhattan; it also played a major role in the state legislature in Albany.\n\nCharles Murphy was the highly effective but quiet boss of Tammany from 1902–1924. \"Big Tim\" Sullivan was the Tammany leader in the Bowery, and machine's spokesman in the state legislature. In the early twentieth century Murphy and Sullivan promoted Tammany as a reformed agency dedicated to the interests of the working class. The new image deflected attacks and built up a following among the emerging ethnic middle class. In the process Robert F. Wagner became a powerful United States Senator, and Al Smith served multiple terms as governor and was the Democratic presidential candidate in 1928.\n\nTammany Hall's influence waned from 1930 to 1945 when it engaged in a losing battle with Franklin D. Roosevelt, the state's governor (1928–33) and the United States president (1933–45). In 1932, Mayor Jimmy Walker was forced from office when his bribery was exposed. Roosevelt stripped Tammany of federal patronage. Republican Fiorello La Guardia was elected mayor on a Fusion ticket and became the first anti-Tammany mayor to be re-elected. A brief resurgence in Tammany power in the 1950s under the leadership of Carmine DeSapio was met with Democratic Party opposition led by Eleanor Roosevelt, Herbert Lehman, and the New York Committee for Democratic Voters. By the mid-1960s Tammany Hall ceased to exist.\n\nThe Tammany Society, also known as the Society of St. Tammany, the Sons of St. Tammany, or the Columbian Order, was founded in New York on May 12, 1789, originally as a branch of a wider network of Tammany Societies, the first having been formed in Philadelphia in 1772. The society was originally developed as a club for \"pure Americans\". The name \"Tammany\" comes from Tamanend, a Native American leader of the Lenape. The society adopted many Native American words and also their customs, going so far as to call its hall a wigwam. The first Grand Sachem, as the leader was titled, was William Mooney, an upholsterer of Nassau Street.\n\nBy 1798, the society's activities had grown increasingly political. High ranking Democratic-Republican Aaron Burr saw Tammany Hall as an opportunity to counter Alexander Hamilton's Society of the Cincinnati and developed it into a political machine. Eventually Tammany emerged as the center of Democratic-Republican Party politics in the city. Burr used Tammany Hall influence in the election of 1800, in which he was elected Vice President of the United States. Many historians believe that without Tammany, President John Adams might have won New York State's electoral votes and won reelection.\nEarly cases of political corruption involving Tammany Hall came to light during the group's feud with local politician Dewitt Clinton. The feud began in 1802 after Clinton accused Aaron Burr of being a traitor to the Democratic-Republican Party. Clinton's uncle, George Clinton was jealous of Burr's achievements and positions. However George was too old to compete with young Aaron Burr, and so he left it to his nephew to topple Burr. In 1803, Clinton left the United States Senate and became Mayor of New York City. As mayor, Clinton enforced a spoils system and appointed his family and partisans to positions in the city's local government. Tammany Hall soon realized its influence over the local political scene was no match for that of Clinton, in part because Burr's support among New York City's residents greatly faded after he shot and killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel. Tammany continued to support him for a time, but eventually pressure from the public persuaded the organization to no longer affiliate themselves with Burr.\nIn December 1805, Dewitt Clinton reached out to supporters of Burr in order to gain enough support to resist the influence of the powerful Livingston family. The Livingston family, led by former New York City mayor Edward Livingston, backed New York Governor Morgan Lewis which presented a significant challenge to Clinton. The Tammany Hall Sachems agreed to meet with him in secret, on February 20, 1806. and agreed under the condition that the Clintons would once again acknowledge Aaron Burr as a Democratic-Republican, and stop using \"Burrism\" as a reason to object to their ideas. The Clintons readily agreed to conditions, but had no plans on honoring those conditions. When the Sachems caught wind of this, the feud between Tammany Hall and Clinton continued.\nTammany Hall afterwards became a locally organized machine dedicated to stopping Clinton and Federalists from rising to power in New York; However, local Democratic-Republicans began to turn against Tammany Hall. In the years covering 1806-1809, because of public demand, the local Common Council was forced to crack down on Tammany Hall. The resulting investigations found that a number of Tammany Officials were guilty of embezzlement and illegal activity. For example, one official, Benjamin Romaine was found guilty of using his power to acquire land without paying. He was then removed from his office of City Comptroller due to public demand, despite the Council being controlled by Democrat-Republicans. Following the disclosures, the Federalists won control of the state legislature and the Democratic-Republican Party barely maintained control of the local government in New York City. However, Tammany Hall did not learn their lesson, and instead of fixing the problem of corruption, Wortman, one of the chief powers at the time, created a committee consisting of one member from each ward that would investigate and report in general meetings who were friends, or enemies.\n\nDuring the years between 1809-1810, the feud between Tammany Hall, and Clintonites intensified, as each party threw attacks at each other. One of the Clintonites, James Cheetham, set about this by writing about Tammany and its corrupt activities, using his position as State Printer and publishing his work on \"American Citizen.\" However, Tammany Hall did not take lightly to these activities, and managed to remove Cheetham from his position of State Printer. However, at the same time, Clinton decided to try and cooperate with Tammany Hall in order to create a state dominated by Democrat-Republicans. In an attempt to successfully persuade Tammany Sachems, he pulled his support for Cheetham, who was his protege at the time. Cheetham's loss of Clinton's support angered him, and he responded by releasing details of Tammany and Clinton's attempts at cooperating to control the state. On September 18, 1810, James Cheetham died after an attack that was possibly Tammany-related.\nBetween the years 1809 and 1815, Tammany Hall slowly revived itself by accepting immigrants and by secretly building a new wigwam to hold meetings whenever new Sachems were named. The Democratic-Republican Committee, a new committee which consisted of the most influential local Democratic Republicans, would now name the new Sachems as well. When Dewitt Clinton decided to run for president in 1811, Tammany Hall immediately accused Clinton of treason to his party, as well as attempting to create a family aristocracy. Even though New York State went to Clinton the following year, republicans could not help but see Clinton's actions as exactly what Tammany had accused them of being. With this most republicans in New York City turned from Clinton. When Tammany Hall put itself in support for the War in 1812, many others who supported the war joined Tammany Hall. In fact, during this time, because of its successful establishing on political views, Tammany Hall was able to grow stronger, and even gain support from Federalists members who supported the war. During this time we see Tammany Hall's earliest application of its most notable technique- turning support away from opposing parties, and rewarding newly joined members. This was the case for Federalists who joined Tammany Hall. Tammany Hall managed to gain power, as well as reduce Clinton and his followers to just a small fraction. In 1815, Tammany Hall grand sachem John Ferguson defeated Dewitt Clinton and was elected mayor. In 1817, however, Clinton with his success on the Erie Canal project gained so much popularity, that despite his weak position after the War, and Tammany's immense efforts, once again became Governor of New York and Tammany Hall again, fell. Another factor leading to Clinton's popularity, was his patronage to the immigrants. The origins of Tammany Hall were based on representing \"pure\" or \"native\" Americans. This mean that the Hall totally dismissed the immigrants, such as the Irish. In 1817, April 24, discontent for this treatment led to a huge riot during a Tammany general committee session. Tammany Hall soon began to accept Irish immigrants as members and eventually became dependent on them to maintain viability as a political force. Until his death in 1828, Clinton would remain Governor of New York, with the exception of the two-year-period 1823–1824, and Tammany Hall's influence waned.\n\nDuring the 1828 U.S. presidential election, Tammany Hall leaders met with Democratic candidate Andrew Jackson and agreed to endorse him after he promised to give them control over the allocation of some federal jobs. After he was elected president, Jackson fulfilled his promise. After 1829, Tammany Hall became the city affiliate of the Democratic Party, controlling most of the New York City elections afterwards. In the 1830s the Loco-Focos, an anti-monopoly and pro-labor faction of the Democratic Party, became Tammany's main opposition by appealing to workingmen. Throughout the 1830s and 1840s, the Society expanded its political control even further by earning the loyalty of the city's ever-expanding immigrant community, which functioned as a base of political capital.\n\nThe Tammany Hall \"ward boss\" served as the local vote gatherer and provider of patronage. During the 1840s, hundreds of thousands of Irish immigrants arrived in New York City to escape the Great Irish Potato Famine and Tammany saw its power grow greatly.\n\nTammany Hall's electoral base lay predominantly with New York's burgeoning immigrant constituency, which often exchanged political support for Tammany Hall's patronage. In pre-New Deal America, the extralegal services that Tammany and other urban political machines provided often served as a rudimentary public welfare system. At first, in the latter 1810s, immigrants were not allowed membership in Tammany Hall. However, after protests by Irish militants in 1817, and the invasion of several of their offices, Tammany Hall realized the potential influence Irish immigrants would have in the city. By the 1820s, Tammany Hall was accepting Irish immigrants as members of the group.\n\nHowever, Irish immigrants became even more influential during the mid 1840s to early 1850s. With the potato famine in Ireland, by 1850, more than 130,000 immigrants from Ireland lived in New York City. Since the newly arrived immigrants were in deep poverty, Tammany Hall provided them with employment, shelter, and even citizenship sometimes. For example, the group gave men looking for work referrals, and legal aid to those who needed it. Tammany Hall would also provide food and financial aid to families with sick or injured breadwinners. In an example of their involvement in the lives of citizens, in the course of one day, Tammany figure George Washington Plunkitt assisted the victims of a house fire; secured the release of six \"drunks\" by speaking on their behalf to a judge; paid the rent of a poor family to prevent their eviction and gave them money for food; secured employment for four individuals; attended the funerals of two of his constituents (one Italian, the other Jewish); attended a Bar Mitzvah; and attended the wedding of a Jewish couple from his ward. Tammany Hall took full advantage of the surplus in Irish immigrants to create a healthy relationship to gather more votes. By 1855, 34 percent of New York City's voter population was composed of Irish immigrants, and many Irish men came to dominate Tammany Hall. With this, Tammany Hall started its career as the powerful political machine we associate it with today.\n\nTammany Hall also served as a social integrator for immigrants by familiarizing them with American society and its political institutions and by helping them become naturalized citizens. One example was the naturalization process organized by William M. Tweed. Under Tweed's regime, \"naturalization committees\" were established. These \"committees\" were made up primarily of Tammany politicians and employees, and their duties consisted of filling out paperwork, providing witnesses, and lending immigrants money for the fees required to become citizens. Judges and other city officials were bribed and otherwise compelled to go along with the workings of these committees. In exchange for all these benefits, immigrants assured Tammany Hall they would vote for their candidates. By 1854, the support which Tammany Hall received from immigrants would firmly establish the organization as the leader of New York City's political scene. With the election of Fernando Wood, the first person to be supported by the Tammany Hall machine, as mayor in 1854, Tammany Hall would proceed to dominate The New York City political arena until Fiorello La Guardia's mayoralty after the election of 1934.\n\nTammany's control over the politics of New York City tightened considerably under Tweed. In 1858, Tweed utilized the efforts of Republican reformers to rein in the Democratic city government to obtain a position on the County Board of Supervisors (which he then used as a springboard to other appointments) and to have his friends placed in various offices. From this position of strength, he was elected \"Grand Sachem\" of Tammany, which he then used to take functional control of the city government. With his proteges elected governor of the state and mayor of the city, Tweed was able to expand the corruption and kickbacks of his \"Ring\" into practically every aspect of city and state governance. Although Tweed was elected to the State Senate, his true sources of power were his appointed positions to various branches of the city government. These positions gave him access to city funds and contractors, thereby controlling public works programs. This benefitted his pocketbook and those of his friends, but also provided jobs for the immigrants, especially Irish laborers, who were the electoral base of Tammany's power.\n\nAccording to Tweed biographer Kenneth D. Ackerman:\n\nIt's hard not to admire the skill behind Tweed's system ... The Tweed ring at its height was an engineering marvel, strong and solid, strategically deployed to control key power points: the courts, the legislature, the treasury and the ballot box. Its frauds had a grandeur of scale and an elegance of structure: money-laundering, profit sharing and organization.\n\nUnder \"Boss\" Tweed's dominance, the city expanded into the Upper East and Upper West Sides of Manhattan, the Brooklyn Bridge was begun, land was set aside for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, orphanages and almshouses were constructed, and social services – both directly provided by the state and indirectly funded by state appropriations to private charities – expanded to unprecedented levels. All of this activity, of course, also brought great wealth to Tweed and his friends. It also brought them into contact and alliance with the rich elite of the city, who either fell in with the graft and corruption, or else tolerated it because of Tammany's ability to control the immigrant population, of whom the \"uppertens\" of the city were wary.\n\nIt was therefore Tammany's demonstrated \"inability\" to control Irish laborers in the Orange riot of 1871 that began Tweed's downfall. Campaigns to topple Tweed by \"The New York Times\" and Thomas Nast of \"Harper's Weekly\" began to gain traction in the aftermath of the riot, and disgruntled insiders began to leak the details of the extent and scope of the Tweed Ring's avarice to the newspapers.\n\nTweed was arrested and tried in 1872. He died in Ludlow Street Jail, and political reformers took over the city and state governments. Following Tweed's arrest, Tammany survived but was no longer controlled just by Protestants and was now dependent on leadership from bosses of Irish descent.\n\nTammany did not take long to rebound from Tweed's fall. Reforms demanded a general housecleaning, and former county sheriff \"Honest John\" Kelly was selected as the new leader. Kelly was not implicated in the Tweed scandals, and was a religious Catholic related by marriage to Archbishop John McCloskey. He cleared Tammany of Tweed's people, and tightened the Grand Sachem's control over the hierarchy. His success at revitalizing the machine was such that in the election of 1874, the Tammany candidate, William H. Wickham, unseated the unpopular reformist incumbent, William F. Havemeyer, and Democrats generally won their races, delivering control of the city back to Tammany Hall.\n\nThe mayoral election of 1886 was a seminal one for the organization. Union activists had founded the United Labor Party (ULP), which nominated political economist Henry George, the author of \"Progress and Poverty\", as its standard-bearer. George was initially hesitant about running for office, but was convinced to do so after Tammany secretly offered him a seat in Congress if he would stay out of the mayoral race. Tammany had no expectation of George being elected, but knew that his candidacy and the new party were a direct threat to their own status as the putative champions of the working man.\n\nHaving inadvertently provoked George into running, Tammany now needed to field a strong candidate against him, which required the cooperation of the Catholic Church in New York, which was the key to getting the support of middle-class Irish-American voters. Richard Croker, Kelly's right-hand man, had succeeded Kelly as Grand Sachem of Tammany, and he understood that he would also need to make peace with the non-Tammany \"Swallowtail\" faction of the Democratic Party to avoid the threat that George and the ULP posed, which was the potential re-structuring of the city's politics along class lines and away from the ethnic-based politics which has been Tammany's underpinning all along. To bring together these disparate groups, Croker nominated Abram Hewitt as the Democratic candidate for mayor. Not only was Hewitt the leader of the Swallowtails, but he was noted philanthropist Peter Cooper's son-in-law, and had an impeccable reputation. To counter both George and Hewitt, the Republicans put up Theodore Roosevelt, the former state assemblyman.\n\nIn the end, Hewitt won the election, with George out-polling Roosevelt, whose total was some 2,000 votes less than the Republicans had normally received. Despite their second-place finish, things seemed bright for the future of the labor political movement, but the ULP was not to last, and was never able to bring about a new paradigm in the city's politics. Tammany had once again succeeded and survived. More than that, Croker realized that he could utilize the techniques of the well-organized election campaign that ULP had run. Because Tammany's ward-heelers controlled the saloons, the new party had used \"neighborhood meetings, streetcorner rallies, campaign clubs, Assembly District organizations, and trade legions – an entire political counterculture\" to run their campaign. Croker now took these innovations for Tammany's use, creating political clubhouses to take the place of the saloons and involving women and children by sponsoring family excursions and picnics. The New Tammany appeared to be more respectable, and less obviously connected to saloon-keepers and gang leaders, and the clubhouses, one in every Assembly District, were also a more efficient way of providing patronage work to those who came looking for it; one simply had to join the club, and volunteer to put in the hours needed to support it.\n\nHewitt turned out to be a terrible mayor, due to his personality defects and his nativist views, and in 1888 Tammany ran Croker's hand-picked choice, Hugh J. Grant, who became the first New York-born Irish-American mayor. Grant allowed Croker free run of the city's contracts and offices, creating a vast patronage machine beyond anything Tweed had ever dreamed of, a status which continued under Grant's successor, Thomas Francis Gilroy. With such resources of money and manpower – the entire city workforce of 1,200 was essentially available to him when needed – Croker was able to neutralize the Swallowtails permanently. He also developed a new stream of income from the business community, which was provided with \"one stop shopping\": instead of bribing individual office-holders, businesses, especially the utilities, could go directly to Tammany to make their payments, which were then directed downward as necessary; such was the control Tammany had come to have over the governmental apparatus of the city.\n\nCroker mended fences with labor as well, pushing through legislation which addressed some of the inequities which had fueled the labor political movement, making Tammany once again appear to be the \"Friend of the Working Man\" – although he was careful always to maintain a pro-business climate of \"laissez-faire\" and low taxes. Tammany's influence was also extended once again to the state legislature, where a similar patronage system to the city's was established after Tammany took control in 1892. With the Republican boss, Thomas Platt, adopting the same methods, the two men between them essentially controlled the state.\n\nIn 1894, Tammany suffered a setback when, fueled by the public hearings on police corruption held by the Lexow Committee based on the evidence uncovered by the Rev. Charles Parkhurst when he explored the city's \"demi monde\" undercover, a Committee of Seventy was organized by Council of Good Government Clubs to break the stranglehold that Tammany had on the city. Full of some of the city's richest men – J.P. Morgan, Cornelius Vanderbilt, Abram Hewitt and Elihu Root, among others – the committee supported William L. Strong, a millionaire dry-goods merchant, for mayor, and forced Tammany's initial candidate, merchant Nathan Straus, co-owner of Macy's and Abraham & Straus, from the election by threatening to ostracize him from New York society. Tammany then put up Hugh Grant again, despite his being publicly dirtied by the police scandals. Backed by the Committee's money, influence and their energetic campaign, and helped by Grant's apathy, Strong won the election handily, and spent the next three years running the city on the basis of \"business principles\", pledging an efficient government and the return of morality to city life. The election was a Republican sweep statewide: Levi Morton, a millionaire banker from Manhattan, won the governorship, and the party also ended up in control of the legislature.\n\nStill, Tammany could not be kept down for long, and in 1898 Croker, aided by the death of Henry George – which took the wind out of the sails of the potential re-invigoration of the political labor movement – shifted the Democratic Party enough to the left to pick up labor's support, and pulled back into the fold those elements outraged by the reformers' attempt to outlaw Sunday drinking and otherwise enforce their own authoritarian moral concepts on immigrant populations with different cultural outlooks. Tammany's candidate, Robert A. Van Wyck easily outpolled Seth Low, the reform candidate backed by the Citizens Union, and Tammany was back in control. Its supporters marched through the city's streets chanting, \"Well, well, well, Reform has gone to Hell!\"\n\nDespite occasional defeats, Tammany was consistently able to survive and prosper. Under leaders such as Charles Francis Murphy and Timothy Sullivan, it maintained control of Democratic politics in the city and the state.\n\nThe politics of the consolidated city from 1898 to 1945 revolved around conflicts between the political machines and the reformers. In quiet times the machines had the advantage of the core of solid supporters and usually exercised control of city and borough affairs; they also played a major role in the state legislature in Albany. Tammany for example from the 1880s onward built a strong network of local clubs that attracted ambitious middle-class ethnics. In times of crisis however, especially in the severe depressions of the 1890s and the 1930s, the reformers took control of key offices, notably the mayor's office. The reformers were never unified; they operated through a complex network of independent civic reform groups, each focused its lobbying efforts on its own particular reform agenda. The membership included civic minded, well-educated middle-class men and women, usually with expert skills in a profession or business, who deeply distrusted the corruption of the machines. Consolidation in 1898 multiplied the power of these reform groups, so long as they could agree on a common agenda, Such as consolidation itself.\n\nThere was no citywide machine. Instead Democratic machines flourished in each of the boroughs, with Tammany Hall in Manhattan the most prominent. They typically had strong local organizations, known as \"political clubs\", as well as one prominent leader often called \"the boss\". Charles Murphy was the highly effective but quiet boss of Tammany Hall from 1902–1924. \"Big Tim\" Sullivan was the Tammany leader in the Bowery, and the machine's spokesman in the state legislature. Republican local organizations were much weaker, but they played key roles in forming reform coalitions. Most of the time they looked to Albany and Washington for their sphere of influence. Seth Low, the president of Columbia University, was elected the reform mayor in 1901. He lacked the common touch, and lost much of his working class support when he listened to dry Protestants eager to crack down on the liquor business.\n\nFrom 1902 until his death in 1924, Charles Francis Murphy was Tammany's boss. Murphy wanted to clean up Tammany's image, and he sponsored progressive era reforms benefiting the working class through his two protégés, Governor Al Smith and Robert F. Wagner. Ed Flynn, a protégé of Murphy who became the boss in the Bronx, said Murphy always advised that politicians should have nothing to do with gambling or prostitution, and should steer clear of involvement with the police department or the school system.\n\nA new challenge to Tammany came from William Randolph Hearst, a powerful newspaper publisher who wanted to be president. Hearst was elected to Congress with Tammany support, was defeated for mayor after a bitter contest with Tammany, and won Tammany support for his unsuccessful quest for the governorship of New York. Hearst did manage to dominate Tammany mayor John F. Hylan (1917–25), but he lost control when Smith and Wagner denied Hylan renomination in 1925. Hearst then moved to California.\n\nIn 1932, the machine suffered a dual setback when Mayor James Walker was forced from office by scandal and reform-minded Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected president of the United States. Tammany Hall leader John F. Curry and Brooklyn political boss John H. McCooey had joined forces to support Al Smith's candidacy. Roosevelt and his lead campaign manager James Farley stripped Tammany of federal patronage, which had been expanded under the New Deal—and passed it instead to Ed Flynn, boss of the Bronx who had kept his district clean of corruption. Roosevelt helped Republican Fiorello La Guardia become mayor on a Fusion ticket, thus removing even more patronage from Tammany's control. La Guardia was elected in 1933. After becoming mayor, LaGuardia reorganized the city cabinet with non-partisan officials and sought to develop a clean and honest city government.\n\nAs mayor, LaGuardia successfully led the effort to have a new city charter adopted which would mandate a proportional representation method of electing members of the City Council. The measure won on a referendum in 1936. After the new charter went into effect in 1938, the ward system which had allowed only a small number of people to serve on the City Council since 1686 ceased to exist, and the new 26-member New York City Council now had certain functions governed by the Board of Estimate. La Guardia's appointees filled the board of magistrates and virtually every other long-term appointive office, and the power of Tammany Hall had now been reduced to a shadow of what it once was. In 1937, LaGuardia became the first anti-Tammany \"reform\" Mayor to ever be re-elected in the city's history and was again re-elected in 1941 before retiring in 1945. His extended tenure weakened Tammany in a way that previous reform mayors had not.\n\nTammany depended for its power on government contracts, jobs, patronage, corruption, and ultimately the ability of its leaders to control nominations to the Democratic ticket and swing the popular vote. The last element weakened after 1940 with the decline of relief programs like WPA and CCC that Tammany used to gain and hold supporters. Congressman Christopher \"Christy\" Sullivan was one of the last \"bosses\" of Tammany Hall before its collapse.\n\nManhattan District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey also got longtime Tammany Hall boss Jimmy Hines convicted of bribery in 1939 and sentenced to 4–8 years. The loss of Hines would serve as a major blow to Tammany, as he had given the political machine strong ties to the city's powerful organized crime figures since the 1920s. A few years prior, Dewey also had powerful mobster and strong Tammany ally Lucky Luciano convicted of racketeering and sentenced to 30–50 years; however, Luciano was still able to maintain control of the powerful Luciano crime family from prison until his sentence was commuted to deportation to Italy in 1946. Several Tammany Hall officials affiliated with Hines and Luciano were also successfully prosecuted by Dewey.\n\nTammany never recovered, but it staged a small-scale comeback in the early 1950s under the leadership of Carmine DeSapio, who succeeded in engineering the elections of Robert F. Wagner, Jr., an outspoken liberal Democrat, as mayor in 1953 and W. Averell Harriman as state governor in 1954, while simultaneously blocking his enemies, especially Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Jr. in the 1954 race for state Attorney General. Unlike previous Tammany \"bosses\", however, DeSapio had promoted himself as a reformer and always made his decisions known to the public. The fact that DeSapio was of Italian descent also demonstrated that Tammany was no longer dominated by Irish-American politicians. Under DeSapio's leadership, the nationality of Tammany Hall's leaders diversified. However, DeSapio's close ties with the city's lead mobster Frank Costello, Luciano's self-appointed successor, helped establish him as a corrupt figure. During DeSapio's reign, Costello was the main person who influenced the decisions made by Tammany Hall officials.\n\nBy 1956, however, Costello, who was convicted of tax evasion in 1954 and now controlled the Luciano family from prison, was engaged in a major power struggle with fellow associate Vito Genovese and his grip on power greatly weakened. In 1957, Costello was released from prison after winning an appeal but officially abandoned his role as head of the Luciano family following a failed assassination attempt. In 1958, DeSapio's \"reform\" image was severely damaged after he ran his own candidate for Senate, Manhattan District Attorney Frank Hogan. New Yorkers now saw DeSapio as an old-time Tammany Hall boss, and Hogan would lose the Senate election to Republican Kenneth Keating; Republican Nelson Rockefeller would also be elected Governor the same year. Democrats who once praised De Sapio now excoriated him. In 1961, Wagner won re-election by running a reformist campaign that denounced his former patron, DeSapio, as an undemocratic practitioner of Tammany machine politics. Eleanor Roosevelt organized a counterattack with Herbert H. Lehman and Thomas K. Finletter to form the New York Committee for Democratic Voters, a group dedicated to fighting Tammany. In 1961, the group helped remove DeSapio from power. The once mighty Tammany political machine, now deprived of its leadership, quickly faded from political importance, and by 1967 it ceased to exist; its demise as the controlling group of the New York Democratic Party was sealed when the Village Independent Democrats under Ed Koch wrested away control of the Manhattan party.\n\nNote: There were two distinct entities: the Tammany Society, headed by a Grand Sachem elected annually on May 23; and the Tammany Hall political machine headed by a \"boss\". The following list names the political bosses, as far as could be ascertained.\n\n\n\nIn its very early days, the Tammany Society met in the back rooms of various taverns, most often in Barden's Tavern on Broadway near Bowling Green. These back rooms served as unofficial campaign headquarters on election days.\n\nIn 1791, the society opened a museum designed to collect artifacts relating to the events and history of the United States. Originally presented in an upper room of City Hall, it moved to the Merchant's Exchange when that proved to be too small. The museum was unsuccessful, and the Society severed its connections with it in 1795.\n\nThen, in 1798, the Society moved to more permanent and spacious quarters, the \"Long Room\" of \"Brom\" Martling's Tavern, at Nassau Street and Spruce Street, near where City Hall is today. Tammany controlled the space, which it dubbed \"The Wigwam\", and let other responsible political organizations it approved of use the room for meetings. This space became commonly known as \"Tammany Hall\".\n\nTheir new headquarters had limitations as well as advantages, and in 1812 Tammany moved again, this time to a new five-story $55,000 building it built at the corner of Nassau and Frankfort Streets, just a few blocks away. The new Tammany Hall had a large room that could accommodate up to 2,000 people for political and social events, and the rest of the building was run as a hotel. The Society was to remain there for 55 years.\n\nBy the 1860s, Tammany under Tweed had much greater influence – and affluence, so new headquarters was deemed desirable. The cornerstone for the new Tammany headquarters was laid on July 14, 1867, at 141 East 14th Street between Third Avenue and Fourth Avenues (the building at Nassau and Frankfort was sold to Charles Dana and his friends, who bought a newspaper, \"The Sun\", and moved it there).\n\nWhen the leaders of the Society found that they had not raised enough funds, and needed $25,000 more, a meeting was held at which $175,000 was immediately pledged. The new Wigwam was completed in 1868. It was not just a political clubhouse:\n\nTammany Hall merged politics and entertainment, already stylistically similar, in its new headquarters. ... The Tammany Society kept only one room for itself, renting the rest to entertainment impresarios: Don Bryant's Minstrels, a German theater company, classical concerts and opera. The basement – in the French mode – offered the Café Ausant, where one could see tableaux vivant, gymnastic exhibitions, pantomimes, and Punch and Judy shows. There was also a bar, a bazaar, a Ladies' Cafe, and an oyster saloon. All this – with the exception of Bryant's – was open from seven till midnight for a combination price of fifty cents.\n\nThe building had an auditorium big enough to hold public meetings, and a smaller one that became Tony Pastor's Music Hall, where vaudeville had its beginnings. The structure was topped off by a large-than-life statue of Saint Tammany.\n\nIn 1927 the building on 14th Street was sold, to make way for the new tower being added to the Consolidated Edison Company Building. The Society's new building, in Manhattan on East 17th Street and Union Square East, was finished and occupied by 1929. When Tammany started to lose its political influence, and its all-important access to graft, it could no longer afford to maintain the 17th Street building, and in 1943 it was bought by a local affiliate of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. Tammany left, and its leaders moved to the National Democratic Club on Madison Avenue at East 33rd Street, and the Society's collection of memorabilia went into a warehouse in the Bronx. The building housed the New York Film Academy and the Union Square Theatre, and retail stores at street level, until a complete renovation of the building began in January 2016. The New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission designated it in October 2013. Plans to add a glass dome to the building were nixed by the Landmarks Commission in 2014; however, the interior is still slated to be completely rebuilt, including demolishing the theater. In 2015, a scaled-back version of the glass dome was approved by the commission.\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nPrimary sources\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "18618102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18618102", "title": "Tax haven", "text": "Tax haven\n\nA tax haven is generally defined as a country or place with very low \"effective\" rates of taxation for foreigners (\"headline\" rates may be higher). In some traditional definitions, a tax haven also offers financial secrecy. However, while countries with high levels of secrecy but also high rates of taxation (e.g. the United States and Germany in the Financial Secrecy Index (\"FSI\") rankings), can feature in some tax haven lists, they are not universally considered as tax havens. In contrast, countries with lower levels of secrecy but also low \"effective\" rates of taxation (e.g. Ireland in the FSI rankings), appear in most . The consensus around \"effective tax rates\" has led academics to note that the term \"tax haven\" and \"offshore financial centre\" are almost synonymous.\n\nTraditional tax havens, like Jersey, are open about zero rates of taxation, but as a consequence have limited bilateral tax treaties. Modern corporate tax havens have non-zero \"headline\" rates of taxation and high levels of OECD–compliance, and thus have large networks of bilateral tax treaties. However, their base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") tools enable corporates to achieve \"effective\" tax rates closer to zero, not just in the haven but in all countries with which the haven has tax treaties; putting them on tax haven lists. According to modern studies, the include corporate-focused havens like Ireland, the Netherlands, Singapore, and the U.K., while Switzerland, Luxembourg, Hong Kong, and the Caribbean (the Caymans, Bermuda, and the British Virgin Islands), feature as both major traditional tax havens and major corporate tax havens. Corporate tax havens often serve as \"conduits\" to traditional tax havens.\n\nUse of tax havens, traditional and corporate, results in a loss of tax revenues to countries which are not tax havens. Estimates of total amounts of taxes avoided vary, but the most credible have a range of US$100–250 billion per annum. In addition, capital held in tax havens can permanently leave the tax base (base erosion). Estimates of capital held in tax havens also vary: the most credible estimates are between $7–10 trillion (up to 10% of global assets). The harm of traditional and corporate tax havens has been particularly noted in developing nations, where the tax revenues are needed to build infrastructure.\n\nAt least 15% of countries are tax havens. Tax havens are mostly successful and well-governed economies, and being a haven has often brought prosperity. The top 10–15 GDP-per-capita countries, excluding oil and gas exporters, are tax havens. Because of (due to accounting BEPS flows), havens are prone to over-leverage (international capital misprice the artificial debt-to-GDP). This can lead to severe credit cycles and/or property/banking crises when international capital flows are repriced. Ireland's Celtic Tiger, and the subsequent financial crisis in 2009–13, is an example. Jersey is another. Research shows the , and U.S. multinational use of tax havens, has maximised long-term U.S. exchequer receipts; however experts note OECD jurisdictions accommodated the U.S. to overcome shortcomings in the U.S. \"worldwide\" tax system (others use \"territorial\" systems, and don't need havens).\n\nThe focus on combating tax havens (e.g. OECD–IMF projects) has been on common standards, transparency and data sharing. The rise of OECD-compliant corporate tax havens, whose BEPS tools are responsible for most of the quantum of lost taxes, has led to criticism of this focus, versus actual taxes paid. Higher-tax jurisdictions, such as the United States and many member states of the European Union, departed from the OCED BEPS Project in 2017–18, to introduce anti-BEPS tax regimes, targeted raising net taxes paid by corporations in corporate tax havens (e.g. the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"TCJA\") GILTI–BEAT–FDII tax regimes and move to a hybrid \"territorial\" tax system, and the proposed EU Digital Services Tax regime and the proposed EU Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base).\n\nThe consensus regarding a specific and exact definition of what constitutes a tax haven, is that there is none. This is the conclusion from non-governmental organisations, such as the Tax Justice Network, from the 2008 investigation by the U.S. Government Accountability Office, from the 2015 investigation by the U.S. Congressional Research Service, from the 2017 investigation by the European Parliament, and from leading academic researchers of tax havens.\n\nThe issue, however, is material, as being labelled a \"tax haven\" has consequences for a country seeking to develop and trade under bilateral tax treaties. When Ireland was \"blacklisted\" by G20 member Brazil in 2016, bilateral trade declined. It is even more onerous for corporate tax havens, whose foreign multinationals rely on the haven's extensive network of bilateral tax treaties, through which the foreign multinationals execute BEPS transactions, re-routing global untaxed income to the haven.\n\nOne of the first , was the 1994 Hines–Rice paper by James R. Hines Jr. It is the most cited paper on tax haven research, even in late 2017, and Hines is the most cited author on tax haven research. As well as offering insights into tax havens, it took the view that the diversity of countries that become tax havens was so great that detailed definitions were inappropriate. Hines merely noted that tax havens were: \"a group of countries with unusually low tax rates\". Hines reaffirmed this approach in a 2009 paper with Dhammika Dharmapala. He refined it in 2016 to incorporate research on on governance, which is broadly accepted in the academic lexicon.\n\nIn April 1998, the OECD produced a definition of a tax haven, as meeting \"three of four\" criteria. It was produced as part of their \"Harmful Tax Competition: An Emerging Global Issue\" initiative. By 2000, when the OECD published their first list of tax havens, it included no OECD member countries as they were now all considered to have engaged in the OECD's new Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes, and therefore would not meet \"Criteria ii\" and \"Criteria iii\". Because the OECD has never listed any of its 35 members as tax havens, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland are sometimes defined as the \"OECD tax havens\". In 2017, only Trinidad & Tobago met the 1998 OECD definition, and it has fallen into disrepute.\n\n(†) The 4th criterion was withdrawn after objections from the new U.S. Bush Administration in 2001, and in the OECD's 2002 report the definition became \"two of three criteria\". \n\nThe 1998 OECD definition is most frequently invoked by the \"OECD tax havens\". However, it has been discounted by tax haven academics, including the 2015 U.S. Congressional Research Service investigation into tax havens, as being restrictive, and enabling Hines’ low-tax havens (e.g. to which the first criterion applies), to avoid the OECD definition by improving OECD corporation (so the second and third criteria do not apply). \n\nIn April 2000, the Financial Stability Forum (or FSF) defined the related concept of an offshore financial centre (or OFC), which the IMF adopted in June 2000. An OFC is similar to a \"tax haven\" and the terms are sometimes used interchangeably, but the term OFC is less controversial and pejorative. The FSF–IMF definition focused on the BEPS tools havens offer, and on Hines' observation that the accounting flows from BEPS tools distort the economic statistics of the haven. The FSF–IMF list captured new corporate tax havens, such as the Netherlands, which Hines considered too small in 1994. \n\nIn December 2008, Dharmapala wrote that the OECD process had removed much of the need to include \"bank secrecy\" in any definition of a tax haven and that it was now \"first and foremost, low or zero corporate tax rates\", and this has become the general \"financial dictionary\" definition of a tax haven.\n\nIn October 2009, the Tax Justice Network introduced the Financial Secrecy Index (\"FSI\") and the term \"secrecy jurisdiction\", to highlight issues in regard to OECD-compliant countries who have high tax rates and do not appear on academic lists of tax havens, but have transparency issues. The FSI does not assess tax rates or BEPS flows in its calculation; but it is often misinterpreted as a tax haven definition in the financial media, particularly when it lists the USA and Germany as major \"secrecy jurisdictions\". However, many types of tax havens also rank as secrecy jurisdictions.\n\nIn October 2010, Hines published a list of 52 tax havens, scaled by analysing corporate investment flows. Hines' largest havens were dominated by corporate tax havens, who Dharmapala noted in 2014 accounted for the bulk of global tax haven activity from BEPS tools. The Hines 2010 list was the first to estimate the ten largest global tax havens, only two of which, Jersey and the British Virgin Isles, were on the OECD’s 2000 list.\n\nIn July 2017, the University of Amsterdam's CORPNET group ignored any definition of a tax haven and focused on a purely quantitive approach, analysing 98 million global corporate connections on the Orbis database. CORPNET's lists of top five Conduit OFCs, and top five Sink OFCs, matched 9 of the top 10 havens in Hines' 2010 list, only differing in the United Kingdom, which only transformed their tax code in 2009–12. CORPNET's Conduit and Sink OFCs study split the understanding of a tax haven into two classifications:\n\n\nIn June 2018, tax academic Gabriel Zucman (\"et alia\") published research that also ignored any definition of a tax haven, but estimated the corporate \"profit shifting\" (i.e. BEPS), and \"enhanced corporate profitability\" that Hines and Dharmapala had noted. Zucman pointed out that the CORPNET research under-represented havens associated with US technology firms, like Ireland and the Cayman Islands, as Google, Facebook and Apple do not appear on Orbis. Even so, Zucman's 2018 list of top 10 havens also matched 9 of the top 10 havens in Hines' 2010 list, but with Ireland as the largest global haven. These lists (Hines 2010, CORPNET 2017 and Zucman 2018), and others, which followed a purely quantitive approach, showed a firm consensus around the largest corporate tax havens.\n\nThree main types of tax haven lists have been produced to date:\n\nResearch also highlights proxy indicators, of which the two most prominent are:\n\nThe post–2010 rise in quantitative techniques of identifying tax havens has seen a consistency amongst the ten largest tax havens. Dharmapala notes that as corporate BEPS flows dominate tax haven activity, these are mostly corporate tax havens. Nine of the top ten tax havens in Gabriel Zucman's June 2018 study appear in the top ten lists of the two other quantitative studies since 2010. Four of the top five Conduit OFCs are represented; however, the United Kingdom only transformed its tax code in 2009–2012. All five of the top 5 Sink OFCs are represented, although Jersey only appears in the Hines 2010 list.\n\nThe studies capture the rise of Ireland and Singapore, both major regional headquarters for some of the largest BEPS tool users, Apple, Google and Facebook.\n\nIn Q1 2015, Apple completed the largest BEPS action in history, when it shifted USD 300 billion of IP to Ireland, which Nobel-prize economist Paul Krugman called \"leprechaun economics\".\n\nIn September 2018, using TCJA repatriation tax data, the NBER listed the \"key tax havens\" as: \"Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Switzerland, Singapore, Bermuda and [the] Caribbean havens\".\n\n(*) Appears as a top ten tax haven in all three lists; 9 major tax havens meet this criterion, \"Ireland, Singapore, Switzerland and the Netherlands (the Conduit OFCs), and the Cayman Islands, British Virgin Islands, Luxembourg, Hong Kong and Bermuda (the Sink OFCs)\".<br>\n(†) Also appears as one of 5 Conduit OFC (Ireland, Singapore, Switzerland, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom), in CORPNET's 2017 research; or<br>\n(‡) Also appears as a Top 5 Sink OFC (British Virgin Islands, Luxemburg, Hong Kong, Jersey, Bermuda), in CORPNET's 2017 research.<br>\n(Δ) Identified on the first, and largest, OECD 2000 list of 35 tax havens (the OECD list only contained Trinidad & Tobago by 2017).\n\nThe strongest consensus amongst academics regarding the world's largest tax havens is therefore: Ireland, Singapore, Switzerland and the Netherlands (the major Conduit OFCs), and the Cayman Islands, British Virgin Islands, Luxembourg, Hong Kong and Bermuda (the major Sink OFCs), with the United Kingdom (a major Conduit OFC) still in transformation.\n\nOf these ten major havens, all except the United Kingdom and the Netherlands featured on the original Hines–Rice 1994 list. The United Kingdom was not a tax haven in 1994, and Hines estimated the Netherlands's effective tax rate in 1994 at over 20% (he estimated Ireland’s at 4%). Four of them, Ireland, Singapore, Switzerland (3 of the 5 top Conduit OFCs), and Hong Kong (a top 5 Sink OFC), featured in the Hines–Rice 1994 list's \"7 major tax havens\" sub–category; highlighting a lack of progress in curtailing tax havens. \n\nIn terms of proxy indicators, this list, excluding Canada, contains all seven of the countries that received more than one US tax inversion since 1982 (see here). In addition, six of these major tax havens are in the top 15 GDP-per-capita, and of the four others, three of them, the Caribbean locations, are not included in IMF-World Bank GDP-per-capita tables.\n\nIn a June 2018 joint IMF report into the effect of BEPS flows on global economic data, eight of the above (excluding Switzerland and the United Kingdon) were cited as the world’s leading tax havens.\n\nThe longest list from \"Non–governmental, Quantitative\" research on tax havens is the University of Amsterdam CORPNET July 2017 Conduit and Sink OFCs study, at 29 (5 Conduit OFCs and 25 Sink OFCs). The following are the 20 largest (5 Conduit OFCs and 15 Sink OFCs), which reconcile with other main lists as follows:\n\n(*) Appears in as a in all three quantitative lists, Hines 2010, ITEP 2017 and Zucman 2018 (above); all nine such s are listed below.<br>\n(♣) Appears on the James Hines 2010 list of 52 tax havens; seventeen of the twenty locations below, are on the James Hines 2010 list.<br>\n(Δ) Identified on the largest OECD 2000 list of 35 tax havens (the OECD list only contained Trinidad & Tobago by 2017); only four locations below were ever on an OECD list.<br> \n(↕) Identified on the European Union's first 2017 list of 17 tax havens; only one location below is on the EU 2017 list.<br>\n\nSovereign states that feature mainly as major corporate tax havens are:\n\n\nSovereign states that feature as both major corporate tax havens and major traditional tax havens, include:\n\n\nSovereign or semi-sovereign states that feature mainly as traditional tax havens (but have non-zero tax rates), include:\n\nSub-national states that are very traditional tax havens (i.e. explicit 0% rate of tax) include (fuller list in table opposite):\n\nPost–2010 research on tax havens is focused on quantitative analysis (which can be ranked), and tends to ignore very small tax havens where data is limited as the haven is used for individual tax avoidance rather than corporate tax avoidance. The last credible broad unranked list of global tax havens is the James Hines 2010 list of 52 tax havens. It is shown below but expanded to 55 to include havens identified in the July 2017 Conduit and Sink OFCs study that were not considered havens in 2010, namely the United Kingdom, Taiwan, and Curaçao. The James Hines 2010 list contains 34 of the original 35 OCED tax havens; and compared with the and above, show OECD processes focus on the compliance of tiny havens.\n\n(†) Identified as one of the 5 Conduits by CORPNET in 2017; the above list has 5 of the 5.<br>\n(‡) Identified as one of the largest 24 Sinks by CORPNET in 2017; the above list has 23 of the 24 (Guyana missing).<br>\n(↕) Identified on the European Union's first 2017 list of 17 tax havens; the above list contains 8 of the 17.<br>\n(Δ) Identified on the first, and the largest, OECD 2000 list of 35 tax havens (the OECD list only contained Trinidad & Tobago by 2017); the above list contains 34 of the 35 (U.S. Virgin Islands missing).<br>\n\nU.S. dedicated entities:\n\n\nMajor sovereign States which feature on financial secrecy lists (e.g. the Financial Secrecy Index), but not on corporate tax haven or traditional tax haven lists, are:\n\n\nNeither the U.S. or Germany have appeared on any tax haven lists by the main academic leaders in tax haven research, namely: James R. Hines Jr., Dhammika Dharmapala or Gabriel Zucman. There are no known cases of foreign firms executing tax inversions to the U.S. or Germany for tax purposes, a basic sense-check of a corporate tax haven.\n\n\nWhile incomplete, and with the limitations discussed below, the available statistics nonetheless indicate that offshore banking is a very sizable activity. The OECD estimated in 2007 that capital held offshore amounted to between $5 trillion and $7 trillion, making up approximately 6–8% of total global investments under management.\n\nA more recent study by Gabriel Zucman of the London School of Economics estimated the amount of global cross-border wealth held in tax havens (including the Netherlands and Luxembourg as tax havens for this purpose) at US$7.6 trillion, of which US$2.46 trillion was held in Switzerland alone. The Tax Justice Network (an anti-tax haven pressure group) estimated in 2012 that capital held offshore amounted to between $21 trillion and $32 trillion (between 24–32% of total global investments), although those estimates have been challenged.\n\nIn 2000, the International Monetary Fund calculated based on Bank for International Settlements data that for selected offshore financial centres, on-balance sheet cross-border assets held in offshore financial centres reached a level of $4.6 trillion at the end of June 1999 (about 50 percent of total cross-border assets). Of that $4.6 trillion, $0.9 trillion was held in the Caribbean, $1 trillion in Asia, and most of the remaining $2.7 trillion accounted for by the major international finance centres (IFCs), namely London, the U.S. IBFs, and the Japanese offshore market. The U.S. Department of Treasury estimated that in 2011 the Caribbean Banking Centers, which include Bahamas, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Netherlands Antilles and Panama, held almost $2 trillion in United States debt. Of this, approximately US$1.4 trillion is estimated to be held in the Cayman Islands alone.\n\nThe \"Wall Street Journal\" in a study of 60 large U.S. companies found that they deposited $166 billion in offshore accounts in 2012, sheltering over 40% of their profits from U.S. taxes. Similarly, Desai, Foley and Hines found that: \"in 1999, 59% of U.S. firms with significant foreign operations had affiliates in tax haven countries\", although they did not define \"significant\" for this purpose. In 2009, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported that 83 of the 100 largest U.S. publicly traded corporations and 63 of the 100 largest contractors for the U.S. federal government were maintaining subsidiaries in countries generally considered havens for avoiding taxes. The GAO did not review the companies' transactions to independently verify that the subsidiaries helped the companies reduce their tax burden, but said only that historically the purpose of such subsidiaries is to cut tax costs.\n\nJames Henry, former chief economist at consultants McKinsey & Company, in his report for the Tax Justice Network gives an indication of the amount of money that is sheltered by wealthy individuals in tax havens. The report estimated conservatively that a fortune of $21 trillion is stashed away in off-shore accounts with $9.8 trillion alone by the top tier—less than 100,000 people—who each own financial assets of $30 million or more. The report's author indicated that this hidden money results in a \"huge\" lost tax revenue—a \"black hole\" in the economy—and many countries would become creditors instead of being debtors if the money of their tax evaders would be taxed.\n\nThe Tax Justice Network estimated in 2012 that global tax revenue lost to tax havens was circa $190 to $255 billion per year (assuming a 3% capital gains rate, a 30% capital gains tax rate, and $21 to $32 trillion hidden in tax havens. The Zucman study uses different methodology, but also estimates $190 billion in lost revenue.\n\nThe UN Economic Commission for Africa estimates that illegal financial flows cost the continent around $50 billion per year. The OECD estimates that two-thirds ($30 billion) occur from tax avoidance and evasion from non-African firms. The avoidance of taxation by international corporations through legal and illegal methods stifles development in African countries. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) will be difficult to obtain if these losses persist.\nIn 2016 a massive data leak known as the \"Panama Papers\" cast some doubt on the size of previous estimates of lost revenue.\n\nHowever, the tax policy director of the Chartered Institute of Taxation expressed skepticism over the accuracy of the figures. If true, those sums would amount to approximately 5 to 8 times the total amount of currency presently in circulation in the world. Daniel J. Mitchell of the Cato Institute says that the report also assumes, when considering notional lost tax revenue, that 100% money deposited offshore is evading payment of tax.\n\nIn October 2009, research commissioned from Deloitte for the Foot Review of British Offshore Financial Centres said that much less tax had been lost to tax havens than previously had been thought. The report indicated \"We estimate the total UK corporation tax potentially lost to avoidance activities to be up to £2 billion per annum, although it could be much lower.\" An earlier report by the U.K. Trades Union Congress, concluded that tax avoidance by the 50 largest companies in the FTSE 100 was depriving the UK Treasury of approximately £11.8 billion. The report also stressed that British Crown Dependencies make a \"significant contribution to the liquidity of the UK market\". In the second quarter of 2009, they provided net funds to banks in the UK totaling $323 billion (£195 billion), of which $218 billion came from Jersey, $74 billion from Guernsey and $40 billion from the Isle of Man.\n\nThe Tax Justice Network reports that this system is \"basically designed and operated\" by a group of highly paid specialists from the world’s largest private banks (led by UBS, Credit Suisse, and Goldman Sachs), law offices, and accounting firms and tolerated by international organizations such as Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the OECD, and the G20. The amount of money hidden away has significantly increased since 2005, sharpening the divide between the super-rich and the rest of the world.\n\nThe World Bank, in its 2019 World Development Report on the future of work supports increased government efforts to curb tax avoidance in order to create fiscal space for human capital investments.\n\nTax havens, traditional and corporate, have high GDP-per-capita rankings, because the haven's national economic statistics are artificially inflated by the BEPS accounting flows that add to the haven's GDP (and even GNP), but are not taxable in the haven. As the largest facilitators of BEPS flows, corporate-focused tax havens, in particular, make up most of the top 10-15 GDP-per-capita tables, excluding oil and gas nations (see table below). Research into tax havens suggest a high GDP-per-capita score, in the absence of material natural resources, as an important proxy indicator of a tax haven. At the core of the FSF-IMF definition of an offshore financial centre is a country where the BEPS flows are out of proportion to the size of the indigenous economy. Apple's Q1 2015 \"leprechaun economics\" BEPS transaction in Ireland was a dramatic example, which caused Ireland to abandon its GDP and GNP metrics in February 2017, in favour of a new metric, modified gross national income, or GNI*.\n\nThis artificial inflation of GDP can attract excess foreign capital, who misprice their capital by using a Debt-to-GDP metric for the haven, thus producing phases of stronger economic growth. However, the increased leverage leads to more severe credit cycles, particularly where the artificial nature of the GDP is exposed to foreign investors. An example is the Irish financial crisis in 2009–2013.\n\n\"Notes:\"\n\nIn several research papers, James R. Hines Jr. showed that tax havens were typically small but well-governed nations and that being a tax haven had brought significant prosperity. In 2009, Hines and Dharmapala suggested that roughly 15% of countries are tax havens, but they wondered why more countries had not become tax havens given the observable economic prosperity it could bring.\n\nHines and Dharmapala concluded that governance was a major issue for smaller countries in trying to become tax havens. Only countries with strong governance and legislation which was trusted by foreign corporates and investors, would become tax havens. Hines and Dharmapala's positive view on the financial benefits of becoming a tax haven, as well as being two of the major academic leaders into tax haven research, put them in sharp conflict with non-governmental organisations advocating \"tax justice\", such as the Tax Justice Network, who accused them as promoting tax avoidance.\n\nAn unexpected conclusion of the original 1994 Hines-Rice paper, and re-affirmed by others, was that: \"low foreign tax rates [from tax havens] ultimately enhance U.S. tax collections\". Hines noted that as a result of paying no foreign taxes by using tax havens, U.S. multinationals had avoided building up foreign tax credits that would reduce their ultimate U.S. tax liability. Hines returned to this finding several times, and in his 2010 , \"Treasure Islands\", where he showed how U.S. multinationals used tax havens and BEPS tools to avoid Japanese taxes on their Japanese investments, noted that this was being confirmed by other empirical research at a company-level. Hines's observations would influence U.S. policy towards tax havens, including the 1996 \"check-the-box\" rules, and U.S. hostility to OECD attempts in curbing Ireland's BEPS tools, and why, in spite of public disclosure of tax avoidance by firms such as Google, Facebook, and Apple, with Irish BEPS tools, little has been done by the U.S. to stop them. \n\nResearch in June-September 2018, confirmed U.S. multinationals as the largest global users of tax havens and BEPS tools.\n\n\"Tax justice\" groups interpreted Hines' research as the U.S. engaging in tax competition with higher-tax nations (i.e. the U.S. exchequer earning excess taxes at the expense of others). The 2017 TCJA seems to support this view with the U.S. exchequer being able to levy a 15.5% repatriation tax on over $1 trillion of untaxed offshore profits built up by U.S. multinationals with BEPS tools from non-U.S. revenues. Had these U.S. multinationals paid taxes on these non-U.S. profits in the countries in which they were earned, there would have been the little further liability to U.S. taxation. Research by Zucman and Wright (2018) estimated that most of the TCJA repatriation benefit went to the shareholders of U.S. multinationals, and not the U.S. exchequer.\n\nAcademics who study tax havens, attribute Washington's support of U.S. multinational use of tax havens to a \"political compromise\" between Washington, and even other higher-tax OECD nations, to compensate for the shortcomings of the U.S. \"worldwide\" tax system. Hines had advocated for a switch to a \"territorial\" tax system, as most other nations use, which would remove U.S. multinational need for tax havens. In 2016, Hines, with German tax academics, showed that German multinationals make little use of tax havens because their tax regime, a \"territorial\" system, removes any need for it.\n\nHines' research was cited by the by the Council of Economic Advisors (\"CEA\") in drafting the TCJA legislation in 2017, and advocating for moving to a hybrid \"territorial\" tax system framework.\n\nA controversial area of research into tax havens is the suggestion that tax havens actually promote global economic growth by solving perceived issues in the tax regimes of higher-taxed nations (e.g. the above discussion on the U.S. \"worldwide\" tax system as an example). Important academic leaders in tax haven research, such as Hines, Dharmapala, and others, cite evidence that, in certain cases, tax havens appear to promote economic growth in higher-tax countries, and can support beneficial hybrid tax regimes of higher taxes on domestic activity, but lower taxes on international sourced capital or income:\n\nThe most cited paper on research into offshore financial centres (\"OFCs\"), a closely related term to tax havens, noted the positive and negative aspects of OFCs on neighbouring high-tax, or source, economies, and marginally came out in favour of OFCs.\n\nHowever, other notable tax academics strongly dispute these views, such as work by Slemrod and Wilson, who in their , label tax havens as \"parasitic\" to jurisdictions with normal tax regimes, that can damage their economies. In addition, \"tax justice\" campaign groups have been equally critical of Hines, and others, in these views. Research in June 2018 by the IMF showed that much of the foreign direct investment (\"FDI\") that came from tax havens into higher-tax countries, had really originated from the higher-tax country, and for example, that the largest source of FDI into the United Kingdom, was actually from the United Kingdom, but invested via tax havens.\n\nThe boundaries with wider contested economic theories on the effects of corporate taxation on economic growth, and whether there should be corporate taxes, are easy to blur. Other major academic leaders in tax haven research, such as Zucman, highlight the injustice of tax havens and see the effects as lost income for the development of society. It remains a controversial area with advocates on both sides.\n\nThe way tax havens operate can be viewed in the following principal contexts:\n\nSince the early 20th century, wealthy individuals from high-tax countries have sought to relocate themselves in low-tax countries. In most countries in the world, residence is the primary basis of taxation—see tax residence. The low-tax country chosen may levy no, or only very low, income tax and may not levy capital gains tax, or inheritance tax. Individuals are normally unable to return to their previous higher-tax country for more than a few days a year without reverting their tax residence to their former country. They are sometimes referred to as tax exiles.\n\nCorporations can establish subsidiary corporations and/or regional headquarters in corporate tax havens for tax planning purposes. Where a corporate moves their legal headquarters to a haven, it is known as a corporate tax inversion. The rise of intellectual property, or IP, as a major BEPS tax tool, has meant that corporates can achieve much of the benefits of a tax inversion, without needing to move their headquarters. Apple's $300 billion quasi-inversion to Ireland in 2015 (see leprechaun economics) is a good example of this.\n\nAsset holding involves utilizing an offshore trust or offshore company, or a trust owning a company. The company or trust will be formed in one tax haven, and will usually be administered and resident in another. The function is to hold assets, which may consist of a portfolio of investments under management, trading companies or groups, physical assets such as real estate or valuable chattels. The essence of such arrangements is that by changing the ownership of the assets into an entity which is not tax resident in the high-tax country, they cease to be taxable in that country.\n\nOften the mechanism is employed to avoid a specific tax. For example, a wealthy testator could transfer his house into an offshore company; he can then settle the shares of the company on trust (with himself being a trustee with another trustee, whilst holding the beneficial life estate) for himself for life, and then to his daughter. On his death, the shares will automatically vest in the daughter, who thereby acquires the house, without the house having to go through probate and being assessed with inheritance tax. Most countries assess inheritance tax, and all other taxes, on real estate within their jurisdiction, regardless of the nationality of the owner, so this would not work with a house in most countries. It is more likely to be done with intangible assets.\n\nMany businesses which do not require a specific geographical location or extensive labor are set up in a country to minimize tax exposure. Perhaps the best illustration of this is the number of reinsurance companies which have migrated to Bermuda over the years. Other examples include internet-based services and group finance companies. In the 1970s and 1980s corporate groups were known to form offshore entities for the purposes of \"reinvoicing\". These reinvoicing companies simply made a margin without performing any economic function, but as the margin arose in a tax-free country, it allowed the group to \"skim\" profits from the high-tax country. Most sophisticated tax codes now prevent transfer pricing schemes of this nature.\n\nMuch of the economic activity in tax havens today consists of professional financial services such as mutual funds, banking, life insurance and pensions. Generally, the funds are deposited with the intermediary in the low-tax country, and the intermediary then on-lends or invests the money in another location. Although such systems do not normally avoid tax in the principal customer's country, it enables financial service providers to provide international products without adding another layer of taxation. This has proved particularly successful in the area of offshore funds. It has been estimated over 75% of the world's hedge funds, probably the riskiest form of collective investment vehicle, are domiciled in the Cayman Islands, with nearly $1.1 trillion US Assets under management although statistics in the hedge fund industry are notoriously speculative.\n\nBearer shares allow for anonymous ownership, and thus have been criticized for facilitating money laundering and tax evasion; these shares are also available in some OECD countries as well as in the U.S. state of Wyoming. In a 2010 study in which the researcher attempted to set-up anonymous corporations found that 13 of the 17 attempts were successful in OECD countries, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, while only 4 of 28 attempts were successful in countries typically labeled tax havens. The last two states in America permitting bearer shares, Nevada and Delaware made them illegal in 2007. In 2011, an OECD peer review recommended that the United Kingdom improve its bearer share laws. The UK abolished the use of bearer shares in 2015.\n\nIn 2012 the Guardian wrote that there are 28 persons as directors for 21,500 companies.\n\nMost tax havens have a double monetary control system, which distinguish residents from non-resident as well as foreign currency from the domestic, the local currency one. In general, residents are subject to monetary controls, but not non-residents. A company, belonging to a non-resident, when trading overseas is seen as non-resident in terms of exchange control. It is possible for a foreigner to create a company in a tax haven to trade internationally; the company’s operations will not be subject to exchange controls as long as it uses foreign currency to trade outside the tax haven. Tax havens usually have currency easily convertible or linked to an easily convertible currency. Most are convertible to US dollars, euro or to pounds sterling.\n\nThe Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) was passed by the US Congress to stop the outflow of money from the country into tax haven bank accounts. With the strong backing of the Obama Administration, Congress drafted the FATCA legislation and added it into the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act (HIRE) signed into law by President Obama in March 2010.\n\nFATCA requires foreign financial institutions (FFI) of broad scope – banks, stock brokers, hedge funds, pension funds, insurance companies, trusts – to report directly to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) all clients who are U.S. persons. Starting January 2014, FATCA requires FFIs to provide annual reports to the IRS on the name and address of each U.S. client, as well as the largest account balance in the year and total debits and credits of any account owned by a U.S. person. If an institution does not comply, the U.S. will impose a 30% withholding tax on all its transactions concerning U.S. securities, including the proceeds of sale of securities.\n\nIn addition, FATCA requires any foreign company not listed on a stock exchange or any foreign partnership which has 10% U.S. ownership to report to the IRS the names and tax identification number (TIN) of any U.S. owner. FATCA also requires U.S. citizens and green card holders who have foreign financial assets in excess of $50,000 to complete a new Form 8938 to be filed with the 1040 tax return, starting with fiscal year 2010. The delay is indicative of a controversy over the feasibility of implementing the legislation as evidenced in this paper from the Peterson Institute for International Economics.\n\nAn unintended consequence of FATCA and its cost of compliance for non-US banks is that some non-US banks are refusing to serve American investors. Concerns have also been expressed that, because FATCA operates by imposing withholding taxes on U.S. investments, this will drive foreign financial institutions (particularly hedge funds) away from investing in the U.S. and thereby reduce liquidity and capital inflows into the US.\nA 2012 report by the British Tax Justice Network estimated that between US$21 trillion and $32 trillion is sheltered from taxes in unreported tax havens worldwide. If such wealth earns 3% annually and such capital gains were taxed at 30%, it would generate between $190 billion and $280 billion in tax revenues, more than any other tax shelter. If such hidden offshore assets are considered, many countries with governments nominally in debt are shown to be net creditor nations. However, despite being widely quoted, the methodology used in the calculations has been questioned, and the tax policy director of the Chartered Institute of Taxation also expressed skepticism over the accuracy of the figures. Another recent study estimated the amount of global offshore wealth at the smaller—but still sizable—figure of US$7.6 trillion. This estimate included financial assets only: \"My method probably delivers a lower bound, in part because it only captures financial wealth and disregards real assets. After all, high-net-worth individuals can stash works of art, jewelry, and gold in 'freeports,' warehouses that serve as repositories for valuables—Geneva, Luxembourg, and Singapore all have them. High-net-worth individuals also own real estate in foreign countries.\" A study of 60 large US companies found that they deposited $166 billion in offshore accounts during 2012, sheltering over 40% of their profits from U.S. taxes.\n\nDetails of thousands of owners of offshore companies were published in April 2013 in a joint collaboration between \"The Guardian\" and the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. The data was later published on a publicly accessible website in an attempt to \"crowd-source\" the data. The publication of the list appeared to be timed to coincide with the 2013 G8 summit chaired by British Prime Minister David Cameron which emphasised tax evasion and transparency.\n\nGermany announced in February 2008 that it had paid €4.2 million to , a former data archivist of LGT Treuhand, a Liechtenstein bank, for a list of 1,250 customers of the bank and their accounts' details. Investigations and arrests followed relating to charges of illegal tax evasion. The German authorities shared the data with U.S. tax authorities, but the British government paid a further £100,000 for the same data. Other governments, notably Denmark and Sweden, refused to pay for the information regarding it as stolen property. The Liechtenstein authorities subsequently accused the German authorities of espionage.\n\nHowever, regardless of whether unlawful tax evasion was being engaged in, the incident has fuelled the perception among European governments and the press that tax havens provide facilities shrouded in secrecy designed to facilitate unlawful tax evasion, rather than legitimate tax planning and legal tax mitigation schemes. This in turn has led to a call for \"crackdowns\" on tax havens. Whether the calls for such a crackdown are mere posturing or lead to more definitive activity by mainstream economies to restrict access to tax havens is yet to be seen. No definitive announcements or proposals have yet been made by the European Union or governments of the member states.\n\nPeer Steinbrück, the former German finance minister, announced in January 2009 a plan to amend fiscal laws. New regulations would disallow that payments to companies in certain countries that shield money from disclosure rules to be declared as operational expenses. The effect of this would make banking in such states unattractive and expensive.\n\nIn November 2009, Sir Michael Foot, a former Bank of England official and Bahamas bank inspector, delivered a report on the British Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories for HM Treasury. The report indicated that while many of the territories \"had a good story to tell\", others needed to improve their abilities to detect and prevent financial crime. The report also stressed the view that narrow tax bases presented long term strategic risks and that the economies should seek to diversify and broaden their tax bases.\n\nIt indicated that tax revenue lost by the UK government appeared to be much smaller than had previously been estimated (see above under Lost tax revenue), and also stressed the importance of the liquidity provided by the territories to the United Kingdom. The Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories broadly welcomed the report. The pressure group Tax Justice Network, unhappy with the findings, commented that \"[a] weak man, born to be an apologist, has delivered a weak report.\"\n\nAt the London G20 summit on 2 April 2009, G20 countries agreed to define a blacklist for tax havens, to be segmented according to a four-tier system, based on compliance with an \"internationally agreed tax standard.\" The list as per 2 April 2009 can be viewed on the OECD website. The four tiers were:\n\n\nThose countries in the bottom tier were initially classified as being 'non-cooperative tax havens'. Uruguay was initially classified as being uncooperative. However, upon appeal the OECD stated that it did meet tax transparency rules and thus moved it up. The Philippines took steps to remove itself from the blacklist and Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak had suggested earlier that Malaysia should not be in the bottom tier.\n\nIn April 2009 the OECD announced through its chief Angel Gurria that Costa Rica, Malaysia, the Philippines and Uruguay have been removed from the blacklist after they had made \"a full commitment to exchange information to the OECD standards.\" Despite calls from the former French President Nicolas Sarkozy for Hong Kong and Macau to be included on the list separately from China, they are as yet not included independently, although it is expected that they will be added at a later date.\n\nGovernment response to the crackdown has been broadly supportive, although not universal. Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker has criticised the list, stating that it has \"no credibility\", for failing to include various states of the USA which provide incorporation infrastructure which are indistinguishable from the aspects of pure tax havens to which the G20 object. As of 2012, 89 countries have implemented reforms sufficient to be listed on the OECD's white list. According to Transparency International half of the least corrupted countries were tax havens.\n\nIn December 2017, European Union adopted blacklist of tax havens in a bid to discourage the most aggressive tax dodging practices. It also had a so-called gray list which includes those who have committed to change their rules on tax transparency and cooperation. The 17 blacklisted territories are: American Samoa, Bahrain, Barbados, Grenada, Guam, South Korea, Macau, The Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Namibia, Palau, Panama, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates. Some activists denounced the listing process as a whitewash and had called for the inclusion in the blacklist of some EU countries accused of facilitating tax avoidance, like Luxembourg, Malta, Ireland and the Netherlands.\n\nThe Common Reporting Standard is an information standard for the automatic exchange of tax and financial information on a global level developed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in 2014. Participating in the CRS from 1 January 2017 onwards are Australia, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Canada, Chile, China, The Cook Islands, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Macau, Malaysia, Mauritius, Monaco, New Zealand, Panama, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, Uruguay.\n\nThe use of differing tax laws between two or more countries to try to mitigate tax liability is probably as old as taxation itself.In Ancient Greece, some of the Greek Islands were used as depositories by the sea traders of the era to place their foreign goods to thus avoid the two-percent tax imposed by the city-state of Athens on imported goods. The practice may have first reached prominence through the avoidance of the Cinque Ports and later the staple ports in the twelfth and fourteenth centuries respectively. In 1721, American colonies traded from Latin America to avoid British taxes.\n\nVarious countries claim to be the oldest tax haven in the world. For example, the Channel Islands claim their tax independence dating as far back as Norman Conquest, while the Isle of Man claims to trace its fiscal independence to even earlier times. Nonetheless, the modern concept of a tax haven is generally accepted to have emerged at an uncertain point in the immediate aftermath of World War I. Bermuda sometimes optimistically claims to have been the first tax haven based upon the creation of the first offshore companies legislation in 1935 by the newly created law firm of Conyers Dill & Pearman. However, the Bermudian claim is debatable when compared against the enactment of a Trust Law by Liechtenstein in 1926 to attract offshore capital.\n\nMost economic commentators suggest that the first \"true\" tax haven was Switzerland, followed closely by Liechtenstein. Swiss banks had long been a \"capital haven\" for people fleeing social upheaval in Russia, Germany, South America and elsewhere. However, in the early part of the twentieth century, during the years immediately following World War I, many European governments raised taxes sharply to help pay for reconstruction efforts following the devastation of World War I. By and large, Switzerland, having remained neutral during the Great War, avoided these additional infrastructure costs and was consequently able to maintain a low level of taxes. As a result, there was a considerable influx of capital into the country for tax related reasons. It is difficult, nonetheless, to pinpoint a single event or precise date which clearly identifies the emergence of the modern tax haven.\n\nThe use of modern tax havens has gone through several phases of development subsequent to the interwar period. From the 1920s to the 1950s, tax havens were usually referenced as the avoidance of personal taxation. The terminology was often used with reference to countries to which a person could retire and mitigate their post retirement tax position, a usage which was still being echoed to some degree in a 1990 report, which included indications of quality of life in various tax havens which future tax exiles may wish to consider.\n\nFrom the 1950s onward, there was significant growth in the use of tax havens by corporate groups to mitigate their global tax burden. The strategy generally relied upon there being a double taxation treaty between a large country with a high tax burden (that the company would otherwise be subject to), and a smaller country with a low tax burden. By structuring the group ownership through the smaller country, corporations could take advantage of the double taxation treaty, paying taxes at the much lower rate. Although some of these double tax treaties survive, for example between Barbados and Japan, between Cyprus and Russia and Mauritius with India, which India sought to renegotiate in 2007, most major countries began repealing their double taxation treaties with micro-states in the 1970s, to prevent corporate tax leakage in this manner.\n\nIn the early to mid-1980s, most tax havens changed the focus of their legislation to create corporate vehicles which were \"ring-fenced\" and exempt from local taxation (although they usually could not trade locally either). These vehicles were usually called \"exempt companies\" or \"international business corporations\". However, in the late 1990s and early 2000s, the OECD began a series of initiatives aimed at tax havens to curb the abuse of what the OECD referred to as \"unfair tax competition\". Under pressure from the OECD, most major tax havens repealed their laws permitting these ring-fenced vehicles to be incorporated, but concurrently they amended their tax laws so that a company which did not actually trade within the country would not accrue any local tax liability.\n\nThe following are the most cited papers on \"tax havens\", as ranked on the IDEAS/RePEc database of economic papers, at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. \n\nPapers marked (‡) were cited by the EU Commission 2017 summary as the most important research on tax havens.\n\n(with at least 300 citations on Google Scholar)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21506821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21506821", "title": "The Helsinki Rules on the Uses of the Waters of International Rivers", "text": "The Helsinki Rules on the Uses of the Waters of International Rivers\n\nThe Helsinki Rules on the Uses of the Waters of International Rivers is an international guideline regulating how rivers and their connected groundwaters that cross national boundaries may be used, adopted by the International Law Association (ILA) in Helsinki, Finland in August 1966. In spite of its adoption by the ILA, there is no mechanism in place that enforces the rules. Notwithstanding the guideline's lack of formal status, its work on rules governing international rivers was pioneering. It led to the creation of the United Nations' Convention on the Law of Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses. In 2004, it was superseded by the Berlin Rules on Water Resources.\n\nApplicable to all drainage basins that cross national boundaries, except where other agreement between bordering nations exists, the Helsinki Rules assert the rights of all bordering nations to an equitable share in the water resources, with reasonable consideration of such factors as past customary usages of the resource and balancing variant needs and demands of the bordering nations. It also mandates protection of the resource by bordering nations with respect to water pollution in Chapter 3 (Articles IX to XI) and sets forth recommendations for resolving disputes over usage of such watercourses.\n\nThe Helsinki rules consist of 37 articles spread over 6 chapters.\n\nChapter 2, Article 4 states: \"Each basin State is entitled, within its territory, to a reasonable and equitable share in the beneficial uses of the waters of an international drainage basin\".\n\nIn determining what is reasonable and equitable share, all relevant factors are to be considered together and a conclusion reached on the basis of the whole. The list provided in Article 5 (2) is produced in full below:\n\n1. The geography of the basin, including in particular the extent of the drainage area in the territory of each basin State\n\n2. The hydrology of the basin, including in particular the contribution of water by each basin State\n\n3. The climate affecting the basin\n\n4. The past utilization of the waters of the basin, including in particular existing utilization\n\n5. The economic and social needs of each basin State\n\n6. The population dependent on the waters of the basin in each basin State\n\n7. The comparative costs of alternative means of satisfying the economic and social needs of each basin State\n\n8. The availability of other resources\n\n9. The avoidance of unnecessary waste in the utilization of waters of the basin\n\n10. The practicability of compensation to one or more of the co-basin States as a means of adjusting conflicts among uses\n\n11. The degree to which the needs of a basin State may be satisfied, without causing substantial injury to a co-basin State\n\nArticle 6 precludes inherent preference of any use over others. Article 7 prohibits denial of reasonable use to a basin state on the basis of future uses of other states.\n\nArticle 8 relates to \"existing reasonable uses\".\n\nSection 8 (1) states: \"An existing reasonable use may continue in operation unless the factors justifying its continuance are outweighed by other factors leading to the conclusion that it be modified or terminated so as to accommodate a competing incompatible use\".\n\nSection 8 (2) defines the entry & exit criterion of an existing use.\n\nSection 8 (3) prohibits a use that is incompatible with an already existing reasonable use at the time of becoming operational from being treated as an existing use.\n\nAlthough \"an important set of draft rules,\" according to Stephen McCaffrey of the McGeorge School of Law, the Helsinki Rules do not address independent aquifers, but only those connected to a river. Accordingly, the United Nations decided in 1970 to create a more inclusive set of guidelines, which after more than twenty years of investigation by the International Law Commission resulted in the adopting of the Convention on the Law of Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses in 1997. The ILA itself addressed this limitation in adopting the Rules on International Groundwaters, also known as the Seoul Rules, in Seoul, Korea in 1986 and the Berlin Rules on Water Resources in 2004, which superseded this guideline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856918", "title": "Thomas Schirrmacher", "text": "Thomas Schirrmacher\n\nThomas Schirrmacher is a Christian moral philosopher and a specialist in the Sociology of Religion and Religious freedom. He is known as a global human rights activist and holds a chair in Theology (Ethics, Missiology, World Religions).\n\nProf. Dr. theol. Dr. phil. Thomas Schirrmacher, PhD, ThD, DD, serves the World Evangelical Alliance as Associate Secretary General for Theological Concerns (responsible for Theology, Intrafaith Relations, Inter-faith Religious Freedom) and as Chair of the Theological Commission. Since 2014 he is president of the International Society for Human Rights.\n\nThomas Schirrmacher was born on June 25, 1960 to the german professor of Telecommunications engineering Bernd Schirrmacher and his wife Ingeborg. His great-grandfather was the historian Friedrich Wilhelm Schirrmacher. Thomas Schirrmacher is married to Christine Schirrmacher who is professor of Islamic Studies in Bonn, Germany.\n\nThomas Schirrmacher studied theology from 1978 to 1982 at STH Basel (Switzerland) and since 1983 Cultural Anthropology and Comparative Religion at University of Bonn. He earned a Drs. theol. in Missiology and Ecumenism at Theological University (Kampen/Netherlands) in 1984, and a Dr. theol. in Missiology and Ecumenics at Theological University of the Reformed Churches (Kampen/Netherlands) in 1985, a Ph.D. in Cultural Anthropology at Pacific Western University (today: California Miramar University) in Los Angeles (CA) in 1989, a Th.D. in Ethics at Whitefield Theological Seminary in Lakeland (FL) in 1996, and a Dr. phil. in Comparative Religion and Sociology of Religion at University of Bonn in 2007. In 1997 he got honorary doctorates (D.D.) from Cranmer Theological House and in 2006 from Acts University in Bangalore.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1986 Schirrmacher was pastor of several church communities in Bonn. Since 1996 he is the president of the Martin Bucer European Theological Seminary and Research Institutes, a theological seminary seated in Bonn, Germany with campuses in several countries. From 1994 to 1998 Schirrmacher was professor of missions at the Philadelphia Theological Seminary and since 1995 he is professor for systematic theology at the Whitefield Theological Seminary. He is professor of the sociology of religion at the West University of Timişoara.\n\nSchirrmacher is chairman of the Board of Trustees of the \"Gebende Hände\" gGmbH (German: \"Giving Hands\" charitable Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung), an internationally active relief organisation. He is member of the commission for religious freedom of the World Evangelical Alliance and since 2008 president of the International Institute for Religious Freedom (Bonn, Brussels/Geneva, Cape Town, Colombo, Brasília). He also is their speaker for human rights. According to media he is one of the leading experts on the topic of persecution of christians. Several times he was speaking as expert on human rights in the German Parliament. In October 2015 he was the only evangelical member of the catholic synod on family lead by Pope Francis. He is president of the International Society for Human Rights, manager of the Religious Liberty Commission of the German and the Swiss Evangelical Alliance, and director of the International Institute for Religious Freedom with regional offices for most continents: Brasilia (Latin America), Brussels/Bonn (Europe), Cape Town (Africa), Colombo and Dehlki (Asia), which cooperates with the UN Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Religion or Belief.\n\nAnother main focus of the work of Schirrmacher besides religious freedom in the area of human rights is the fight against Human trafficking.\n\nHe speaks with church leaders like Pope Benedict XVI, Pope Francis, and the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I and gives lectures all around the world. He is also consultant of the Faith and Order Commission, the Theological Commission of the World Council of Churches, Chair of the Board of Advisors of the Central Council of Oriental Christians in Germany (ZOCD), and Member of the International Committee of the Global Christian Forum.\n\nHe has authored and edited more than 90 books, which have been translated into 17 languages.\n\nSchirrmacher received the following honours:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55419406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55419406", "title": "Thoughts and prayers", "text": "Thoughts and prayers\n\nThe phrase \"thoughts and prayers\" is often used by public officials offering condolences after any publicly notable event such as a deadly natural disaster. The phrase has received criticism for its repeated usage in the context of gun violence or terrorism, with critics claiming \"thoughts and prayers\" are offered as substitutes for actions they believe would be corrective, like gun control or counterterrorism.\n\nThe phrase \"thoughts and prayers\" is frequently used as an expression of condolences for victims of natural disasters (eg. the 2010 Canterbury earthquake and 2011 Christchurch earthquake).\n\nThe phrase has been deployed in the wake of numerous mass shootings, including the Columbine High School massacre (1999), the November 2015 Paris attacks, the Orlando nightclub shooting, and the 2017 Las Vegas shooting. In addition, \"thoughts and prayers\" are also offered to victims of natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina (2005), the 2017 Central Mexico earthquake, and Hurricane Maria (2017).\n\nPresident Donald Trump has been known to use the phrase. In 2016, he used it following the St. Joseph courthouse shooting, the Great Smoky Mountains wildfires, and the shooting of Nykea Aldridge. In 2017 he used it following the Congressional baseball shooting in June and the Southern California wildfires in December. In 2018, Trump used the phrase following the Marshall County High School shooting in January, the Carcassonne and Trèbes attack in March, the YouTube headquarters shooting in April, and the \"Capital Gazette\" shooting in June. Following the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in February, \"Slate\" noted that several Republican politicians who had previously used the idiom (including Trump and senators Marco Rubio and Pat Toomey) avoided using the specific phrase \"thoughts and prayers\" in response to the shooting. Trump, for example, instead offered \"prayers and condolences\" via Twitter.\n\nAfter a natural or human-caused disaster, people may be urged to \"go beyond thoughts and prayers,\" by donating blood or sending aid or money to help the victims. After the Las Vegas shooting, authorities said that although thoughts and prayers are appreciated, the most effective way to help was to give blood.\n\nAs \"thoughts and prayers\" became associated with post-tragedy condolences, commentators have criticized the phrase as a form of civilian or political slacktivism.\n\nAfter the 2007 Virginia Tech shooting, Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor of \"The Nation\", called on politicians to \"move beyond thoughts and prayers\". In her post, vanden Heuvel referred to a press release by Paul Helmke, then-president of the Brady Campaign, who offered his thoughts and prayers but also stated \"it is long overdue for us to take some common-sense actions to prevent tragedies like this from continuing to occur.\"\n\nIn October 2015, following the Umpqua Community College shooting, President Barack Obama said that \"thoughts and prayers [do] not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel, and it does nothing to prevent this carnage from being inflicted some place else in America next week or a couple months from now.\" The White House subsequently announced that Obama would continue to take more executive action on the subject of gun control.\n\nOn December 2, 2015, in the wake of the San Bernardino mass shooting, Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT) tweeted his frustration with the phrase \"thoughts and prayers\", a sentiment echoed by the cover of the \"New York Daily News\", which included tweets from senators and representatives the newspaper characterized as \"meaningless platitudes\".\n\nFollowing the Orlando nightclub shooting, Phil Plait wrote that while it was \"natural and very human\" to \"send their thoughts and express their grief ... it's cynically hypocritical when politicians do it \"and nothing else\"\", later noting it was \"particularly galling\" to see \"all the NRA-funded lawmakers tweeting their 'thoughts and prayers'\". An accompanying \"Slate\" post provided a selected list of members of Congress who had tweeted \"thoughts and prayers\" along with the amount of campaign contributions they had received from gun rights groups, based on research provided by Igor Volsky of the Center for American Progress.\n\nSome critics of the phrase \"thoughts and prayers\" point to the Epistle of James in the Christian New Testament to argue that action is needed in addition to expressions of faith. Verses commonly cited to back up this argument include:\n\nLaura Coward, a writer for \"The Huffington Post\", defended the use of the phrase \"thoughts and prayers\", acknowledging the inadequacy of not taking actions, but arguing that prayer \"jolts us and disrupts us, removing us from our comfort zones [... it] takes us to uncomfortable places – spiritually, physically and emotionally – and asks us to do the hard work of accepting more than one perspective.\" Kimberly Ross, a writer for \"RedState\", asks that victims should \"not [be] used as pawns in another political debate about guns\" since \"[w]e shouldn't blame anyone but the perpetrator for crimes committed, [...] that means we can do nothing on our own – in that moment – apart from submitting thoughts and prayers.\"\n\nIn his third stand up special \"Thoughts and Prayers\", comedian Anthony Jeselnik skewers people who tweet out \"thoughts and prayers\" on the day of a tragedy, calling it a way for those people to garner attention in the face of a tragedy and saying that tweeting thoughts and prayers is so useless that it achieves \"less than nothing\".\n\nIn 2016, a web-based video game, \"Thoughts and Prayers: The Game\", was published to argue that thoughts and prayers have had no effect on saving lives in the context of mass shootings.\n\nThe fifth episode of the fourth season of animated series \"BoJack Horseman\", titled \"Thoughts and Prayers\", presents a real-life shooting that delays the opening of a new movie featuring gun violence.\n\nIn June 2017, the air date for an episode of \"The Carmichael Show\" entitled \"Shoot-up-able\", which showed the main character surviving a mass shooting, was postponed by two weeks so that it did not air 14 June, the same night as the shooting at which Representative Scalise and three others were shot, or the UPS shooting in San Francisco, where three were killed by a shooter who later committed suicide.\n\nIn early August 2018, after court documents were made public showing the NRA was having financial issues, mocking tweets were made offering thoughts and prayers for the NRA's troubles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7645128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7645128", "title": "Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election", "text": "Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election\n\nThe following is a timeline of major events leading up to and immediately following the United States presidential election of 2008. The election was the 56th quadrennial United States presidential election. It was held on November 4, 2008, but its significant events and background date back to about 2002. The Democratic Party nominee, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, defeated the Republican Party's nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCandidate announcement and, if applicable, withdrawal dates are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "5357622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5357622", "title": "Uprising in Plzeň (1953)", "text": "Uprising in Plzeň (1953)\n\nDuring May 31–June 2, 1953 workers in the city of Plzeň, Czechoslovakia revolted in violent protest against currency reform and the politics of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. The estimated number of casualties is around 220 injured, no-one was killed.\n\nAfter the communist party took over power in 1948 it started to concentrate production on heavy industry, especially in armament production. The agricultural sector was forcibly collectivised. But these policies led to shortages of customer goods, especially food, accompanied by inflation (28%). The government's reaction was to increase the prices of state-supplied goods at the start of 1953. This led to growing disaffection among people, and to short-lived strikes.\n\nThe next step to be implemented was a currency reform, which amounted to a devaluation of savings. All savings were devalued in the ratio of 50:1, all salaries in the ratio of 5:1 (small groups of people were exempted). All obligations of the state were abolished. Rationing of food at subsidized prices was stopped and work quotas increased. The reform was announced on May 31, 1953, at 22:00, after months of rumors and denials by state representatives.\n\nPlzeň is a city in western Bohemia with large concentration of heavy industry, the largest factory being the famous Škoda Works. In the previous years and decades, the city saw many strikes of workers demanding the improvement of their lives. Many of the strikes were led by Communist party itself.\n\nAs long as the Party's reforms after 1948 favoured the workers in heavy industry, there was no reason to expect troubles. But in 1953 the factory management of Škoda Works deliberately paid off the wages for May one week earlier - thus reducing their values by 80% after the currency reform was announced.\n\nNews of the reform spread quickly among night shift workers in a plant of the Škoda Works in Plzeň, who then went on strike. The next day, in the morning, they decided to march to the city centre. Around noon the people attacked the city hall, and started to build barricades in the streets, and destroyed symbols of the communist party. Posters and slogans asking for the end of single party rule appeared. Some of the local communists and uniformed policemen had joined or were forced to join the rebellion, and 2,000 students had joined too. Nearby Bory Prison was attacked with intention of releasing the prisoners, but the attack failed.\n\nNo central leadership of the uprising was established; its actions were chaotic and uncoordinated.\n\nThe government sent two police battalions (8,000 men) and an army unit (2,500 men, 80 tanks) to suppress the rebellion. During street fights about 220 rebels were injured. During the afternoon, June 2, the last insurgents barricaded themselves in factories and gave up. Over 2,000 people were taken prisoner immediately and martial law was imposed. The leaders of the uprising were promptly tried and sentenced to lengthy prison terms, one of whom was later executed. Communists and militiamen who had participated in the revolt were treated especially harshly.\n\nStrikes had started in 19 large industrial plants in Bohemia and Moravia, in industrial cities such as Kladno and Ostrava. These strikes didn't turn violent and ended within a week. An estimated 360,000 workers had gone on strike; up to 250,000 of them had demonstrated in the streets.\n\nThe leaders of the Communist party decided to present the event as having been provoked by agents of imperialism and this remained the official explanation until 1989. The party was ordered to purge members suspected of \"social-democratism\" or of low levels of loyalty. The army stated that any future uprising would be suppressed immediately.\n\nOn June 8 the measures instituted on May 31 were recalled, except for the currency reform; also prices were reduced somewhat.\n\nThis and other uprisings in Central Europe forced the leaders of the Soviet Union to exercise greater control over these countries. \n\nNo further violent uprising occurred in Czechoslovakia until the Warsaw Pact invasion of 1968. The Velvet Revolution (1989) that ended the power of the communist party was mostly bloodless. Detailed knowledge of the 1953 events in Plzeň was and still is relatively low among the Czech public. The shaken trust in the stability of the currency lasted for decades.\n\n"}
{"id": "41254478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41254478", "title": "Victory for the Slain", "text": "Victory for the Slain\n\nVictory for the Slain is an anti-war poem written by children’s author Hugh Lofting, creator of the \"Dr. Dolittle\" series. Published in 1942, the poem is based on Lofting’s experiences during World War I and one of the strongest literary expressions of his pacifism. It was Lofting’s second book of verse but the only work written by him for adults.\n\nLofting was a pacifist and was often frustrated at the quickness in which governments resorted to armed conflict to resolve international issues. Lofting would often mock the reoccurring “latest war to end all wars” mentality and the martial ardor that often pervaded children’s literature. While the theme of the poem is no different from those in the \"Dr. Dolittle\" series, the “meaningless and folly of war” as one commentator put it, it is presented in a manner more dark and grim than his children’s literature.\n\nThat Lofting was consistent in his views is not surprising, having witnessed the horrors of war in Flanders during the First World War. In 1918 he was wounded by shrapnel from a hand grenade in the upper thigh, an injury that would plague him the rest of his life because of the doctor’s inability to remove the metal fragments. Soon after his injury he left active service and moved to the United States where he wrote his popular children’s series about a country physician who learned to communicate with animals. Lofting wrote his \"Dr. Dolittle\" series in order to give the animals he saw in World War I a voice they didn't have. In a larger sense, however, it was clear from the start that the \"Dr. Dolittle\" series was about the cruelty of war itself and the hope that Lofting saw from peace and cooperation.\n\nAs early as 1924, Lofting was editorializing about the negative effects of war on children. In an article written for \"The Nation\", Lofting railed against what he called “tin-soldierism,” a state of mind common at the time that glorified war and “heroic deaths”. He attacked the so-called children’s classics about heroes galloping across battlefields. “That kind of battlefield has gone for good,” he wrote, “it is still bloody, but you don’t gallop. And since that kind of battlefield has gone, that kind of book—for children—should go too.”\n\nLofting would become an internationalist as a result of his experiences stemming from World War I and advocated “Peace Preparedness” between nations. He would also, at least implicitly, become an anti-imperialist who stressed international cooperation. This spirit of cooperation is evident in his children’s books. For instance, in \"The Voyages of Dr. Dolittle\", the title character defends a smaller tribe of “Indians” from a larger tribe. Eventually Dolittle helps the two tribes forge a pact of cooperation. This is just one of many examples of his pacifist philosophy in his children’s literature.\n\nLofting’s call for peace and preparedness fell on deaf ears and the economic instability that followed World War I, resulting in the Great Depression, would manifest itself pre-World War II Germany’s political situation. Lofting fell into a state of despair at the rise of militarism on the European continent. Feeling like a modern Cassandra, Lofting began work on his seventeenth book, \"Dr. Dolittle and the Secret Lake\". In the summer of 1941, however, he stopped work on the book to write \"Victory for the Slain\".\n\nWritten just after the major part of Germany’s bombing blitz on London, the poem’s eventual publication in 1942 was met with little regard. Coming on the heels of England’s near eradication, and written from the safe confines of California as his critics would say, it was not well received. That the poem was a culmination of a long-standing philosophy held by the author, rather than a reaction to the current conflict, was not understood by its readers. A commercial failure, the importance of \"Victory for the Slain\" lies in the understanding it adds to the author of the \"Dr. Dolittle\" series and the peaceful title character more than the content of the poem itself.\n\n\"Victory for the Slain\" is divided into seven parts, with each part symbolic of the narrator’s progression. It uses a traditional rhyming convention. The word “slain” is repeated in the poem thirteen times and the thematic line, “In war the only victors are the slain,” is repeated three times. It uses a mix of military and religious symbolism throughout the seven movements.\n\nThe narrator is an unknown individual who journeys to and eventually into, a cathedral. On the way, in the first two movements of the poem, he passes infantry soldiers marching and a wounded World War I veteran. The narrator also passes the poor box which is symbolic of the wealth and treasures wasted in war. In the third movement the narrator then enters a church to seek solace where he muses about the folly of war and the inability of man to learn from his past mistakes as shown in this verse:\n\nIn the end, the narrator doesn't find the solace that he seeks as the chancel, the portion of the cathedral he is in during three sections of the poem, is destroyed by bombs. However, the narrator vows to learn from the lessons of the past and not give in to hatred and military revenge. It is here, perhaps, that Lofting is referencing the ongoing conflict of World War II against the Nazi regime. Thus, Lofting and the narrator, as a single person, hope that the “slain” can lead the world to an enlightened peace.\n\n"}
