{"id": "8635441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8635441", "title": "Ackermann set theory", "text": "Ackermann set theory\n\nAckermann set theory is a version of axiomatic set theory proposed by Wilhelm Ackermann in 1956.\n\nAckermann set theory is formulated in first-order logic. The language formula_1 consists of one binary relation formula_2 and one constant formula_3 (Ackermann used a predicate formula_4 instead). We will write formula_5 for formula_6. The intended interpretation of formula_5 is that the object formula_8 is in the class formula_9. The intended interpretation of formula_3 is the class of all sets.\n\nThe axioms of Ackermann set theory, collectively referred to as A, consists of the universal closure of the following formulas in the language formula_1\n\n1) Axiom of extensionality:\n\n2) Class construction axiom schema: Let formula_13 be any formula which does not contain the variable formula_8 free. \n\n3) Reflection axiom schema: Let formula_13 be any formula which does not contain the constant symbol formula_3 or the variable formula_8 free. If formula_19 then\n\n4) Completeness axioms for formula_3\n\n5) Axiom of regularity for sets:\n\nLet formula_25 be a first-order formula in the language formula_26 (so formula_25 does not contain the constant formula_3). Define the \"restriction of formula_25 to the universe of sets\" (denoted formula_30) to be the formula which is obtained by recursively replacing all sub-formulas of formula_25 of the form formula_32 with formula_33 and all sub-formulas of the form formula_34 with formula_35. \n\nIn 1959 Azriel Levy proved that if formula_25 is a formula of formula_37 and A proves formula_30, then ZF proves formula_25\n\nIn 1970 William Reinhardt proved that if formula_25 is a formula of formula_37 and ZF proves formula_25, then A proves formula_30.\n\nThe most remarkable feature of Ackermann set theory is that, unlike Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory, a proper class can be an element of another proper class (see Fraenkel, Bar-Hillel, Levy(1973), p. 153).\n\nAn extension (named ARC) of Ackermann set theory was developed by F.A. Muller(2001), who stated that ARC \"founds Cantorian set-theory as well as category-theory and therefore can pass as a founding theory of the whole of mathematics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "526315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526315", "title": "Alice Paul", "text": "Alice Paul\n\nAlice Stokes Paul (January 11, 1885 – July 9, 1977) was an American suffragist, feminist, and women's rights activist, and one of the main leaders and strategists of the campaign for the Nineteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which prohibits sex discrimination in the right to vote. Paul initiated, and along with Lucy Burns and others, strategized events such as the Woman Suffrage Procession and the Silent Sentinels, which were part of the successful campaign that resulted in the amendment's passage in 1920.\n\nAfter 1920, Paul spent a half century as leader of the National Woman's Party, which fought for the Equal Rights Amendment, written by Paul and Crystal Eastman, to secure constitutional equality for women. She won a large degree of success with the inclusion of women as a group protected against discrimination by the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\n\nAlice Paul was born on January 11, 1885, at Paulsdale in Mount Laurel Township, New Jersey. She was the eldest of four children of William Mickle Paul I (1850–1902) and Tacie Paul (née Parry), and a descendant of William Penn, the Quaker founder of Pennsylvania. Her siblings were Willam, Helen, and Parry. She grew up in the Quaker tradition of public service; her ancestors included participants in the New Jersey Committee of Correspondence in the Revolutionary era and a state legislative leader in the 19th century. Alice first learned about women's suffrage from her mother, a member of the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA); Paul would sometimes join her mother in attending suffragist meetings.\n\nPaul attended Moorestown Friends School, where she graduated at the top of her class. In 1901, Paul went to Swarthmore College, an institution co-founded by her grandfather. While attending Swarthmore, Paul served as a member on the Executive Board of Student Government, one experience which may have sparked her eventual excitement for political activism. Alice graduated from Swarthmore College with a bachelor's degree in biology in 1905.\n\nPartly in order to avoid going into teaching work, Paul completed a fellowship year at a settlement house in New York City after her graduation, living on the Lower East Side at the College Settlement House. While working on settlement activities taught her about the need to right injustice in America, Alice soon decided that social work was not the way she was to achieve this goal: \"I knew in a very short time I was never going to be a social worker, because I could see that social workers were not doing much good in the world... you couldn't change the situation by social work.\"\n\nPaul then earned a master of arts from the University of Pennsylvania in 1907, after completing coursework in political science, sociology and economics. She continued her studies at the Woodbrooke Quaker Study Centre in Birmingham, England, and took economics classes from the University of Birmingham, while continuing to earn money doing social work. She first heard Christabel Pankhurst speak at Birmingham. When she later moved to London to study sociology and economics at the London School of Economics, she joined the militant suffrage group the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU) led by Christabel and her mother, Emmeline Pankhurst. She was arrested repeatedly during suffrage demonstrations and served three jail terms. After returning from England in 1910, Paul continued her studies at the University of Pennsylvania, earning a Ph.D. in sociology. Her dissertation was entitled \"The Legal Position of Women in Pennsylvania\"; it discussed the history of the women's movement in Pennsylvania and the rest of the U.S., and urged woman suffrage as the key issue of the day.\n\nPaul later received her law degree (LL.B) from the Washington College of Law at American University in 1922, after the suffrage fight was over. In 1927, she earned a master of laws degree, and in 1928, a doctorate in civil law from American University.\n\nIn 1907, after completing her master's degree at the University of Pennsylvania, Paul moved to England, where she eventually became deeply involved with the British women's suffrage movement, regularly participating in demonstrations and marches of the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU). After a \"conversion experience\" seeing Christabel Pankhurst speak at the University of Birmingham, Paul became enamored with the movement. She first became involved by selling a Suffragist magazine on street corners. This was a particularly difficult task considering the animosity towards the Suffragists and opened her eyes to the abuse that women involved in the movement faced. These experiences, combined with the teachings of Professor Beatrice Webb, convinced Paul that social work and charity could not bring about the needed social changes in society: this could only be accomplished through equal legal status for women.\n\nWhile in London, Paul also met Lucy Burns, a fellow American activist who would become an important ally for the duration of the suffrage fight, first in England, then in the United States. The two women quickly gained the trust of prominent WSPU members and began organizing events and campaign offices. When Emmeline Pankhurst attempted to spread the movement to Scotland, Paul and Burns accompanied her as assistants.\n\nPaul quickly gained the trust of fellow WSPU members through both her talent with visual rhetoric and her willingness to put herself in physical danger in order to increase the visibility of the suffrage movement. While at the WSPU's headquarters in Edinburgh, Paul and local suffragists made plans to protest a speech by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sir Edward Grey. For a week prior, they spoke with people on the streets to promote knowledge about why they were protesting against the Cabinet member. At the meeting, after Grey discussed proposed legislation he claimed would lead to prosperity, Paul stood up and exclaimed: “Well, these are very wonderful ideals, but couldn’t you extend them to women?” Police responded by dragging her out of the meeting and through the streets to the police station where she was arrested. As planned, this act was viewed by many as a public silencing of legitimate protest and resulted in an increase of press coverage and public sympathy.\n\nLater events involved even more risk of bodily harm. Before a political meeting at St. Andrew's Hall in Glasgow in August 1909, Paul camped out on the roof of the hall so that she could address the crowd below. When she was forced by police to descend, crowds cheered her effort. Later, when Paul, Burns, and fellow suffragettes attempted to enter the event, they were beaten by police as sympathetic bystanders attempted to protect them. After Paul and her fellow protesters were taken into custody, crowds gathered outside the police station demanding the women's release. \n\nOn November 9, 1909, in honor of Lord Mayor's Day, the Lord Mayor of London hosted a banquet for cabinet ministers in the city's Guild Hall. Alice Paul planned the WSPU's response; she and Amelia Brown disguised themselves as cleaning women and entered into the building with the normal staff at 9:00 am. Once in the building, the women hid until the event started that evening. It was then that they came out of hiding and \"took their stand.\" When Prime Minister Herbert Henry Asquith stood to speak, Brown threw her shoe through a pane of stained glass and both women yelled \"Votes for women!\" Following this event, both women were arrested and sentenced to one month hard labor after refusing to pay fines and damages.\n\nWhile associated with the Women's Social and Political Union, Paul was arrested seven times and imprisoned three times. It was during her time in prison that Paul learned the tactics of civil disobedience from Emmeline Pankhurst. Chief among these tactics was demanding to be treated as a political prisoner upon arrest. This not only sent a message about the legitimacy of the suffragists to the public, but also had the potential to provide tangible benefits. In many European countries, including England, political prisoners were given a special status: \"[T]hey were not searched upon arrest, not housed with the rest of the prisoner population, not required to wear prison garb, and not force-fed if they engaged in hunger strikes.\" Though arrested suffragettes often were not afforded the status of political prisoners, this form of civil disobedience provided a lot of press for the WSPU. For example, during a London arrest (after being denied political prisoner status), Paul refused to put on prisoner's clothing. After the prison matrons were unable to forcibly undress her, they requested assistance from male guards. This shockingly improper act provided extensive press coverage for the suffrage movement.\n\nAnother popular civil disobedience tactic used by the Suffragettes was hunger striking. The first WSPU related hunger strike was conducted by sculptor Marion Wallace Dunlop in June 1909. By that fall it was being widely used by WSPU members because of its effectiveness in publicizing their mistreatment and gaining quick release from prison wardens. Refusing food worked in securing an early release for Paul during her first two arrests. However, during her third prison stint, the warden ordered twice daily force-feeding to keep Paul strong enough to finish out her month-long sentence.\n\nThough the prisons staunchly maintained that the force-feeding of prisoners was for their own benefit, Paul and other women described the process as torturous. At the end of her month in prison, Paul had developed severe gastritis. She was carried out of prison and immediately tended to by a doctor. However, after this event, her health was permanently scarred; she often developed colds and flu which would sometimes require hospitalization.\n\nAfter the ordeal of her final London imprisonment, Paul returned to the United States in January 1910 to continue her recovery and to develop a plan for suffrage work back home. Paul's experiences in England were well-publicized, and the American news media quickly began following her actions upon her return home. She drew upon the teachings of Woodbrooke and her religion and quickly decided that she wanted to embrace a single goal as a testimony. The single goal she chose was the recognition of women as equal citizens.\n\nPaul re-enrolled at the University of Pennsylvania, pursuing her Ph.D., while speaking about her experiences in the British suffrage movement to Quaker audiences and starting to work towards United States suffrage on the local level. After completing her dissertation, a comprehensive overview of the history of the legal status of United States women, she began participating in National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA) rallies, and in April 1910 was asked to speak at NAWSA's annual convention. After this major opportunity, Paul and Burns proposed to NAWSA leadership a campaign to gain a federal amendment guaranteeing the vote for women. This was wholly contrary to NAWSA's state-by-state strategy. Paul and Burns were laughed at by NAWSA leadership; the only exception was Jane Addams, who suggested that the women tone down their plan. As a response, Paul asked to be placed on the organization's Congressional Committee.\n\nOne of Paul's first big projects was initiating and organizing the 1913 Woman Suffrage Procession in Washington the day before President Wilson's inauguration. Paul was determined to put pressure on Wilson, because the President would have the most influence over Congress. She assigned volunteers to contact suffragists around the nation and recruit supporters to march in the parade. In a matter of weeks, Paul succeeded in gathering roughly eight-thousand marchers, representing most of the country. However, she had much more trouble gaining institutional support for the protest parade. Paul was insistent that the parade route go along Pennsylvania Avenue before President Wilson. The goal was to send the message that the push for women's suffrage existed before Wilson and would outlast him if need be. This route was originally resisted by DC officials, and according to biographer Christine Lunardini, Paul was the only one who truly believed the parade would take place on that route. Eventually the city ceded the route to NAWSA. However, this was not the end of the parade's troubles. The City Supervisor Sylvester claimed that the women would not be safe marching along the Pennsylvania Avenue route and strongly suggested the group move the parade. Paul responded by demanding Sylvester provide more police; something that was not done. On March 13, 1913 the parade gained a boost in legitimacy as Congress passed a special resolution ordering Sylvester to prohibit all ordinary traffic along the parade route and \"prevent any interference\" with the suffrage marchers.\n\nOn the day of the event, the procession proceeded along Paul's desired route. The event, which was led by notable labor lawyer Inez Milholland dressed in white and riding a horse was described by the New York Times as \"one of the most impressively beautiful spectacles ever staged in this country.\" Multiple bands, banners, squadrons, chariots, and floats were also displayed in the parade representing all women's lives. One of the most notable sights was the lead banner in the parade which declared, \"We Demand an Amendment to the United States Constitution Enfranchising the Women of the Country. \"Over half a million people came to view the parade and with insufficient police protection, the situation soon devolved into a near-riot, with onlookers pressing so close to the women that they were unable to proceed. Police largely did nothing to protect the women from rioters. A senator who participated in the march later testified that he personally took the badge numbers of 22 officers who had stood idle, including 2 sergeants. Eventually, the Massachusetts and Pennsylvania national guards stepped in and students from the Maryland Agricultural College provided a human barrier to help the women pass. Some accounts even describe Boy Scouts as stepping in and providing first aid to the injured. The incident mobilized public dialogue about the police response to the women's demonstration, producing greater awareness and sympathy for NAWSA.\n\nAfter the parade, the NAWSA's focus was lobbying for a constitutional amendment to secure the right to vote for women. Such an amendment had originally been sought by suffragists Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton who, as leaders of the NWSA, fought for a federal amendment to the constitution securing women's suffrage until the 1890 formation of NAWSA, which campaigned for the vote on a state-by-state basis.\n\nPaul's militant methods started to create tension between her and the leaders of NAWSA, who thought she was moving too aggressively in Washington. Eventually, disagreements about strategy and tactics led to a break with NAWSA. Paul formed the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage and, later, the National Woman's Party (NWP) in 1916.\n\nThe NWP began introducing some of the methods used by the suffrage movement in Britain and focused entirely on achieving a constitutional amendment for woman suffrage. Alva Belmont, a multi-millionaire socialite at the time, was the largest donor to Paul's efforts. The NWP was accompanied by press coverage and the publication of the weekly newspaper, \"The Suffragist.\"\n\nIn the US presidential election of 1916, Paul and the NWP campaigned in western states where women could already vote against the continuing refusal of President Woodrow Wilson and other incumbent Democrats to actively support the Suffrage Amendment. In January 1917, the NWP staged the first political protest and picketing at the White House. The pickets, participating in a nonviolent civil disobedience campaign known as the \"Silent Sentinels,\" held banners demanding the right to vote.\n\nAfter the United States entered World War I in April 1917, many people viewed the picketing Silent Sentinels as disloyal. In June 1917, picketers were arrested on charges of \"obstructing traffic.\" Over the next six months, many, including Alice, were convicted and incarcerated at the Occoquan Workhouse in Virginia (which later became the Lorton Correctional Complex) and the District of Columbia Jail.\n\nWhen the public heard the news of the first arrests some were surprised that leading suffragists and very well-connected women were going to prison for peacefully protesting. President Wilson received bad publicity from this event, and was livid with the position he was forced into. He quickly pardoned the first women arrested on July 19, two days after they had been sentenced, but reporting on the arrests and abuses continued. The \"Boston Journal\", for example, stated, \"The little band representing the NWP has been abused and bruised by government clerks, soldiers and sailors until its efforts to attract the President's attention has sunk into the conscience of the whole nation.\"\n\nSuffragists continued picketing outside the White House after the Wilson pardon, and throughout World War I. Their banners contained such slogans as \"Mr. President, How Long Must Women Wait For Liberty?\". Although the suffragists protested peacefully, their protests were sometimes violently opposed. While protesting, young men would harass and beat the women, with the police never intervening on behalf of the protesters. Police would even arrest other men who tried to help the women who were getting beaten. Even though they were protesting during wartime, they maintained public support by agitating peacefully. Throughout this time, more protesters were arrested and sent to Occoquan or the District Jail. Pardons were no longer offered.\n\nIn solidarity with other activists in her organization, Paul purposefully strove to receive the seven-month jail sentence that started on October 20, 1917. She began serving her time in the District Jail.\n\nWhether sent to Occoquan or the District Jail, the women were given no special treatment as political prisoners and had to live in harsh conditions with poor sanitation, infested food, and dreadful facilities. In protest of the conditions at the District Jail, Paul began a hunger strike. This led to her being moved to the prison's psychiatric ward and being force-fed raw eggs through a feeding tube. \"Seems almost unthinkable now, doesn't it?\" Paul told an interviewer from \"American Heritage\" when asked about the forced feeding. \"It was shocking that a government of men could look with such extreme contempt on a movement that was asking nothing except such a simple little thing as the right to vote.\"\n\nOn November 14, 1917, the suffragists who were imprisoned at Occoquan endured brutality which became known as the \"Night of Terror\". The National Woman's Party (NWP) went to court to protest the treatment of the women in Occoquan Prison. The women were later moved to the District Jail where Paul languished. Despite the brutality that she experienced and witnessed, Paul remained undaunted, and on November 27 and 28 all the suffragists were released from prison.\n\nOnce suffrage was achieved in 1920 Paul and her party shifted attention to constitutional guarantees of equality through the Equal Rights Amendment, which was written by Paul and Crystal Eastman. The larger rival the League of Women Voters (LWV) opposed the Equal Rights Amendment. The LWV also supported workplace legislation for women, whereas the NWP thought that workplace legislation restricted women's natural ability to work.\n\nPaul played a major role in adding protection for women in the Civil Rights Act of 1964, despite the opposition of liberals who feared it would end protective labor laws for women. The prohibition on sex discrimination was added to the Civil Rights Act by Howard W. Smith, a powerful Virginia Democrat who chaired the House Rules Committee. Smith's amendment was passed by a teller vote of 168 to 133. For twenty years Smith had sponsored the Equal Rights Amendment in the House because he believed in equal rights for women, even though he opposed equal rights for blacks. For decades he had been close to the National Woman's Party and especially to Paul. She and other feminists had worked with Smith since 1945 trying to find a way to include sex as a protected civil rights category.\n\nPaul had an active social life until she moved to Washington in late 1912. She enjoyed close relationships with women and befriended and occasionally dated men. Paul did not preserve private correspondence for the most part, so few details about her personal life are available. Once Paul devoted herself to winning the vote for women, she placed the suffrage effort first in her life. Nevertheless, Elsie Hill and Dora Kelly Lewis, two women whom she met early in her work for NAWSA, remained close to her all their lives. She knew William Parker, a scholar she met at the University of Pennsylvania, for several years; he may have tendered a marriage proposal in 1917. A more thorough discussion of Paul's familial relations and friendships is found in J.D. Zahniser's biography.\n\nPaul died at the age of 92 on July 9, 1977, at the Greenleaf Extension Home, a Quaker facility in Moorestown, New Jersey, less than a mile from her birthplace and childhood home at Paulsdale. She is buried at Westfield Friends Burial Ground, Cinnaminson, New Jersey, U.S.\n\nIn 1979 Paul was inducted, posthumously, into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nHer alma mater, Swarthmore College, named a dormitory Alice Paul Residence Hall in her honor. Montclair State University in New Jersey has also named a dormitory (Alice Paul Hall) in her honor.\n\nTwo countries have honored her by issuing a postage stamp: Great Britain in 1981 and the United States in 1995. The U.S. stamp was the $0.78 Great Americans series stamp.\n\nIn 1987, a group of New Jersey women raised the money to purchase Alice Paul's papers when they came up for auction, so that an archive could be established. Her papers and memorabilia are now held by the Schlesinger Library in Boston and the Smithsonian Institution in Washington D.C. In 1990, the same group, now the Alice Paul Institute, purchased the brick farmhouse, Paulsdale, in Mount Laurel, New Jersey where Paul was born. Paulsdale is a National Historic Landmark, and is on the New Jersey and National Registers of Historic Places. The Alice Paul Institute keeps her legacy alive with their mission to promote gender equality.\n\nHilary Swank played Paul in the 2004 movie \"Iron Jawed Angels\", which portrayed the 1910 women's suffrage movement for passage of the 19th Amendment.\n\nIn 2010, she was posthumously inducted into the New Jersey Hall of Fame.\n\nPaul appeared on a United States half-ounce $10 gold coin in 2012, as part of the First Spouse Gold Coin Series. A provision in the Presidential $1 Coin Program directs that Presidential spouses be honored. As President Chester A. Arthur was a widower, Paul is shown representing \"Arthur's era\".\n\nSome of her papers are held in the Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America, at Radcliffe Institute, Harvard University. The archives of the Alice Paul Institute include papers and items from Paul's family history.\n\nOn April 12, 2016, President Barack Obama designated Sewall-Belmont House as the Belmont-Paul Women's Equality National Monument, named for Alice Paul and Alva Belmont.\n\nThe U.S. Treasury Department announced in 2016 that an image of Alice Paul will appear on the back of a newly designed $10 bill along with Lucretia Mott, Sojourner Truth, Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and the 1913 Woman Suffrage Procession that Paul initiated and organized. Designs for the new $5, $10, and $20 bills will be unveiled in 2020 in conjunction with the 100th anniversary of American women winning the right to vote via the 19th Amendment.\n\nIn 2018, Alice Paul was a central character in an episode of \"Timeless\" (Season 2, Episode 7) which alludes to Paul giving an impassioned speech to President Woodrow Wilson during a march that ends in police violence upon the suffragist marchers. According to history, Paul was at the event, and was arrested, but there is no evidence that she spoke to Wilson on that day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34150513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34150513", "title": "Art game", "text": "Art game\n\nAn art game (or arthouse game) is a work of interactive new media digital software art as well as a member of the \"art game\" subgenre of the serious video game. The term \"art game\" was first used academically in 2002 and it has come to be understood as describing a video game designed to emphasize art or whose structure is intended to produce some kind of reaction in its audience. Art games are \"interactive\" (usually \"competitive\" against the computer, self, or other players) and the result of \"artistic intent\" by the party offering the piece for consideration. They also typically go out of their way to have a unique, unconventional look, often standing out for aesthetic beauty or complexity in design. The concept has been extended by some art theorists to the realm of modified (\"modded\") gaming when modifications have been made to existing non-art games to produce graphic results intended to be viewed as an artistic display, as opposed to modifications intended to change game play scenarios or for storytelling. Modified games created for artistic purposes are sometimes referred to as \"video game art\".\nArt games are often considered a means of demonstrating video games as works of art.\nA definition of the art game was first proposed by Professor Tiffany Holmes (School of the Art Institute of Chicago) in her 2003 paper for the Melbourne DAC Conference, \"Arcade Classics Span Art? Current Trends in the Art Game Genre\". Holmes defined the art game as \"an interactive work, usually humorous, by a visual artist that does one or more of the following: challenges cultural stereotypes, offers meaningful social or historical critique, or tells a story in a novel manner.\" The paper stated that an art game must contain at least two of the following: \"[1] a defined way to win or experience success in a mental challenge, [2] passage through a series of levels (that may or may not be hierarchical), [3] a central character or icon that represents the player.\" This definition was narrowed by Rebecca Cannon in an October 2003 paper where she highlighted the competitive, goal-oriented nature of the genre in defining art games as \"compris[ing] an entire, (to some degree) playable game... Art games are always interactive—and that interactivity is based on the needs of competing [...] Art games explore the game \"format\" primarily as a new mode for structuring narrative, cultural critique.\" In a 2015 article, Colombian video game theorist Carlos Díaz placed importance on the \"reflection experience\" as an integral aspect of the art game. This experience can pertain to a variety of cultural avenues, but it transcends the medium and its structure.\n\nWithin the topic of the art game, further subdivisions have been proposed. In her 2003 paper, Holmes identified two common art game types as the \"feminist art game\" (an art game that generates thinking about gender and typecasting), and the \"retro-styled art game\" (an art game that juxtaposes low-resolution graphics with academic or theoretical content, and that creatively subverts the format of an arcade classic to support a conceptual creative agenda). In 2005, art theorist Pippa Tshabalala née Stalker broadly defined the art game as \"a video game, normally PC as opposed to console based, that generally but not exclusively explores social or political issues through the medium of video games.\" She proposed two different categorical schemes to further subdivide the genre by theme and by type. Subdividing by theme, Stalker defined \"aesthetic art games\" to include \"games that deal with using the game medium to express an artistic purpose,\" and she defined \"political\" or \"agenda-based art games\" as art games that \"have some sort of ulterior motive other than aesthetics\" and whose basis is in \"using the medium of the computer games to bring an issue to the public's, or at least the art world's, attention in order to attract support and understanding for a cause.\" Subdividing by type, Stalker identified the \"art mod\", the \"physical manifestation art game\" (the player is involved physically in the game, often experiencing physical consequences, such as pain, for their actions), \"machinima\", and \"3D real-time [art] game\" (an art game that displays all the characteristics of a complete level-based commercial game, both on the programming and commercial side). The identification of art mods and machinima as forms of the art game conflicts with Cannon's definition of the art mod that highlights the non-interactive and non-competitive nature of these forms of media.\n\nDistinctions are drawn in describing the art game as a genre compared to traditional video game genres (such as the platformer or first-person shooter). Rather than describing the game on a surface level, descriptions focus on the \"artistic intent,\" as well as the execution and implementation of the gameplay. For instance, Bethesda's 2008 release \"Fallout 3\" is considered to be a role-playing game with first-person shooter elements, but it could also be considered to have elements consistent with art games—it implements moral player choices for the sole purpose of provoking emotion or thought in the player. There are several recent instances of video games that similarly involve the characteristics of art games, such as \"Braid \"and \"Undertale.\" Games like these aren't necessarily created or marketed under the classification of \"art game\", but are still created for artistic purposes that transcend their respective structures. The potentials and limitations of the medium are increasingly discovered as the video game industry develops, therefore resulting in the recent popularity of art game elements. If nothing else, the genre can be seen as a means to push the medium to its conceptual limit.\n\nSince the development of these early definitions, art theorists have emphasized the role of \"artistic intent\"  (of author \"or\" curator) and further definitions have emerged from both the art world and the video game world that draw a clear distinction between the \"art game\" and its predecessor, \"video game art\". At the core of the matter lies an intersection between art and the video game. Easily confused with its often non-interactive sibling art form video game art, and the concept of video games as an art form (irrespective of artistic intent), the essential position that art games take in relation to video games is analogous with the position that art film takes in relation to film. ACM SIGGRAPH opened an online exhibit \"The Aesthetics of Gameplay\" in March 2014, featuring 45 independently developed games selected via a nomination process, where the mechanics of gameplay are, in part, tied to the visuals and audio of the game. Greg Garvey, the curator of this exhibit, compared this to the concept of \"Gesamtkunstwerk\" where the work attempts to encompass other art forms, though as Garvey comments, the \"merger of interaction with the aesthetics\" drives these games beyond this concept.\n\nDue to the contemporaneous improvement of graphic capabilities (and other aspects of game art design) with the trend toward recognition of games as art and the increases in video game art production and art game releases, discussions of these topics are often closely interleaved. This has led to the drawing of a number of critical distinctions between the \"art game\" and the various kinds of \"game art\".\n\nIn drawing a distinction between games with artistic imagery and art games, commentators have compared the art to sculpture and have emphasized the concept of \"artistic intent\" in the creation of the art game. This difference has been described by Justin McElroy of \"Joystiq\" as \"the same [as that] between a sculpture and a building. Though a building/game can be aesthetically pleasing, an art game/sculpture is using its very structure to produce some kind of reaction.\" This same comparison has been used by Jenova Chen in an interview discussing art games and the prominence of non-games to the artistic gamer community. Along with expanding on the notion of art games as comparable to architecture in a 2010 interview with Nora Young for \"Spark\", Jim Munroe stated that whereas video games such as the \"art game\" are shifting in the direction of the \"high arts\" within the realm of art generally, traditionally video games have occupied a position in the \"cultural gutter\" (making up the \"low arts\").\n\nAnother key distinction that has been made between art games and games with artistic imagery (and indeed all games viewed as art) is that art games are intended as artistic creations from the outset whereas traditional games are often commercially motivated and play-oriented. Thus the \"game\" portion of \"game art\" is merely the means to an artistic end. This has been expanded by some commentators to include the artistic intention of the curator as well as the original creator. This distinction also brings into focus the concept of \"serious play.\" Graham Coulter-Smith of Southampton Solent University defines serious play as \"a mode of communication that is not instrumental and not overbearingly focused on the linguistic model,\" a communicative medium that involves the concrete action of the participants rather than abstracts such as language. This holds significant implications for an artistic medium, as it facilitates communication of meaning through increasingly more empathetic and concrete means. Unlike other media, players of games must expend not only time but \"effort\"—in the form of problem-solving or the application of timed reflexes. This participatory element demonstrates that adding effort as an element in an art piece results in a higher degree of emotional investment, and therefore a higher potential impact of artistic intent on the participant.\n\nIn distinguishing between art games and video game art, the elements of \"interactivity\" and often \"competition\" (or goals) are frequently emphasized. Because art games are games and because games are interactive, definitions for the art game tend to require interactivity whereas video game art can be either interactive or non-interactive. Beyond this, the questions of whether competition, rules, and goals are intrinsic to games and to what extent \"play\" is even definable in the context of an art game raise thorny problems for critics who compare a game like chess to a game like \"Sim City\" and who question the playfulness of a game like \"Escape From Woomera\". A number of commentators have included the concept of \"competition\" as part of the definition of the art game to distinguish it from video game art. An example of such a definition is offered by Professor John Sharp: \"Artgames are games in the formal sense of maintaining the experiential and formal characteristics of videogames—rules, game mechanics, goals, etc.—as an expressive form in the same way other artists might use painting, film or literature.\" Thus game art pieces can be seen to employ traditional (non-art) games as the canvas or artistic medium whereas art games employ the formal qualities of the game as the artistic medium.\n\nThe idea of a distinction between art games and artistic modifications to existing games is one that several commentators including Rebecca Cannon and Matteo Bittanti have found useful in further discussing the related topics. Using Tiffany Holmes' original definition of the \"art game\" as a starting point, Cannon emphasized that whereas art games \"always comprise an entire, (to some degree) playable game\" and may be made from scratch, art mods by definition \"always modify or reuse an existing computer game but only rarely include a reward system, and if so, only when of thematic relevance.\" Likewise, whereas interactivity and playability are defining characteristics of the art game, they are often of no consequence for the art mod.\n\nFor Cannon, the nature of a work as a modification is not alone determinative of the question of whether the work is an art game or an art mod. Some modifications are \"art games\" despite being mods according to her definition. In addressing the potential for confusion on this point, she has stated that at the most basic level, \"art games explore the game format primarily as a new mode for structuring narrative and/or cultural critique, whilst art mods employ game media attributes for extensive artistic expressions.\" Thus, whereas art games explore the game \"format\", art mods explore game \"media\" and whereas art mods always exploit existing games, art games often replace them. Fluxus scholar Celia Pearce describes the art mod or \"patch\" as an \"interventional strategy,\" referencing the Dadaist concept. She argues that the art mod is an example of this pseudo-vandalism involving subversion and reflection within the cultural context of video games.\n\nOther art theorists including Pippa Tshabalala have rejected this narrow definition of the \"art game\" and have instead adopted a broad definition under the theory that the concept of the game is not limited to systems where the author has created rules and goals, but that games emerge whenever the observer self-limits play experience. Thus, observers experiencing the Jodi art mod, \"SOD\" (a modification of \"Wolfenstein 3D\"), can experience it as an art game as soon as they decide that their goal will be to progress to the next level.\n\nThe art game genre has emerged most directly from the intersection of commercial culture (specifically commercial video games) and contemporary digital art. In attempting to determine the earliest origins of the genre, however, art theorists including Tiffany Holmes and Greg Costikyan have identified its earliest roots in Dada and the collaborative drawing games of the Surrealist artists of the 1920s. Others have drawn still broader connections to literary games invented by the author for the reader in 19th and 20th century literature. By treating the game as a topic of artistic utility, these earlier art movements legitimized the concept of the game as an artistically explorable form and as more than simply idle amusement.\n\nAt the Art History of Games conference in Atlanta, Georgia, Professor Celia Pearce further noted that since the Fluxus movement of the 1960s and Marcel Duchamp's art productions, procedurality has taken a central position in certain forms of art. The artistically motivated imposition of strict rules of creation for an art piece (in this case the restriction by the author to the format or medium of the video game) brought video games and art into a collision resulting in the first true art games. Although early game-like programs such as Conway's zero-player \"Game of Life\" (1970) were foundational to later art games, Pearce identifies the earliest true art games as originating in a small wave in the early 1980s with games such as Bernie DeKoven and Jaron Lanier's \"Alien Garden\" (1982). Other early art games from this period include Jane Veeder's \"Warpitout\" (1982), Lanier's \"Moondust\" (1983), and Lynn Hershman Leeson's Laserdisc games \"LORNA\" (1983) and \"Deep Contact\" (1984). Following this period of activity, art game production would see a lull until the end of the 1990s.\n\nVideo games were first displayed in the art museum setting during the 1980s, in retrospective exhibitions like Corcoran Gallery of Art's \"ARTcade\" (1983) and Museum of the Moving Image's \"Hot Circuits: A Video Arcade\" (1989). However, just as with the production of art games, the practice became much more common during the late 1990s and early 2000s. Exhibitions like the Walker Art Center's \"Beyond Interface\" (1998), the online \"Synreal\" (1998) and \"Cracking the Maze - Game Plug-Ins as Hacker Art\" (1999), shift e.V.'s \"RELOAD\" (1999), the UCI Beall Centre's \"Shift-Ctrl\" (2000), and several others in 2001 were among the first wave of video game exhibitions that popularized the concept. This expanded to exhibitions heavily featuring or exclusive to art game content in the early 2000s with shows like MASS MoCA's \"GameShow\" (2001) San Francisco MOMA's \"010101: Art in Technological Times\" (2001), the Whitney Museum's \"Bitstreams\" (2001), and the New York Museum of the Moving Image's \"<ALT> Digital Media\" (2003).\n\nDrawing from the modern traditions of the 1970s New Games Movement, where the playing of a game could be regarded as a form of performance art, art pieces such as Frank Lantz' \"Pac Manhattan\", Blast Theory's \"Can You See Me Now?\"  and similar hybrid performance-art/art-games including \"Painstation\" (2001), \"Go Fish\" (2001), and \"Vagamundo\" (2002) came in the early years of the modern period of art game production. The burgeoning video game art movement also provided direct inspiration for art game development particularly in the creation of art mods. Art theorist Rebecca Cannon identifies the earliest example of a purposeful art mod to be Iimura Takahiko's 1993 \"AIUEOUNN Six Features\" (a modification of Sony's \"System G\"), although the transgressive capability of mods like \"Castle Smurfenstein\" (1983) had already been recognized during the first period of art game creation. Online artist collectives including Jodi.org and the Australian SelectParks soon began production of art games in the studio setting, repurposing older games through the use of interactive art mods.\n\nThe use of mods within art games became one of the primary tools for art game creators who designed games with a message, such as the addition of female characters to a traditionally male-centric game, or to force the audience to re-examine a familiar work in a different light. Consequently, the early history of art games is intimately connected to the history of commercial video games and the establishment of video gaming conventions, and significant events in the history of video games have corresponding significance to art games. This is true both in terms of the level of technological advancement that make up the substance of art games as well as by providing cultural touchstones (such as the classic arcade games and blockbuster titles from the 1990s like \"Doom\" and \"Myst\") that art games may use referentially or as the subject of an homage. Art games of this kind have been defined by theorists as \"artist games\"—art games created by non-developer contemporary artists rather than by game developers. Typically produced on a smaller budget and with less technical (coding) knowledge than art games emerging from the game scene itself, \"artist games\" are often more explicit in terms of their artistic ambitions and commonly occupy \"the grey area between modification and original game\" because they are frequently based on classic arcade titles from the 1980s. Early examples of this kind of game include Thompson and Craighead's \"Trigger Happy\" (1998), Esc to Begin's \"Font Asteroids\" (1999), and Natalie Bookchin's \"The Intruder\" (1999).\n\nAs video games became increasingly common as a form of media throughout the 2000s, video games that deemphasized the game portion of the medium (such as serious games, non-games and art games) saw a rise in production. This in turn led to recognition of the game as a vehicle for ideas instead of simply an entertaining diversion. The term \"art game\" was first used in the scholarly setting by Professor Tiffany Holmes in her 2002 paper, \"Art games and Breakout: New media meets the American arcade\". Holmes presented this paper at the Computer Games and Digital Cultures conference in Tampere, Finland, and at Siggraph 2002, later expanding it by defining the term in a 2003 paper for the Melbourne DAC Conference. Further refinements to the definition were made by theorist Rebecca Cannon in her late 2003 paper, \"Introduction to Artistic Computer Game Modification.\"\n\nBeginning in the early to mid-2000s with games such as \"Samorost\" (2003) and \"The Endless Forest\" (2005), a strong overlap developed between art games and indie games. This meeting of the art game movement and the indie game movement brought art games to the attention of the video game culture at large, and sparked large debates regarding whether or not video games can be fairly considered as works of art, as well as a backlash against use of the term. These debates have in turn led to the retrospective determination of numerous older commercial video games (prior to the use of the term \"art game\") as art games. As indie art games have seen a dramatic rise in production in the late 2000s (especially from 2008 and onwards), indie game developers like Jenova Chen, Molleindustria, Jason Nelson, Jason Rohrer, and Tale of Tales have become established and \"artist games\" have become relatively less common.\n\nDiscussions over the commercial viability of art games have led to speculation concerning the potential for the commercial video game industry to fund the development of \"prestige games\" (games that are unlikely to be commercially successful but whose artistic vision marks them as important to the development of the medium). These considerations are generally regarded as premature, as the concept of \"prestige\" hasn't yet taken hold for publishers as it has for developers in the nascent industry. Consequently, publishers are generally unwilling to take on commercially risky high-concept games the same way that major film studios (who often have arthouse divisions) might for art films that could enhance their prestige. The need for adequate funding to produce high quality art games has been recognized by art game creators like Florent Deloison and Mark Essen, who in 2011 joined designer game firms where individualized art games can be commissioned as luxury items by art patrons for a substantial price.\n\nAlongside the growing use of the term \"art game\", numerous members of the video game culture have reacted negatively to its application. Critics have noted that the term turns away a certain segment of the gamer population who reject the notion that games can be works of art, and who equate \"art games\" with elitist gaming. This kind of reaction has in turn caused some game developers to reject the use of the term to describe their games, instead using terms like \"not-game\", \"un-game\", or simply refusing to accept any categorical label for their work. Some common criticisms of the term include:\n\nThe following list is a collection of examples of video games described as \"art games\" or \"arthouse games\" by game designers or critics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51620071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51620071", "title": "Athletic Bilbao signing policy", "text": "Athletic Bilbao signing policy\n\nSince 1912, Spain-based association football club Athletic Bilbao have had an unwritten rule whereby the club will only sign players who were born in the Basque Country, or who learned their football skills at a Basque club.\n\nThe policy is related to Basque nationalism and has been praised as a way to promote local talent, although it has also been criticised as being discriminatory.\n\nIn the first decade of their existence Athletic selected English players for the team, but since 1912 they have adhered to a policy of allowing only players born in the Basque Country or who learned their football skills at a Basque club to play for them. The motto used to describe the reasoning behind it is \"Con cantera y afición, no hace falta importación\" (English: \"with home-grown talent and local support, you don't need foreigners\").\nThe policy is not written into the Athletic Bilbao rulebook but has become a philosophy of the club in order to promote local players under the \"cantera\" (homegrown) system. The policy also extends to Athletic's reserves, their farm team CD Basconia, their youth teams and their women's football department. It does not apply to the coaching staff, with managers from England, Hungary, Germany, France and Argentina among those to have led the team at various times.\n\nThey were not the only club to adhere to this approach; fellow Basque club Real Sociedad had a similar policy from the late 1960s and won two consecutive league titles in the early 1980s adhering to the self-imposed restriction (as did Athletic), but it was dropped for foreign imports in 1989 when they signed the Republic of Ireland forward John Aldridge, and for non-Basque Spanish players in 2002 with the transfer of Boris from Real Oviedo. However, the San Sebastián-based club still places a high importance on producing their own local players, and a high percentage of their squad in the 2010s were home-grown.\n\nBack in 1911, a dispute occurred between Real Sociedad and Athletic Bilbao regarding the latter fielding ineligible English players in the 1911 Copa del Rey; they had also employed the services of several (non-Basque) players from Atlético Madrid which was then a branch of the Bilbao club. This led to the Royal Spanish Football Federation introducing a rule for the next year's competition that all players must be Spanish citizens. As a large proportion of the players in that early era were Basque, relying on locals was no impediment to Athletic and they chose to maintain that approach even when the regulations were relaxed some years later.\n\nThe policy has been praised as a symbol of localised football being successful at the highest level, as well as preserving a strong regional identity and being a way for Basque nationalism to be moderately expressed. It has been described as discriminatory for only allowing Basque players to play for Athletic Bilbao, although it has been suggested that the policy is working for them since Athletic are one of only three clubs (along with Real Madrid and Barcelona) never to have been relegated from La Liga.\n\nDue to a relatively low immigrant population in the region, the policy also had the consequence of Athletic Bilbao being the last club in La Liga to have never fielded a black player. That was ended in 2011 when Jonas Ramalho, whose father is Angolan, made his debut. In 2015 Iñaki Williams (born in Bilbao to Liberian immigrant parents) became Athletic's first black goalscorer. Prior to Ramalho, in 2000 the first African-born player in the club's youth system was Blanchard Moussayou whose promising career was curtailed by injury; some years later, he stated his belief that it was 'twice as hard' for a black player to make an impact at the club.\n\nFormer academy trainee Yuri Berchiche, who rejoined Athletic in the summer of 2018 as one of the club's most expensive signings, has an Algerian father but showed no interest in playing for their national team when the matter was put to him.\n\nAs of 2018, Athletic's academy teams include a small number of players of an ethnic minority (mostly Afro-Spaniard) background, including Cameroon-born goalkeeper Chris Atangana, forward Nico Williams (the younger brother of Iñaki), and defender Loic Boum, also of Cameroonian origin, who having been orphaned as a child was a ward of the Government of Navarre when he moved to the club in 2014.\n\nThe club also rarely fielded players from the French Northern Basque Country, with Bixente Lizarazu being the first French Basque to play for the club in 1996 and Aymeric Laporte the first to successfully graduate from the youth system in 2012.\n\nLaporte's signing in 2009 prompted debate regarding the definitions of the policy, as he had no link to the Basque region through birth or residency, and a blood link only via great-grandparents. He did join a team in the territory, Aviron Bayonnais, but only by arrangement after the initial approach from Athletic, as he was too young to move to a club outside France at the time – he arrived formally in 2010.\n\n, a Frenchman of Algerian origin raised in Sestao, progressed as far as Basconia at the same time as Laporte but did not turn professional with the club.\n\nAntoine Griezmann, the French forward developed by Real Sociedad, was the subject of debate regarding his eligibility for a theoretical move to Athletic as he emerged as an elite player in 2012. Hailing from Burgundy, he arrived at the San Sebastián club aged 14 but only to play football for their academy teams rather than for some other non-sporting reason, and has no connection to the French Basque Country other than attending school there after signing for Real.\n\nThe opinions of some (including Athletic's academy director José María Amorrortu) were that his training at a Basque club from a young age adhered to the policy, while others insisted that he had the same (ineligible) status as any adult player transferred in by Real and the other local professional clubs.\n\nIn any event, Griezmann showed little interest in joining Athletic, subsequently moved on to Atlético Madrid and was voted the world's third best player in 2016, making any move to Bilbao unlikely in the medium term. In respect of any future players of a similar trajectory, Athletic's position on recruitment remains unconfirmed.\n\nIn 1980 the club was believed to have given serious consideration to signing Iker Zubizarreta, a young Venezuelan of Basque heritage (his grandfather Félix had starred for Athletic in the 1910s) who had impressed at the football tournament at the 1980 Summer Olympics, but decided not to pursue it.\n\nIn 2011, media sources claimed that Athletic had shown interest in young Mexican midfielder Jonathan Espericueta but no such move materialised, and the player himself (who did later play in Spain with Villarreal B) stated that his Basque connection was as distant as a great-great-grandfather.\n\nThe Uruguayan international Diego Forlán, whose paternal grandmother was Basque, claimed he had talks over a potential transfer to the club in 2004 but this signing would have been incompatible with the club's current policy as Forlan was not born in a Basque region, nor did he play football as a youth (or at any point in his career) at a club in the territory. That is also true of Argentinian forward Gonzalo Higuaín, and Spaniards Benjamín Zarandona, Kepa Blanco and Jorge López, all players with tenuous Basque links who were also said to have been considered as potential signings by the club's presidential candidates when Athletic were struggling on the field under the restrictions of the policy. in 2015 the Australian winger Tommy Oar (with Basque-born grandparents) was the subject of similar speculation. Multiple UEFA Champions League winner Marco Asensio's Basque father, a former footballer, suggested his son to Athletic as a potential signing early in his career, only to be informed that Mallorca-born Marco did not fit the philosophy.\n\nThis contrasts with players who were signed by the club such as Higinio Ortúzar, Vicente Biurrun, Javier Iturriaga and Fernando Amorebieta all born in Latin America with Basque parentage, but as with players born in other Spanish regions such as Isaac Oceja, Armando Merodio, Patxi Ferreira and Ernesto Valverde, it was their residency in the territory from childhood rather than their ancestry which made them eligible for Athletic. That was not always the case, as in the 1950s some talented players raised locally but with birthplaces elsewhere (Chus Pereda, Miguel Jones, José Eulogio Gárate and the elder brother of Manuel Sarabia) were not signed as would have been expected in later eras. It has been suggested that the rejection of some of these foreign-born players by the club's hierarchy may have been influenced by the ruling regime. Gorka Luariz, a forward of mixed ethnicity capped by Equatorial Guinea in 2018, spent time in Athletic's youth system despite being born in Zaragoza as his upbringing was almost entirely in the Basque region.\nConversely, players born in the Basque Country but raised elsewhere are considered eligible. Fernando Llorente was born in Pamplona but lived his whole childhood in Rincón de Soto (close to Basque territory but outside it) before he was recruited as an 11-year-old. Two of Athletic's most expensive signings, the Bilbao-born Spain internationals Roberto Ríos and Ander Herrera learned their skills in the cities where their footballing fathers were based professionally (Eusebio at Real Betis of Seville, and Pedro at Real Zaragoza respectively); Gaizka Mendieta (son of Andrés Mendieta of CD Castellón) had similar origins but turned down a move, albeit he remained a proud Basque who played for the unofficial representative team.\n\nIn the years prior to the Spanish Civil War, Athletic undertook a project named 'Operation Return', seeking players born in the Basque region who had emigrated to other countries. One of the few who actually made a competitive appearance for the club was who had begun his career in his adopted homeland of Chile and also played in Mexico before a brief spell in his birthplace. The arrival of Bilbao-born Emilio Aldecoa in 1947 was unusual as he had spent the past decade of his life in England, having been evacuated as a teenage refugee of the Civil War. Another member of that refugee group was the club's star goalkeeper of the era Raimundo Pérez Lezama, although he had returned home much sooner on the outbreak of World War II; a third Basque refugee Sabino Barinaga turned down an offer from Athletic and joined Real Madrid.\n\nIt was once the case that Athletic would usually recruit from the Biscay province surrounding Bilbao while the other leading clubs Real Sociedad and Osasuna would focus on players from their respective provinces Gipuzkoa and Navarre. In recent decades (with the pool of potential players declining due to a low birth rate in the area), Athletic expanded their recruitment in these other areas in their efforts to accommodate the best players with any Basque links. This saw many talented players from San Sebastián and Pamplona join the club, and also caused Real Sociedad to abandon their own Basque policy in the face of the competition for signings.\n\nTransfers between the clubs increased tensions with Osasuna and with Real; Athletic paid over the odds for players from those rivals on several occasions, including breaking the national record for a native player for Loren in 1989, setting further records for purchasing a teenager with Joseba Etxeberria in 1995 followed by the €6 million outlay on the untested Javi Martínez in 2006, being ordered by courts to pay €5 million for Iban Zubiaurre in 2008 after his signing was found to be a breach of contract, and meeting Iñigo Martínez's €32 million release clause in 2018 (offset by losing Aymeric Laporte the same day in a similar deal worth double that amount).\n\nThat change of focus also led to fewer players from the home province being selected; in a 2011 fixture, none of the Athletic starters or substitutes were from Biscay. However, in subsequent years more local players made the grade, and the situation appears unlikely to occur again in the near future – twelve of the 25 players in the 2016–17 squad were born in Biscay, and in November 2017 a study showed that 77% of players in the academy teams hailed from the province.\n\nOn the other hand, the definitions of the philosophy are stretched occasionally to accommodate promising youngsters with little Basque connection, which does not always sit well with some of the club's followers.\n\nEnric Saborit, originally from Catalonia, who graduated through the youth and reserve levels to reach the first team, caused questions to be asked when he signed in 2008; he had no connection with the region by birth or blood, but while already 16 years old and playing in RCD Espanyol's \"cantera\" teams, he moved to Vitoria-Gasteiz where his mother had relocated for work two years earlier. As soon as he became a resident of the territory, Saborit was deemed eligible by Athletic to play for the club.\n\nIn summer 2017, Athletic recruited Youssouf Diarra, an 18-year-old forward born in Mali who was raised in Catalonia and had spent the past two years playing for clubs in Navarre after moving these to continue his education, which the club deemed sufficient under the policy. The previous year they had signed 16-year-old Colombia-born defender Deiby Ochoa, who lived in La Rioja and had only ever played for clubs in that region. Both players had attended trial matches at the Lezama training centre.\n\nHowever, despite having invited Ochoa (the spelling of whose name was changed to the Basque \"Otxoa\" in club records) to join, in October 2017 it was announced that Athletic's youth training camp in Oion – a village in Álava, but just a few miles from Logroño – would no longer accept players who did not fit the Athletic philosophy, effectively excluding around 150 Riojan youngsters of various ages from the system and leaving only around ten Basques across the squads. Past recruits born in that region, who were considered eligible due to their formative club being Osasuna or Real Sociedad, include José Mari García, Santiago Ezquerro, David López and Borja Viguera; however, the justifications for allowing Luis de la Fuente and later Daniel Aranzubia to join Athletic's youth system directly from Riojan clubs were less clear.\n\nIn January 2018, Athletic announced a new signing who was more obviously non-Basque by ethnicity: 25-year-old Cristian Ganea, a Romanian international who was also born in that country and had only played for Romanian clubs for the past five years. But prior to that, he had spent his teenage years living in Basauri just outside Bilbao and had featured for local teams (including Basconia, Athletic's farm team at semi-professional level who have a separate amateur and juvenile structure), meaning he too was eligible under the 'learned skills at a Basque club' aspect of the policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "21134838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21134838", "title": "Authority (sociology)", "text": "Authority (sociology)\n\nAuthority has been considered in sociological terms as indicating the legitimate or socially approved use of power. It is the legitimate power which one person or a group holds and exercises over another. The element of legitimacy is vital to the notion of authority and is the main means by which authority is distinguished from the more general concept of power. Power can be exerted by the use of force or violence. Authority, by contrast, depends on the acceptance by subordinates of the right of those above them to give them orders or directives.\n\nThe types of political authority were first defined by Max Weber in his essay \"Politics as a Vocation\" and his other writings in 1919-1920. In this essay he emphasized that the political authority that controlled the state can be composed of the following types of authority, or what is called in German, \"Herrschaft\".\n\nTraditional Authority: Power legitimized by respect for long-established cultural patterns.\n\nCharismatic Authority: Power legitimized by extraordinary personal abilities that inspire devotion and obedience.\n\nRational-Legal Authority: Also known as bureaucratic authority, is when power is legitimized by legally enacted rules and regulations such as governments.\n\nMax Weber, in his sociological and philosophical work, identified and distinguished three types of legitimate domination (\"Herrschaft\" in German, which generally means 'domination' or 'rule'), that have sometimes been rendered in English translation as types of authority, because domination is not seen as a political concept in the first place. Weber defined domination (authority) as the chance of commands being obeyed by a specifiable group of people. Legitimate authority is that which is recognized as legitimate and justified by both the ruler and the ruled.Legitimated rule results in what Weber called the monopoly over the use of coercive violence in a given territory. In the modern world, such authority is typically delegated to a police and court system.\n\nWeber divided legitimate authority into three types:\n\n\nHistory has witnessed several social movements or revolutions against a system of traditional or legal-rational authority started by Charismatic authorities. According to Weber, what distinguishes authority from coercion, force and power on the one hand, and leadership, persuasion and influence on the other hand, is legitimacy. Superiors, he states, feel that they have a right to issue commands; subordinates perceive an obligation to obey. Social scientists agree that authority is but one of several resources available to incumbents in formal positions. For example, a Head of State is dependent upon a similar nesting of authority. His legitimacy must be acknowledged, not just by citizens, but by those who control other valued resources: his immediate staff, his cabinet, military leaders and in the long run, the administration and political apparatus of the entire society.\n\nAuthority can be created expressly when public entities act publicly, using the same means to communicate the grant of authority to their agents that they use to communicate this to third parties, apparent authority describes the situation when a principal has placed restrictions on an agent that are not known to a third party, and restrictions on government agents are accomplished in the open, through laws and regulations. In this setting, all parties concerned is assumed or supposed to know the laws and regulations of government.\n\nRecently the concept of authority has also been discussed as a guiding principle in human–machine interaction design.\n\nAuthority and its attributes have been identified as of particular relevance to children as they regard their parents and teachers. The three attributes of authority have been described as \"status\", \"specialist skills\" or \"knowledge\", and \"social position\". Children consider the type of command, the characteristics of the authority figure, and the social context when making authority conclusions.\n\nAlthough children regard these three types of authority attributes, they firstly assess the legitimacy of the authority figure in question using the nature of the commands they give. For example, a teacher that does not appear to have legitimate power from the child’s perspective (perhaps because she or he cannot control the class well) will not be obeyed. Regarding parenting, authoritative parents who are warm and high in behavioural control but low in psychological control are more likely to be seen as having legitimate authority by the child, and will believe themselves that they have a duty to obey them and internalise their values.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35626430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35626430", "title": "Bersih 3.0 rally", "text": "Bersih 3.0 rally\n\nThe Bersih 3.0 rally (also called Sit In rally or Duduk Bantah in Malay) was the largest democratic protest in Malaysia. This rally was organised as a follow-up to the 2011 Bersih rally and the 2007 Bersih rally. The rally, organised by the Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections (Bersih), was supported by Pakatan Rakyat, the coalition of the three largest opposition parties in Malaysia along with other small political parties like Parti Sosialis Malaysia and social organisations such as Malaysian Trades Union Congress, Human Rights Commission of Malaysia (SUHAKAM) and Malaysian Bar. In addition, Bersih 3.0 was endorsed by 84 NGOs. In particular, it was joined by Himpunan Hijau (Green Assembly), a civil movement protesting the Lynas rare earth project in Malaysia. In addition to the main rally at Kuala Lumpur, smaller rallies were held in 10 other cities in Malaysia, as well as in 34 other countries. Following the last rally in 2011, the government of Malaysia organised a Public Select Committee (PSC) to look into electoral reforms in Malaysia, which released their proposals in April 2012. Seven of the eight demands by the Bersih have been included in the 22 recommendations submitted by the PSC. PSC Committee member P. Kamalanathan said only one demand by Bersih, on a minimum 21 days campaign period, was not included because it was not suitable to be implemented in Sabah and Sarawak. However, the matter was still being considered, where the current campaign period of seven days had been extended to 10 days. Bersih claimed that PSC proposals were half-hearted and accused the Election Commission of Malaysia (EC) of being insincere in introducing electoral reforms. Bersih has stated that they would call off the rally if the Malaysian government gave a guarantee that electoral reforms take place before the next Malaysian general elections.\n\nBersih, short for the Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections (), is a coalition of 62 non-governmental organisations founded in November 2006. Since its founding, Bersih has been supported by the three main opposition parties, Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR), PAS, and DAP. \"Bersih\" is the Malay word for \"clean.\"\n\nBersih, is chaired by former Bar Council president Ambiga Sreenevasan. Ambiga served as president of the Bar from 2007 to 2009 and is a recipient of the US State Department's International Women of Courage Awards.\n\nThe first Bersih rally on 10 November 2007 was estimated to have drawn between 30,000 and 50,000 people. It was broken up by police using tear gas and chemical-laced water cannons. The rally was said to play a major role in helping the opposition parties make big gains in the 2008 general election. The second rally on 9 July 2011 was met with similar force by the police after they tried to make their way to the Merdeka Stadium.\n\nThe Bersih's immediate demands were:\n\nThe Parliamentary Select Committee (PSC) on Electoral Reforms was formed in the aftermath of the 2011 Bersih rally. The committee, consisting of five Barisan Nasional MPs, three Pakatan Rakyat MPs and one Independent MP, came up with 22 recommendations for reforming the electoral system in Malaysia. However an opposition minority report was rejected by the parliament speaker without further debate.\n\nEarly in April 2012, the Public Select Committee released a report of their findings on electoral reform. The speaker in the Dewan Rakyat, or House of Representatives, passed the report with no debate between the opposition and ruling parties. An opposition minority report was not included in the final report. So far none of Bersih's demands have been met, and with indications that the Malaysian Government would be calling a general election without any electoral reforms, Bersih announced a third rally for clean and fair elections for 28 April 2012.\n\nBersih has been backed by the Bar Council of Malaysia and Suhakam\nBersih 3.0 was also backed by Pertubuhan IKRAM Malaysia (IKRAM), an Islamic missionary NGO.\n\nHome Minister Hishammuddin Hussein stated that the government over-reacted in its response to the Bersih rally in 2011. Hishammuddin has said that the government does not view the Bersih 3.0 rally as a security threat. He offered two alternative venues to that of Dataran Merdeka, Bukit Jalil National Stadium and Stadium Merdeka, but these were rejected by Bersih.\n\nInformation, Communications and Culture Minister Rais Yatim has described the Bersih (\"clean\") rally as \"dirty\", saying they do not respect the laws of the country.\n\nAfter several meetings between Bersih and DBKL, no compromise was made regarding the choice of venue for the rally.DBKL erected barricades to prevent the sit-in rally by Bersih.\n\nThe Malaysian High Court instructed the Hishammuddin to clarify whether Bersih is a banned organisation, especially since his recent statements were inconsistent regarding the organisation.\n\nThe Malaysian police received an order from Kuala Lumpur Magistrate Court barring any entry by Bersih into Dataran Merdeka and any rally gathering there would be considered illegal.\n\nDuring the lead up to the rally, it was revealed by PKR secretary-general Saifuddin Nasution Ismail in a Malay daily, that the Election Commission (EC) chairman and deputy chairman were UMNO members, leading to claims of conflict of interest. The United Malays National Organisation (abbreviated as UMNO), is Malaysia's largest political party. Bersih stated they would give the two men the benefit of the doubt until more information surfaced.\n\nSaifuddin alleged that EC chairman, Tan Sri Abdul Aziz Mohd Yusof is a member of Bunga Daisy UMNO branch under the Putrajaya division and his deputy, Datuk Wan Ahmad Wan Omar is a member of Kubang Bunggor UMNO branch under the Pasir Mas Kelantan Division. Wan Ahmad denied the allegations and in slamming the PKR secretary-general for the \"big lie\", he wanted the former to apologise for slandering him. In response to the demand to step down by the opposition, EC chairman said under the Constitution, the chairman and the deputy were appointed by the King, in line with advice from the Malay rulers. The EC Chairman stated that this was a sign of disrespect by the opposition of the royal institution.\n\nIt turned out later that the Abdul Aziz Mohd Yusof with the details as alleged by Saifuddin is a driver at the Prime Minister's Office whose name similar to the EC chairman. Then, a pensioner who runs a food stall in Kelantan, Wan Ahmad Wan Omar came forward denying the allegation and said Saifuddin had mistaken him for the EC deputy chairman. Both NRIC and Umno membership number as revealed by Saifuddin are actually belong to him. UMNO Head Office also confirmed that both Tan Sri Abd Aziz and Datuk Wan Ahmad are not UMNO members.\n\nDespite the police roadblocks, the organiser claimed up to 300,000 people turned up for the Bersih rally in and around Kuala Lumpur city centre. Close to 58 roads leading into the city were blocked by the police. Protestors gathered at several points in the city such as Masjid Negara, Masjid India, Pasar Seni, Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre (KLCC), Brickfields and Jalan Sultan before proceeding to Dataran Merdeka.\n\nPolice began using tear gas and water cannons to disperse the protestors therefore they began breaching the barricades.\n\nA total of 512 people were arrested for various offences in the rally, far less than the 1,667 detained in the Bersih 2.0 rally the previous year.\n\nSocial media were used not only to organise the rally, but to spread the mission of Bersih 3.0.\n\nSimultaneous Bersih rallies were held in other cities throughout Malaysia such as Kota Kinabalu, Sabah; Kuching, Sarawak; Kuantan, Penang, Pahang; Ipoh, Perak; Miri, Sarawak; Malacca and Johor Bahru, Johor.\n\nIn total there were rallies held in 35 countries and 85 cities around the world.\n\nLarge rallies were held in cities in Australia such as Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra, Hobart, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Rallies in Singapore, Thailand and other Asian countries were also large.\n\nRallies were organised in India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Japan, Jordan, South Korea, China, Taiwan (Taipei and Tainan), United States, Canada, Russia and various countries in Europe, including the United Kingdom; one of the largest of which was held in London, with smaller rallies being organised in Manchester, Nottingham, Newcastle, and Edinburgh.\n\nThe Prime Minister of Malaysia, Najib Razak, gave remarks in the aftermath of the rally. Najib claimed that Bersih activists merely wanted to paint a negative image of the Government to the world and confront the police so that they could throw allegations of police brutality to the public. Najib also claimed that the organizers are not concerned about fair and clean elections, that the rally was politically motivated, and that it was conducted by supporters of Pakatan Rakyat in an attempt to take over Putrajaya.\n\nInternational observers have described the Bersih rally as 'peaceful', 'festive' and 'exemplary'.\n\nIn the aftermath of the protests, analysts said premier Najib Razak's reform credentials had been dented, forcing him to push back elections.\n\nA few days before the violent demonstration, Kelantan Menteri Besar and PAS spiritual leader, Datuk Seri Nik Abdul Aziz Nik Mat had reportedly issued a \"fatwā\" that it is wajib for all Muslims to attend the rally and halal to overthrow a 'sinful' government through street demonstrations.\n\nA young Malaysian director, Benji Lim, alleged that the opposition have hijacked the rally and cause a harness to the protesters. Lim, standing among the reporters during Anwar Ibrahim press conference regarding the rally, said,\n\nHishamuddin Hussein, said, \n\nA petition website were also made by Bersih supporters, dearambiga.com, which said in its introduction, \n\nAbdul Haleem Abdul Rahiman said that \n\nDato' S.Ambiga later denied that Bersih 3.0 rally were hijacked.\"No one can (hijack Bersih) if we remain focused and single-minded about ensuring reforms before the 13th general election\".\n\nPKR Youth chief,Shamsul Iskandar Md Akin later denied that the opposition have hijacked the rally and accused UMNO as it were a part of it \"propaganda strategy\"\n\nThe Malaysian Bar, in its interim report on the gathering, said that words like \"sampah\" (garbage) \"anjing\" (dog) and \"anjing kurap\" (mangy dog) were hurled at police and Federal Reserve Unit (FRU) who were on duty.\n\nIt said that at around 2:50 pm, near the barricades at Dataran Merdeka, some of its monitors observed rally participants shouting \"masuk, kita masuk\" (enter, let's enter). The opposition leader, Anwar Ibrahim was caught on video near one of the police barricades talking to one of his colleagues in which critics allege that he was inciting supporters to push aside the barriers. The police force then used water cannons as well as fired tear gas towards the participants after repeated warnings to disperse were ignored. The monitors, who were trapped within the crowd of participants, then heard a group of participants yelling \"undur, undur\" (retreat, retreat). However, some of the participants kept on shouting \"masuk, masuk\" (enter, enter), and some of the monitors later observed participants taunting policemen and FRU at another location, especially after tear gas and water cannons were used. According to the report, some of the participants also hurled words like \"anjing, anjing\" (dogs, dogs) and \"anjing kurap\" (mangy dog) at police and FRU officers.\n\nThe report said that some of the monitors heard rally participants calling police officers \"sampah\" (garbage) as they passed the police line near the roundabout at Jalan Kinabalu, the police officers, however, did not heed what was said by the participants or retaliate. It further said that between 12 pm and 1 pm, participants at the intersection of Jalan Tun Perak, Jalan Tuanku Andul Rahman and Jalan Raja booed and jeered at policemen but there was no retaliation from the police. The report mentioned that rally participants, at times, threw objects like cans, empty plastic bottles and other items at police and City Hall vehicles moving along Jalan Tun Perak between 12 pm and 2 pm.\n\nOther noted incidents are:\n\n\nAccording to an interim report by the Malaysian Bar Council, police brutality was widespread, with instances of savage beatings of civilians as well as arbitrary use of tear gas and water cannons. However, the same report admits that demonstrators had consistently provoked the police. The council noted that the demonstrators had booed, jeered and insulted with derogatory words but no retaliation from the policemen. Home Minister, Hishammudin Hussein defend the police as \"professional in controlling NGO rally ,supported by opposition which turn as a chaos\"\n\nBetween 9.30 am to 2.30 pm, majority of Bar Council monitors observed the police force (including FRU team) appeared unperturbed by the participants, and some were courteous towards the participants. Around 12.00 pm, near the KLCC – between Jalan P Ramlee and Jalan Raja Chulan, crowds marched towards the direction of Jalan Tun Perak. Along the way, traffic police gave full co-operation and managed the traffic for the crowd to march. Monitors observed there was no disturbance at all. And for hours the police stood aside, looking relaxed and doing nothing. The peaceful rally later descended into chaos when police officers retaliated after the demonstrators removed the barbed wire and barriers at Dataran Merdeka and storm into the square, access to which was barred by a magistrate's court restraining order. Inspector General of Police Tan Sri Ismail Omar in a statement after the riots had pointed that the water cannon and tear gas was only fired to disperse rioters so that they will break through police barricades, an action which will make them breach the law, violate a court order and ignore the spirit of Peaceful Assembly Act 2012.\n\nThe Bar Council's report also noted that:\n\nThe Bar Council further stated that the authorities had disregarded provisions within the United Nations Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials (UNBPUFF), the United Nations Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials (UNCC), and Amnesty International guidelines.\n\nSeveral journalists were attacked by police officers, where some photographers had their cameras and memory cards destroyed after taking photos of alleged police brutality. Malaysiakini photographer Koh Jun Lin was arrested and his camera equipment confiscated. Malay Mail confirmed that its photographer Arif Kartono was punched by police and his camera destroyed. Al-Jazeera's crew was roughed about and their camera damaged after they tried to film an officer beating up a protester. The Inspector-General of Police, Ismail Omar promised that there will be investigations and refuted an earlier statement made by the Home Minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, who claimed that the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) of the police allows them to seize media equipment including cameras or memory cards.\n\nThere are widespread media blackout, biased reporting and censorship by the Malaysian mass media on the Bersih 3.0 event.\n\nAn international observer, Senator Nick Xenophon, of the Australian Senate, was accused of being anti-Islamic and pro-gay & lesbian in the New Straits Times, Utusan Malaysia and Berita Harian. The New Straits Times subsequently published a retraction and apology.\n\nThe Centre for Independent Journalism (CIJ) stated that there was significantly less print media coverage on Bersih 3.0, in comparison to Bersih 2.0 in 2011. CIJ began monitoring articles on Bersih 3.0 on 14 April 2012, two weeks before the scheduled 28 April rally, matching an identical study conducted which began two weeks before 9 July 2011 rally. CIJ monitored articles in four newspapers – \"Utusan Malaysia\", \"New Straits Times\", \"The Star\" and \"theSun\" – and showed between 90% to 60% drop in the volume of news coverage. Neutrality of the articles were also disputed, with two major newspapers providing largely negative view of the event. Overall, given the significance of Bersih 3.0, it was assumed that the major newspapers were deliberately toning down their Bersih coverage – either of their own accord, or due to interference from the government or the political parties which own them.\n\nThe BBC issued a statement seeking explanation over the apparent doctoring of one of its news reports by the Malaysian satellite broadcaster Astro. Two interviews with demonstrators were cut, as well as a partial deletion of the narration of the correspondence on how the violence was triggered after the event was concluded. Astro admitted to censoring BBC's coverage but expressed disappointment with the global news channel for failing to understand that they did so to comply with local guidelines.\n\n"}
{"id": "22241545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22241545", "title": "Bristol Bus Boycott", "text": "Bristol Bus Boycott\n\nThe Bristol Bus Boycott of 1963 arose from the refusal of the Bristol Omnibus Company to employ Black or Asian bus crews in the city of Bristol, England, UK. In common with other British cities at the time, there was widespread racial discrimination in housing and employment at that time against \"Coloureds\". Led by youth worker Paul Stephenson and the West Indian Development Council, the boycott of the company's buses by Bristolians lasted for four months until the company backed down and overturned their discriminative colour bar policy.\n\nThe boycott drew national attention to racial discrimination in Britain, and the campaign was supported by national politicians, with interventions being made by church groups and the High Commissioner for Trinidad and Tobago. The Bristol Bus Boycott was considered by some to have been influential in the passing of the Race Relations Act 1965 which made \"racial discrimination unlawful in public places\" and the Race Relations Act 1968, which extended the provisions to employment and housing.\n\nBristol in the early-1960s had an estimated 3,000 residents of West Indian origin, some of who had served in the British military during World War II and some who had emigrated to the UK more recently. A large number lived in the area around City Road in St Pauls. They suffered discrimination in housing and employment, and some encountered violence from Teddy Boy gangs of White British youths. This community set up their own churches and associations, including the West Indian Association, which began to act as a representative body.\n\nOne of their foremost grievances was the colour bar operated by the Bristol Omnibus Company, which had been a nationalised company owned by the UK Government since 1950, and operated through the Transport Holding Company. Although there was a reported labour shortage on the buses, Black prospective employees were refused employment offers as bus crews, although they were employed in lower paid positions in workshops and in canteens. The \"Bristol Evening Post\" and the \"Western Daily Press\" both ran series on the colour bar, which was blamed by company management on the Transport and General Workers' Union (TGWU), which represented bus workers. Local union officials denied that there was any colour bar, but in 1955 the Passenger Group of the TGWU had passed a resolution that \"coloured\" workers should not be employed as bus crews. Andrew Hake, curator of the Bristol Industrial Mission, recalled that: \"The TGWU in the city had said that if one black man steps on the platform as a conductor, every wheel will stop.\"\n\nThe bus workers' concern, apart from racism, was that a new competitive source of labour could reduce their earnings. Pay was low and workers relied on overtime to get a good wage. One shop steward said, \"people were fearful of an influx of people from elsewhere (on the grounds it) would be reducing their earnings potential.\"\n\nFour young West Indian men, Roy Hackett, Owen Henry, Audley Evans and Prince Brown, formed an action group, later to be called the West Indian Development Council. They were unhappy with the lack of progress in fighting discrimination by the West Indian Association. Owen Henry had met Paul Stephenson, whose father was from West Africa, and who had been to college. The group decided that the articulate Stephenson would be their spokesman. Stephenson set up a test case to prove the colour bar existed by arranging an interview with the bus company for Guy Bailey, a young warehouseman and Boys' Brigade officer. When Stephenson told the company that Bailey was West Indian, the interview was cancelled. Inspired by the refusal of Rosa Parks to give up her seat on a bus in Alabama and the ensuing Montgomery Bus Boycott in the United States in 1955, the activists decided on a bus boycott in Bristol.\n\nTheir action was announced at a press conference on 29 April 1963. The following day, they claimed that none of the city's West Indians were using the buses and that many White people supported them. In an editorial, the \"Bristol Evening Post\" pointed out that the TGWU opposed the apartheid system in South Africa and asked what trade union leaders were doing to counteract racism in their own ranks. When reporters questioned the bus company about the boycott, the general manager, Ian Patey, said: \nThe advent of coloured crews would mean a gradual falling off of white staff. It is true that London Transport employ a large coloured staff. They even have recruiting offices in Jamaica and they subsidise the fares to Britain of their new coloured employees. As a result of this, the amount of white labour dwindles steadily on the London Underground. You won't get a white man in London to admit it, but which of them will join a service where they may find themselves working under a coloured foreman? ... I understand that in London, coloured men have become arrogant and rude, after they have been employed for some months.\n\nStudents from Bristol University held a protest march to the bus station and the local headquarters of the TGWU on 1 May, which attracted heckling from bus crews as they passed through the city centre, according to the local press. Local MP Tony Benn contacted then Labour Opposition leader Harold Wilson, who spoke out against the colour bar at an Anti-Apartheid Movement rally in London. On 2 May, local Labour Party Alderman Henry Hennessey spoke of the apparent collusion between bus company management and the TGWU over the colour bar. On 3 May, the ruling Labour Group on the city council threatened him with expulsion, despite his honourable service of over forty years.\n\nTony Benn, Fenner Brockway and former cricketer Learie Constantine also condemned the bus company. Constantine was then serving as High Commissioner for Trinidad and Tobago. Constantine wrote letters to the bus company and Stephenson and spoke out against the colour bar to reporters when he attended the cricket match between the West Indies and Gloucestershire at the County Ground, which took place from 4 to 7 May. The West Indies team refused to publicly support the boycott, saying that sport and politics did not mix. During the game, local members of the Campaign Against Racial Discrimination (CARD) distributed leaflets urging spectators to support the action.\n\nThe local branch of the TGWU refused to meet with a delegation from the West Indian Development Council, and an increasingly bitter war of words was fought out in the local media. Ron Nethercott, South West Regional Secretary of the union, persuaded a local black TGWU member, Bill Smith, to sign a statement which called for quiet negotiation to solve the dispute. It condemned Stephenson for causing potential harm to the city's Black and Asian population. Nethercott launched an attack on Stephenson in the \"Daily Herald\" newspaper, calling him dishonest and irresponsible. This led to a libel case in the High Court, which awarded Stephenson damages and costs in December 1963.\n\nThe Bristol Council of Churches launched a mediation attempt, saying\n\nWe seriously regret that what may prove an extended racial conflict arising from this issue has apparently been deliberately created by a small group of West Indians professing to be representative. We also deplore the apparent fact that social and economic fears on the part of some white people should have placed the Bristol Bus Company in a position where it is most difficult to fulfil the Christian ideal of race relations.\n\nThis in turn was criticised by Robert Davison, an official at the Jamaican High Commission, who stated that it was \"nonsense to describe a group of West Indians as unrepresentative when no representative West Indian body existed.\"\n\nAt a May Day rally, held on Sunday 6 May in Eastville, local Trades Council members publicly criticised the TGWU. On the same day Paul Stephenson had organised a demonstration march to St Mary Redcliffe church, but there was a poor turnout. Some local West Indians said they should not ripple the water and, according to Roy Hackett, they may have feared victimisation. The dispute led to what has been described as one of the largest mailbags that the \"Bristol Evening Post\" had ever received, with contributors writing in support of both sides of the issue.\n\nThe union, the city Labour establishment and the Bishop of Bristol, Oliver Stratford Tomkins, ignored Stephenson and tried to work with Bill Smith of the TGWU to resolve the dispute. Learie Constantine continued with his support for the campaign, meeting with the Lord Mayor of Bristol and Frank Cousins, leader of the Transport and General Workers Union. In addition, he went to the Bristol Omnibus Company's parent, the Transport Holding Company, and persuaded them to send officials to talk with the union. The company chairman told Constantine that racial discrimination was not company policy.\nNegotiations between the bus company and the union continued for several months until a mass meeting of 500 bus workers agreed on 27 August to end the colour bar. On 28 August 1963, Ian Patey announced that there would be no more discrimination in employing bus crews. It was on the same day that Martin Luther King made his famous \"I Have a Dream\" speech at the March on Washington. On 17 September, Raghbir Singh, a Sikh, became Bristol's first non-White bus conductor. A few days later two Jamaican and two Pakistani men joined him.\n\nIn 1965, the United Kingdom Parliament passed a Race Relations Act, which made \"racial discrimination unlawful in public places.\" This was followed by the Race Relations Act 1968 which extended the provisions to housing and employment. The enactment of this legislation has been cited by some as having been influenced by the Bristol bus boycott. Robert Verkaik, Legal Affairs Correspondent for \"The Independent\" newspaper, said \"Few doubt that without Mr Stephenson's efforts it would have been difficult for Harold Wilson's Labour government to bring in Britain's first anti-discrimination laws.\" In 2003, as part of Black History Month, BBC Radio 4 broadcast a programme about the boycott.\n\nUnite, the successor to the Transport and General Workers Union, issued an apology in February 2013. Laurence Faircloth, the union's South West secretary said of the union's stance at the time, \"It was completely unacceptable. I can well accept the sense of injustice and pain that has been felt because [of] what happened in Bristol all those years ago.\"\n\nIn 2009, Stephenson was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE), for his part in organising the bus boycott. Bailey and Hackett were also awarded OBEs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39473909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39473909", "title": "Burlesque metaphor", "text": "Burlesque metaphor\n\nBurlesque metaphor is an amusing, overstated or grotesque comparison or examplification.\n\n"}
{"id": "55215749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55215749", "title": "Catalan time system", "text": "Catalan time system\n\nThe Catalan time system is the traditional manner in which to tell time in Catalan, and it is exclusive to this language. Telling the time through this system works by dividing it in fractions of a quarter and half a quarter of an hour. Hour-fractions refer to the starting hour, taking into account that when a clock reaches a whole hour (e.g. three o'clock) it actually indicates its end.\n\nThe order is \"quarts-minuts-hora posterior\" (quarters-minutes-next hour). Hence, for example, 10:15 h would be \"un quart d'onze\" (\"a quarter of eleven\"); 12:30 h, \"dos quarts d'una\" (\"two quarters of one\"), and 19:52 h would be \"tres quarts i set minuts de vuit\" (\"three quarters and seven minutes of eight\"). Additionally, there are little variations by which the expression \"dos quarts\" (\"two quarters\") is shortened to just \"quarts\" (\"quarters\"); also, \"mig quart\" (\"half a quarter\") is used as an approximation in place of the too specific \"set minuts i mig\" (\"seven minutes and a half\").\n\nThe Catalan time system is restricted to 12-hour clocks; if necessary, one can specify if it's an hour of the morning (\"matinada\" or \"matí\"), noon (\"migdia\"), afternoon (\"vesprada\"), evening (\"vespre\") or night (\"nit\").\n\n"}
{"id": "6134604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6134604", "title": "Catholic peace traditions", "text": "Catholic peace traditions\n\nCatholic peace traditions begin with its biblical and classical origins to the current practice in the 21st century. Because of its long history and breadth of geographical and cultural diversity, this Catholic tradition encompasses many strains and influences of both religious and secular peacemaking and many aspects of Christian pacifism, just war and nonviolence.\n\nCatholic tradition as a whole supports and favors peacemaking efforts. Peacemaking is an integral part of Catholic Social Teaching.\n\nThe history of peacemaking in the Catholic tradition reflects the religious meanings of peace, tied to positive virtues, such as love, and to the personal and social works of justice. The Greek word for peace is \"eirene\"; Roman \"pax\", and in the Hebrew Bible, \"shalom\".\n\nFor the earliest Romans, \"pax\" meant to live in a state of agreement, where discord and war were absent. In his \"Meditations\", or \"To Himself,\" the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius expresses peace as a state of unperturbed tranquility. The English word \"peace\" derives ultimately from its root, the Latin \"pax\".\n\nShalom () is the word for peace in the Hebrew Bible (\"Tanakh\" or ), and has other meanings also pertaining to well being, including use as a greeting.\n\nThe Greek meaning for peace, contained in the word \"eirene\", evolved over the course of Greco-Roman civilization from such agricultural meanings as prosperity, fertility, and security of home contained in Hesiod’s \"Works and Days\", to more internal meanings of peace formulated by the Stoics, such as Epictetus.\n\n\"Eirene\" is the word that the New Testament generally uses for peace, one of the twenty words used by the Septuagint, the Greek version of the Hebrew Bible used in the largely Greek-speaking Jewish communities throughout the Greco-Roman world. It is chiefly through the Septuagint’s use of Greek that the Greek word \"eirene\" became infused with all the religious imagery and richness of the word \"shalom\" in the Hebrew Bible that had evolved over the history of the Jewish people. Subsequently, the use of the Greek Bible as the basis for St. Jerome’s Vulgate translation into Latin then brought all the new meanings of \"eirene\" to the Latin word \"pax\" and transformed it from a term for an imposed order of the sword, the \"Pax Romana\", into the chief image of peace for Western Christianity.\n\nThe Gospels present the birth of Jesus as ushering in a new age of peace. In Luke, Zechariah celebrates his son John:\nAnd you, child, will be called prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give his people knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God by which the daybreak from on high will visit us to shine on those who sit in darkness and death's shadow, to guide our feet into the path of peace.\n\nAnd later, the angels appear to the shepherds at Bethlehem, \"And suddenly there was a multitude of the heavenly host with the angel, praising God and saying: 'Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace to those on whom his favor rests'\" – a peace distinct from the Pax Romana.\nThe Sermon on the Mount (Mt. 5:1-16) and the Sermon on the Plain (Lk. 6:20-45) combine with the call to \"love your enemies\" (Mt. 5:38-48) to encapsulate Jesus' teachings on peacemaking. According to Gabriel Moran, the Sermon on the Mount does not advocate submission to oppressors, but rather a strategy to \"de-hostilize enemies in order to win them over\".\n\nThe account of the healing of the centurion's servant suggests to John Eppstein that Jesus did not view military service as sinful, since rather than reprove the soldier for his profession, Jesus praised him for his faith. Nor did Peter require Cornelius to resign his commission or desert upon being baptized. John the Baptist's advice to soldiers was, \"Do not practice extortion, do not falsely accuse anyone, and be satisfied with your wages.\" \n\nEarly Christianity was relatively pacifist. Clement of Alexandria wrote, \"“If you enroll as one of God’s people, heaven is your country and God your lawgiver. And what are his laws? You shall not kill, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. To him that strikes you on the one cheek, turn to him the other also.” (Protrepticus 10)\nThe early Christians anticipated the eminent return of the Lord in glory, even to the extant that Paul had to tell some of them to get back to work. Generally they were not deeply involved in the larger community. As it became apparent that a more nuanced understanding was called for, Christians came to realize that if they were to survive socially they could not remain within the confines of their own community.\n\nSt. Paul wrote, \"Let every person be subordinate to the higher authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been established by God. ...This is why you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, devoting themselves to this very thing. Pay to all their dues, taxes to whom taxes are due, toll to whom toll is due, respect to whom respect is due, honor to whom honor is due.\"\n\nThe early Christian church believed that Christians should not take up arms in any war, and so struggled attempting to balance the obligation to be a good citizen and the question of whether it was permissible to take up arms to defend one's country. There developed a gap between the reasoning of the moral theorists and the practice of the private citizen.\n\nAs early as second century, Christians began to participate in Roman military, police, and government in large numbers. Military service was one way available to make a living, and on the borders of the empire there was a need to defend against barbarian incursions. As the army came to take on duties more in the line of police work: traffic and customs control, firefighting, the apprehension of criminals and bandits, maintaining the peace, quelling street brawls, and performing the roles of engineering, clearance, and other works of building for which the Roman army was well known, this choice became less problematic. The numbers of soldiers that came to be counted among the later martyrs indicates that many Christians served in the military, despite their abhorrence of war.\n\nFrom about the middle of the second century, officers in the Roman army were expected to participate in the Imperial Cult and sacrifice to the emperor. During the reign of Diocletian this obligation was extended to the lower ranks, as a test for those suspected of being Christian. Christians were therefore counseled not to enlist so as to avoid needless blood guilt and the risk of idolatry, but should nonetheless continue to pray for the civil authorities.\nAmong the better-known soldier saints are Saint Marinus, Marcellus of Tangier, and Maximilian of Tebessa, and Martin of Tours.\n\nPersecutions were sporadic and the third century, largely local. By and large the Roman government didn’t pay much attention to Christianity.\n\nChristians sought to live the injunction to love their enemies while resisting their evil, even if this involved persecution and death: these were the martyrs. The word \"“martyr”\" is the Greek for “witness.” The early martyrs followed a long-standing tradition; John the Baptist was beheaded for \"speaking truth to power\". They also had as examples St. Stephen, the apostles James, Philip, and Matthew, and others.\n\nThe sufferings of the martyrs were therefore not an act of suicide or some masochistic form of passive weakness that found its fulfillment in torture and death at the hands of the Romans. Theirs was an act of commitment carried out in the public arena, designed to show the enemy that what is worth living for is also worth dying for. According to Josephine Laffin, martyrdom demonstrated to all that Christ had overcome death, and that the Holy Spirit sustained the Church in its fight against darkness and evil.\n\nThe Martyrs of Córdoba were forty-eight Christian martyrs living in the 9th century Muslim-ruled Al-Andalus. Their hagiography describes in detail their executions for deliberately sought capital violations of Muslim law in Al-Andalus. The martyrdoms recorded by Eulogius took place between 851 and 859; with few exceptions, the Christians invited execution by making public statements tactically chosen to invite martyrdom by appearing before the Muslim authorities to denounce Islam. The martyrs caused tension not only between Muslims and Christians, but within the Christian community. In December 852 Church leaders called a council in Cordoba, which honored those fallen but called on Christians to refrain from seeking martyrdom.\n\nRecent historical interpretation of the martyr movement reflect questions on its nature. Kenneth Baxter Wolf sees its cause in “spiritual anxiety” and the penitential aspect of 9th century Iberian Christianity. Clayton J. Drees sees their motives in a “pathological death-wish, the product of unexpressed hatred toward society that had turned inward against themselves” and other innate “psychological imbalances.” Jessica A. Coope suggests that it reflects a protest against the process of assimilation, and that the martyrs demonstrated a determination to assert Christian identity.\n\nWith the triumph of Constantine as sole Roman emperor in 313, the church of the martyrs now found itself an accepted and favored religion, soon to become the official religion of the state. Constantine had an emblem inscribed on the shields of his soldiers that has been various described as representing the \"Unconquerable Sun\" or as a Chi-Rho. Eileen Egan quotes Burkhardt's observation that this was \"an emblem which every man could interpret as he pleased, but which the Christians would refer to themselves.\"\n\nAs the religion of the empire, its survival was tied to the fate of the Empire. The threat of increased barbarian incursions therefore threatened both, and defense of the Empire was appropriate in order to protect Christianity. The early trend toward pacifism became muted.\n\nAmbrose of Milan, former Pretorian Prefect of northern Italy before being elected bishop of Milan, preserved the Christian presumption against the use of violence, unless it was needed to protect important social values. While rejecting resorting to violence in self-defense, he argued that charity demanded one protect one’s neighbour. \"He who does not ward off injury from his comrade, when he is able to, is just as guilty as he who does the injury.\"\n\nWhen the Empress Justina sought to have the new basilica in Milan turned over to the Arians, Ambrose, supported by the faithful, occupied it himself in what Egan identifies as an example of non-violent resistance.\n\nFollowing Ambrose, Augustine thought that the Christian, in imitation of Jesus, should not use violence to defend himself, but however, had an obligation to aid a victim under attack.\n\nAugustine of Hippo agreed strongly with the conventional wisdom of his time, that Christians should be pacifists philosophically, but that they should use defense as a means of preserving peace in the long run. He routinely argued that pacifism did not prevent the defence of innocents. In essence, the pursuit of peace might require fighting to preserve it in the long-term. Such a war must not be preemptive, but defensive, to restore peace.\n\nAugustine drew on Roman tradition to view a \"just war\" as one prosecuted under lawful authority for a just cause, i.e., repelling aggression or injury, retaking something wrongly seized, or to punish wrongdoing. Later other theorists expanded on this. War must be the last resort, have a reasonable chance of success, and produce more good than harm. The church also argued that non-combatants must be protected.\n\nAugustine drew no distinction between offensive and defensive wars, since remedying injuries was a just cause apart from defence. Against the threat of chaos and breakdown of civil order, a man may wage war justly but lament his unavoidable duty.\n\nDuring Augustine's last days Vandals invaded North Africa. Barbarian incursions which later swept Europe in succeeding centuries resulted in a collapse of learning and culture, and population decline. There is a long historical tradition that has collected ample evidence to show that the Roman Empire itself was undergoing profound social, economic, and spiritual changes that were only hastened by the invasions. As the Western Empire crumbled the Church became the stabilizing force for order and peace.\n\nThe Christian peacemakers of this period were not the dominant cultural or political force of their time, but were either marginalized minorities — as in the case of the Roman Empire or — as in the case of the missionaries who evangelized the barbarians — were actually reaching out from an oppressive and collapsing world to an anarchic one that offered the seeds of a new society. Among the more important figures of active peacemaking or of intellectual life worth further study were Martin of Tours, Salvian of Marseilles, Nicetas of Remesiana, Germanus of Auxerre, Severinus of Noricum, St. Patrick, St. Genevieve of Paris, Columban, and St. Boniface of Crediton.\n\nIt is no coincidence that the appearance of the first monks comes within a few years of Constantine’s assumption of power and the alliance of church and empire that he forged. Thomas Merton identified one of the reasons individuals sought out the desert. was that they \"declined to be ruled by men, but had no desire to rule over others themselves'. Others sought to imitate Jesus' own time spent in the desert.\n\nMonasticism was, in a sense, a continuation of martyrdom, reaffirming the contradiction between the Church and the world, by fleeing from the corruption of civilization in order to seek a greater treasure.\n\nChristian monasticism started in Egypt, then spread to Palestine, Syria, Mesopotamia, and finally to Italy and southern Gaul. Anthony the Hermit (c.251-356), the founder of monasticism, and Pachomius (c.290-346) were the prototypes.\n\nThe penitentials, written by Irish monks, were a series of manuals designed for priests who heard confessions that specified certain penances for certain categories of sins. These “penitentials” borrowed inspiration and specific regulations from the early church councils, monastic rules, and the letters of popes and bishops. Many of the regulations at first paralleled those aimed at insuring the special status of the clergy, including its nonviolence, but were gradually extended to the lay population. Penances ranged from fasting on bread and water for week, paying compensation to victims in money, goods or property, exile, pilgrimage, and excommunication. Readmission to Christian community was possible only after the completion of the prescribed penance.\n\nThese manuals proved to be such a concise and effective method for conceptualizing and standardizing notions of sin and repentance that they spread from Ireland to the Continent in a wide variety of collections that became enshrined in official collections of church law by the twelfth century. The penitentials are of great value for studying early medieval notions of violence, its seriousness and its consequences in a variety of actions, circumstances, and classes of victims.\n\nThe texts assign penances for killing in wartime, even under the lawful command of legitimate authority. Penances lasting from forty days to a year for killing someone in battle, were not uncommon. Following Augustine, war was seen as inherently sinful, and at best the lesser of two evils.\n\nThe Carolingian period saw the emergence of both a renewed Roman Empire of the West and the beginning of fresh barbarian invasions from the north and east and the rise of Islam. Internal efforts to legislate the life of the Christian Republic were therefore matched by its external defense against invasions by the Vikings, Magyars, and Saracens. The problems and conditions were in many ways similar to those of Christian thinkers under the late Roman Empire when the state was identified with Christian society. The Carolingian Empire thus brought a renewed militarization of society that sought to protect Christendom from external threat, while it used the hierarchical bonds of feudal oaths and vassalage to bring the new class of mobile horse warriors, the \"milities\", to some semblance of central authority. War took on a religious dimension as evidenced by liturgical formulae for the blessings of armies and weapons.\n\nThe close identification of the Carolingian Empire with the extent of Western Christianity revived the late Roman associations of \"Christianitas\" (Christendom) with the \"orbis Romanus\" or \"oikoumene\" (the Roman world). On the most official levels Christian peace necessitated its defense against the attacks of external enemies.\n\nChristian peace involved the monastic or ascetic peace of a pure heart and life devoted to prayer; the episcopal peace, or pax ecclesiae, of a properly functioning free and unified church; and the social or imperial peace of the world. These often overlapped.\n\nCarolingian theory established two, separate, ecclesiastical and secular spheres of authority within Christian society, one to lead the body and one the spirit. Monastic life was supported, and encouraged; while late Roman prohibitions against clerical participation in the army were repeated again and again. Among the thinkers and writers on issues of peace and peacemaking were Alcuin of York, Smaragdus of Saint-Mihiel, Paschasius Radbertus, and Hincmar of Rheims. In keeping with their time, these offered various interpretations of peace as an inner tranquillity, legal guidelines to war and the curbing of military violence, or the image of peace as an ideal Christian state.\n\nThe Cáin Adomnáin (Law of Adomnán), also known as the \"Lex Innocentium\" (Law of Innocents) was promulgated amongst a gathering of Irish, Dál Riatan and Pictish notables at the Synod of Birr in 697. It is named after its initiator Adomnán of Iona, ninth Abbot of Iona after St. Columba. As a successor of Columba of Iona, Adomnán had sufficient prestige to assemble a conference of ninety-one chieftains and clerics from Ireland, Dál Riata, and Pictland at Birr to promulgate the new law. As well as being the site of a significant monastery, associated with Saint Brendan of Birr, Birr was close to the boundary between the Uí Néill-dominated northern half of Ireland, and the southern half, where the kings of Munster ruled. It therefore represented a neutral ground where the rival kings and clerics of north and south Ireland could meet.\n\nThis set of laws were designed, among other things, to guarantee the safety and immunity of various types of non-combatants in warfare. The laws provided sanctions against the killing of children, clerics, clerical students and peasants on clerical lands; against rape, against impugning the chastity of a noblewoman, and prohibited women from having to take part in warfare. Various factors, including Marian devotion in seventh- and eighth-century Ireland, may have contributed to inspire Adomnán to introduce these laws. Many of these things were already crimes, under the Irish Brehon Laws. The law described both the secular fines which criminals must pay, and the ritual curses to which law-breakers were subject.\n\nThe indigenous Brehon Laws were committed to parchment about the 7th century, most likely by clerics. Most scholars now believe that the secular laws were not compiled independently of monasteries. Adomnan would have had access to the best legal minds of his generation. Adomnan's \"Cain\" combined aspects of the traditional Brehon laws with an ecclesiastical approach. Following Ambrose and Augustine, bystanders who did nothing to prevent a crime were as liable as the perpetrator. \"Stewards of the Law\" collected the fine and paid it to the victim or next of kin.\n\nAdomnán's initiative appears to be one of the first systematic attempts to lessen the savagery of warfare among Christians. In it he gave local expression, in the context of the Gaelic legal tradition, to a wider Christian movement to restrain violence.\n\nAs Carolingian authority began to erode, especially on the outskirts of power, as in southern Gaul, the episcopate took steps to protect their congregations and their holdings against the encroachments of local nobles. The Peace of God originated in the conciliar assemblies of the late Carolingian period. It began in Aquitaine, Burgundy and Languedoc, areas where central authority had most completely fragmented.\n\nA limited \"Pax Dei\" was decreed at the Synod of Charroux in 989 and spread to most of Western Europe over the next century, surviving in some form until at least the thirteenth century.\n\nA great crowd of many people (\"populus\") gathered from the Poitou, the Limousin, and neighboring regions. Relics of saints were displayed and venerated. The participation of large, enthusiastic crowds marks it as one of the first popular religious movements of the Middle Ages. In the early phase, the blend of relics and crowds, and enthusiasm stamped the movement with an exceptionally popular character.\n\nThe \"Peace of God\" or \"Pax Dei\" was a proclamation issued by local clergy that decreed immunity from armed violence to noncombatants who could not defend themselves, beginning with the peasants (\"agricolae\") and the clergy. It included the clergy and their possessions; the poor; women; peasants along with their tools, animals, mills, vineyards, and labor; and later pilgrims and merchants: in short, the vast majority of the medieval population who neither bore arms, nor were entitled to bear them. Children and women were added to the early protections. Merchants and their goods were added to the protected groups in a synod of 1033.\n\nThe \"Pax Dei\" prohibited nobles from invading churches, beating the defenseless, and burning houses. Excommunication would be the punishment for attacking or robbing a church, for robbing peasants or the poor of farm animals and for robbing, striking or seizing a priest or any man of the clergy \"who is not bearing arms\". Making compensation or reparations could circumvent the anathema of the Church.\n\nAfter a lull in the first two decades of the eleventh century, the movement spread to the north with the support of king Robert, the Capetian. There, the high nobility sponsored Peace assemblies throughout Flanders, Burgundy, Champagne, Normandy, Amienois, and Berry. By 1041 the Peace had spread throughout France and had reached Flanders and Italy. From c.1018 the Peace was extended to Catalonia and reached Barcelona, Girona, and Urgel. Assemblies were repeated all over western Europe into the 1060s.\n\nThe Truce of God or \"Treuga Dei\" had its origin in Normandy in the city of Caen. It dates from the eleventh century.\n\nWhile the Truce of God was a temporary suspension of hostilities, as distinct from the Peace of God which was permanent, the jurisdiction of the Truce of God was broader. The Peace of God prohibited fighting on Sundays, and ferial days (feast days on which people were not obliged to work). It was the sanctification of Sunday which gave rise to the Truce of God, for it had always been agreed not to do battle on that day and to suspend disputes in the law-courts.\n\nIt confirmed permanent peace for all churches and their grounds, the monks, clerks and chattels; all women, pilgrims, merchants and their servants, cattle and horses; and men at work in the fields. For all others peace was required throughout Advent, the season of Lent, and from the beginning of the Rogation days until eight days after Pentecost. This prohibition was subsequently extended to specific days of the week, viz., Thursday, in memory of the Ascension, Friday, the day of the Passion, and Saturday, the day of the Resurrection (council 1041). By the middle of the twelfth century the number of proscribed days was extended until there was left some eighty days for fighting.\n\nThe Truce soon spread from France to Italy and Germany; the oecumenical council of 1179 extended the institution to the whole Church by Canon xxi, \"De treugis servandis\", which was inserted in the collection of canon law, Decretal of Gregory IX, I, tit., \"De treuga et pace\". Aquinas challenged the Truce, holding that it was lawful to wage war to safeguard the commonweal on holy days and feast days.\n\nIn his \"Summa Theologica\", Thomas Aquinas expands Augustine's arguments to define the conditions under which a war could be just:\n\nReligious thinkers and secular writers attempted to incorporate the controls of the Peace and Truce of God into the existing warrior ethic by “Christianizing” it into the Crusades and the cult of chivalry. Beginning in the 11th century, knighthood developed a religious character. Prospective knights underwent rigorous religious rituals in order to be initiated. An initiate had to fast, confess his sins, was given a symbolic bath, had his hair cut to represent humility, and he spent a night praying, his weapons upon an altar representing the dedication of his weapons to the Church and God. Advancements in metallurgy allowed inscriptions and pictures of holy symbols to be engraved on helmets, swords, shields, and other equipment. The symbols allowed for a physical reminder to knights and military men that God was supporting their efforts, providing protection to those soldiers as well as the assurance of a victory over their enemies.\n\nLouis IX of France is equally famous for his failed crusades and for the settlement of disputes and the maintenance of peace within Christian lands. He issued the first extant ordinance indefinitely prohibiting warfare in France, a text dating from January 1258 that outlawed guerrae omnes as well as arson, and disturbances to carts and to agricolae who work with carts or plows. Those who transgressed this prohibition were to be punished as peace-breakers (fractores pacis) by the king's officer and the bishop-elect of le Puy-en-Velay. Louis IX promulgated this text as a simple royal act on the basis of his authority as king.\n\nChristian missionary work was presented as a viable alternative to the violence of the crusaders. Majorcan Franciscan Blessed Ramon Llull (1232-1315) argued that the conversion of Muslims should be achieved through prayer, not through military force, and pressed for the study of Arabic to prepare potential missionaries. He traveled through Europe to meet with popes, kings, and princes, trying to establish special colleges to prepare them.\n\nErasmus laid a foundation for religious toleration. In \"De libero arbitrio\", he noted that religious disputants should be temperate in their language, \"because in this way the truth, which is often lost amidst too much wrangling may be more surely perceived.\" Gary Remer writes, \"Like Cicero, Erasmus concludes that truth is furthered by a more harmonious relationship between interlocutors.\" Although Erasmus did not oppose the punishment of heretics, in individual cases he generally argued for moderation and against the death penalty. He wrote, \"It is better to cure a sick man than to kill him.\" \n\nFrancisco de Vitoria was a Spanish Dominican philosopher, considered one of the founders of early international law. He was educated at the College Saint-Jacques in Paris, where he was influenced by the work of Desidarius Erasmus. In 1524, he held the Chair of theology at the University of Salamanca, where a number of missionaries returning from the New World expressed concern regarding treatment of the indigenous inhabitants. In three lectures held between 1537 and 1539 Vitoria concluded that the Indians were rightful owners of their property and that their chiefs validly exercised jurisdiction over their tribes. A supporter of the just war theory, in \"De iure belli\" Fransico pointed out that the underlying predicate conditions for a \"just war\" were \"wholly lacking in the Indies\". Vitoria adopted from Aquinas the Roman law concept of \"ius gentium\" (\"the law of nations\"). His defense of American Indians was based on a Scholastic understanding of the intrinsic dignity of man, a dignity he found being violated by Spain's policies in the New World.\n\nDominican friar Pedro de Córdoba OP (c.1460–1525) was a Spanish missionary on the island of Hispaniola. He was first to denounce the system of forced labor known as the Encomienda, imposed on the native inhabitants.\n\nOther important figures include Bartolomé de Las Casas and Peter of Saint Joseph Betancur\n\nÉmeric Crucé was a French monk who took the position that wars were the result of international misunderstandings and the domination of society by the warrior class, both of which could be reduced through commerce, as that brought people together. The genesis of the idea of a meeting of representatives of different nations to obtain by peaceful arbitration a settlement of differences has been traced to Crucé's 1623 work entitled \"The New Cyneas\", a discourse showing the opportunities and the means for establishing a general peace and liberty of conscience to all the world, addressed to the monarch and the sovereign princes of the time. He proposed that a city, preferably Venice, should be selected where all the Powers had ambassadors including all peoples.\n\nFrom 1871 to 1878, Chancellor Bismarck, who controlled both the German Empire and the Kingdom of Prussia, launched the \"Kulturkampf\" in Prussia to reduce the power of the Catholic Church in public affairs, and keep Polish Catholics under control. Thousands of priests and bishops were harassed or imprisoned, with large fines and closures of Catholic churches and schools. German was declared to be the only official language, but in practice the Poles only adhered more closely to their traditions. Catholics were angry at his systematic attacks. Unanimous in their resistance, they organized themselves to fight back politically, using their strength in other states such as Catholic Bavaria. There was little or no violence, and the new Roman Catholic Center Party won a quarter of the seats in the \"Reichstag\" (Imperial Parliament), and its middle position on most issues allowed it to play a decisive role in the formation of majorities. The culture war gave secularists and socialists an opportunity to attack all religions, an outcome that distressed the Protestants, including Bismarck. After the death of Pope Pius IX in 1878 Bismarck opened negotiations with Pope Leo XIII, which led to his gradual abandonment of the Kulturkampf in the early 1880s.\n\nThe first Caritas organisation was established by Lorenz Worthmann 9 November 1897 in Germany. Other national Caritas organisations were soon formed in Switzerland (1901) and the United States (Catholic Charities, 1910). It has since grown into \"Caritas Internationalis\", a confederation of 165 Roman Catholic relief, development and social service organizations operating in over 200 countries and territories worldwide.\n\nCaritas Australia is involved in peacebuilding and reconciliation programs in Sri Lanka, The Philippines, Papua New Guinea and elsewhere, including Movimento de Defesa do Fevelado (MDF) which trains youth to be peacebuilders in São Paulo, Brazil in response to an increasing number of children becoming involved in drugs, organised crime and murders. It is hoped these trainees will become the next generation of leaders in their communities.\n\nIn an effort to overcome many prejudices and fears between different nationalities, ethnic and religious groups. The Salzburg branch of Caritas Osterreich sponsors a Peace Camp for unprivileged children of different religious denominations from all over the Middle East. The camp takes place in a different country in the region each year. Since 1999 almost 900 children and youths from nine different countries and eighteen different religious denominations have participated in the program.\n\nBishop Konrad von Preysing was one of the most firm and consistent of senior Catholics to oppose the Nazis. He and Bishop Clemens August Graf von Galen, along with Cardinal Secretary of State Eugenio Pacelli, were part of a committee that drafted the 1937 encyclical \"Mit brennender Sorge\" which warned Catholics that the growing Nazi ideology, which exalted one race over all others, was incompatible with Catholic Christianity.\n\nAustrian Bishop Gfoellner of Linz had the encyclical read from the pulpits of his diocese. Bishop Gfoellner indicated that the dangers of German Catholics were also the dangers of Austrian Catholics: \"What I wrote in my pastoral of January 21, 1933. 'It is impossible to be at once a good Catholic and a good National-Socialist,' is confirmed today.\" The release of \"Mit brennender Sorge\" precipitated an intensification of the Nazi persecution of the Catholic Church in Germany. With the death of Cathedral Provost Bernhard Lichtenberg while en route to Dachau, Margarete Sommer took over supervising the work of Preysing's Welfare Office. Sommer coordinated Catholic aid for victims of racial persecution – giving spiritual comfort, food, clothing, and money. She gathered intelligence on the deportations of the Jews, and living conditions in concentration camps, as well as on SS firing squads, writing several reports on these topics from 1942.\n\nBelgian Cardinal Jozef-Ernest van Roey was deeply opposed to Nazi Germany, and once said, \"With Germany we step many degrees downward and reach the lowest possible depths. We have a duty of conscience to combat and to strive for the defeat of these dangers...Reason and good sense both direct us towards confidence, towards resistance\". Cardinal van Roey intervened with the authorities to rescue Jews from the Nazis, and encouraged various institutions to aid Jewish children. One of his acts of rescue was to open a geriatric centre in which Jews were housed, at which kosher Jewish cooks would be required who could therefore be given special passes protecting them from deportation. Papal Nuncio Angelo Roncalli used diplomatic couriers, papal representatives and the Sisters of Our Lady of Zion to transport and issue baptismal certificates, immigration certificates and visas – many of them forged – to Hungarian Jews.\n\nPallottine priest Franz Reinisch was beheaded SAC for refusing to take the oath of allegiance to Hitler. When his offer to serve as a medic was denied, Franciscan tertiary Franz Jaegerstatter was executed as a conscientious objector. Both encountered clergy who thought that they failed in their duty to their country.\n\nPope John XXIII (1958–63) set off a revolution in Roman Catholic thought and life that harkened back to an earlier period for its models and inspiration and brought the church into a new age. Through his policy of \"aggiornamento\" the pope opened the church to the modern world. Russell Hittinger describes the encyclical \"Pacem in Terris\" \"as a kind of magna charta of the Catholic Church’s position on human rights and natural law\". John's successors Paul VI and John Paul II furthered this agenda while maintaining traditional church teachings in many areas of individual and social morality.\n\nIn the 1980s the Polish Solidarity movement grew out of labor strikes in the shipyard at Gdańsk. It was the first non-Communist Party-controlled trade union in a Warsaw Pact country, and became a broad social movement, using civil resistance to advance the causes of workers' rights and social change.\n\nBritish historian Timothy Garton Ash, observed shortly after Pope John Paul II's death, \" ...without the Polish Pope, no Solidarity revolution in Poland in 1980; without Solidarity, no dramatic change in Soviet policy towards eastern Europe under Gorbachev; without that change, no velvet revolutions in 1989.\n\nUnder the guidance of Archbishop Hélder Câmara, the Catholic church in Brazil became an outspoken critic of the 1964-85 military dictatorship and a powerful movement for social change.\n\nLéonie Duquet and Alice Domon were French religious sisters abducted in December 1977 by an Argentine death squad for their support of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo in their efforts to learn the fate of those disappeared by the then ruling military regime. Later that month a number of bodies washed ashore south of Buenos Aires and were subsequently secretly buried. Duquet was among those later disinterred and identified.\n\nIn El Salvador, Father Rutilio Grande spoke against the injustices at the hands of an oppressive government, and dedicated his life’s work to organizing the impoverished, marginalized rural farmers of El Salvador as they demanded respect for their rights. Father Grande and two others were killed by machine gun fire, while on the way to say Mass.\n\nDenis Hurley O.M.I. was the South African Roman Catholic Archbishop of Durban. Hurley was among the first church leaders to denounce apartheid, condemning the policy as an affront to human dignity. In the late 1970s Hurley held a daily silent protest, standing in front of the central Durban Post Office for a period each day with a placard expressing his opposition to apartheid and the displacement of people from their homes. He received many death threats and was at times subject to house arrest. According to Gerald Shaw writing for \"The Guardian\", \"It was in part due to his sustained moral crusade and that of other churchmen that the transition to democracy, when it came in 1994, was accepted by white people in peace and good order.\" Hurley is remembered for his contribution to the struggle against apartheid, his concern for the poor and his commitment towards a more just and peaceful society.\n\nJaime Sin was the Cardinal Archbishop of Manila, who \"played a key role in the Philippines' transition to democracy following the lengthy dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos. The Associated Press called Sin \"the Philippines' moral compass\". Beyond its effects on the Philippines, the peaceful ouster of Marcos has been cited as a milestone in the movement toward popularly chosen governments throughout the world.\n\nDuring World War I, Ben Salmon was a conscientious objector and outspoken critic of Just War theology. The US military charged him with desertion and spreading propaganda, then sentenced him to death, a sentence later commuted to twenty-five years hard labor.\n\nDuring world War II, Out of a total of 21 million Catholics only 223 claimed IV-E CO status, conscientious objection to military service; 135 were eventually classified. Most Catholic objectors chose I-A-O status, noncombatant military service, generally as unarmed medics on the front lines. In addition to these 135 Catholic conscientious objectors, 61 Catholics refused induction and were imprisoned.\n\nInitially founded as the War Relief Services, the original purpose of Catholic Relief Services was to aid the refugees of war-torn Europe. The continuing support of the American Catholic helped CRS expand operations and in 1955 its name was officially changed to Catholic Relief Services. Over time the agency learned that to supply emergency aid without addressing the underlying problems might prolong conflict by providing new resources to the warring parties. In light of that, CRS has re-evaluated how best to focus their activities. In some countries CRS works on providing peace education for children in refugee camps or improving relations between refugees and local inhabitants. It works in ninety-three countries in programs that address hunger, the provision of clean water, and health issues.\nAfter the war Catholic peacemaking narrowed down to a very few institutions, including the Catholic Worker Movement, and individuals, including Dorothy Day, Ammon Hennacy, and Thomas Merton. After the war, activities were carried on by such individuals as Joseph Fahey and Eileen Egan who were instrumental in the creation of Pax Christi.\n\nThe institutional church, and especially the papacy, long sought to use its authority to promote peace and justice, and like all human institutions, has met with mixed results. The first was primarily in the area of international diplomacy; the second was the realm of canon law and of theology, in attempts to define the limits of war and violence; and the third, among the Scholastics who investigated the boundaries of individual conscience.\n\nFor Medieval Europe, canon law served as a code of international law. According to Garret Mattingly, ...since the eleventh century, the canonists had been pre-occupied with many of the problems which we think of as belonging to public international law, with the definition of sovereignty, with the sanctity of treaties, with the preservation of peace, with the rights of neutrals and noncombatants, and with the mitigation of the rigours of war.\n\nIn the thirteenth century the Papacy became the first Western power to make a systematic use of diplomacy. \nThe papacy, in fact, can be regarded as the originator of many of the most basic elements of modern diplomacy and international law: the protection and safe conduct of ambassadors, the secrecy of diplomatic negotiations, the insistence that treaties and their terms, once made, are to be strictly adhered to, the condemnation of violations, provisions for the release of prisoners and hostages and their humane treatment while in detention, the protection of exiles, aliens, and racial minorities, and the condemnation of unjust wars all derive from the papal position both as the leader of Christian society and as a force for international unity among secular states.\n\nThe papacy’s association of peace with justice that motivated its active arbitration in international relations also prompted its interest in another area associated with justice, that of \"jus\" or law. In the international sphere this brought the papacy to adopt the ancient Roman theories of the\" jus gentium\", a body of custom and agreements among peoples and sovereign princes, from the tenth century linked with the revival of Roman law in Italy. Closely associated with Roman law and custom was the notion of the just war, which was Christianized by St. Augustine and handed on to the Middle Ages through St. Isidore of Seville.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42916926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42916926", "title": "Cause and effect in Advaita Vedanta", "text": "Cause and effect in Advaita Vedanta\n\nCause and effect are an important topic in all schools of Vedanta. These concepts are discussed in ancient and medieval texts of Hinduism, and other Indian religions, using synonymous terms. Cause is referred to as ' (कारण), \"nidana\" (निदान), \"hetu\" (हेतु) or \"mulam\" (मूलम्), while effect is referred to as ' (कार्य), \"phala\" (फल), \"parinam\" (परिणाम) or \"Shungam\" (शुङ्ग). Vedanta sub-schools have proposed and debated different causality theories.\n\nAll schools of Vedanta subscribe to the theory of \"Satkāryavāda\", which means that the effect is pre-existent in the cause. But there are different views on the causal relationship and the nature of the empirical world from the perspective of metaphysical Brahman. The \"Brahma Sutras\", the ancient Vedantins, most sub-schools of Vedanta, as well as Samkhya school of Hindu philosophy, support \"Parinamavada\", the idea that the world is a real transformation (\"parinama\") of Brahman.\n\nScholars disagree on the whether Adi Shankara and his Advaita Vedanta explained causality through \"vivarta\". According to Andrew Nicholson, instead of \"parinama-vada\", the competing causality theory is \"Vivartavada\", which says \"the world, is merely an unreal manifestation (\"vivarta\") of Brahman. Vivartavada states that although Brahman appears to undergo a transformation, in fact no real change takes place. The myriad of beings are unreal manifestation, as the only real being is Brahman, that ultimate reality which is unborn, unchanging, and entirely without parts\". The advocates of this illusive, unreal transformation based causality theory, states Nicholson, have been the Advaitins, the followers of Shankara. \"Although the world can be described as conventionally real\", adds Nicholson, \"the Advaitins claim that all of Brahman’s effects must ultimately be acknowledged as unreal before the individual self can be liberated\".\n\nHowever, other scholars such as Hajime Nakamura and Paul Hacker disagree. Hacker and others state that Adi Shankara did not advocate \"Vivartavada\", and his explanations are \"remote from any connotation of illusion\". According to these scholars, it was the 13th century scholar Prakasatman who gave a definition to \"Vivarta\", and it is Prakasatman's theory that is sometimes misunderstood as Adi Shankara's position. To Shankara, the word \"maya\" has hardly any terminological weight. Andrew Nicholson concurs with Hacker and other scholars, adding that the \"vivarta-vada\" isn't Shankara's theory, that Shankara's ideas appear closer to \"parinama-vada\", and the \"vivarta\" explanation likely emerged gradually in Advaita subschool later.\n\nAccording to Eliot Deutsch, Advaita Vedanta states that from \"the standpoint of Brahman-experience and Brahman itself, there is no creation\" in the absolute sense, all empirically observed creation is relative and mere transformation of one state into another, all states are provisional and a cause-effect driven modification.\n\nTwo sorts of causes are recognised:\nAdvaita states that effect () is non-different from cause (), but the cause is different from the effect:\n\nThis principle is called .\n\nWhen the cause is destroyed, the effect will no longer exist. For example, cotton cloth is the effect of the cotton threads, which is the material cause. Without threads there will be no cotton cloth. Without cotton there will be no thread.\n\nAccording to Swami Sivananda, in his comments on the 2.1.9, Adi Shankara describes this as follows:\n"}
{"id": "9728362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9728362", "title": "Charity (practice)", "text": "Charity (practice)\n\nThe practice of charity means the voluntary giving of help to those in need, as a humanitarian act.\n\nThe word \"charity\" originated in late Old English to mean a \"Christian love of one's fellows,\" and up until at least the beginning of the 20th century, this meaning remained synonymous with \"charity\". Aside from this original meaning, \"charity\" is etymologically linked to Christianity, with the word originally entering into the English language through the Old French word \"\"charité\", which was derived from the Latin \"caritas\", a word commonly used in the Vulgate New Testament to translate the Greek word \"agape\" (), a distinct form of \"love\"\" (see the article: Charity (virtue)).\n\nOver time, the meaning of \"charity\" has shifted from one of \"Christian love\" to that of \"providing for those in need; generosity and giving,\" a transition which began with the Old French word \"charité\". Thus, while the older Douay-Rheims and King James versions of the Bible translate instances of \"\"agape\" (such as those that appear in 1 Corinthians 13) as \"charity\", modern English versions of the Bible typically translate \"agape\" as \"love.\"\"\n\nCharitable giving is the act of giving money, goods or time to the unfortunate, either directly or by means of a charitable trust or other worthy cause. Charitable giving as a religious act or duty is referred to as almsgiving or alms. The name stems from the most obvious expression of the virtue of charity; giving the recipients of it the means they need to survive. The impoverished, particularly those widowed or orphaned, and the ailing or injured, are generally regarded as the proper recipients of charity. The people who cannot support themselves and lack outside means of support sometimes become \"beggars\", directly soliciting aid from strangers encountered in public.\n\nSome groups regard charity as being distributed towards other members from within their particular group. Although giving to those nearly connected to oneself is sometimes called charity—as in the saying \"Charity begins at home\"—normally charity denotes giving to those not related, with filial piety and like terms for supporting one's family and friends. Indeed, treating those related to the giver as if they were strangers in need of charity has led to the figure of speech \"as cold as charity\"—providing for one's relatives as if they were strangers, without affection.\n\nMost forms of charity are concerned with providing basic necessities such as food, water, clothing, healthcare and shelter, but other actions may be performed as charity: visiting the imprisoned or the homebound, ransoming captives, educating orphans, even social movements. Donations to causes that benefit the unfortunate indirectly, such as donations to fund cancer research, are also charity.\n\nWith regards to religious aspects, the recipient of charity may offer to pray for the benefactor. In medieval Europe, it was customary to feast the poor at the funeral in return for their prayers for the deceased. Institutions may commemorate benefactors by displaying their names, up to naming buildings or even the institution itself after the benefactors. If the recipient makes material return of more than a token value, the transaction is normally not called charity.\n\nIn the past century, many charitable organizations have created a \"charitable model\" in which donators give to conglomerates give to recipients. Examples of this include the Make a Wish Foundation (John Cena holds the title for most wishes granted by a single individual, with over 450 wishes) and the World Wildlife Fund. Today some charities have modernized, and allow people to donate online, through websites such as JustGiving. Originally charity entailed the benefactor directly giving the goods to the receiver. This practice was continued by some individuals, for example, \"CNN Hero\" Sal Dimiceli, and service organizations, such as the Jaycees. With the rise of more social peer-to-peer processes, many charities are moving away from the charitable model and starting to adopt this more direct donator to recipient approach. Examples of this include Global Giving (direct funding of community development projects in developing countries), DonorsChoose (for US-based projects), PureCharity, Kiva (funding loans administered by microfinance organizations in developing countries) and Zidisha (funding individual microfinance borrowers directly).\n\nInstitutions evolved to carry out the labor of assisting the poor, and these institutions, called charities, provide the bulk of charitable giving today, in terms of monetary value. These include orphanages, food banks, religious institutes dedicated to care of the poor, hospitals, organizations that visit the homebound and imprisoned, and many others. Such institutions allow those whose time or inclination does not lend themselves to directly care for the poor to enable others to do so, both by providing money for the work and supporting them while they do the work. Institutions can also attempt to more effectively sort out the actually needy from those who fraudulently claim charity. Early Christians particularly recommended the care of the unfortunate to the charge of the local bishop.\n\nThere have been examinations of who gives more to charity. One study conducted in the United States found that as a percentage of income, charitable giving increased as income decreased. The poorest fifth of Americans, for example, gave away 4.3% of their income, while the wealthiest fifth gave away 2.1%. In absolute terms, this was an average of $453 on an average income of $10,531, compared to $3,326 on an income of $158,388.\n\nCritics of charitable giving contend that simply transferring gifts or money to disadvantaged people has negative long-term effects. The online microlending organization Zidisha published a blog post which contended that providing handouts can actually cause harm by incentivizing lack of progress out of poverty, and by creating a dependence mentality among recipients. According to Zidisha, microfinance lending is a better alternative than donations, because it incentivizes successful investment of the funds and creates a can-do mentality on the part of recipients.\n\nA philosophical critique of charity can be found in Oscar Wilde's \"The Soul of Man\", where he calls it \"a ridiculously inadequate mode of partial restitution . . . usually accompanied by some impertinent attempt on the part of the sentimentalist to tyrannise over [the poor's] private lives\", as well as a remedy that prolongs the \"disease\" of poverty, rather than curing it.\nWilde's thoughts are cited with approval by Slavoj Žižek, and the Slovenian thinker adds his description of the effect of charity on the charitable:\n\nFriedrich Engels, in his 1845 treatise on the condition of the working class in England, points out that charitable giving, whether by governments or individuals, is often seen by the givers as a means to conceal suffering that is unpleasant to see. Engels quotes from a letter to the editor of an English newspaper who complains that\n\nThe English bourgeoisie, Engels concludes,\n\nThe Institute of Economic Affairs published a report in 2012 called \"Sock Puppets: How the government lobbies itself and why\", which criticised the phenomenon of governments funding charities which then lobby the government for changes which the government wanted all along.\n\nIn medieval Europe during the 12th and 13th centuries, Latin Christendom underwent a charitable revolution. Rich patrons founded many leprosaria and hospitals for the sick and poor. New confraternities and religious orders emerged with the primary mission of engaging in intensive charitable work. Historians debate the causes. Some argue that this movement was spurred by economic and material forces, as well as a burgeoning urban culture. Other scholars argue that developments in spirituality and devotional culture were central. For still other scholars, medieval charity was primarily a way to elevate one's social status and affirm existing hierarchies of power.\n\nIn Judaism, \"tzedakah\"—a Hebrew term literally meaning righteousness but commonly used to signify \"charity\"—refers to the religious obligation to do what is right and just. Because it is commanded by the Torah and not voluntary, the practice is not technically an act of charity; such a concept is virtually nonexistent in Jewish tradition. Jews give tzedakah, which can take the form of money, time and resources to the needy, out of \"righteousness\" and \"justice\" rather than benevolence, generosity, or charitableness. The Torah requires that 10 percent of a Jew's income be allotted to righteous deeds or causes, regardless if the receiving party is rich or poor.\n\nIn Islam there are two methods of charity.\n\nOne called Zakat, the other is called Sadaqa.\n\nZakat is one of the five pillars upon which the Muslim religion is based, where 2.5% of one's saving is compulsory to be given as Zakat per Islamic calendar year, provided that the saving is beyond the threshold limit, called Nisab, usually determined by the religious authority.\n\nSadaqa is voluntary charity or contribution. Sadaqa can be given using money, personal items, time or other resources. There is no minimum or maximum requirement for Sadaqa. Even smiling to other people is considered a Sadaqa.\n\nThe practice of charity is called \"Dāna\" or \"Daana\" in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. It is the virtue of generosity or giving. Dāna has been defined in traditional texts, state Krishnan and Manoj, as “any action of relinquishing the ownership of what one considered or identified as one's own, and investing the same in a recipient without expecting anything in return”. Karna, Mahabali and Harishchandra are heroes also known for giving charity.\n\nThe earliest known discussion of charity as a virtuous practice, in Indian texts, is in Rigveda. According to other ancient texts of Hinduism, dāna can take the form of feeding or giving to an individual in distress or need. It can also take the form of philanthropic public projects that empower and help many.\n\nDāna leads to one of the perfections (\"pāramitā\"). This can be characterized by unattached and unconditional generosity, giving and letting go.\n\nHistorical records, such as those by the Persian historian Abū Rayḥān al-Bīrūnī who visited India in early 11th century, suggest \"dāna\" has been an ancient and medieval era practice among Indian religions.\n\n"}
{"id": "3437474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3437474", "title": "Clausula rebus sic stantibus", "text": "Clausula rebus sic stantibus\n\nClausula rebus sic stantibus (Latin for \"things thus standing\"), in public international law, is the legal doctrine allowing for a treaty to become inapplicable because of a fundamental change of circumstances. The doctrine is essentially an \"escape clause\" to the general rule of \"pacta sunt servanda\" (promises must be kept).\n\nBecause the doctrine is a risk to the security of treaties, as its scope is relatively unconfined, the conditions in which it may be invoked must be carefully noted.\n\nThe doctrine is part of customary international law but is also provided for in the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, under Article 62 (Fundamental Change of Circumstance). Although the doctrine is not mentioned by name, Article 62 provides the only justifications for its invocation: the circumstances that existed at the time of the conclusion of the treaty were indeed objectively essential to the obligations of treaty (sub-paragraph A), and the instance for the change of circumstances has had a radical effect on the obligations of the treaty (sub-paragraph B).\n\nIf the parties to a treaty had contemplated for the occurrence of the changed circumstances, the doctrine does not apply and the provision remains in effect. \"Clausula rebus sic stantibus\" relates to changed circumstances only if they had never been contemplated by the parties. That principle is clarified in the Fisheries Jurisdiction Case (\"United Kingdom v. Iceland\", 1973).\n\nAlthough it is clear that a fundamental change of circumstances might justify terminating or modifying a treaty, the unilateral denunciation of a treaty is prohibited. A party does not have the right to denounce a treaty unilaterally. (However, that has been debated.)\n\nA key figure in the formulation of \"clausula rebus sic stantibus\" was the Italian jurist Scipione Gentili (1563–1616), who is generally credited for coining the maxim \"omnis conventio intelligitur rebus sic stantibus\" ('every convention is understood with circumstances as they stand'). The Swiss legal expert Emer de Vattel (1714–1767) was the next key contributor. Vattel promoted the view that 'every body bound himself for the future only on the stipulation of the presence of the actual conditions' and so 'with a change of the condition also the relations originating from the situation would undergo a change'. During the 19th century, civil law came to reject the doctrine of \"clausula rebus sic standibus\", but Vattel's thinking continued to influence international law, not least because it helped reconcile 'the antagonism between the static nature of the law and the dynamism of international life'. While individual cases invoking the doctrine were much disputed, the doctrine itself was little questioned. Its provision in the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties established the doctrine firmly but not without dispute as 'a norm of international law'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "291789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291789", "title": "Command–query separation", "text": "Command–query separation\n\nCommand–query separation (CQS) is a principle of imperative computer programming. It was devised by Bertrand Meyer as part of his pioneering work on the Eiffel programming language.\n\nIt states that every method should either be a \"command\" that performs an action, or a \"query\" that returns data to the caller, but not both. In other words, \"Asking a question should not change the answer\". More formally, methods should return a value only if they are referentially transparent and hence possess no side effects.\n\nCommand–query separation is particularly well suited to a design by contract (DbC) methodology, in which the design of a program is expressed as assertions embedded in the source code, describing the state of the program at certain critical times. In DbC, assertions are considered design annotations – not program logic – and as such, their execution should not affect the program state. CQS is beneficial to DbC because any value-returning method (any query) can be called by any assertion without fear of modifying program state.\n\nIn theoretical terms, this establishes a measure of sanity, whereby one can reason about a program's state without simultaneously modifying that state. In practical terms, CQS allows all assertion checks to be bypassed in a working system to improve its performance without inadvertently modifying its behaviour. CQS may also prevent the occurrence of certain kinds of heisenbugs.\n\nEven beyond the connection with design by contract, CQS is considered by its adherents to have a simplifying effect on a program, making its states (via queries) and state changes (via commands) more comprehensible.\n\nCQS is well-suited to the object-oriented methodology, but can also be applied outside of object-oriented programming. Since the separation of side effects and return values is not inherently object-oriented, CQS can be profitably applied to any programming paradigm that requires reasoning about side effects.\n\nCommand query responsibility segregation (CQRS) applies the CQS principle by using separate \"Query\" and \"Command\" objects to \"retrieve\" and \"modify\" data, respectively.\n\nCQS can make it more difficult to implement reentrant and multithreaded software correctly. This usually occurs when a non-thread-safe pattern is used to implement the command–query separation.\n\nHere is a simple example of a pattern that breaks CQS principles but is useful for multi-threaded software. It breaks CQS principles because the function both mutates state and returns it:\nHere is a CQS-compliant pattern. However, it is safely usable only in single-threaded applications. In a multithreaded program, there is a race condition in the caller, between where codice_1 and codice_2 would be called:\nEven in single-threaded programs, it is sometimes arguably significantly more convenient to have a method that is a combined query and command. Martin Fowler cites the codice_3 method of a stack as an example.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50014409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50014409", "title": "Committee for Civil Liberties and Legal Aid", "text": "Committee for Civil Liberties and Legal Aid\n\nCommittee for Civil Liberties and Legal Aid in short Civil Liberties Committee was a forum in Bangladesh formed by the members of civil society to restore the civil liberties and provide legal aid to the dissenting population of the country who were the victims of Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini. Headed by eminent poet Sikandar Abu Zafar, the committee consisted a total of 33 members.\n\nThe forum was floated on 31 March 1974 through a press briefing at the National Press Club of capital city Dhaka. The committee was highly critical to the government and many of its member were either arrested of were compelled to go underground.\n\nAfter the Liberation War of Bangladesh, Awami League formed the government ignoring the call from most of the political parties to form a government of national consensus. Soon after consolidating power, Awami League government established a new paramilitary force Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini in March 1972 which was blamed for crushing anti-government protests brutally and getting engaged in deadly confrontations with the opposition parties.\n\nBy 1973, according to President of Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal Major M. A. Jalil, the number of politically motivated murders reached 2000. Among the prominent politicians Jasad Vice-President Mosharraf Hossain, Jasad supported Krishak League leader Siddiq Master, Manikganj Jasad Joint Secretary Sadat Hossain Badal, Jahangirnagar University Central Students' Union general secretary Borhanuddin Rokon were killed.\n\nA 18-years-old boy Shahjahan Sharif from Naria upazila of Faridpur went missing from the Rakkhi Bahini custody in January 1974.\n\nThe disappearance of Shahjahan made his family to move to court and filed a case against Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini. Justice Debesh Chandra Battacharya after hearing both the parties in his historical verdict said that,\n\nIn February 1974, the parliament passed Special Power Act 1974 to make provisions for preventive detentions.\n\nSection 3 of the Special Power Act provided for preventive detentions. A person was to be detained if the Government was satisfied that it was necessary to do so.\n\n\"See More 1974 Ramna massacre\"\n\nJasad called for a meeting to protest the authoritarian rule of the Government on 17 March 1974. The meeting was followed by a march to surround the resident of Home Minister Muhammad Mansur Ali after the rally which subsequently went violent.\n\nThe incident claimed at least fifty lives when the Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini was called on and eventually opened fire targeting the protesters.\n\nThousands of cases were filed against Jasad politicians. A. S. M. Abdur Rab, Shajahan Siraj and almost all the bigwigs of the party landed in jail. Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini started a drive to hunt down all the supporters of Jasad after that. Police and Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini personnel raided the office of \"Ganakantha\" and arrested the editor, Al Mahmud.\n\nThe committee was formed with 33 members of civil society. They were from different background that included teachers, engineers, lawyers, doctors, writers, poets and journalists.\n\nThe first meeting of the committee was held at the National Press Club in Dhaka on 31 March 1974 and was presided over by Professor Ahmed Sharif.\n\nThe prominent figures of the committee are:\n\nThe committee came under the same umbrella on some demands:\n\n\nThe committee was vocal against the repression of the government and the offences of the government forces. Several meetings and dialogues were held under the banner of the committee.\n\nOne of the most discussed event of the committee was a large public meeting which was held in front of national mosque Baitul Muqarram in Dhaka to express solidarity with the suffering people. The committee held the Awami League responsible for the Bangladesh famine of 1974.\n\nVeteran journalist and a member of the committee, A.Z.M. Enayetullah Khan, was highly critical to the government excesses in handling of the opposition parties and dissenting groups and wrote a series of editorials against the government. He was subsequently arrested for his articles. General Secretary of the committee Moudud Ahmed was also arrested for being critical to the government and providing legal aid to the victims of government agencies. \n\nAhmed Sofa was chased by Bangabandhu's son Sheikh Kamal in New Market area of Dhaka for criticising the government. He later went into hiding at Comilla BARD.\n\n"}
{"id": "17756541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17756541", "title": "DAD–SAS model", "text": "DAD–SAS model\n\nThe DAD–SAS model is a macroeconomic model based on the AD-AS model but that looks at the different incomes at different inflation levels.\n\nThe DAD (Dynamic aggregate demand) curve is in the long run a horizontal line called the EAD (Equilibrium aggregate Demand) curve.\nThe short run DAD curve at flexible exchange rates is given by the equation:\n\nformula_1\n\nThe short run DAD curve at fixed exchange rates is given by the equation:\n\nformula_2\n\nThe SAS (Surprise aggregate supply) curve is in the long run a vertical line called the EAS (Equilibrium aggregate Supply) curve.\nThe short run SAS curve is given by the equation:\n\nformula_3\n"}
{"id": "1266360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1266360", "title": "Diederich Franz Leonhard von Schlechtendal", "text": "Diederich Franz Leonhard von Schlechtendal\n\nDiederich Franz Leonhard von Schlechtendal (27 November 1794, Xanten – 12 October 1866, Halle) was a German botanist.\n\nHe studied in Berlin, in 1819 becoming curator of the Royal Herbarium. He was a professor of botany and director of the Botanical Gardens at the Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg from 1833 until his death in 1866.\n\nThe genus \"Schlechtendalia\" (Asteraceae), from Brazil, Uruguay and Argentina, was named in his honor.\n\nHe was editor of the botanical journal \"Linnaea\" (from 1826), and with Hugo von Mohl (1805-1872), was publisher of the \"Botanischen Zeitung\" (from 1843).\n\nHe conducted important investigations of the then largely unknown flora of Mexico, carried out in conjunction with Adelbert von Chamisso (1781-1838), and based on specimens collected by Christian Julius Wilhelm Schiede (1798-1836) and Ferdinand Deppe (1794-1861).\n\nSchlechtendal was a critic of Darwinism but accepted a limited form of evolution. He advocated a form common descent of \"some groups of very similar species, which also inhabit a limited area\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10638474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10638474", "title": "Disorders of sex development", "text": "Disorders of sex development\n\nDisorders of sex development (DSD), sometimes referred to as disorders of sex differentiation or differences of sex development, are medical conditions involving the reproductive system. More specifically, these terms refer to \"congenital conditions in which development of chromosomal, gonadal, or anatomical sex is atypical.\"\n\nThe term has been controversial, and research has shown that affected people experience a negative impact, with the terminology impacting choice and utilization of health care providers. The World Health Organization and many medical journals still reference DSDs as intersex traits or conditions. The Council of Europe, and Inter-American Commission on Human Rights have called for a review of medical classifications that unnecessarily medicalize intersex traits.\n\nDSDs are medical conditions involving the way the reproductive system develops from infancy (and before birth) through young adulthood. There are several types of DSDs and their effect on the external and internal reproductive organs varies greatly.\n\nA frequently-used social and medical adjective for people with DSDs is \"intersex\". Parents with DSD children and clinicians involved in DSD treatment usually try to make clear distinctions between biological sex, social gender, and sexual orientation. This helps reduce confusion about the differences between being intersex, being transgender, and being gay/lesbian.\n\nThe most common DSD is congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), which results in a person with female (XX) chromosomes having genitals that look somewhat masculine. In mild cases, CAH results in a slightly enlarged clitoris, while in more severe cases it can be difficult to decide on observation whether a baby is male or female (ambiguous genitalia). CAH is caused by a problem with the adrenal glands and is usually treated by taking a daily medication to replace or supplement the missing adrenal hormones. (When this adrenal problem occurs in people with male (XY) chromosomes, the result is over-masculinization and premature puberty).\n\nAnother common DSD is androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS),also known as testicular feminising syndrome in which a person with male (XY) chromosomes does not respond to testosterone in the usual way. This results in a body that to some degree has a feminine appearance. In complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (CAIS) the result is a totally feminine appearance, including typical female breast development. Consequently, most young women with CAIS are unaware of their condition until the early teen years when they fail to menstruate. In the milder form, called partial androgen insensitivity syndrome (PAIS), the genitals can vary from mostly female to almost completely male. Some people with PAIS think of themselves as women or girls, others regard themselves as men or boys, and some consider themselves nonbinary.\n\nOne of the more uncommon DSDs is 5-alpha-reductase deficiency (5ARD). It is caused by a shortage early in life of an enzyme that converts testosterone into DHT. DHT is required for the development of extrenal male genitilia. Therefore,In this condition, a person with male (XY) chromosomes has a body that appears female before puberty. After puberty begins, other testosterone-activating enzymes become available and the body soon takes on a masculine appearance, with the scrotum and penis usually reaching typical or nearly-typical size. If 5ARD is diagnosed at a young age, the child is often raised as a boy (a 1996 Brazilian study suggested that the majority of adults with this condition consider themselves men but this has been questioned in some more recent research).\n\nIn addition to CAH, CAIS, PAIS, and 5ARD there are several rarer types of DSDs, and in some cases, it is not possible to make a clear diagnosis of the underlying condition.\nThe penis (males) and clitoris (females) are essentially the same organ (differing only in size, and generically called the phallus). In typical males, the urethra is located at the tip of the penis, while in typical females the urethra is located below the base of the clitoris. When the phallus is of intermediate size, it is possible also to have a urethral opening located along the shaft; this condition is known as hypospadias which helps us raise a suspicion of DSD.\n\nOpen-minded parenting, appropriate and conservative medical intervention, and age-appropriate child involvement in the treatment plan contribute greatly to successful outcomes for the entire range of DSDs.\n\n\nThe term DSD (and particularly its association with medical \"disorders\") has been controversial. The argument over terminology reflects a deeper disagreement over the extent to which intersex conditions require medical intervention, the appropriateness of certain interventions, and whether physicians and parents should make irreversible treatment decisions on behalf of young children if the condition is not life-threatening.\n\n\nThe 2006 \"Consensus statement on management of intersex disorders\" stated that evidence for early surgery for cosmetic reasons is lacking, outcomes include \"decreased sexual sensitivity\" and long term outcome data is absent. A 2016 \"Global Disorders of Sex Development Update since 2006\" states that there is \"still no consensual attitude regarding indications, timing, procedure and evaluation of outcome of DSD surgery\" and \"no evidence regarding the impact of surgically treated or non-treated DSDs during childhood for the individual, the parents, society or the risk of stigmatization\".\n\nIn 2013, Juan E. Méndez, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, condemned \"irreversible sex assignment, involuntary sterilization, involuntary genital normalizing surgery, performed without their informed consent, or that of their parents, “in an attempt to fix their sex”\" stating that \"members of sexual minorities are disproportionately subjected to torture and other forms of ill-treatment because they fail to conform to socially constructed gender expectations\".\n\nIn May 2014, the World Health Organization issued a joint statement on \"Eliminating forced, coercive and otherwise involuntary sterilization, An interagency statement\" with the OHCHR, UN Women, UNAIDS, UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF. Referencing the involuntary surgical \"sex-normalising or other procedures\" on \"intersex persons\", the report recommends a range of guiding principles for medical treatment, including ensuring patient autonomy in decision-making, ensuring non-discrimination, accountability and access to remedies.\n\nDuring 2015, the Council of Europe, and Inter-American Commission on Human Rights called for a review of medical classifications that unnecessarily medicalize intersex traits an end to medical interventions without consent, and improved disclosure. The Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner recommended:\nThe European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights and UN Treaty Bodies have called for informed consent by individuals subjected to medical treatment, improved disclosure, and access to redress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44876012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44876012", "title": "Dvadasanta", "text": "Dvadasanta\n\nDvādaśānta (Sanskrit: द्वादशान्त) or the \"Brahmarandhra\", meaning – having an end or limit of twelve, it is the \"twelve fingers’ breath\", the 12th centre (or \"śakti\" in an individual) identified by some with the pituitary gland, there being six centers in the brain and six below the brain. This term refers to – a) externally to the place where the breath dies away, b) internally to the crown of the skull and known as \"brahmarandhra\", and c) above the skull to the \"dvādaśānta\" which is twelve fingers breadth away from the \"brahmarandhra\", and when no longer identified with the body but with the all-pervading Shiva it is the Cosmic \"dvādaśānta\", a wheel with a thousand spokes, eternally present. \"Dvādaśānta\" is like the \"triśūla\" signifying three kinds of energy – of the will, of knowledge and of activity. The initial extremity (\"ādi-koti\") is the heart (whence the breath rises) but the final extremity (\"anta-koti\") is the \"dvādaśānta\" (where the breath finally dies away or rests).\n\nAbhinavagupta tells us that Shiva makes the sādhaka seek a worthy teacher and makes that teacher take up that task with extra responsibility and lead his śiśya towards liberation. The \"ānavopāya\" ('atomic') method utilises the creative functions of Shiva and raises the \"sādhaka\" to \"śaktopāya\" ('method of power') that employs the cognitive functions of the Lord. In this and other two succeeding methods mantra transmitted by the teacher to the \"śiśya\" plays a vital role. According to the \"Devyā-yāmala- tantra\", the subtle breath composed of sound rising from the former’s heart moves through a series of centers to rest in the \"dvādaśānta\" which is the terminal point where the suśumnā ends and the central pathway of the three paths. Vijñānabhirava (Dhāraṇā 28 shloka 51) states:-\nwhich statement means that the \"ānavopāya\" involves fixation of the mind again and again at \"ūrdhava dvādaśānta\" or \"bāhya dvādaśānta\" or \"āntara dvādaśānta\" which is the incomparable and ineffable state of Bhairava (an aspect of Shiva). This text had earlier in \"shloka\" 28 explained that meditation on \"prāṇaśakti\" arising from the \"mūladhārā chakra\" getting subtler and subtler dissolves in \"dvādaśānta\" to manifest Bhairava.\n\nWhen the \"apāna\" remains in the \"dvādaśānta\", it is known as the external \"kumbhaka\" (retention of breath as in a pot). When the \" prāṇa \" moves up to the nose-tip it is known as \"recaka\" and when it moves up to the extent of the \"dvādaśānta\" it is called \"external-recaka\". The \"apāna\" moving inwards without the \"prāṇa\" is the \"internal-kumbhaka\", and the \"apāna\" rising in the \"dvādaśānta\" attaining internal expansion is the \"internal-pūraka\". According to Yoga Vasiśtha, the one who knows (experienced) these \"kumbhakas\" becomes liberated from the cycle of birth and rebirth; \"dvādśānta\" represents the highest seat of God in the body, the seat of the vibrating Self.\n"}
{"id": "355720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355720", "title": "E. Haldeman-Julius", "text": "E. Haldeman-Julius\n\nEmanuel Haldeman-Julius (\"né\" Emanuel Julius) (July 30, 1889 – July 31, 1951) was a Jewish-American socialist writer, atheist thinker, social reformer and publisher. He is best remembered as the head of Haldeman-Julius Publications, the creator of a series of pamphlets known as \"Little Blue Books,\" total sales of which ran into the hundreds of millions of copies.\n\nEmanuel Julius was born July 30, 1889, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the son of David Julius (\"né\" Zolajefsky), a bookbinder. His parents were Jewish emigrants who fled Odessa (then part of the Russian Empire) and emigrated to America to escape religious persecution. His paternal and maternal grandfathers had both been rabbis but his own parents were not religious. \"[T]hey were indifferent, for which I thank them.\"\n\nAs a boy, Emanuel read voraciously. Literature and pamphlets produced by the socialists were inexpensive; Julius read them and was convinced by their arguments. As he put it in 1913, \"Only four years ago, I was a factory hand — slaving away in a textile mill in Philadelphia. I came upon the philosophy of Socialism and it put a new spirit into me. It lifted me out of the depths and pointed the way to something higher. I commenced to crave for expression. I felt that I have something to say. So, I scribbled things down. And, to my surprise, Socialist editors gave me a little encouragement.\" He joined the Socialist Party before World War I and was the party's 1932 Senatorial candidate for the state of Kansas.\n\nAfter working for various newspapers, Julius rose to particular prominence as an editor (1915-1922) of the \"Appeal to Reason\", a socialist newspaper with a large but declining national circulation. He and his first wife, Marcet Haldeman (whose last name he adopted in hyphenate), purchased the \"Appeal\"'s printing operation in Girard, Kansas and began printing 3.5\" x 5\" pocket books on cheap pulp paper (similar to that used in pulp magazines), stapled in paper cover. These were first were called \"The Appeal's Pocket Series\" and sold in 1919 for 25 cents. The covers were either red or yellow. Over the next several years Haldeman-Julius changed the name successively to \"The People's Pocket Series\", \"Appeal Pocket Series\", \"Ten Cent Pocket Series\", \"Five Cent Pocket Series\", \"Pocket Series\" and finally in 1923, \"Little Blue Books\". The five cent price of the books remained in place for many years. Many titles of classic literature were given lurid titles in order to increase sales. Eventually, millions of copies per year were sold in the late 1920s.\n\nIn 1922 they renamed the \"Appeal\" as \"The Haldeman-Julius Weekly\" (known from 1929 to 1951 as \"The American Freeman\"), which became the house organ. In 1924 they launched \"The Haldeman-Julius Monthly\" (later renamed \"The Debunker\"), which had a greater emphasis on Freethought, and in 1932 added \"The Militant Atheist\", among other journals.\n\nThe novelist Louis L’Amour (1908-1988) described the Haldeman-Julius publications in his autobiography and their potential influence:\nRiding a freight train out of El Paso, I had my first contact with the Little Blue Books. Another hobo was reading one, and when he finished he gave it to me. The Little Blue Books were a godsend to wandering men and no doubt to many others. Published in Girard, Kansas, by Haldeman-Julius, they were slightly larger than a playing card and had sky-blue paper covers with heavy black print titles. I believe there were something more than three thousand titles in all and they were sold on newsstands for 5 or 10 cents each. Often in the years following, I carried ten or fifteen of them in my pockets, reading when I could.\n\nAmong the books available were the plays of Shakespeare, collections of short stories by De Maupassant, Poe, Jack London, Gogol, Gorky, Kipling, Gautier, Henry James, and Balzac. There were collections of essays by Voltaire, Emerson, and Charles Lamb, among others. There were books on the history of music and architecture, painting, the principles of electricity; and, generally speaking, the books offered a wide range of literature and ideas. […] In subsequent years I read several hundred of the Little Blue Books, including books by Tom Paine, Charles Darwin, and Thomas Huxley.\n\nThe couple had two children: Alice Haldeman-Julius Deloach (1917–1991) and Henry Haldeman-Julius (1919–1990; he later changed his name to Henry Julius Haldeman). They adopted Josephine Haldeman-Julius Roselle (b. 1910). Marcet and Emanuel legally separated in 1933. Marcet died in 1941, and a year later Haldeman-Julius married Susan Haney, an employee.\n\nIn 1948 the FBI targeted and questioned Haldeman-Julius after his publication of \"The FBI - The Basis of an American Police State: The Alarming Methods of J. Edgar Hoover.\" In June 1951 Haldeman-Julius was found guilty of income tax evasion by a Federal grand jury and sentenced to six months in Federal prison and fined $12,500. The next month he drowned in his swimming pool. His son Henry took over his father's publishing efforts, and the books continued to be sold until the printing house burned down on July 4, 1978.\n\nHaldeman-Julius's papers are held at Pittsburg State University in Pittsburg, Kansas, a few miles from Girard in the southeastern corner of the state, as well as at the University of Illinois at Chicago, Indiana University and California State at Northridge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48614102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48614102", "title": "Fillet (redaction)", "text": "Fillet (redaction)\n\nTo fillet in the sense of literary editing is a form of censorship or redaction effected by \"cutting out\" central letters of a word or name, as if the skeleton of a fish, and replacing them with dashes, to prevent full disclosure (e.g. ' for \"William Pitt\"). It was frequently practiced in publications of the 18th century in England. Its purpose was to inform interested readers in an obfuscated manner whilst at the same time avoiding the risk of being sued for illegal publication or defamation or libel by the overt naming of persons as having committed certain acts or spoken certain words. It was used for example in parliamentary reports published in \"The Gentleman's Magazine\" from 1738 onwards under the title of the \"Debates in the Senate of Magna Lilliputia\" in which in order to circumvent the prohibition of the publication of parliamentary debates of the English Parliament the real names of the various orators were filleted or replaced by pseudonyms or anagrams; for example, Sir Robert Walpole was thinly disguised as '.\n\nIt was often performed not to avoid legal action but merely to show deference to the privacy of some great personage, or not to offend his imputed sense of modesty by naming him as the author of some great or worthy deed or act.\n"}
{"id": "221319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221319", "title": "Fundamental attribution error", "text": "Fundamental attribution error\n\nIn social psychology, fundamental attribution error (FAE), also known as correspondence bias or attribution effect, is the concept that, in contrast to interpretations of their own behavior, people tend to (unduly) emphasize the agent's internal characteristics (character or intention), rather than external factors, in explaining other people's behavior. This effect has been described as \"the tendency to believe that what people do reflects who they are\".\n\nThe phrase was coined by Lee Ross some years after a classic experiment by Edward E. Jones and Victor Harris (1967). Ross argued in a popular paper that the fundamental attribution error forms the conceptual bedrock for the field of social psychology. Jones wrote that he found Ross' phrase \"overly provocative and somewhat misleading\", and also joked: \"Furthermore, I'm angry that I didn't think of it first.\" Some psychologists, including Daniel Gilbert, have used the phrase \"correspondence bias\" for the fundamental attribution error. Other psychologists have argued that the fundamental attribution error and correspondence bias are related but independent phenomena, with the former being a common explanation for the latter.\n\nAs a simple example of the behavior attribution error theory seeks to explain, consider the situation where Alice, a driver, is cut off in traffic by Bob. Alice attributes Bob's behavior to his fundamental personality, e.g. he thinks only of himself, he is selfish, he is a jerk, he is an unskilled driver; she does not think it is situational, e.g. he is going to miss his flight, his wife is giving birth at the hospital, his daughter is convulsing at school. Consider too the situation where Alice makes the same mistake and excuses herself by saying she was influenced by situational causes, e.g. I am late for my job interview, I must pick up my son for his dentist appointment; she does not think she has a flaw in her internal characteristics, e.g. I am such a jerk, I treat others in contempt, I am bad at driving.\n\nJones and Harris hypothesized, based on the correspondent inference theory, that people would attribute apparently freely chosen behaviors to disposition and apparently chance-directed behaviors to situation. The hypothesis was confounded by the fundamental attribution error.\n\nSubjects in an experiment read essays for and against Fidel Castro and were asked to rate the pro-Castro attitudes of the writers. When the subjects believed that the writers freely chose positions for or against Castro, they would normally rate the people who spoke in liking of Castro as having a more positive attitude towards Castro. However, contradicting Jones and Harris' initial hypothesis, when the subjects were told that the writers' positions were determined by a coin toss, they still rated writers who spoke in favor of Castro as having, on average, a more positive attitude towards Castro than those who spoke against him. In other words, the subjects were unable to properly see the influence of the situational constraints placed upon the writers; they could not refrain from attributing sincere belief to the writers. Therefore, the experimental group provided more internal attributions towards the writer.\n\nThe hypothesis that people tend to over-attribute behavior to traits, or at least do so for the behavior of others, has been contested. For instance Epstein and Teraspulsky tested whether subjects over-, under-, or correctly estimate the empirical correlation among behaviors. (These behavioral consistencies are what \"traits\" describe.) They found that estimates of correlations among behaviors correlated strongly with empirically observed correlations among these behaviors. Subjects were sensitive to even very small correlations, and their confidence in the association tracked how far they were discrepant (i.e., if they knew when they did not know), and was higher for the strongest relations. Subjects also showed awareness of the effect of aggregation over occasions and used reasonable strategies to arrive at decisions. Epstein concluded that \"Far from being inveterate trait believers, as has been previously suggested, [subjects'] intuitions paralleled psychometric principles in several important respects when assessing relations between real-life behaviors.\"\n\nWhile described as \"robust, firmly established, and pervasive\", meta-analysis of the 173 qualified studies of the actor-observer asymmetry available by 2005 established, surprisingly, an effect size of near zero. These analyses allowed a systematic review of where, if at all, the effect holds. These analyses showed that the asymmetry was found only when 1. the other person was portrayed as being very unusual, 2. when hypothetical (rather than real) events were explained, 3. when people were intimate (knew each other well), or 4. when researcher-degrees of freedom were high. It appeared that in these circumstances two asymmetries were observed: negative events were asymmetrically attributed to traits in others, but the reverse held for positive events, supporting a self-serving bias rather than an actor–observer asymmetry.\n\nSeveral theories predict the fundamental attribution error, and thus both compete to explain it, and can be falsified if it does not occur. Leading examples include:\n\nThe fundamental attribution error is commonly used interchangeably with \"correspondence bias\" (sometimes called \"correspondence inference\", although this phrase refers to a judgment which does not necessarily constitute a bias, which arises when the inference drawn is incorrect, e.g. dispositional inference when the actual cause is situational). However, there has been debate about whether the two terms should be distinguished from each other. Three main differences between these two judgmental processes have been argued:\n\nBased on the preceding differences between causal attribution and correspondence inference, some researchers argue that the fundamental attribution error should be considered as the tendency to make dispositional rather than situational explanations for behavior, whereas the correspondence bias should be considered as the tendency to draw correspondent dispositional inferences from behavior. With such distinct definitions between the two, some cross-cultural studies also found that cultural differences of correspondence bias are not equivalent to those of fundamental attribution error. While the latter has been found to be more prevalent in individualistic cultures than collectivistic cultures, correspondence bias occurs across cultures, suggesting differences between the two phrases.\n\nThe effect's existence has been challenged by a 2006 meta-analysis, whose findings suggest that the effect may only hold under limited conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "176060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176060", "title": "German Romanticism", "text": "German Romanticism\n\nGerman Romanticism was the dominant intellectual movement of German-speaking countries in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, influencing philosophy, aesthetics, literature and criticism. Compared to English Romanticism, the German variety developed relatively late, and, in the early years, coincided with Weimar Classicism (1772–1805). In contrast to the seriousness of English Romanticism, the German variety of Romanticism notably valued wit, humour, and beauty.\n\nThe early period, roughly 1797 to 1802, is referred to as \"Frühromantik\" or Jena Romanticism. The philosophers and writers central to the movement were Wilhelm Heinrich Wackenroder (1773–1798), Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling (1775–1854), Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768–1834), Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel (1772–1829), August Wilhelm Schlegel (1767–1845), Ludwig Tieck (1773–1853), and Friedrich von Hardenberg (Novalis) (1772–1801). \n\nThe early German romantics strove to create a new synthesis of art, philosophy, and science, by viewing the Middle Ages as a simpler period of integrated culture; however, the German romantics became aware of the tenuousness of the cultural unity they sought. Late-stage German Romanticism emphasized the tension between the daily world and the irrational and supernatural projections of creative genius. In particular, the critic Heinrich Heine criticized the tendency of the early German romantics to look to the medieval past for a model of unity in art and society.\n\nKey figures of German romanticism include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "237536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237536", "title": "Information privacy", "text": "Information privacy\n\nInformation privacy, also known as data privacy or data protection, is the relationship between the collection and dissemination of data, technology, the public expectation of privacy, legal and political issues surrounding them.\n\nPrivacy concerns exist wherever personally identifiable information or other sensitive information is collected, stored, used, and finally destroyed or deleted – in digital form or otherwise. Improper or non-existent disclosure control can be the root cause for privacy issues. Data privacy issues may arise in response to information from a wide range of sources, such as:\n\nThe challenge of data privacy is to utilize data while protecting an individual's privacy preferences and their personally identifiable information. The fields of computer security, data security, and information security design and utilize software, hardware, and human resources to address this issue. Since the laws and regulations related to Privacy and Data Protection are constantly changing, it is important to keep abreast of any changes in the law and to continually reassess compliance with data privacy and security regulations. Within academia, Institutional Review Boards function to assure that adequate measures are taken to ensure both the privacy and confidentiality of human subjects in research.\n\nVarious types of personal information often come under privacy concerns.\n\nThe ability to control the information one reveals about oneself over the internet, and who can access that information, has become a growing concern. These concerns include whether email can be stored or read by third parties without consent, or whether third parties can continue to track the websites that someone has visited. Another concern is if the websites that are visited can collect, store, and possibly share personally identifiable information about users.\n\nThe advent of various search engines and the use of data mining created a capability for data about individuals to be collected and combined from a wide variety of sources very easily. The FTC has provided a set of guidelines that represent widely accepted concepts concerning fair information practices in an electronic marketplace called the Fair Information Practice Principles.\n\nIn order not to give away too much personal information, emails should be encrypted. Browsing of web pages as well as other online activities should be done trace-less via \"anonymizers\", in case those are not trusted, by open-source distributed anonymizers, so called mix nets, such as I2P or Tor – The Onion Router.\n\nEmail isn't the only internet content with privacy concerns. In an age where increasing amounts of information are going online, social networking sites pose additional privacy challenges. People may be tagged in photos or have valuable information exposed about themselves either by choice or unexpectedly by others. Caution should be exercised with what information is being posted, as social networks vary in what they allow users to make private and what remains publicly accessible. Without strong security settings in place and careful attention to what remains public, a person can be profiled by searching for and collecting disparate pieces of information, worst case leading to cases of cyberstalking or reputational damage.\n\nThis describes the ability to control what information one reveals about oneself over cable television, and who can access that information. For example, third parties can track IP TV programs someone has watched at any given time. \"The addition of any information in a broadcasting stream is not required for an audience rating survey, additional devices are not requested to be installed in the houses of viewers or listeners, and without the necessity of their cooperations, audience ratings can be automatically performed in real-time.\"\n\nPeople may not wish for their medical records to be revealed to others. This may be because they have concern that it might affect their insurance coverages or employment. Or, it may be because they would not wish for others to know about any medical or psychological conditions or treatments that would bring embarrassment upon themselves. Revealing medical data could also reveal other details about one's personal life. There are three major categories of medical privacy: informational (the degree of control over personal information), physical (the degree of physical inaccessibility to others), and psychological (the extent to which the doctor respects patients’ cultural beliefs, inner thoughts, values, feelings, and religious practices and allows them to make personal decisions).\nPhysicians and psychiatrists in many cultures and countries have standards for doctor-patient relationships, which include maintaining confidentiality. In some cases, the physician-patient privilege is legally protected. These practices are in place to protect the dignity of patients, and to ensure that patients will feel free to reveal complete and accurate information required for them to receive the correct treatment.\nTo view the United States' laws on governing privacy of private health information, see HIPAA and the HITECH Act.\n\nInformation about a person's financial transactions, including the amount of assets, positions held in stocks or funds, outstanding debts, and purchases can be sensitive. If criminals gain access to information such as a person's accounts or credit card numbers, that person could become the victim of fraud or identity theft. Information about a person's purchases can reveal a great deal about that person's history, such as places he/she has visited, whom he/she has contacted with, products he/she has used, his/her activities and habits, or medications he/she has used. In some cases, corporations may use this information to target individuals with marketing customized towards those individual's personal preferences, which that person may or may not approve.\n\nAs location tracking capabilities of mobile devices are advancing (location-based services), problems related to user privacy arise. Location data is among the most sensitive data currently being collected. A list of potentially sensitive professional and personal information that could be inferred about an individual knowing only his mobility trace was published recently by the Electronic Frontier Foundation. These include the movements of a competitor sales force, attendance of a particular church or an individual's presence in a motel, or at an abortion clinic. A recent MIT study by de Montjoye et al. showed that four spatio-temporal points, approximate places and times, are enough to uniquely identify 95% of 1.5 million people in a mobility database. The study further shows that these constraints hold even when the resolution of the dataset is low. Therefore, even coarse or blurred datasets provide little anonymity.\n\nPolitical privacy has been a concern since voting systems emerged in ancient times. The secret ballot is the simplest and most widespread measure to ensure that political views are not known to anyone other than the voters themselves—it is nearly universal in modern democracy, and considered to be a basic right of citizenship. In fact, even where other rights of privacy do not exist, this type of privacy very often does.\n\nIn the United Kingdom in 2012, the Education Secretary Michael Gove described the National Pupil Database as a \"rich dataset\" whose value could be \"maximised\" by making it more openly accessible, including to private companies. Kelly Fiveash of \"The Register\" said that this could mean \"a child's school life including exam results, attendance, teacher assessments and even characteristics\" could be available, with third-party organizations being responsible for anonymizing any publications themselves, rather than the data being anonymized by the government before being handed over. An example of a data request that Gove indicated had been rejected in the past, but might be possible under an improved version of privacy regulations, was for \"analysis on sexual exploitation\".\n\nThe legal protection of the right to privacy in general – and of data privacy in particular – varies greatly around the world.\n\nThe United States Department of Commerce created the International Safe Harbor Privacy Principles certification program in response to the 1995 Directive on Data Protection (Directive 95/46/EC) of the European Commission. Directive 95/46/EC declares in Chapter IV Article 25 that personal data may only be transferred from the countries in the European Economic Area to countries which provide adequate privacy protection. Historically, establishing adequacy required the creation of national laws broadly equivalent to those implemented by Directive 95/46/EU. Although there are exceptions to this blanket prohibition – for example where the disclosure to a country outside the EEA is made with the consent of the relevant individual (Article 26(1)(a)) – they are limited in practical scope. As a result, Article 25 created a legal risk to organisations which transfer personal data from Europe to the United States.\n\nThe program regulates the exchange of passenger name record information between the EU and the US. According to the EU directive, personal data may only be transferred to third countries if that country provides an adequate level of protection. Some exceptions to this rule are provided, for instance when the controller himself can guarantee that the recipient will comply with the data protection rules.\n\nThe European Commission has set up the \"Working party on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data,\" commonly known as the \"Article 29 Working Party\". The Working Party gives advice about the level of protection in the European Union and third countries.\n\nThe Working Party negotiated with U.S. representatives about the protection of personal data, the Safe Harbor Principles were the result. Notwithstanding that approval, the self-assessment approach of the Safe Harbor remains controversial with a number of European privacy regulators and commentators.\n\nThe Safe Harbor program addresses this issue in the following way: rather than a blanket law imposed on all organisations in the United States, a voluntary program is enforced by the FTC. U.S. organisations which register with this program, having self-assessed their compliance with a number of standards, are \"deemed adequate\" for the purposes of Article 25. Personal information can be sent to such organisations from the EEA without the sender being in breach of Article 25 or its EU national equivalents. The Safe Harbor was approved as providing adequate protection for personal data, for the purposes of Article 25(6), by the European Commission on 26 July 2000.\n\nUnder the Safe Harbor, adoptee organisations need to carefully consider their compliance with the \"onward transfer obligations\", where personal data originating in the EU is transferred to the US Safe Harbor, and then onward to a third country. The alternative compliance approach of \"binding corporate rules\", recommended by many EU privacy regulators, resolves this issue. In addition, any dispute arising in relation to the transfer of HR data to the US Safe Harbor must be heard by a panel of EU privacy regulators.\n\nIn July 2007, a new, controversial, Passenger Name Record agreement between the US and the EU was made. A short time afterwards, the Bush administration gave exemption for the Department of Homeland Security, for the Arrival and Departure Information System (ADIS) and for the Automated Target System from the 1974 Privacy Act.\n\nIn February 2008, Jonathan Faull, the head of the EU's Commission of Home Affairs, complained about the US bilateral policy concerning PNR. The US had signed in February 2008 a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Czech Republic in exchange of a visa waiver scheme, without concerting before with Brussels. The tensions between Washington and Brussels are mainly caused by a lesser level of data protection in the US, especially since foreigners do not benefit from the US Privacy Act of 1974. Other countries approached for bilateral MOU included the United Kingdom, Estonia, Germany and Greece.\n\nAs heterogeneous information systems with differing privacy rules are interconnected and information is shared, policy appliances will be required to reconcile, enforce, and monitor an increasing amount of privacy policy rules (and laws). There are two categories of technology to address privacy protection in commercial IT systems: communication and enforcement.\n\n\n\nOn the internet many users give away a lot of information about themselves: unencrypted e-mails can be read by the administrators of an e-mail server, if the connection is not encrypted (no HTTPS), and also the internet service provider and other parties sniffing the network traffic of that connection are able to know the contents.\nThe same applies to any kind of traffic generated on the Internet, including web browsing, instant messaging, and others.\nIn order not to give away too much personal information, e-mails can be encrypted and browsing of webpages as well as other online activities can be done traceless via anonymizers, or by open source distributed anonymizers, so-called mix networks.\nWell known open-source mix nets include I2P – The Anonymous Network and Tor.\n\nComputer privacy can be improved through individualization. Currently security messages are designed for the \"average user\", i.e. the same message for everyone. Researchers have posited that individualized messages and security \"nudges\", crafted based on users' individual differences and personality traits, can be used for further improvements for each person's compliance with computer security and privacy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8929321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8929321", "title": "Ishvarapranidhana", "text": "Ishvarapranidhana\n\nĪśvarapraṇidhāna \"commitment to the Īśvara (\"Lord\")\" is also one of five Niyama (ethical observances) in Hinduism and Yoga.\n\nĪśvarapraṇidhāna is a Sanskrit compound word composed of two words \"īśvara\" (ईश्वर) and \"praṇidhāna\" (प्रणिधान). \"Īśvara\" (sometimes spelled Īshvara) literally means \"owner of best, beautiful\", \"ruler of choices, blessings, boons\", or \"chief of suitor, lover\". Later religious literature in Sanskrit broadens the reference of this term to refer to God, the Absolute Brahman, True Self, or Unchanging Reality. \"Praṇidhāna\" is used to mean a range of senses including, \"laying on, fixing, applying, attention (paid to), meditation, desire, prayer.\" In a religious translation of Patanjali's Eight-Limbed Yoga, the word \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" means committing what one does to a Lord, who is elsewhere in the Yoga Sūtras defined as a special person (puruṣa) who is the first teacher (paramaguru) and is free of all hindrances and karma. In more secular terms, it means acceptance, teachability, relaxing expectations, adventurousness. \n\n\"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" is mentioned in the Yoga Sūtras of Patañjali as follows:\n\nSanskrit: <br>\n– Yoga Sutras I.23\n\nThis transliterates as, \"Śauca, Santoṣa, Tapas, Svādhyāya and Īśvarapraṇidhāna are the Niyamas\". This is the second limb in Patañjali's eight limb Yoga philosophy is called \"niyamas\" which include virtuous habits, behaviors and ethical observances (the \"dos\"). The Yoga Sutras of Patañjali use the term \"Īśvara\" in 11 verses: I.23 through I.29, II.1, II.2, II.32 and II.45. Patañjali defines \"Īśvara\" (Sanskrit: ईश्वर) in verse 24 of Book 1, as \"a special Self (पुरुषविशेष, \"puruṣa-viśeṣa\")\",\n\nSanskrit: <br>\n– Yoga Sutras I.24\n\nThis sutra of Yoga philosophy adds the characteristics of \"Īśvara\" as that special Self which is unaffected (अपरामृष्ट, \"aparamrsta\") by one's obstacles/hardships (क्लेश, \"klesha\"), one's circumstances created by past or one's current actions (कर्म, \"karma\"), one's life fruits (विपाक, \"vipâka\"), and one's psychological dispositions/intentions (आशय, ashaya).\n\nĪśvarapraṇidhāna is listed as the fifth niyama by Patañjali. In other forms of yoga, it is the tenth niyama. In Hinduism, the Niyamas are the \"do list\" and the Yamas are the \"don't do\" list, both part of an ethical theory for life.\n\nHindu scholars have debated and commented on who or what is \"Īśvara\". These commentaries range from defining Īśhvara from a \"personal god\" to \"special self\" to \"anything that has spiritual significance to the individual\". Ian Whicher explains that while Patañjali's terse verses can be interpreted both as theistic or non-theistic, Patañjali's concept of Īśvara in Yoga philosophy functions as a \"transformative catalyst or guide for aiding the yogin on the path to spiritual emancipation\". Desmarais states that Īśvara is a metaphysical concept in Yogasutras. \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" is investing, occupying the mind with this metaphysical concept. Yogasutra does not mention deity anywhere, nor does it mention any devotional practices (\"Bhakti\"), nor does it give Īśvara characteristics typically associated with a deity. In yoga sutras it is a logical construct, states Desmarais. \n\nIn verses I.27 and I.28, yogasutras associate Īśvara with the concept \"Pranava\" (प्रणव, ॐ) and recommends that it be repeated and contemplated in one of the limbs of eight step yoga. This is seen as a means to begin the process of dissociating from external world, connecting with one's inner world, focusing and getting one-minded in Yoga.\n\nWhicher states that Patañjali's concept of Īśvara is neither a creator God nor the universal Absolute of Advaita Vedanta school of Hinduism. Whicher also notes that some theistic sub-schools of Vedanta philosophy of Hinduism, inspired by the Yoga school, prefer to explain the term \"Īśvara\" as the \"Supreme Being that rules over the cosmos and the individuated beings\". However, in the Yoga Sūtras of Patañjali, and extensive literature of Yoga school of Hinduism, Īśvara is not a Supreme Ruler, Īśvara is not an ontological concept, rather it has been an abstract concept to meet the pedagogical needs for human beings accepting Yoga philosophy as a way of life.\n\n\"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" has been interpreted to mean the contemplation of a deity in some sub-schools of Hinduism. Zimmer in his 1951 Indian philosophies book noted that the Bhakti sub-schools, and its texts such as the Bhagavad Gita, refer to Isvara as a Divine Lord, or the deity of specific Bhakti sub-school. Modern sectarian movements have emphasized Ishvara as Supreme Lord; for example, Hare Krishna movement considers Krishna as the Lord, Arya Samaj and Brahmoism movements – influenced by Christian and Islamic movements in India – conceptualize Ishvara as a monotheistic all powerful Lord. In traditional theistic sub-schools of Hinduism, such as the Vishishtadvaita Vedanta of Ramanuja and Dvaita Vedanta of Madhva, Ishvara is identified as Lord Vishnu/Narayana, that is distinct from the \"Prakriti\" (material world) and \"Purusa\" (soul, spirit). In all these sub-schools, \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" is the contemplation of the respective deity.\n\nRadhakrishnan and Moore state that these variations in Īśvara concept is consistent with Hinduism's notion of \"personal God\" where the \"ideals or manifestation of individual's highest Self values that are esteemed\". \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\", or contemplation of Īśvara as a deity is useful, suggests Zaehner, because it helps the individual become more like Īśhvara. Riepe, and others, state that the literature of Yoga school of Hinduism neither explicitly defines nor implicitly implies, any creator-god; rather, it leaves the individual with freedom and choice of conceptualizing Īśvara in any meaningful manner he or she wishes, either in the form of \"deity of one's choice\" or \"formless Brahman (Absolute Reality, Universal Principle, true special Self)\". The need and purpose of Īśvara, whatever be the abstraction of it as \"special kind of Self\" or \"personal deity\", is not an end in itself, rather it is a means to \"perfect the practice of concentration\" in one's journey through the eight limbs of Yoga philosophy.\n\nLarson suggests Īśvara in \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" can be understood through its chronological roots. Yoga school of Hinduism developed on the foundation of Samkhya school of Hinduism. In the non-theistic/atheistic Samkhya school, \"Purusa\" is a central metaphysical concept, and envisioned as \"pure consciousness\". Further, \"Purusa\" is described by Samkhya school to exist in a \"plurality of pure consciousness\" in its epistemological theory (rather than to meet the needs of its ontological theory). In the Yoga Sutras, Patanjali defines \"Īśhvara\" as a \"special Purusa\" in verse I.24, with certain characteristics. Īśhvara, then may be understood as one among the plurality of \"pure consciousness\", with characteristics as defined by Patanjali in verse I.24.\n\nVan Ness, and others, suggests that the concepts of Īśvara, Īśvara-pranidhana and other limbs of Yoga may be pragmatically understood as \"spiritual but not religious\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1494623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1494623", "title": "Kneecapping", "text": "Kneecapping\n\nKneecapping is a form of malicious wounding, often as torture, in which the victim is injured in the knee. The injury is typically inflicted by a low-velocity gunshot to the knee pit with a handgun. The term is considered a misnomer by medical professionals because only a very small minority of victims suffer damage to the kneecap. A review of eighty kneecapping victims found that only two had a fractured kneecap. Some victims have their elbows and ankles shot as well.\n\nThe severity of the injury can vary from simple soft tissue damage to a knee joint fracture with neurovascular damage. The latter requires several weeks in hospital and intensive outpatient physiotherapy for recovery. If the damage is too great, amputation might be necessary, but this rarely occurs. In Northern Ireland thirteen individuals had their legs amputated as a consequence of limb punishment shootings over the duration of the Troubles. In the long term it is estimated that one out of five victims will walk with a limp for the rest of their lives.\n\nDuring the Troubles in Northern Ireland, paramilitaries considered themselves to be law enforcers in their own areas. They used limb punishment shootings to punish drug pushers and child molesters. If the crime was considered to be grave, the victim was also shot in the ankles and elbows, leaving them with six gunshot wounds (colloquially known as a six pack). Approximately 2,500 people were victims of these punishment shootings through the duration of the conflict. Those who were attacked carried a social stigma with them.\n\nThe Red Brigades, an Italian militant organization, employed these punishment shootings to warn their opponents. They used the method to punish at least 75 people up to December 1978. More recently this kind of punishment shooting has been employed by Hamas in the Gaza Strip to silence their political opponents.\n\nThe Bangladesh Police have started kneecapping in the country since 2009 to punish the opposition and preventing them from participating in protests against the government. Human Rights Watch (HRW) has published a report on kneecapping in Bangladesh.\n\nIn The United Kingdom although not too common apart from Northern Ireland, when kneecappings have occurred elsewhere a sawn-off or double barrelled shotgun is more likely the choice of firearm due to its easy availability over other weapons among criminals.\n\nAs a metaphor \"kneecapping\" suggests being limited by external imposition in a way that prevents full freedom of movement or utilization of resources.\n\n"}
{"id": "54494563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54494563", "title": "Limit and colimit of presheaves", "text": "Limit and colimit of presheaves\n\nIn category theory, a branch of mathematics, a limit or a colimit of presheaves on a category \"C\" is a limit or colimit in the functor category formula_1.\n\nThe category formula_2 admits small limits and small colimits. Explicitly, if formula_3 is a functor from a small category \"I\" and \"U\" is an object in \"C\", then formula_4 is computed pointwise:\n\nThe same is true for small limits. Concretely this means that, for example, a fiber product exists and is computed pointwise.\n\nWhen \"C\" is small, by the Yoneda lemma, one can view \"C\" as the full subcategory of formula_2. If formula_7 is a functor, if formula_8 is a functor from a small category \"I\" and if the colimit formula_9 in formula_2 is representable; i.e., isomorphic to an object in \"C\", then, in \"D\",\n\nThe density theorem states that every presheaf is a colimit of representable presheaves.\n"}
{"id": "37403202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37403202", "title": "Love it or leave it", "text": "Love it or leave it\n\nLove it or leave it may refer to: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3397134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3397134", "title": "Moral responsibility", "text": "Moral responsibility\n\nIn philosophy, moral responsibility is the status of morally deserving praise, blame, reward, or punishment for an act or omission performed or neglected in accordance with one's moral obligations.\nDeciding what (if anything) counts as \"morally obligatory\" is a principal concern of ethics.\n\nPhilosophers refer to people who have moral responsibility for an action as moral agents. Agents have the capability to reflect upon their situation, to form intentions about how they will act, and then to carry out that action. The notion of free will has become an important issue in the debate on whether individuals are ever morally responsible for their actions and, if so, in what sense. Incompatibilists regard determinism as at odds with free will, whereas compatibilists think the two can coexist.\nMoral responsibility does not necessarily equate to legal responsibility. A person is legally responsible for an event when a legal system is liable to penalise that person for that event. Although it may often be the case that when a person is morally responsible for an act, they are also legally responsible for it, the two states do not always coincide.\n\nDepending on how a philosopher conceives of free will, they will have different views on moral responsibility.\n\nMetaphysical libertarians think actions are not always causally determined, allowing for the possibility of free will and thus moral responsibility. All libertarians are also incompatibilists; they think that if causal determinism were true of human action; people would not have free will. Accordingly, libertarians subscribe to the principle of alternate possibilities, which posits that moral responsibility requires that people could have acted differently.\n\nPhenomenological considerations are sometimes invoked by incompatibilists to defend a libertarian position. In daily life, we feel as though choosing otherwise is a viable option. Although this feeling doesn't firmly establish the existence of free will, some incompatibilists claim the phenomenological feeling of alternate possibilities is a prerequisite for free will.\n\nJean-Paul Sartre suggested that people sometimes avoid incrimination and responsibility by hiding behind determinism: \"...we are always ready to take refuge in a belief in determinism if this freedom weighs upon us or if we need an excuse\".\n\nA similar view has it that individual moral culpability lies in individual character. That is, a person with the character of a murderer has no choice other than to murder, but can still be punished because it is right to punish those of bad character. How one's character was determined is irrelevant from this perspective. Robert Cummins, for example, argues that people should not be judged for their individual actions, but rather for how those actions \"reflect on their character\". If character (however defined) is the dominant causal factor in determining one's choices, and one's choices are morally wrong, then one should be held accountable for those choices, regardless of genes and other such factors.\n\nIn law, there is a known exception to the assumption that moral culpability lies in either individual character or freely willed acts. The insanity defense—or its corollary, diminished responsibility (a sort of appeal to the fallacy of the single cause)—can be used to argue that the guilty deed was not the product of a guilty mind. In such cases, the legal systems of most Western societies assume that the person is in some way not at fault, because his actions were a consequence of abnormal brain function (implying brain function is a deterministic causal agent of mind and motive).\n\nThe argument from luck is a criticism against the libertarian conception of moral responsibility. It suggests that any given action, and even a person's character, is the result of various forces outside that person's control. It may not be reasonable, then, to hold that person solely morally responsible. Thomas Nagel suggests that four different types of luck (including genetic influences and other external factors) end up influencing the way that a person's actions are evaluated morally. For instance, a person driving drunk may make it home without incident, and yet this action of \"drunk driving\" might seem more morally objectionable if someone happens to jaywalk along his path (getting hit by the car).\n\nThis argument can be traced back to David Hume. If physical indeterminism is true, then those events that are not determined are scientifically described as probabilistic or random. It is therefore argued that it is doubtful that one can praise or blame someone for performing an action generated randomly by his nervous system (without there being any non-physical agency responsible for the observed probabilistic outcome).\n\nHard determinists (not to be confused with Fatalists) often use liberty in practical moral considerations, rather than a notion of a free will. Indeed, faced with the possibility that determinism requires a completely different moral system, some proponents say \"So much the worse for free will!\". Clarence Darrow, the famous defense attorney, pleaded the innocence of his clients, Leopold and Loeb, by invoking such a notion of hard determinism. During his summation, he declared:\n\nPaul the Apostle, in his Epistle to the Romans addresses the question of moral responsibility as follows: \"Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour?\" In this view, individuals can still be dishonoured for their acts even though those acts were ultimately completely determined by God.\n\nJoshua Greene and Jonathan Cohen, researchers in the emerging field of neuroethics, argue, on the basis of such cases, that our current notion of moral responsibility is founded on libertarian (and dualist) intuitions. They argue that cognitive neuroscience research (e.g. neuroscience of free will) is undermining these intuitions by showing that the brain is responsible for our actions, not only in cases of florid psychosis, but also in less obvious situations. For example, damage to the frontal lobe reduces the ability to weigh uncertain risks and make prudent decisions, and therefore leads to an increased likelihood that someone will commit a violent crime. This is true not only of patients with damage to the frontal lobe due to accident or stroke, but also of adolescents, who show reduced frontal lobe activity compared to adults, and even of children who are chronically neglected or mistreated. In each case, the guilty party can, they argue, be said to have less responsibility for his actions. Greene and Cohen predict that, as such examples become more common and well known, jurors’ interpretations of free will and moral responsibility will move away from the intuitive libertarian notion that currently underpins them.\n\nGreene and Cohen also argue that the legal system does not require this libertarian interpretation. Rather, they suggest that only retributive notions of justice, in which the goal of the legal system is to punish people for misdeeds, require the libertarian intuition. Many forms of ethically realistic and consequentialist approaches to justice, which are aimed at promoting future welfare rather than retribution, can survive even a hard determinist interpretation of free will. Accordingly, the legal system and notions of justice can thus be maintained even in the face of emerging neuroscientific evidence undermining libertarian intuitions of free will.\n\nNeuroscientist David Eagleman maintains similar ideas. Eagleman says that the legal justice system ought to become more forward looking. He says it is wrong to ask questions of narrow culpability, rather than focusing on what is important: what needs to change in a criminal's behavior and brain. Eagleman is not saying that no one is responsible for their crimes, but rather that the \"sentencing phase\" should correspond with modern neuroscientific evidence. To Eagleman, it is damaging to entertain the illusion that a person can make a single decision that is somehow, suddenly, independent of their physiology and history. He describes what scientists have learned from brain damaged patients, and offers the case of a school teacher who exhibited escalating pedophilic tendencies on two occasions—each time as results of growing tumors. Eagleman also warns that less attractive people and minorities tend to get longer sentencing—all of which he sees as symptoms that more science is needed in the legal system.\n\nDerk Pereboom defends a skeptical position about free will he calls hard incompatibilism. In his view, we cannot have free will if our actions are causally determined by factors beyond our control, or if our actions are indeterministic events—if they happen by chance. Pereboom conceives of free will as the control in action required for moral responsibility in the sense involving deserved blame and praise, punishment and reward. While he acknowledges that libertarian agent causation, the capacity of agents as substances to cause actions without being causally determined by factors beyond their control, is still a possibility, he regards it as unlikely against the backdrop of the most defensible physical theories. Without libertarian agent causation, Pereboom thinks the free will required for moral responsibility in the desert-involving sense is not in the offing. However, he also contends that by contrast with the backward-looking, desert-involving sense of moral responsibility, forward-looking senses are compatible with causal determination. For instance, causally determined agents who act badly might justifiably be blamed with the aim of forming faulty character, reconciling impaired relationships, and protecting others from harm they are apt to cause.\n\nPereboom proposes that a viable criminal jurisprudence is compatible with the denial of deserved blame and punishment. His view rules out retributivist justifications for punishment, but it allows for incapacitation of dangerous criminals on the analogy with quarantine of carriers of dangerous diseases. Isolation of carriers of the Ebola virus can be justified on the ground of the right to defend against threat, a justification that does not reference desert. Pereboom contends that the analogy holds for incapacitation of dangerous criminals. He also argues that the less serious the threat, the more moderate the justifiable method of incapacitation; for certain crimes only monitoring may be needed. In addition, just as we should do what we can, within reasonable bounds, to cure the carriers of the Ebola virus we quarantine, so we should aim to rehabilitate and reintegrate the criminals we incapacitate. Pereboom also proposes that given hard incompatibilism, punishment justified as general deterrence may be legitimate when the penalties don't involve undermining an agent's capacity to live a meaningful, flourishing life, since justifying such moderate penalties need not invoke desert.\n\nCompatibilists contend that even if determinism were true, it would still be possible for us to have free will. The Hindu text \"The Bhagavad Gita\" offers one very early compatibilist account. Facing the prospect of going to battle against kinsmen to whom he has bonds, Arjuna despairs. Krishna attempts to assuage Arjuna's anxieties. He argues that forces of nature come together to produce actions, and it is only vanity that causes us to regard ourselves as the agent in charge of these actions. However, Krishna adds this caveat: \"... [But] the Man who knows the relation between the forces of Nature and actions, witnesses how some forces of Nature work upon other forces of Nature, and becomes [not] their slave...\" When we are ignorant of the relationship between forces of Nature, we become passive victims of nomological facts. Krishna's admonition is intended to get Arjuna to perform his duty (i.e., fight in the battle), but he is also claiming that being a successful moral agent requires being mindful of the wider circumstances in which one finds oneself. Paramahansa Yogananda also said, \"Freedom means the power to act by soul guidance, not by the compulsions of desires and habits. Obeying the ego leads to bondage; obeying the soul brings liberation.\"\n\nIn the Western tradition, Baruch Spinoza echoes the \"Bhagavad Gita\"s point about agents and natural forces, writing \"men think themselves free because they are conscious of their volitions and their appetite, and do not think, even in their dreams, of the causes by which they are disposed to wanting and willing, because they are ignorant [of those causes].\" Krishna is hostile to the influence of passions on our rational faculties, speaking up instead for the value of heeding the dictates of one's own nature: \"Even a wise man acts under the impulse of his nature. Of what use is restraint?\" Spinoza similarly identifies the taming of one's passions as a way to extricate oneself from merely being passive in the face of external forces and a way toward following our own natures.\n\nDaniel Dennett asks why anyone would care about whether someone had the property of responsibility and speculates that the idea of moral responsibility may be \"a purely metaphysical hankering\".\n\nMauro suggests that a sense of personal responsibility does not operate or evolve universally among humankind. He argues that it was absent in the successful civilization of the Iroquois.\n\nIn recent years, research in experimental philosophy has explored whether people's untutored intuitions about determinism and moral responsibility are compatibilist or incompatibilist. Some experimental work has included cross-cultural studies. However, the debate about whether people naturally have compatibilist or incompatibilist intuitions has not come out overwhelmingly in favor of one view or the other, finding evidence for both views. For instance, when people are presented with abstract cases that ask if a person could be morally responsible for an immoral act when they could not have done otherwise, people tend to say no, or give \"incompatibilist\" answers. When presented with a specific immoral act that a specific person committed, people tend to say that that person is morally responsible for their actions, even if they were determined (that is, people also give \"compatibilist\" answers).\n\nThe neuroscience of free will investigates various experiments that might shed light on free will.\n\nWhen people attribute moral responsibility, they usually attribute it to individual moral agents. However, Joel Feinberg, among others, has argued that corporations and other groups of people can have what is called ‘collective moral responsibility’ for a state of affairs. For example, when South Africa had an apartheid regime, the country's government might have been said to have had collective moral responsibility for the violation of the rights of non-European South Africans.\n\nOne of the attributes defined for psychopathy is \"failure to accept responsibility for own actions\".\n\nThe emergence of automation, robotics and related technologies prompted the question, 'Can an artificial system be morally responsible?' The question has a closely related variant, 'When (if ever) does moral responsibility transfer from its human creator(s) to the system?'.\n\nThe questions \"arguably\" adjoin with but are distinct from machine ethics, which is concerned with the moral behavior of artificial systems. Whether an artificial system's behavior qualifies it to be morally responsible has been a key focus of debate.\n\nBatya Friedman and Peter Kahn Jr posited that intentionality is a necessary condition for moral responsibility, and that computer systems as conceivable in 1992 in material and structure could not have intentionality.\n\nArthur Kuflik asserted that humans must bear the ultimate moral responsibility for a computer's decisions, as it is humans who design the computers and write their programs. He further proposed that humans can never relinquish oversight of computers.\n\nFrances Grodzinsky et al. considered artificial systems that could be modelled as finite state machines. They posited that if the machine had a fixed state transition table, then it could not be morally responsible. If the machine could modify its table, then the machine's designer still retained some moral responsibility.\n\nPatrick Hew argued that for an artificial system to be morally responsible, its rules for behaviour and the mechanisms for supplying those rules must not be supplied entirely by external humans. He further argued that such systems are a substantial departure from technologies and theory as extant in 2014. An artificial system based on those technologies will carry zero responsibility for its behaviour. Moral responsibility is apportioned to the humans that created and programmed the system.\n\nColin Allen et al. proposed that an artificial system may be morally responsible if its behaviours are functionally indistinguishable from a moral person, coining the idea of a 'Moral Turing Test'. They subsequently disavowed the Moral Turing Test in recognition of controversies surrounding the Turing Test.\n\nAndreas Matthias described a 'responsibility gap' where to hold humans responsible for a machine would be an injustice, but to hold the machine responsible would challenge 'traditional' ways of ascription. He proposed three cases where the machine's behaviour ought to be attributed to the machine and not its designers or operators. First, he argued that modern machines are inherently unpredictable (to some degree), but perform tasks that need to be performed yet cannot be handled by simpler means. Second, that there are increasing 'layers of obscurity' between manufacturers and system, as hand coded programs are replaced with more sophisticated means. Third, in systems that have rules of operation that can be changed during the operation of the machine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8087653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8087653", "title": "Muntean/Rosenblum", "text": "Muntean/Rosenblum\n\nMuntean/Rosenblum (Markus Muntean; born 1962 in Graz, Austria and Adi Rosenblum; born 1962 in Haifa, Israel) are artists based in Vienna, London and Tel Aviv. They have been collaborating since 1992.\n\nAdi Rosenblum and Markus Muntean met each other as students at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna, Austria. In 1992 they sublimated their subjective singularity into a double act, into a third person: Mutean/Rosenblum. In 1995 they founded Bricks & Kicks (1995 to 1998), one of the first Artist-Run galleries in Vienna. They were professors for Contextual Painting at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna from 1999 to 2005 and received the nationally prestigious City of Vienna Prize for Visual Arts in 2001.\n\nThe artist duo has shown work internationally; including solo exhibitions in renowned institutions such as De Appel Centre for Contemporary Art, Amsterdam, Netherlands (2002); Tate Britain, London (2004); the Museo de Arte Contemporáneo de Castilla y León (MUSAC), León, Spain (2006); Galerie für Zeitgenössische Kunst, Leipzig, Germany (2007); and Essl Museum – Contemporary Art, Klosterneuburg, Austria (2008). They participated in significant international group exhibitions such as “Fantasies and Curiosities” at the Miami Art Museum (2000); “Melodrama” at MARCO in Vigo (2003); “Rewind/Fast Forward,” Neue Galerie, Graz, Austria (2009); “The Triumph of Painting” and “New Blood,” both at Saatchi Gallery, London (2006 and 2005), and the 26th São Paulo Biennial (2004). In Berlin they gained wider recognition through their installation “Where else,” shown at the 2nd Berlin Biennial (2001), followed by their solo exhibitions at Arndt & Partner (2005 and 2008).\n\nIn the compositions of their drawings, the artist couple Markus Muntean and Adi Rosenblum use methods of sampling and resampling of subjects from art history and present-day popular culture. The starting point is an intensive confrontation with the pathos formulas of art history and the questioning of how emotions that find expression as a result are articulated and interpreted in different eras. Motifs that we know from Passion cycles are applied to the psychological dispositions of contemporary existence, sometimes as the expression of an apathy that appeals to the empathy of the beholder. Historically overwhelming pictorial subjects are transferred into the present day, while at the same time triggering a discussion of the media conditions in which pictures are produced today. As a result of the use of language and lettering, a further plane penetrates into the drawings of Muntean/Rosenblum and gives insights into the complexity of the challenges which a subtle medium such as drawing has to face up to today. In the process. Muntean/Rosenblum also take an interest in the aspect of the nomadic narrative. The text collages form, in their relationship with the scenic compositions, aphorisms which pointedly contradict phrases of popular culture, and, through their paradoxical link with figural representations, awaken a dual consciousness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3173242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3173242", "title": "Murder of Sylvia Likens", "text": "Murder of Sylvia Likens\n\nThe murder of Sylvia Likens took place in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States in October 1965. The 16-year-old was held captive, abused and tortured to death over a period of three months by Gertrude Baniszewski, Baniszewski's children, and other neighborhood children. Likens' parents, who were carnival workers, had initially left her and her sister Jenny in the care of the Baniszewski family, paying Gertrude $20 a week to care for the sisters.\n\nBaniszewski, her daughter Paula, her son John, and two neighborhood youths, Coy Hubbard and Richard Hobbs, were tried and convicted of torturing and murdering Likens. The case was described by the prosecutor in Baniszewski's trial as \"the most terrible crime ever committed in the state of Indiana\".\n\nGertrude Nadine Baniszewski (; September 19, 1929 – June 16, 1990) was born in Indianapolis, Indiana to Mollie Myrtle (\"née\" Oakley) and Hugh Marcus Van Fossan Sr., both of whom were originally from Illinois and were of American and Dutch descent. Baniszewski was the third of six children. On October 5, 1939, Baniszewski witnessed her 50-year-old father's death from a sudden heart attack. Six years later, she dropped out of school to marry 18-year-old John Stephan Baniszewski (1926–2007), who was originally from Youngsville, Pennsylvania, with whom she had six children. Although John Baniszewski had a volatile temper, the two stayed together for ten more years before divorcing.\n\nBaniszewski, then 34, moved in with 22-year-old Dennis Lee Wright, who abused her. She had one child with Dennis, Dennis Lee Wright Jr. (later given the name Denny Lee Wright by his adoptive mother), but after his birth, Wright abandoned Gertrude.\n\nSylvia Marie Likens (January 3, 1949 – October 26, 1965) was the third child of carnival workers Lester Cecil Likens (1926–2013) and his wife Elizabeth Frances \"Betty\" (née Grimes, 1927–1998). She was born between two sets of fraternal twins: Diana and Danny (two years older), and Jenny and Benny (one year younger, the former disabled by polio).\n\nLikens' parents' marriage was unstable. The family moved frequently, and the parents had financial difficulties. Likens and her sister Jenny were often boarded out or forced to live with relatives, such as their grandmother, so that their schoolwork would not suffer while their parents were on the road. To earn money, Likens babysat and ironed, the same kind of work that was done by Gertrude Baniszewski. At the time of Likens' death, her favorite rock band was The Beatles.\n\nIn July 1965, Sylvia and Jenny Likens were living with their mother, Betty, in Indianapolis. During that time, Betty was arrested and jailed for shoplifting. Lester Likens, who had recently separated from his wife, arranged for his daughters to board with Gertrude Baniszewski, the mother of the girls' new friend Paula Baniszewski (aged 17) and Paula's six siblings, Stephanie (15), John (12), Marie (11), Shirley (10), James (8), and few-months-old Dennis Lee Wright Jr. During her early time with the Baniszewski family, she would sing with Baniszewski's daughter, Stephanie.\n\nAlthough the Baniszewskis were poor, Lester \"didn't pry\" into the condition of the house (as he reported at the trial), and he encouraged Baniszewski to \"straighten his daughters out.\"\n\nLester Likens agreed to pay Baniszewski $20 a week in exchange for her care of the Likens girls. Baniszewski, described by \"The Indianapolis Star\" as a \"haggard, underweight asthmatic\", was suffering from depression and the stress of several failed marriages. When the weekly payment arrived late, Baniszewski beat the Likens girls on their bare buttocks with paddles.\n\nBaniszewski soon focused her abuse exclusively on Sylvia. She accused her of stealing candy that she had bought, and humiliated her when she admitted that she once had a boyfriend. Baniszewski's daughter, Paula, who was pregnant at the time, kicked Likens in the genitals and accused her of being pregnant. Later medical examination proved that Likens was not pregnant and could not have been. Baniszewski began allowing her older children to beat Likens and repeatedly push her down stairs for entertainment. During a church function, Baniszewski force-fed Likens a hot dog overloaded with condiments. Likens vomited afterwards, which she was later forced to consume. Baniszewski also accused Likens of prostitution and delivered misogynistic sermons about the filthiness of prostitutes and women in general.\n\nLikens was later accused of spreading rumors within Arsenal Technical High School that Paula and Stephanie Baniszewski were prostitutes. This supposedly provoked Stephanie's boyfriend, Coy Hubbard, to physically attack Likens. Hubbard and his classmates soon made frequent visits to the Baniszewski residence to torment Likens, often collaborating with Bansizewski's own children and Baniszewski herself. With Baniszewski's encouragement, they routinely beat her, forced her to eat feces and drink urine, used her as a practice dummy in violent judo sessions, lacerated her, burnt her body with lit cigarettes over 100 times and severely injured her genitals. To entertain Gertrude and her teenage accomplices, Likens was forced to strip naked in the living room and insert an empty Coca-Cola bottle into her own vagina.\n\nPaula Baniszewski once beat Likens in the face with such force that she broke her own wrist. She later had to wear a cast, which she used to further beat Likens.\n\nGertrude Baniszewski later forced Jenny to hit her sister, beating her if she did not comply.\n\nMeanwhile, Raymond and Phyllis Vermillion, a middle-aged couple who moved next door, saw Gertrude to be an ideal caretaker for their two children. They visited the Baniszewski residence on two occasions, where they witnessed Paula, with Gertrude's approval, abusing Likens and boasting about it in front of them. The Vermillions refused to report the abuse to the authorities out of fear on both occasions. \n\nBaniszewski eventually forbade Likens from attending school after Likens confessed to having stolen a gym suit from the school when Baniszewski would not buy a gym suit for her. She brutally beat and whipped Sylvia and did the same for Jenny after remembering that she supposedly stole a tennis shoe. Baniszewski then switched the topic to the \"evils\" of premarital sex and brutally kicked Sylvia repeatedly in the genitals. She also burned all of her fingers with matches and further whipped her. \n\nLikens eventually became incontinent due to the severity of the torture. She was denied access to the bathroom and so was forced to wet herself. As punishment for her incontinence, Baniszewski threw her in the basement and locked her in. Throughout her captivity, Baniszewski frequently, with the assistance of her children and their friends, restrained Likens in a bathtub filled with scalding water and rubbed salt onto her burns. She was often kept naked and rarely fed. At times, Baniszewski and her twelve-year-old son John Jr. would make Likens eat her own feces, as well as urine and feces from the diaper of Gertrude Baniszewski's one-year-old son. She also made abusing Likens a pastime, charging the neighborhood children five cents to see the \"display\" of Likens' naked body and tie, beat, burn and mutilate her. Likens attempted to alert the neighbors for help by screaming and hitting the walls of the basement with a spade, ultimately to no avail.\n\nThe Likens sisters had no way to contact other family members to inform them of the abuse. Jenny, especially, struggled to do this since she was constantly threatened by Baniszewski that she would be abused and tortured next like her sister. She was also bullied by the neighborhood girls and beaten whenever she alluded to Sylvia's situation. Nonetheless, they encountered Diana, their older and married sister, at the local park. Since Diana was forbidden by her parents to make contact with the sisters due to her estrangement, she initially assumed that the punishments Sylvia and Jenny were receiving were related to this. Neither party was aware that they lived less than a mile and a half apart. Diana eventually learned that Sylvia and Jenny were staying at a strangers' home and she attempted to visit them. Upon her visit, Bansizewski told Diana, unaware of who Baniszewski was, that the Likens sisters were not allowed to see her and ordered her off her property. At one point, Diana secretly gave a starving Sylvia a sandwich. Sylvia remained silent about the matter but after Marie Baniszewski revealed it, Paula and Gertrude choked and paddled Sylvia before subjecting her to another scalding bath. Shortly thereafter, a neighbor made an anonymous report, which prompted an in-home visit by a public health nurse. The nurse entered the home and made inquiries, but had no choice but to leave without further investigation. She told Baniszewski the report was about Likens; Baniszewski replied she had kicked Likens out of her house, and that her whereabouts were unknown. The nurse had no way of knowing that the subject of her inquiry was right below her in the basement. \n\nLikens was often deprived of water. Jenny later speculated, during her court testimony, that Likens was unable to produce tears due to dehydration.\n\nOn October 22, Likens was forced by John to eat a bowl of soup with her fingers. John quickly took away the bowl when Likens attempted to eat it. Baniszewski eventually allowed her to sleep upstairs, under the condition that she learned not to wet herself. That night, Likens whispered to Jenny to give her a glass of water before falling asleep. On October 23, Baniszewski discovered that Likens had urinated herself. As punishment, Likens was forced to masturbate with an empty glass Coca-Cola bottle in front of Baniszewski's children. After that, she stripped Likens naked and carved the words \"I'M A PROSTITUTE AND PROUD OF IT\" onto Likens' abdomen with a heated needle. When Baniszewski was unable to finish the branding, she had Richard Hobbs finish. Hobbs continued to brand Likens as Baniszewski calmly took Jenny to the groceries. Hobbs and 10-year-old Shirley Baniszewski then used an iron poker in an attempt to burn the letter \"S\" into Likens' chest; the burn scar ended up looking like the number \"3.\" Baniszewski later taunted Likens about how she would never be able to marry a man due to the words carved onto her stomach. Likens was taken back to the basement, where Coy Hubbard arrived to tie her up and slam her body against the walls six to seven times. That night, Likens confided to her sister, \"I'm going to die. I can tell\". The next day, Baniszewski woke Likens, then dictated a letter to her, intending to mislead her parents into believing that she had run away. The letter also tried to frame a group of anonymous boys for abusing and mutilating Likens after she supposedly agreed to have sexual relations with them. After Likens finished the letter, Baniszewski formulated a plan to have John Jr. and Jenny take Sylvia to a nearby forested area and leave her there to die.\n\nOn October 25, Likens tried to escape after overhearing Baniszewski's plan to blindfold her and dump her body in Jimmy's Forest, a wooded area nearby. Likens fled to the front door but due to her extensive injuries, Baniszewski caught her in time. Likens was provided with toast but was unable to eat it due to her severe dehydration. Baniszewski shoved the toast into her mouth and struck her face several times with a curtain rod. She violently threw Likens into the basement and with the assistance of Hubbard, she tied and bludgeoned her until she was unconscious. Likens managed to recover but was unable to speak intelligibly and move her limbs properly. Likens tried to exit the basement but collapsed before she could make it to the stairs. Baniszewski crushed her head with her feet and stood there for several moments. \n\nOn October 26, after multiple beatings, burnings, and scalding baths, Likens died of a brain hemorrhage, shock, and malnutrition. She was 16 years old.\n\nWhen Stephanie Baniszewski and Richard Hobbs realized that Likens was not breathing, Stephanie tried to give her mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. Banzisewski, however, shouted at them that Likens was \"faking it\".\n\nWhen Baniszewski finally realized that Likens was dead, she sent Hobbs to call the police from a nearby payphone. When police arrived, Gertrude Baniszewski handed them the letter she had forced Likens to write a few days previously. Before the police officers left the house, however, Jenny Likens approached them and said, \"Get me out of here and I'll tell you everything.\" Her statement, combined with the discovery of Likens' body, prompted the officers to arrest Gertrude, Paula, Stephanie and John Baniszewski, Richard Hobbs, and Coy Hubbard for murder. Other neighborhood children present at the time—Mike Monroe, Randy Lepper, Darlene McGuire, Judy Duke, and Anna Siscoe—were arrested for \"injury to person\".\n\nBaniszewski, her children, Hobbs, and Hubbard were held without bail pending their trials.\n\nAn examination and autopsy of Likens' body revealed numerous burns, bruising, muscle and nerve damage. All of her fingernails were also broken backwards and most of the skin's outer layer peeled off. Her severely mutilated body led authorities to initially believe that it was the work of an \"anonymous madman\". In her death throes, Likens bit through her lips, partially severing each of them. Her vaginal cavity was nearly swollen shut, although an examination of the canal determined that her hymen was still intact, which meant it was possible she was still a virgin, discrediting Baniszewski's assertions that Likens was a prostitute and her insistence that she was pregnant. The official cause of death was brain swelling, internal hemorrhaging of the brain, and shock from severe and prolonged damage to her skin.\n\nDuring the highly publicized trial, Gertrude Baniszewski denied being responsible for Likens' death. She pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. She claimed that she was too distracted by her ill health and depression to control her children.\n\nFour minors who took part in the abuse of Likens were also put on trial. They were:\n\n\nThe attorneys for the minors claimed that they had been pressured by Baniszewski.\n\nWhen Gertrude's 11-year-old daughter, Marie Baniszewski, was called to the stand as a witness for the defense, she broke down and admitted that she had been forced to heat the needle with which Hobbs had carved Likens' skin. She also testified that she had seen her mother beating Likens and forcing her into the basement.\n\nIn his closing statement, Baniszewski's lawyer said: \"I condemn her for being a murderess ... but I say she's not responsible because she's not all here!\" He tapped his head to make his point about her state of mind.\n\nOn May 19, 1966, Gertrude Baniszewski was convicted of first-degree murder. She was spared the death penalty and was sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nPaula Baniszewski, who had given birth to a daughter during the trial, was convicted of second-degree murder. She was also sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nRichard Hobbs, Coy Hubbard, and John Baniszewski Jr. were all convicted of manslaughter and given two 2-to-21-year prison sentences.\n\nHobbs, Hubbard, and John Baniszewski Jr. each served two years in a reformatory before being paroled in 1968.\n\nIn 1971, Gertrude and Paula Baniszewski were granted another trial by the Indiana Supreme Court, largely for reasons of a prejudicial atmosphere due to heavy news media publicity before and during the trial. Paula Baniszewski pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter and was released from prison one year later. Gertrude Baniszewski, however, was again convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to life in prison. Over the course of the next 14 years, Baniszewski became a model prisoner at the Indiana Women's Prison, working in the sewing shop and becoming a \"den mother\" to younger female inmates. By the time she came up for parole in 1985, she was known by the prison nickname \"Mom\".\n\nThe news of Baniszewski's parole hearing sent shockwaves through the Indiana community. Jenny Likens and her family appeared on television to speak out against Baniszewski; the members of two anti-crime groups, Protect the Innocent and Society's League Against Molestation, travelled to Indiana to oppose her parole and support the Likens family, beginning a sidewalk picket campaign. Over the course of two months, the groups collected over 40,000 signatures from the citizens of Indiana, including those who were too young to remember the case, demanding that Baniszewski be kept behind bars. Despite the efforts, Baniszewski was granted parole. During the hearing, she stated: \"I'm not sure what role I had in it ... because I was on drugs. I never really knew her ... I take full responsibility for whatever happened to Sylvia.\" The parole board, taking her good behavior in prison into account, voted in favor of granting Baniszewski's freedom 3–2, and she was released.\n\nBaniszewski was released from prison on December 4, 1985, and traveled to Iowa, where she called herself Nadine Van Fossan, using her middle name and maiden name. She lived in obscurity until her death in Laurel, Iowa, from lung cancer, on June 16, 1990, aged 60.\n\nWhen Jenny Likens, who was then married and living in Beech Grove, Indiana, saw Gertrude Baniszewski's obituary in a newspaper, she clipped it and mailed it to her mother with the note: \"Some good news. Damn old Gertrude died. Ha ha ha! I am happy about that.\" Jenny Likens Wade died of a heart attack on June 23, 2004, at the age of 54.\n\nRichard Hobbs died of cancer on January 2, 1972, at the age of 21, four years after being released from the reformatory.\n\nAfter the Westside Middle School massacre, John Baniszewski Jr., by then calling himself John Blake, made a statement claiming that young criminals are not beyond help and describing how he had turned his life around. He died of diabetes at General Hospital in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, on May 19, 2005, at the age of 52.\n\nCoy Hubbard, Stephanie Baniszewski's boyfriend (who had beaten Likens) was in and out of prison after his release. He was later charged with the murder of two men but was acquitted. He died of a heart attack on June 23, 2007, at the age of 56 in Shelbyville, Indiana. \n\nPaula Baniszewski, the eldest of Gertrude's seven children, received a prison sentence of twenty years to life for her part in Likens' death. Her baby daughter, Gertrude, whom she gave birth to while incarcerated, was later adopted. In 1971, she twice tried unsuccessfully to escape from prison. In 1972, she was paroled and assumed a new identity. She eventually married, has two children, and reportedly lives in a small town in Iowa today. She worked as an aide to a school counselor for 14 years at the Beaman-Conrad-Liscomb-Union-Whitten (BCLUW) school district in Iowa, having changed her name to Paula Pace and lied to the school district when applying for the job. She was fired in 2012 when the school discovered her deception.\n\nThe murder charge against Gertrude Baniszewski's second-eldest daughter, Stephanie (aged 15), was dropped after she turned state's evidence against the other defendants. She assumed a new name and became a school teacher. She married and has several children.\n\nThe injury-to-person charges against the younger juveniles, Anna Ruth Siscoe, Judy Darlene Duke, Michael John (Mike) Monroe, Darlene McGuire, and Randy Gordon Lepper, were dropped. Siscoe married and had children and grandchildren; she died on October 23, 1996 at the age of 44. Lepper died on November 14, 2010 in Indianapolis at the age of 56.\n\nOn May 10, 2015, Likens' sister Diana (who was using the name Dianna Bedwell) and her husband, Cecil Knutson, were reported missing by their son, Robert Acosta. Dianna and Cecil had been gambling at the Valley View Casino in Valley Center, California. Surveillance video recorded the couple leaving the casino at about 2 p.m. by car, but they did not show up at their son's house in La Quinta. Acosta contacted the police and appeared on television, asking the public's help in finding his parents. On May 25, 2015, the couple was found in a mountainous area of an Indian reservation by members of a volunteer Jeep patrol. Cecil was dead and Dianna was severely dehydrated after surviving on just rainwater and some food. Dianna was airlifted to a hospital in serious condition. She told investigators they were looking for a shortcut when they got lost and became stuck on a rugged road.\n\nThe house at 3850 East New York Street in which Likens was tortured and murdered stood vacant and rundown for many years after the murder. Although there was some discussion of purchasing it for renovation and using it as a women's shelter, the necessary funds were never raised. The house was demolished on April 23, 2009. The property is now a church parking lot.\n\nA block of granite was dedicated in June 2001 as a memorial to Likens in Willard Park, 1700 E. Washington Street. The dedication was attended by several hundred people.\n\nThe case has since been the subject of numerous fictional and non-fictional accounts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2252058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2252058", "title": "Naivety", "text": "Naivety\n\nNaivety (or naïvety or naïveté) is the state of being naïve, that is to say, having or showing a lack of experience, understanding or sophistication, often in a context where one neglects pragmatism in favor of moral idealism. One who is \"naïve\" may be called a \"naïf\".\n\nIn early use, the word \"naive\" meant \"natural or innocent\", and did not connote ineptitude. As a French adjective, it is spelled \"naïve\" or \"naïf\". French adjectives have grammatical gender; \"naïf\" is used with masculine nouns and \"naïve\" with feminine nouns. The French noun is \"naïveté\".\n\nThe dots above the \"i\" are a diaeresis (see also Ï). As an unitalicized English word, \"naive\" is now the more usual spelling, although \"naïve\" is unidiomatic rather than incorrect; \"naïf\" often represents the French masculine, but has a secondary meaning as an artistic style. “Naive” is now normally pronounced as two syllables, with the stress on the second, in the French manner.\n\nThe noun form can be written as naivety, naïvety, naïveté, naïvete, or naiveté.\n\nThe naif appears as a cultural type in two main forms. On the one hand, there is 'the satirical naïf, such as Candide'. Northrop Frye suggested we might call it \"the \"ingénu\" form, after Voltaire's dialogue of that name. \"Here an outsider... grants none of the premises which make the absurdities of society look logical to those accustomed to them\", and serves essentially as a prism to carry the satirical message. Baudrillard indeed, drawing on his Situationist roots, sought to position himself as ingénu in everyday life: \"I play the role of the Danube peasant: someone who knows nothing but suspects something is wrong... I like being in the position of the primitive... \"playing naïve\"\".\n\nOn the other hand, there is the artistic \"naïf - all responsiveness and seeming availability\". Here 'the naïf offers himself as being in process of formation, in search of values and models...always about to adopt some traditional \"mature\" temperament' - in a perpetual adolescent moratorium. Such instances of \"the naïf as a cultural image... offered themselves as essentially responsive to others and open to every invitation... established their identity in indeterminacy\".\n\nDuring the 1960s, \"the naifs turned toward mysticism and Eastern religions\", feeding into the hippie movement. \"Hippie culture, bastard of the beat generation out of pop, was much like a folk culture - oral, naive, communal, its aphorisms (\"Make love, not war\", \"turn on, tune in, drop out\") intuited, not rationalized\".\n"}
{"id": "55598028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55598028", "title": "Nigel Richardson", "text": "Nigel Richardson\n\nNigel John Richardson (born February 1958) is a British human rights lawyer who serves as a deputy district judge. He was appointed to that office in May 2009. As a lawyer, Richardson is known for representing victims of human rights abuses in high profile criminal cases with international element.\n\nRichardson was educated at University of Oxford and London Guildhall University. He was admitted as a solicitor in 1972. He became a trainee solicitor at Hodge Jones & Allen which specialises in human rights in 1985 and a senior partner in the firm in 1994. In 2009 Richardson was appointed Deputy District Judge sitting in the Magistrates court.\n\nIn 2012 Richardson acted for Michael Peacock in a landmark obscenity trial which changed the law on obscene publications in this county and was seen as a test of the Obscene Publications Act 1959. Peacock, a male escort, was charged with six counts of distributing obscene DVDs under the Obscene Publications Act 1959. He was found not guilty by a jury at Southwark Crown Court.\n\nIn 2012, Richardson, together with his colleague Myles Jackman, successfully defended Simon Walsh, barrister and Greater London Assembly member who was accused of possession of extreme pornography under Section 63 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008. The case came as a test to the Act.\n\nIn 2016 Richardson represented Coronation Street actor Marc Anwar who became the centre of a racism row after posting a controversial comment about Indians on Twitter, which resulted in his sacking from the ITV soap.\n\nAs a judge, Richardson presided over Joe Orton's retrial in 2012. Orton was an English writer who in 1962 was sentenced to six months imprisonment for historic sexual offences and fined for stealing and damaging Islington Public Library books. Prosecution insisted on retrial fifty years after he served his conviction. The case made national headlines with newspapers arguing as to whether it was right to put Orton on trial. Orton later suggested that the lengthy sentence was given because “he was a queer.”\n\nRichardson was a visiting criminal law lecturer of Oxford Institute of Legal Practice from 2001, until its closure in 2013.\nIn 2014, together with Peter Clark, barrister at 187 Fleet Street Chambers who specialises in sex cases, he co-authored a book called \"Sexual Offences – A Practitioner’s Guide.\" Richardson also co-authored \"Blackstones Guide to the Human Rights Act 2000\".\n\nRichardson is a trustee of English Collective of Prostitutes, a charity which aims to transform the lives of sex workers by campaigning against decriminalisation of prostitution and provides information, help, and support to individual sex workers and others who are concerned with sex workers' human, civil, legal, and economic rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1900731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1900731", "title": "Nigredo", "text": "Nigredo\n\nIn alchemy, nigredo, or blackness, means putrefaction or decomposition. Many alchemists believed that as a first step in the pathway to the philosopher's stone, all alchemical ingredients had to be cleansed and cooked extensively to a uniform black matter. \n\nIn analytical psychology, the term became a metaphor 'for the dark night of the soul, when an individual confronts the shadow within'.\n\nFor Carl Jung, 'the rediscovery of the principles of alchemy came to be an important part of my work as a pioneer of psychology'. As a student of alchemy, he (and his followers) 'compared the \"black work\" of the alchemists (the nigredo) with the often highly critical involvement experienced by the ego, until it accepts the new equilibrium brought about by the creation of the self'. Jungians interpreted nigredo in two main psychological senses.\n\nThe first sense represented a subject's initial state of undifferentiated unawareness, 'the first nigredo, that of the \"unio naturalis\", is an objective state, visible from the outside only...an unconscious state of non-differentiation between self and object, consciousness and the unconscious'. Here the subject is unaware of the unconscious; i.e. the connection with the instincts'.\n\nIn the second sense, 'the nigredo of the process of individuation on the other hand is a subjectively experienced process brought about by the subject's painful, growing awareness of his shadow aspects'. It could be described as a moment of maximum despair, that is a prerequisite to personal development. As individuation unfolds, so 'confrontation with the shadow produces at first a dead balance, a standstill that hampers moral decisions and makes convictions ineffective or even impossible...\"nigredo\", \"tenebrositas\", chaos, melancholia'. Here is 'the darkest time, the time of despair, disillusionment, envious attacks; the time when Eros and Superego are at daggers drawn, and there seems no way forward...\"nigredo\", the blackening'.\n\nOnly subsequently would come 'an enantiodromia; the \"nigredo\" gives way to the \"albedo\"...the ever deepening descent into the unconscious suddenly becomes illumination from above'\n\nFurther steps of the alchemical opus include such images as albedo (whiteness), citrinitas (yellowness), and rubedo (redness). Jung also found psychological equivalents for many other alchemical concepts, with 'the characterization of analytic work as an \"opus\"; the reference to the analytic relationship as a \"vas\", vessel or container; the goal of the analytic process as the \"coniunctio\", or union of conflicting opposites'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21103983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21103983", "title": "Prussian virtues", "text": "Prussian virtues\n\nPrussian virtues () refers to the virtues associated with the historical Kingdom of Prussia, especially its militarism and the ethical code of the Prussian army, but also bourgeois values as influenced by Lutheranism and Calvinism. It has also significantly influenced wider German culture, such as the contemporary German stereotypes of efficiency, austerity and discipline.\n\nThese virtues, while traced back to the Teutonic knights, were named by King Frederick William I of Prussia, the \"soldierking\" and frugal \"bourgeois\" reformer of Prussian administration, as well as from his son, Frederick the Great. The father had taken over an over-indebted public budget and saw himself as a moral role model, while the son saw himself as an exemplar of reason for the religiously, ethnically, and linguistically diverse Prussian state. The extended Prussian territory was home to Protestant, Catholic and Jewish subjects, of Germans, Poles, Sorbs and Kashubians. Frederick William I considered himself to be a role model, while his enlightened son relied on reason and tolerance to rule his multifaceted state.\n\nPrussia developed a highly-advanced administration and legal system, as well as a loyal officer corps and a kind of common-sense patriotism gathering the subjects behind the Hohenzollern ruler. The Prussian \"era of reform\", from the military defeat by Napoleon I at the Battles of Jena and Auerstedt, until the Congress of Vienna in 1815, was also an important influence. These included reform of community boundaries, the army, schools, universities, and taxes, as well as the enfranchisement of Jews.\n\nThe German author and soldier Walter Flex (1887–1917) wrote \"Wer je auf Preußens Fahne schwört, hat nichts mehr, was ihm selbst gehört.\" Translation: \"He who swears on Prussia's flag has nothing left that belongs to himself.\"\n\nThe Prussian virtues may be summarized by the opening lines of the poem \"\" (\"The Old Farmer to His Son\") by Ludwig Christoph Heinrich Hölty (1748–1776). The text reads as follows: \"\" Translation: \"Practice always fidelity and honesty / Until your cool grave; / And stray not the width of one finger/ From the ways of the Lord.\"\nThe poem was set to music by Mozart to a melody adapted from the aria \" from his 1791 opera \"The Magic Flute\". It was played daily by the carillon of the Potsdam Garrison Church where Frederick the Great was initially buried.\n\nSince the defeat in World War II and the denazification campaign, historical German militarism has become anathema in German culture, focused on collective responsibility and atonement. At the same time, the related non-military, bourgeois virtues of efficiency, discipline and work ethics remain in high standing. This has led to the concept of \"Prussian virtues\" being regarded with mixed feelings in modern-day Germany. \nAmongst the German student protests of 1968, militarist virtues were \nrejected as prerequisite for the atrocities committed by the Nazi regime.\nThe term \"Kadavergehorsam\" for \"blind obedience\", originally a slur directed against Jesuits during the 1870s \"Kulturkampf\", came to be used as a derogatory staple of \"Prussian\" military ethos. Similarly, the term \"Nibelungentreue\" (\"Nibelung loyalty\"), which in the German Empire had been used in a positive sense for the military virtue of absolute loyalty, came to be used derogatorily in reference to fanatical loyalty characteristic of fascism.\nIn 1982, amid the controversy surrounding the NATO Double-Track Decision, in response to Social Democratic Party of Germany Chancellor of Germany Helmut Schmidt's call for a return to such virtues, Saarbrücken's SPD mayor Oskar Lafontaine commented that these were \"perfectly suited to run a concentration camp\". \nIn 2006, the Prime Minister of Brandenburg Matthias Platzeck called for a return to Prussian virtues, citing \"good basic virtues, such as honesty, reliability, and diligence\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7970632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7970632", "title": "Recursive transition network", "text": "Recursive transition network\n\nA recursive transition network (\"RTN\") is a graph theoretical schematic used to represent the rules of a context-free grammar. RTNs have application to programming languages, natural language and lexical analysis. Any sentence that is constructed according to the rules of an RTN is said to be \"well-formed\". The structural elements of a well-formed sentence may also be well-formed sentences by themselves, or they may be simpler structures. This is why RTNs are described as recursive.\n\n"}
{"id": "20110874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20110874", "title": "Reference", "text": "Reference\n\nReference is a relation between objects in which one object designates, or acts as a means by which to connect to or link to, another object. The first object in this relation is said to \"refer to\" the second object. It is called a \"name\" for the second object. The second object, the one to which the first object refers, is called the \"referent\" of the first object. A name is usually a phrase or expression, or some other symbolic representation. Its referent may be anything – a material object, a person, an event, an activity, or an abstract concept.\n\nReferences can take on many forms, including: a thought, a sensory perception that is audible (onomatopoeia), visual (text), olfactory, or tactile, emotional state, relationship with other, spacetime coordinate, symbolic or alpha-numeric, a physical object or an energy projection. In some cases, methods are used that intentionally hide the reference from some observers, as in cryptography.\n\nReferences feature in many spheres of human activity and knowledge, and the term adopts shades of meaning particular to the contexts in which it is used. Some of them are described in the sections below.\n\nThe word \"reference\" is derived from Middle English \"referren\", from Middle French \"référer\", from Latin \"referre\", \"to carry back\", formed from the prefix \"re\"- and \"ferre\", \"to bear\". A number of words derive from the same root, including \"refer\", \"referee\", \"referential\", \"referent\", \"referendum\".\n\nThe verb \"refer (to)\" and its derivatives may carry the sense of \"link to\" or \"connect to\", as in the meanings of \"reference\" described in this article. Another sense is \"consult\"; this is reflected in such expressions as reference work, reference desk, job reference, etc.\n\nIn semantics, reference is generally construed as the relationships between nouns or pronouns and objects that are named by them. Hence, the word \"John\" refers to the person John. The word \"it\" refers to some previously specified object. The object referred to is called the \"referent\" of the word. Sometimes the word-object relation is called \"denotation\"; the word denotes the object. The converse relation, the relation from object to word, is called \"exemplification\"; the object exemplifies what the word denotes. In syntactic analysis, if a word refers to a previous word, the previous word is called the \"antecedent\".\n\nGottlob Frege argued that reference cannot be treated as identical with meaning: \"Hesperus\" (an ancient Greek name for the evening star) and \"Phosphorus\" (an ancient Greek name for the morning star) both refer to Venus, but the astronomical fact that '\"Hesperus\" is \"Phosphorus\"' can still be informative, even if the \"meanings\" of \"Hesperus\" and \"Phosphorus\" are already known. This problem led Frege to distinguish between the sense and reference of a word. Some cases seem to be too complicated to be classified within this framework; the acceptance of the notion of secondary reference may be necessary to fill the gap. See also Opaque context.\n\nThe very concept of the linguistic sign is the combination of content and expression, the former of which may refer entities in the world or refer more abstract concepts, e.g. thought.\nCertain parts of speech exist only to express reference, namely anaphora such as pronouns. The subset of reflexives expresses co-reference of two participants in a sentence. These could be the agent (actor) and patient (acted on), as in \"The man washed himself\", the theme and recipient, as in \"I showed Mary to herself\", or various other possible combinations.\n\nIn computer science, references are data types that refer to an object elsewhere in memory and are used to construct a wide variety of data structures, such as linked lists. Generally, a reference is a value that enables a program to directly access the particular data item. Most programming languages support some form of reference. For the specific type of reference used in the C++ language, see reference (C++).\n\nThe notion of reference is also important in relational database theory; see referential integrity.\n\nReferences to many types of printed matter may come in an electronic or machine-readable form. For books, there exists the ISBN and for journal articles, the Digital object identifier (DOI) is gaining relevance. Information on the Internet may be referred to by a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI).\n\nIn terms of mental processing, a self-reference is used in psychology to establish identification with a mental state during self-analysis. This seeks to allow the individual to develop own frames of reference in a greater state of immediate awareness. However, it can also lead to circular reasoning, preventing evolution of thought.\n\nAccording to Perceptual Control Theory (PCT), a reference condition is the state toward which a control system's output tends to alter a controlled quantity. The main proposition is that \"All behavior is oriented all of the time around the control of certain quantities with respect to specific reference conditions.\"\n\nIn academics and scholarship, an author-title-date information in bibliographies and footnotes, specifying complete works of other people. Copying of material by another author without proper citation or without required permissions is plagiarism.\n\nKeeping a diary allows an individual to use references for personal organization, whether or not anyone else understands the systems of reference used. However, scholars have studied methods of reference because of their key role in communication and co-operation between \"different\" people, and also because of misunderstandings that can arise. Modern academic study of reference has been developing since the 19th century.\n\nIn scholarship, a reference may be a citation of a text that has been used in the creation of a piece of work such as an essay, report, or oration. Its primary purpose is to allow people who read such work to examine the author's sources, either for validity or to learn more about the subject. Such items are often listed at the end of an article or book in a section marked \"Bibliography\" or \"References\". A bibliographical section often contains works not cited by the author, but used as background reading or listed as potentially useful to the reader. A reference section contains only those works cited by the author(s) in the main text.\n\nIn patent law, a reference is a document that can be used to show the state of knowledge at a given time and that therefore may make a claimed invention obvious or anticipated. Examples of references are patents of any country, magazine articles, Ph.D. theses that are indexed and thus accessible to those interested in finding information about the subject matter, and to some extent Internet material that is similarly accessible.\n\nIn art, a reference is an item from which a work is based. This may include:\nAnother example of reference is samples of various musical works being incorporated into a new one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24714755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24714755", "title": "Research Diagnostic Criteria", "text": "Research Diagnostic Criteria\n\nThe Research Diagnostic Criteria (RDC) are a collection of influential psychiatric diagnostic criteria published in late 1970s. As psychiatric diagnoses widely varied especially between the USA and Europe, the purpose of the criteria was to allow diagnoses to be consistent in psychiatric research. \n\nSome of the criteria were based on the earlier Feighner Criteria, although many new disorders were included; \"The historical record shows that the small group of individuals who created the Feighner criteria instigated a paradigm shift that has had profound effects on the course of American and, ultimately, world psychiatry.\"\n\nThe RDC is important in the history of psychiatric diagnostic criteria as the DSM-III was based on many of the RDC descriptions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2308722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2308722", "title": "Risk perception", "text": "Risk perception\n\nRisk perception is the subjective judgement that people make about the characteristics and severity of a risk. The phrase is most commonly used in reference to natural hazards and threats to the environment or health, such as nuclear power. Several theories have been proposed to explain why different people make different estimates of the dangerousness of risks. Three major families of theory have been developed: psychology approaches (heuristics and cognitive), anthropology/sociology approaches (cultural theory) and interdisciplinary approaches (social amplification of risk framework).\n\nThe study of risk perception arose out of the observation that experts and lay people often disagreed about how risky various technologies and natural hazards were.\n\nThe mid 1960s saw the rapid rise of nuclear technologies and the promise for clean and safe energy. However, public perception shifted against this new technology. Fears of both longitudinal dangers to the environment and immediate disasters creating radioactive wastelands turned the public against this new technology. The scientific and governmental communities asked why public perception was against the use of nuclear energy when all the scientific experts were declaring how safe it really was. The problem, from the perspectives of the experts, was a difference between scientific facts and an exaggerated public perception of the dangers.\n\nA key early paper was written in 1969 by Chauncey Starr. Starr used a revealed preference approach to find out what risks are considered acceptable by society. He assumed that society had reached equilibrium in its judgment of risks, so whatever risk levels actually existed in society were acceptable. His major finding was that people will accept risks 1,000 times greater if they are voluntary (e.g. driving a car) than if they are involuntary (e.g. a nuclear disaster).\n\nThis early approach assumed that individuals behave rationally by weighing information before making a decision, and that individuals have exaggerated fears due to inadequate or incorrect information. Implied in this assumption is that additional information can help people understand true risk and hence lessen their opinion of danger. While researchers in the engineering school did pioneer research in risk perception, by adapting theories from economics, it has little use in a practical setting. Numerous studies have rejected the belief that additional information, alone, will shift perceptions.\n\nThe psychological approach began with research in trying to understand how people process information. These early works maintained that people use cognitive heuristics in sorting and simplifying information, leading to biases in comprehension. Later work built on this foundation and became the \"psychometric paradigm\". This approach identifies numerous factors responsible for influencing individual perceptions of risk, including dread, novelty, stigma, and other factors.\n\nResearch also shows that risk perceptions are influenced by the emotional state of the perceiver. The valence theory of risk perception only differentiates between positive emotions, such as happiness and optimism, and negative ones, such as fear and anger. According to valence theory, positive emotions lead to optimistic risk perceptions whereas negative emotions influence a more pessimistic view of risk.\n\nResearch also has found that, whereas risk and benefit tend to be positively correlated across hazardous activities in the world, they are negatively correlated in people's minds and judgements.\n\nThe earliest psychometric research was done by psychologists Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, who performed a series of gambling experiments to see how people evaluated probabilities. Their major finding was that people use a number of heuristics to evaluate information. These heuristics are usually useful shortcuts for thinking, but they may lead to inaccurate judgments in some situations – in which case they become cognitive biases.\n\nAnother key finding was that the experts are not necessarily any better at estimating probabilities than lay people. Experts were often overconfident in the exactness of their estimates, and put too much stock in small samples of data.\n\nThe majority of people in the public express a greater concern for problems which appear to possess an immediate effect on everyday life such as hazardous waste or pesticide-use than for long-term problems that may affect future generations such as climate change or population growth. People greatly rely on the scientific community to assess the threat of environmental problems because they usually do not directly experience the effects of phenomena such as climate change. The exposure most people have to climate change has been impersonal; most people only have virtual experience though documentaries and news media in what may seem like a “remote” area of the world. However, coupled with the population’s wait-and-see attitude, people do not understand the importance of changing environmentally destructive behaviors even when experts provide detailed and clear risks caused by climate change.\n\nResearch within the psychometric paradigm turned to focus on the roles of affect, emotion, and stigma in influencing risk perception. Melissa Finucane and Paul Slovic have been among the key researchers here. These researchers first challenged Starr's article by examining expressed preference – how much risk people say they are willing to accept. They found that, contrary to Starr's basic assumption, people generally saw most risks in society as being unacceptably high. They also found that the gap between voluntary and involuntary risks was not nearly as great as Starr claimed.\n\nSlovic and team found that perceived risk is quantifiable and predictable. People tend to view current risk levels as unacceptably high for most activities. All things being equal, the greater people perceived a benefit, the greater the tolerance for a risk. If a person derived pleasure from using a product, people tended to judge its benefits as high and its risks as low. If the activity was disliked, the judgments were opposite. Research in psychometrics has proven that risk perception is highly dependent on intuition, experiential thinking, and emotions.\n\nPsychometric research identified a broad domain of characteristics that may be condensed into three high order factors: 1) the degree to which a risk is understood, 2) the degree to which it evokes a feeling of dread, and 3) the number of people exposed to the risk. A dread risk elicits visceral feelings of terror, uncontrollable, catastrophe, inequality, and uncontrolled. An unknown risk is new and unknown to science. The more a person dreads an activity, the higher its perceived risk and the more that person wants the risk reduced.\n\nThe anthropology/sociology approach posits risk perceptions as produced by and supporting social institutions. In this view, perceptions are socially constructed by institutions, cultural values, and ways of life.\n\nOne line of the Cultural Theory of risk is based on the work of anthropologist Mary Douglas and political scientist Aaron Wildavsky first published in 1982. In cultural theory, Douglas and Wildavsky outline four “ways of life” in a grid/group arrangement. Each way of life corresponds to a specific social structure and a particular outlook on risk. Grid categorizes the degree to which people are constrained and circumscribed in their social role. The tighter binding of social constraints limits individual negotiation. Group refers to the extent to which individuals are bounded by feelings of belonging or solidarity. The greater the bonds, the less individual choice are subject to personal control. Four ways of life include: Hierarchical, Individualist, Egalitarian, and Fatalist.\n\nRisk perception researchers have not widely accepted this version of cultural theory. Even Douglas says that the theory is controversial; it poses a danger of moving out of the favored paradigm of individual rational choice of which many researchers are comfortable.\n\nOn the other hand, writers who drawn upon a broader cultural theory perspective have argued that risk-perception analysis helps understand the public response to terrorism in a way that goes far beyond 'rational choice'. As John Handmer and Paul James write:\n\nThe First National Culture and Risk Survey of cultural cognition found that a person's worldview on the two social and cultural dimensions of \"hierarchy-egalitarianism,\" and \"individualism-solidarism\" was predictive of their response to risk.\n\nThe Social Amplification of Risk Framework (SARF), combines research in psychology, sociology, anthropology, and communications theory. SARF outlines how communications of risk events pass from the sender through intermediate stations to a receiver and in the process serve to amplify or attenuate perceptions of risk. All links in the communication chain, individuals, groups, media, etc., contain filters through which information is sorted and understood.\n\nThe framework attempts to explain the process by which risks are amplified, receiving public attention, or attenuated, receiving less public attention. The framework may be used to compare responses from different groups in a single event, or analyze the same risk issue in multiple events. In a single risk event, some groups may amplify their perception of risks while other groups may attenuate, or decrease, their perceptions of risk.\n\nThe main thesis of SARF states that risk events interact with individual psychological, social and other cultural factors in ways that either increase or decrease public perceptions of risk. Behaviors of individuals and groups then generate secondary social or economic impacts while also increasing or decreasing the physical risk itself.\n\nThese ripple effects caused by the amplification of risk include enduring mental perceptions, impacts on business sales, and change in residential property values, changes in training and education, or social disorder. These secondary changes are perceived and reacted to by individuals and groups resulting in third-order impacts. As each higher-order impacts are reacted to, they may ripple to other parties and locations. Traditional risk analyses neglect these ripple effect impacts and thus greatly underestimate the adverse effects from certain risk events. Public distortion of risk signals provides a corrective mechanism by which society assesses a fuller determination of the risk and its impacts to such things not traditionally factored into a risk analysis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1638096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638096", "title": "Seed (sports)", "text": "Seed (sports)\n\nA seed is a competitor or team in a sport or other tournament who is given a preliminary ranking for the purposes of the draw. Players/teams are \"planted\" into the bracket in a manner that is typically intended so that the best do not meet until later in the competition. The term was first used in tennis, and is based on the idea of laying out a tournament ladder by arranging slips of paper with the names of players on them the way seeds or seedlings are arranged in a garden: smaller plants up front, larger ones behind.\n\nSometimes the remaining competitors in a single-elimination tournament will be \"re-seeded\" so that the highest surviving seed is made to play the lowest surviving seed in the next round, the second-highest plays the second-lowest, etc. This may be done after each round, or only at selected intervals.\n\nProfessional tennis tournaments seed players based on their rankings. The number of seeds varies from tournament to tournament. Generally the bigger the event the more seeds there tend to be relative to lesser events. The 4 major (Grand Slam) tournaments progressively expanded from 8-seed format to 16-seed, then to the current 32-seed format, which was adopted in the middle of the 2001 season, after French Open champion Gustavo Kuerten had complained that clay-court specialists were at a disadvantage with just 16 seeds.\n\nIn a tennis event, one version of seeding is where brackets are set up so that the quarterfinal pairings (barring any upsets) would be the 1 seed vs. the 8 seed, 2 vs. 7, 3 vs. 6 and 4 vs. 5; however, this is not the procedure that is followed in most tennis tournaments, where the 1 and 2 seeds are placed in separate brackets, but then the 3 and 4 seeds are assigned to their brackets randomly, and so too are seeds 5 through 8, and so on. This may result in some brackets consisting of stronger players than other brackets, and since only the top 32 players are seeded in Tennis Grand Slam tournaments, it is conceivable that the 33rd best player in a 128-player field could end up playing the top seed in the first round. A good example of this occurring was when World No. 33 Florian Mayer was drawn against (and eventually defeated by) then-World No. 1 Novak Djokovic in the first round of the 2013 Wimbledon Championships, in what was also a rematch of a quarter-final from the previous year. Rankings of tennis players, based on a history of performance, tend to change positions gradually, and so a more \"equitable\" method of determining the pairings might result in many of the same head-to-head match-ups being repeated in successive tournaments. An example of a seeded 16-team bracket:\nIn American team sports, MLS, NFL and WNBA employ re-seeding in MLS Cup Playoffs, NFL playoffs & WNBA Playoffs, respectively, while the NBA playoffs and the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament do not; the NHL's Stanley Cup Playoffs formerly used re-seeding between 1994 and 2013. MLB does not have enough teams in its playoff tournament where re-seeding would make a difference in the matchups. (The MLS and NFL are at the minimum, which is 6 from each conference (or league in MLB) for a total of 12.) The NBA's format calls for the winner of the conference quarterfinal series between the first and eighth seeds (within each of the two conferences the league has) to face the winner of the other series between the fourth and fifth seeds in the next round, even if one or more of the top three seeds had been upset in their first-round series; critics have claimed that this gives a team fighting for the fifth and sixth seeding positions near the end of the regular season an incentive to tank (deliberately lose) games, so as to finish sixth and thus avoid a possible matchup with the top seed until one round later. So will the winner of the second and seventh seeds to take on the winner of the third and sixth seeds.\n\nIn some situations, a seeding restriction will be implemented; from 1975 until 1989 in the NFL and from 1998 until 2011 in MLB there was a rule where at the conference or league semifinal, should the top seed and last seed (wild card) be from the same division, they may not play each other; in that case, the top seed plays the worst division champion; the second-best division champion plays the wild card team.\n\nIn international fencing competitions, it is common to have a group stage. Participants are divided in groups of 6–7 fencers who play a round-robin tournament, and a ranking is calculated from the consolidated group results. Single elimination is seeded from this ranking.\n\n"}
{"id": "49546832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49546832", "title": "Social multiplier effect", "text": "Social multiplier effect\n\nThe social multiplier effect is a term used in economics, economic geography, sociology, public health and other academic disciplines to describe certain social externalities. It is based on the principle that high levels of one attribute amongst one's peers can have spillover effects on an individual. \"This social multiplier can also be thought of as a ratio ∆P/∆I where ∆I is the average response of an individual action to an exogenous parameter (that affects only that person) and ∆P is the (per capita) response of the peer group to a change in the same parameter that affects the entire peer group.\" In other words, it is the ratio of an individual action to an exogenous parameter to the aggregate effect of the same parameter on the individual's peers.\n\nFor example, we know that health outcomes strongly correlate with education level. Given the social multiplier effect, we know that in the aggregate, if a poorly educated individual moves into a highly educated area they will experience some of the positive health effects associated with being more educated. It is important however to distinguish between 1) a local-average model or social norms, whereby certain attributes are adopted based on them being the socially normal behavior, and 2) a local-aggregate model or social multiplier effect whereby \"peer effects are captured by the sum of friends' efforts in some activity.\" In the former an individual pays a price for deviating from a norm. In the latter, as an individual gains more peers who have a certain attribute, they will experience greater utility for adopting this attribute as well. The following are some examples of research on the social multiplier effect.\n\nResearchers Scott E. Carrell et. al. have shown that one's friends' fitness affects one's own fitness. They find that \"each out-of-shape individual creates two additional out-of-shape individuals through their social interactions.\" Another researcher Jeffery Fletcher has found that a 10 percent increase in the number of students who smoke at a high school increases the chances another student will smoke by about 3 percent. Xiaodong Liu et. al. have found that there is a multiplier effect for juvenile delinquency in schools. Additionally, in another article Carell et. al. find that peer cheating increases the likelihood that an individual will cheat.\n\nThe social multiplier effect is of particular concern to researchers in economic geography. It is well documented that factors like income and education have strong positive correlations with many aspects of health. This is important because the geographic distribution of income and education is becoming increasingly stratified. For example, since 1980, on average, cities that had high levels of college educated workers are becoming increasingly college educated whereas those who had low levels are becoming increasingly less educated. The same trend applies to income. Consequently, as the distribution of income and education level becomes more disparate, many low income regions lose out on the social multiplier benefits they once enjoyed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5144034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5144034", "title": "Spatial visualization ability", "text": "Spatial visualization ability\n\nSpatial visualization ability or visual-spatial ability is the ability to mentally manipulate 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional figures. It is typically measured with simple cognitive tests and is predictive of user performance with some kinds of user interfaces.\n\nThe cognitive tests used to measure spatial visualization ability including mental rotation tasks like the Mental Rotations Test or mental cutting tasks like the Mental Cutting Test; and cognitive tests like the VZ-1 (Form Board), VZ-2 (Paper Folding), and VZ-3 (Surface Development) tests from the Kit of Factor-Reference cognitive tests produced by Educational Testing Service. Though the descriptions of spatial visualization and mental rotation sound similar, mental rotation is a particular task that can be accomplished using spatial visualization.\n\nThe Form Board test involves giving participants a shape and a set of smaller shapes which they are then instructed to determine which combination of small shapes will fill the larger shape completely without overlapping. The Paper Folding test involves showing participants a sequence of folds in a piece of paper, through which a set of holes is then punched. The participants must choose which of a set of unfolded papers with holes corresponds to the one they have just seen.\n\nThe Surface Development test involves giving participants a flat shape with numbered sides and a three-dimensional shape with lettered sides and asking the participants to indicate which numbered side corresponds to which lettered side.\n\nAccording to certain studies, men on average have one standard deviation higher spatial intelligence quotient than women. This domain is one of the few where clear sex differences in cognition appear. Researchers at the University of Toronto say that differences between men and women on some tasks that require spatial skills are largely eliminated after both groups play a video game for only a few hours. Although Herman Witkin had claimed women are more \"visually dependent\" than men, this has recently been disputed.\n\nOther studies suggest gender differences in spatial thinking may be explained by a stereotype threat effect. The fear of fulfilling stereotypes negatively affects the performance which results in a self-fulfilling prophecy. The adaptive significance, if any, of male superiority in spatial navigation has been questioned. A 2012 study suggests that male superiority in spatial navigation is more likely derived from hormonal differences.\n\nOlder adults tend to perform worse on measures of spatial visualization ability than younger adults, and this effect seems to occur even among people who use spatial visualization frequently on the job, such as architects and surveyors (though they still perform better on the measures than others of the same age). It is, however, possible that the types of spatial visualization used by architects are not measured accurately by the tests.\n\nThe construct of spatial visualization ability was first identified as separate from general intelligence in the 20th Century, and its implications for computer system design were identified in the 1980s.\n\nIn 1987, Kim Vicente and colleagues ran a battery of cognitive tests on a set of participants and then determined which cognitive abilities correlated with performance on a computerized information search task. They found that the only significant predictors of performance were vocabulary and spatial visualization ability, and that those with high spatial visualization ability were twice as fast to perform the task as those with lower levels of spatial visualization ability.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56303583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56303583", "title": "The Great Replacement conspiracy theory", "text": "The Great Replacement conspiracy theory\n\nThe great replacement () is a far-right conspiracy theory, which states that the white Catholic French population, and white Christian European population at large, is being systematically replaced with non-European people, specifically Middle Eastern, North and Sub-Saharan African populations, through mass migration and demographic growth. It associates the presence of Muslims in France with potential danger and destruction of French culture and civilization.\n\nThe conspiracy theory commonly apportions blame to a global and liberal elite, such as Brussels and the European Union, which is portrayed as directing a planned and deliberate plot or scheme to carry out the replacement of European peoples.\n\nThe theory has been popularized by Renaud Camus. This notion of replacement, or of white genocide, has echoed throughout the rhetoric of many anti-migrant far-right movements in the West. Among its main promoters are not only far-right populist parties but also a wide-ranging network of protest movements (e.g., Pegida), ideological groupuscules (e.g., bloc identitaire), bloggers (e.g., Fjordman), and noted intellectuals (e.g., Eric Zemmour). Prominent radical right-wing websites such as Gates of Vienna, Politically Incorrect, and France de Souche have provided a platform for bloggers to diffuse and popularize the conspiracy theory.\n\nThe theory of the great replacement can be traced back to the 1973 novel \"Le Camp des Saints\" by Jean Raspail which depicts the collapse of Western culture owing to an overwhelming \"tidal wave\" of Third World immigration. The novel, along with the theory of Eurabia developed by the Swiss-Israeli writer Bat Ye'or in 2005, set the ground then for Renaud Camus to develop and present his book entitled \"The Great Replacement\" in 2012. Credited as the \"progenitor of the Great Replacement doctrine\" by the SPLC, Camus has stated that \"the great replacement is very simple. You have one people, and in the space of a generation you have a different people\". Camus has argued that European culture, civilization and identity are in danger of being overrun by mass migration, especially Islamic, and hence physically replaced.\n\n"}
{"id": "29954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29954", "title": "Topology", "text": "Topology\n\nIn mathematics, topology (from the Greek τόπος, \"place\", and λόγος, \"study\") is concerned with the properties of space that are preserved under continuous deformations, such as stretching, twisting, crumpling and bending, but not tearing or gluing. \n\nAn n-dimensional topological space is a space (not necessarily Euclidean) with certain properties of connectedness and compactness. \n\nThe space may be continuous (like all points on a rubber sheet), or discrete (like the set of integers). It can be open (like the set of points inside a circle) or closed (like the set of points inside a circle, together with the points on the circle).\n\nTopology developed as a field of study out of geometry and set theory, through analysis of concepts such as space, dimension, and transformation. Such ideas go back to Gottfried Leibniz, who in the 17th century envisioned the \"geometria situs\" (Greek-Latin for \"geometry of place\") and \"analysis situs\" (Greek-Latin for \"picking apart of place\"). Leonhard Euler's Seven Bridges of Königsberg Problem and Polyhedron Formula are arguably the field's first theorems. The term \"topology\" was introduced by Johann Benedict Listing in the 19th century, although it was not until the first decades of the 20th century that the idea of a topological space was developed. By the middle of the 20th century, topology had become a major branch of mathematics.\nTopology, as a well-defined mathematical discipline, originates in the early part of the twentieth century, but some isolated results can be traced back several centuries. Among these are certain questions in geometry investigated by Leonhard Euler. His 1736 paper on the Seven Bridges of Königsberg is regarded as one of the first practical applications of topology. On 14 November 1750 Euler wrote to a friend that he had realised the importance of the \"edges\" of a polyhedron. This led to his polyhedron formula, \"V\" − \"E\" + \"F\" = 2 (where \"V\", \"E\" and \"F\" respectively indicate the number of vertices, edges and faces of the polyhedron). Some authorities regard this analysis as the first theorem, signalling the birth of topology.\n\nFurther contributions were made by Augustin-Louis Cauchy, Ludwig Schläfli, Johann Benedict Listing, Bernhard Riemann and Enrico Betti. Listing introduced the term \"Topologie\" in \"Vorstudien zur Topologie\", written in his native German, in 1847, having used the word for ten years in correspondence before its first appearance in print. The English form \"topology\" was used in 1883 in Listing's obituary in the journal \"Nature\" to distinguish \"qualitative geometry from the ordinary geometry in which quantitative relations chiefly are treated\". The term \"topologist\" in the sense of a specialist in topology was used in 1905 in the magazine \"Spectator\".\n\nTheir work was corrected, consolidated and greatly extended by Henri Poincaré. In 1895 he published his ground-breaking paper on \"Analysis Situs\", which introduced the concepts now known as homotopy and homology, which are now considered part of algebraic topology.\n\nUnifying the work on function spaces of Georg Cantor, Vito Volterra, Cesare Arzelà, Jacques Hadamard, Giulio Ascoli and others, Maurice Fréchet introduced the metric space in 1906. A metric space is now considered a special case of a general topological space, with any given topological space potentially giving rise to many distinct metric spaces. In 1914, Felix Hausdorff coined the term \"topological space\" and gave the definition for what is now called a Hausdorff space. Currently, a topological space is a slight generalization of Hausdorff spaces, given in 1922 by Kazimierz Kuratowski.\n\nModern topology depends strongly on the ideas of set theory, developed by Georg Cantor in the later part of the 19th century. In addition to establishing the basic ideas of set theory, Cantor considered point sets in Euclidean space as part of his study of Fourier series. For further developments, see point-set topology and algebraic topology.\n\nTopology can be formally defined as \"the study of qualitative properties of certain objects (called topological spaces) that are invariant under a certain kind of transformation (called a continuous map), especially those properties that are invariant under a certain kind of invertible transformation (called homeomorphisms).\"\n\nTopology is also used to refer to a structure imposed upon a set \"X\", a structure that essentially 'characterizes' the set \"X\" as a topological space by taking proper care of properties such as convergence, connectedness and continuity, upon transformation.\n\nTopological spaces show up naturally in almost every branch of mathematics. This has made topology one of the great unifying ideas of mathematics.\n\nThe motivating insight behind topology is that some geometric problems depend not on the exact shape of the objects involved, but rather on the way they are put together. For example, the square and the circle have many properties in common: they are both one dimensional objects (from a topological point of view) and both separate the plane into two parts, the part inside and the part outside.\n\nIn one of the first papers in topology, Leonhard Euler demonstrated that it was impossible to find a route through the town of Königsberg (now Kaliningrad) that would cross each of its seven bridges exactly once. This result did not depend on the lengths of the bridges, nor on their distance from one another, but only on connectivity properties: which bridges connect to which islands or riverbanks. This problem in introductory mathematics called \"Seven Bridges of Königsberg\" led to the branch of mathematics known as graph theory.\n\nSimilarly, the hairy ball theorem of algebraic topology says that \"one cannot comb the hair flat on a hairy ball without creating a cowlick.\" This fact is immediately convincing to most people, even though they might not recognize the more formal statement of the theorem, that there is no nonvanishing continuous tangent vector field on the sphere. As with the \"Bridges of Königsberg\", the result does not depend on the shape of the sphere; it applies to any kind of smooth blob, as long as it has no holes.\n\nTo deal with these problems that do not rely on the exact shape of the objects, one must be clear about just what properties these problems \"do\" rely on. From this need arises the notion of homeomorphism. The impossibility of crossing each bridge just once applies to any arrangement of bridges homeomorphic to those in Königsberg, and the hairy ball theorem applies to any space homeomorphic to a sphere.\n\nIntuitively, two spaces are homeomorphic if one can be deformed into the other without cutting or gluing. A traditional joke is that a topologist cannot distinguish a coffee mug from a doughnut, since a sufficiently pliable doughnut could be reshaped to a coffee cup by creating a dimple and progressively enlarging it, while shrinking the hole into a handle.\n\nHomeomorphism can be considered the most basic topological equivalence. Another is homotopy equivalence. This is harder to describe without getting technical, but the essential notion is that two objects are homotopy equivalent if they both result from \"squishing\" some larger object.\nAn introductory exercise is to classify the uppercase letters of the English alphabet according to homeomorphism and homotopy equivalence. The result depends partially on the font used. The figures use the sans-serif Myriad font. Homotopy equivalence is a rougher relationship than homeomorphism; a homotopy equivalence class can contain several homeomorphism classes. The simple case of homotopy equivalence described above can be used here to show two letters are homotopy equivalent. For example, O fits inside P and the tail of the P can be squished to the \"hole\" part.\n\nHomeomorphism classes are:\n\nHomotopy classes are larger, because the tails can be squished down to a point. They are:\n\nTo classify the letters correctly, we must show that two letters in the same class are equivalent and two letters in different classes are not equivalent. In the case of homeomorphism, this can be done by selecting points and showing their removal disconnects the letters differently. For example, X and Y are not homeomorphic because removing the center point of the X leaves four pieces; whatever point in Y corresponds to this point, its removal can leave at most three pieces. The case of homotopy equivalence is harder and requires a more elaborate argument showing an algebraic invariant, such as the fundamental group, is different on the supposedly differing classes.\n\nLetter topology has practical relevance in stencil typography. For instance, Braggadocio font stencils are made of one connected piece of material.\n\nThe term topology also refers to a specific mathematical idea central to the area of mathematics called topology. Informally, a topology tells how elements of a set relate spatially to each other. The same set can have different topologies. For instance, the real line, the complex plane (which is a 1-dimensional complex vector space), and the Cantor set can be thought of as the same set with different topologies.\n\nFormally, let \"X\" be a set and let \"τ\" be a family of subsets of \"X\". Then \"τ\" is called a \"topology on X\" if:\n\n\nIf \"τ\" is a topology on \"X\", then the pair (\"X\", \"τ\") is called a topological space. The notation \"X\" may be used to denote a set \"X\" endowed with the particular topology \"τ\".\n\nThe members of \"τ\" are called \"open sets\" in \"X\". A subset of \"X\" is said to be closed if its complement is in \"τ\" (i.e., its complement is open). A subset of \"X\" may be open, closed, both (clopen set), or neither. The empty set and \"X\" itself are always both closed and open. A subset of \"X\" including an open set containing a point \"x\" is called a 'neighborhood' of \"x\".\n\nA function or map from one topological space to another is called \"continuous\" if the inverse image of any open set is open. If the function maps the real numbers to the real numbers (both spaces with the standard topology), then this definition of continuous is equivalent to the definition of continuous in calculus. If a continuous function is one-to-one and onto, and if the inverse of the function is also continuous, then the function is called a homeomorphism and the domain of the function is said to be homeomorphic to the range. Another way of saying this is that the function has a natural extension to the topology. If two spaces are homeomorphic, they have identical topological properties, and are considered topologically the same. The cube and the sphere are homeomorphic, as are the coffee cup and the doughnut. But the circle is not homeomorphic to the doughnut.\n\nWhile topological spaces can be extremely varied and exotic, many areas of topology focus on the more familiar class of spaces known as manifolds. A manifold is a topological space that resembles Euclidean space near each point. More precisely, each point of an \"n\"-dimensional manifold has a neighbourhood that is homeomorphic to the Euclidean space of dimension \"n\". Lines and circles, but not figure eights, are one-dimensional manifolds. Two-dimensional manifolds are also called surfaces. Examples include the plane, the sphere, and the torus, which can all be realized without self-intersection in three dimensions, but also the Klein bottle and real projective plane, which cannot.\n\nGeneral topology is the branch of topology dealing with the basic set-theoretic definitions and constructions used in topology. It is the foundation of most other branches of topology, including differential topology, geometric topology, and algebraic topology. Another name for general topology is point-set topology.\n\nThe fundamental concepts in point-set topology are \"continuity\", \"compactness\", and \"connectedness\". Intuitively, continuous functions take nearby points to nearby points. Compact sets are those that can be covered by finitely many sets of arbitrarily small size. Connected sets are sets that cannot be divided into two pieces that are far apart. The words \"nearby\", \"arbitrarily small\", and \"far apart\" can all be made precise by using open sets. If we change the definition of \"open set\", we change what continuous functions, compact sets, and connected sets are. Each choice of definition for \"open set\" is called a \"topology\". A set with a topology is called a \"topological space\".\n\n\"Metric spaces\" are an important class of topological spaces where distances can be assigned a number called a \"metric\". Having a metric simplifies many proofs, and many of the most common topological spaces are metric spaces.\n\nAlgebraic topology is a branch of mathematics that uses tools from abstract algebra to study topological spaces. The basic goal is to find algebraic invariants that classify topological spaces up to homeomorphism, though usually most classify up to homotopy equivalence.\n\nThe most important of these invariants are homotopy groups, homology, and cohomology.\n\nAlthough algebraic topology primarily uses algebra to study topological problems, using topology to solve algebraic problems is sometimes also possible. Algebraic topology, for example, allows for a convenient proof that any subgroup of a free group is again a free group.\n\nDifferential topology is the field dealing with differentiable functions on differentiable manifolds. It is closely related to differential geometry and together they make up the geometric theory of differentiable manifolds.\n\nMore specifically, differential topology considers the properties and structures that require only a smooth structure on a manifold to be defined. Smooth manifolds are 'softer' than manifolds with extra geometric structures, which can act as obstructions to certain types of equivalences and deformations that exist in differential topology. For instance, volume and Riemannian curvature are invariants that can distinguish different geometric structures on the same smooth manifold—that is, one can smoothly \"flatten out\" certain manifolds, but it might require distorting the space and affecting the curvature or volume.\n\nGeometric topology is a branch of topology that primarily focuses on low-dimensional manifolds (i.e. spaces of dimensions 2,3 and 4) and their interaction with geometry, but it also includes some higher-dimensional topology.\n\nIn high-dimensional topology, characteristic classes are a basic invariant, and surgery theory is a key theory.\n\nLow-dimensional topology is strongly geometric, as reflected in the uniformization theorem in 2 dimensions – every surface admits a constant curvature metric; geometrically, it has one of 3 possible geometries: positive curvature/spherical, zero curvature/flat, negative curvature/hyperbolic – and the geometrization conjecture (now theorem) in 3 dimensions – every 3-manifold can be cut into pieces, each of which has one of eight possible geometries.\n\n2-dimensional topology can be studied as complex geometry in one variable (Riemann surfaces are complex curves) – by the uniformization theorem every conformal class of metrics is equivalent to a unique complex one, and 4-dimensional topology can be studied from the point of view of complex geometry in two variables (complex surfaces), though not every 4-manifold admits a complex structure.\n\nOccasionally, one needs to use the tools of topology but a \"set of points\" is not available. In pointless topology one considers instead the lattice of open sets as the basic notion of the theory, while Grothendieck topologies are structures defined on arbitrary categories that allow the definition of sheaves on those categories, and with that the definition of general cohomology theories.\n\nKnot theory, a branch of topology, is used in biology to study the effects of certain enzymes on DNA. These enzymes cut, twist, and reconnect the DNA, causing knotting with observable effects such as slower electrophoresis. Topology is also used in evolutionary biology to represent the relationship between phenotype and genotype. Phenotypic forms that appear quite different can be separated by only a few mutations depending on how genetic changes map to phenotypic changes during development. In neuroscience, topological quantities like the Euler characteristic and Betti number have been used to measure the complexity of patterns of activity in neural networks.\n\nTopological data analysis uses techniques from algebraic topology to determine the large scale structure of a set (for instance, determining if a cloud of points is spherical or toroidal). The main method used by topological data analysis is:\n\nTopology is relevant to physics in areas such as condensed matter physics, quantum field theory and physical cosmology.\n\nThe topological dependence of mechanical properties in solids is of interest in disciplines of mechanical engineering and materials science. Electrical and mechanical properties depend on the arrangement and network structures of molecules and elementary units in materials. The compressive strength of crumpled topologies is studied in attempts to understand the high strength to weight of such structures that are mostly empty space. Topology is of further significance in Contact mechanics where the dependence of stiffness and friction on the dimensionality of surface structures is the subject of interest with applications in multi-body physics.\n\nA topological quantum field theory (or topological field theory or TQFT) is a quantum field theory that computes topological invariants.\n\nAlthough TQFTs were invented by physicists, they are also of mathematical interest, being related to, among other things, knot theory, the theory of four-manifolds in algebraic topology, and to the theory of moduli spaces in algebraic geometry. Donaldson, Jones, Witten, and Kontsevich have all won Fields Medals for work related to topological field theory.\n\nThe topological classification of Calabi-Yau manifolds has important implications in string theory, as different manifolds can sustain different kinds of strings.\n\nIn cosmology, topology can be used to describe the overall shape of the universe. This area of research is commonly known as spacetime topology.\n\nTopological methods have been used to evaluate the complexity of geomorphological and ecological functions in a landscape and can be applied on geographic maps, or field observations (Papadimitriou, 2013), or even on models and programs representing such functions and their changes in time (Papadimitriou, 2012). \n\nThe possible positions of a robot can be described by a manifold called configuration space. In the area of motion planning, one finds paths between two points in configuration space. These paths represent a motion of the robot's joints and other parts into the desired pose.\n\nTanglement puzzles are based on topological aspects of the puzzle's shapes and components.\n\nIn order to create a continuous join of pieces in a modular construction, it is necessary to create an unbroken path in an order which surrounds each piece and traverses each edge only once. This process is an application of the Eulerian path.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6362556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6362556", "title": "Trager approach", "text": "Trager approach\n\nThe Trager approach is a form of somatic education. Proponents claim the Trager approach helps release deep-seated physical and mental patterns and facilitates deep relaxation, increased physical mobility, and mental clarity. The founder, Milton Trager, called his work Psychophysical Integration. He was an athlete, dancer, and bodybuilder. He began doing bodywork with no training and later worked under a variety of practitioner licenses, including an MD earned in Mexico followed by 2 years residency in psychiatry. Trager wanted western medicine to accept his proposed mind-body connection in treating challenging conditions such as postpolio, Parkinson's, and other neuromuscular conditions. Doctors reportedly referred patients to him and were surprised by the results, but \"none seemed to consider his drugless treatments as effective as surgery or medication\" and the medical approach to these conditions did not fundamentally shift away from them as he had envisioned. \nLate in life, at the Esalen Institute, he was encouraged to begin teaching, which he did for the last 22 years of his life.\n\nAt the beginning of a session, the practitioner enters into a state of meditation that Milton Trager originally termed \"hook-up\". From this state of mind, the practitioner uses gentle touch and a combination of passive and active movement with the intent of teaching the recipient how to move with less effort. The contact is gentle in a sense; it may be quite firm but is without strain or resistance. Regarding pain, Trager practitioners avoid causing pain, and attempt to contact the body in a way that allows the client to have decreased fear of pain and increased willingness to be present with the full range of sensations. Practitioners are taught to allow a tone of curiosity, playfulness, and effortlessness to guide their work. In addition to hands-on bodywork, clients are taught a series of movements called \"Mentastics\" to be performed with a certain mental attention. While doing these movements, the client is asked to explore how to move with the least tension and effort possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "4653992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4653992", "title": "Underhanded C Contest", "text": "Underhanded C Contest\n\nThe Underhanded C Contest is a programming contest to turn out code that is malicious, but passes a rigorous inspection, and looks like an honest mistake even if discovered. The contest rules define a task, and a malicious component. Entries must perform the task in a malicious manner as defined by the contest, and hide the malice. Contestants are allowed to use C-like compiled languages to make their programs.\n\nThe contest was organized by Dr. Scott Craver of the Department of Electrical Engineering at Binghamton University (New York State). The contest was initially inspired by Daniel Horn’s Obfuscated V contest in the fall of 2004. For the 2005 to 2008 contests, the prize was a $100 gift certificate to ThinkGeek. The 2009 contest had its prize increased to $200 due to the very late announcement of winners, and the prize for the 2013 contest is also a $200 gift certificate.\n\nThe domain for the website has expired as of 2018-10-17.\n\nThe 2005 contest had the task of basic image processing, such as resampling or smoothing, but covertly inserting unique and useful \"fingerprinting\" data into the image. Winning entries from 2005 used uninitialized data structures, reuse of pointers, and an embedding of machine code in constants.\n\nThe 2006 contest required entries to count word occurrences, but have vastly different runtimes on different platforms. To accomplish the task, entries used fork implementation errors, optimization problems, endian differences and various API implementation differences. The winner called strlen() in a loop, leading to quadratic complexity which was optimised out by a Linux compiler but not by Windows.\n\nThe 2007 contest required entries to encrypt and decrypt files with a strong, readily available encryption algorithm such that a low percentage (1% - 0.01%) of the encrypted files may be cracked in a reasonably short time. The contest commenced on April 16 and ended on July 4. Entries used misimplementations of RC4, misused API calls, and incorrect function prototypes.\n\nThe 2008 contest required entries to redact a rectangular portion of a PPM image in a way that the portion may be reconstructed. Any method of \"blocking out\" the rectangle was allowed, as long as the original pixels were removed, and the pixel reconstruction didn't have to be perfect (although the reconstruction's fidelity to the original file would be a factor in judging). The contest began on June 12, and ended on September 30. Entries tended to either xor the region with a retrievable pseudo-random mask or append the masked data to the end of the file format. The two placing programs both used improperly defined macros while the winner, choosing to work with an uncommon text based format, zeroed out pixel values while keeping the number of digits intact.\n\nThe 2009 contest required participants to write a program that sifts through routing directives but redirects a piece of luggage based on some innocuous-looking comment in the space-delimited input data file. The contest began December 29, 2009, and was due to end on March 1, 2010. However, no activity occurred for three years. The winners were only announced on April 1, 2013, with one overall winner and six runners-up.\n\nThe 2013 contest was announced on April 1, 2013, and was due July 4, 2013; results were announced on September 29, 2014. It was about a fictional social website called \"ObsessBook\". The challenge was to write a function to compute the DERPCON (Degrees of Edge-Reachable Personal CONnection) between two users that \"accidentally\" computes a too low distance for a special user.\n\nThe 2014 contest was announced on November 2, 2014, and was due January 1, 2015. The results were announced on June 1, 2015. The object was to write surveillance code for a Twitter-like social networking service, to comply with a secret government surveillance request; but for non-obvious reasons, the code must subtly leak the act of surveillance to a user.\n\nThe 2015 contest was announced on August 15, 2015, and was due November 15, 2015. The results were announced on January 15, 2016. The scenario was a nuclear disarmament process between the Peoples Glorious Democratic Republic of Alice and the Glorious Democratic Peoples Republic of Bob, and the mission was to write a test function for comparing potentially fissile material against a reference sample, which under certain circumstances would label a warhead as containing fissile material when it doesn't.\n\n"}
{"id": "4440608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4440608", "title": "Utilization", "text": "Utilization\n\nUtilization may refer to:\n\nIn engineering utilization or operational stage of a system or equipment life-cycle is a period of time when their quality is realized in practical use to achieve intended objectives and supported by accomplishment of storage, maintenance, repair, etc. Subsequently, the term \"utilization\" may have two meaning depending on context: 1) a process of actual use of a system or equipment - in case of simple products and 2) a stage of a complex product life-cycle - in case of use within the product life-cycle management processes. \n\nIn equipment and tool rental companies, utilization is the primary method by which asset performance is measured and business success determined. In basic terms it is a measure of the actual revenue earned by assets against the potential revenue they could have earned. Rental utilization is divided into a number of different calculations, and not all companies work precisely the same way. In general terms however there are 2 key calculations: the physical utilization on the asset, which is measured based on the number of available days for rental against the number of days actually rented. (This may also be measured in hours for certain types of equipment), and the financial utilization on the asset (referred to in North America as $ Utilization) which is measured as the rental revenue achieved over a period of time against the potential revenue that could have been achieved based on a target or standard, non-discounted rate. Physical utilization is also sometimes referred to as spot utilization, where a rental company looks at its current utilization of assets based on a single moment in time (e.g. now, 9 am today, etc.).\n\nUtilization calculations may be varied based on many different factors. For example: \n\nUtilization in this context is heavily linked to profitability. Low physical utilization may be mitigated by keeping rental rates high, high physical utilization normally justifies keeping rental rates lower. Different types of equipment may also alter the relationship between rates and utilization.\n\nCredit utilization is defined as the ratio of an entity's credit card and revolving loan balances to their credit limits; in other words, it represents the amount of their credit limit that is being used. Credit utilization is one of several factors typically used by credit scoring models because it is often correlated with lending risk.\n"}
{"id": "2072393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072393", "title": "Win-win game", "text": "Win-win game\n\nA win–win game is a game that, in game design or game theory, is designed in a way that all participants can profit from it in one way or the other. In conflict resolution, a win–win strategy is a collaborative strategy and conflict resolution process that aims to accommodate all participants. In economics, it is a voluntary transaction where both parties gain wealth, as in the double thank-you of capitalism.\n\n\nGroup-dynamics win–win games have been increasingly popular since the end of the Vietnam war and have been successfully applied to all levels of society.\n\nGroup-dynamics win–win games emphasize the importance of cooperation, fun, sharing, caring and overall group success in contrast to domination, egoistic behavior and personal gain. All players are treated as equally important and valuable. Win–win games often also carry an ethical message of caring for the environment and a holistic approach to life and society. Win–win games are a powerful tool to give people self-confidence and a \"we\" experience, especially when they have suffered from emotional isolation.\n\nAn example would be a game where all players try to carry a huge \"earth ball\" (a ball several meters in diameter) over their heads while negotiating an obstacle course. This is a typical example of a win–win game for several reasons:\n\nThere are also mathematical win–win games, the mathematical term being non-zero-sum games. Such games are often simply represented by a matrix of payouts.\n\n"}
{"id": "36189079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36189079", "title": "Xin (concept)", "text": "Xin (concept)\n\nIn Chinese philosophy, xin can refer to one's \"disposition\" or \"feelings\" (), or to one's confidence or trust in something or someone (). Literally, \"xin\" (心) refers to the physical heart, though it is sometimes translated as \"mind\" as the ancient Chinese believed the heart was the center of human cognition. For this reason, it is also sometimes translated as \"heart-mind\". It has a connotation of intention, yet can be used to refer to long-term goals. Xunzi, an important early Confucian thinker, considered \"xin\" (心) to be cultivated during one's life, in contrast to innate qualities of \"xing\" (), or human nature.\n\nA Daoist view, specifically from the philosopher Zhuangzi, understands \"xin\" (心) as being socialized, with environmental pressures influencing personal intentions, sometimes in such a way that can provoke disagreements and conflict. While a Confucian might take heart that \"xin\" (心) may be cultivated in order to develop \"de\", or moral virtue, Zhuangzi considered this socialization as detrimental to one's personal nature, somewhat along the lines of the later French philosopher, Jean-Jacques Rousseau. However, unlike Rousseau, René Descartes and many other Enlightenment-era European philosophers following the classical example of Plato, emotion and reason were not considered separate entities, but rather as coextensive; \"xin\" (心) itself is a concept that is as much cognitive as emotional.\n\n"}
{"id": "35397194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35397194", "title": "Yanantin", "text": "Yanantin\n\nYanantin is one of the best known and most defining characteristics of indigenous South American Andean thought and exemplifies Andean adherence to a philosophical model based in what is often referred to as a \"dualism of complementary terms\" or, simply, a “complementary dualism\". Much like in Chinese Taoism, Andean philosophy views the opposites of existence (such as male/female, dark/light, inner/outer) as interdependent and essential parts of a harmonious whole. Because existence itself is believed to be dependent upon the tension and balanced interchange between the polarities, there is a very definite ideological and practical commitment within indigenous Andean life to bringing the seemingly conflicting opposites into harmony with one another without destroying or altering either one. Among the indigenous people of Peru and Bolivia, the union of opposing yet interdependent energies is called \"yanantin\" or \"complementary opposites.\"\n\nIn the Quechua language, the prefix \"yana-\" means ”help,” while its suffix \"-ntin\" means “inclusive in nature, with implications of totality, spatial inclusion of one thing in another, or identification of two elements as members of the same category\". Put together, \"yanantin\" has been translated as “the complement of difference.” However, according to some Andeans:\n\nSome scholars break down the word \"yanantin\" slightly differently, translating \"yana-\" as “black” in the sense of “dark” or “obscure,” and contrast it to “light” (rather than in the sense of “black” as opposed to “white”).\n\nBecause the relationship of opposites as a harmonious partnership is considered the primary organizing principle of creation, \"yanantin\" infuses all aspects of social and spiritual life within the indigenous Andean worldview. Platt (1986) cited two examples of \"yanantin\" from his work with the Macha of Bolivia. When drinks are served, the Macha pour a few drops on the ground as an offering, while at the same time speaking the name of the receiving divinity. This is done twice. “This is explained as being \"yanantin\", for the conjugal pair”. When coca leaves (the most sacred plant of the Andes and an integral part of almost all indigenous ceremonies) are offered to a participant in a ritual, two handfuls are offered to each person, who receives them in two cupped hands. Platt (1986) wrote, “In all such cases, the pairing and the repetitions are explained as being \"yanantin\".\" In \"Yanantin and Masinitin in the Andean World\", Hillary Webb notes that the relationship between entities or energies is the essential component within indigenous Andean worldview, involving, “the relationship, the alliance, the meeting, and the unity between two beings.\" \"Yanantin\" contrasts with \"chhulla\", which refers to something that is unequal or odd—“one of things which should be twice.\" According to Vasquez (1998), the Quechua of Cajamarca say that something that is incomplete is referred to as \"chuya\" [alternate spelling], meaning “the one who is missing its other.\" Vasquez explained, ”In order to be whole, one has to pair up.\" Whether something is paired or unpaired is an important distinction within the Andean cosmovision. Regina Harrison noted, “Quechua speakers persistently distinguish objects which are not well matched or ‘equal’. According to Platt, \"yanantin\" is the act of rendering equal two things that were once unequal—what he calls “the correction of inequalities.\" Likewise, some indigenous Andeans believe the following.\n\n… [U]npartnered people are missing an important part of them. They say that when you don’t have a partner, you are only half of a being. Alone, you are precious, you are unique, but you are only part. You are not whole yet. This is because when you are by yourself, you are either accumulating so much that it is overwhelming or you are draining yourself so much that you become weak. Because of that, you will feel fear or confused or lost. … you may know yourself, but you can never see yourself. For that you need another person. You need other eyes, another perspective to see that. When you are a child, you have your parents, but when you become older you no longer have your parents to see you, to recognize you. As an adult, your \"yanantin\", your partner, is the person who is there to see what you don’t see in yourself, just as you are there to see in that person what he doesn’t see in himself. That is why it is easier to take care of another person than of yourself—because you are not supposed to take care of yourself! For that, there is the other person. \n\nIt has thus been implied that a perfect \"yanantin\" relationship is achieved when two energies are brought into harmony. Among the Macha, Platt explained, “The elements to be paired must first be ‘pared’ to achieve the ‘perfect fit.’ Here the crucial notion is that of the sharing of boundaries in order to create a harmonious co-existence.\"\n\nThe Quechua word \"masintin\" is often used in tandem with \"yanantin\", as in \"yanantin-masintin\". This indicates the process by which the \"yanantin\" pair becomes “pared” in Platt’s terms, or harmonized to achieve a perfect fit. Webb’s research participants described \"masintin\" as, “the process, the experience of that \"yanantin\" relationship.”\n\n\n\n"}
