{"id": "48909804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48909804", "title": "African magic", "text": "African magic\n\nAfrican magic is the form, development, and performance of magic within the culture and society of Africa.\n\nThe word magic might simply be understood as denoting management of forces, which, as an activity, is not weighted morally and is accordingly a neutral activity from the start of a magical practice, but by the will of the magician, is thought to become and to have an outcome which represents either good or bad (evil).\n\nAncient African culture was in the habit customarily of always discerning difference between magic, and a group of other things, which are not magic, these things were medicine, divination, witchcraft and sorcery.\n\nE.K. Bongmba finds Witchcraft, Oracles, and Magic among the Azande by Evans-Pritchard (published 1937 ) responsible for a reduction in appreciation of the value of magic as a definite subject of study. Peter Pels (1998) posits failing in thought similarly stemming from a mis-aligned focus on the negative aspect of witchcraft representing the \"totum\" of magic.\n\nOpinion differs on how religion and magic are related to each other with respect development or to which developed from which, some thing they developed together from a shared origin, some think religion developed from magic, and some, magic from religion.\n\nThere are two types of magic, good, or magic which is used to do well and enhance well-being, and bad, which is magic used to do harm or wrong or evil.\n\nThe traditional roles related to and of magic in African society is medicine-man, divinator, rain-maker, and priest-magician.\n\nThese are at the simplest understanding people who function within a tribal setting as herbalists.\n\nRain-makers are thought to possess magical powers, although they possess these powers because they (the powers) are given them by the sky God or the Great Spirit. Rain-making is something which requires both religion and magic.\n\nThe priest-magician must grasp reality in many ways; understand the nature of climate, the forms of energy of the universe, the functions of material objects. The priest-magician controls forces of nature, and in doing this therefore has to understand how control of forces impacts upon perception and the human consciousness and minds of people. He or she fulfills his or her role by exercising the intellect and discerning a way forward while under the possession or control of a spirit or force of a divinity, to which he or she is a servant.\n\nWith particular reference to people dwelling within the Southern areas of Sudan, \n\nAssimilado\n"}
{"id": "8606899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8606899", "title": "Aircraft bluebook", "text": "Aircraft bluebook\n\nAn aircraft blueboook is a bluebook (value guide) for used aircraft. There are four of these in common use within the aviation industry; \"Aircraft Bluebook Price Digest\", \"Aircraft Value Reference\" (VREF), and \"Airliner Price Guide\" are paid-subscription publications. \"International Bluebook\" is an online free service.\n\nNone of the aviation industry bluebooks may be expected to give the simple calculation accuracy typical of the US automotive industry books such as \"Automobile Blue Book\", or Kelley Blue Book. A number of issues contribute to the difficulty in presenting a clear figure for a make/model/year, such as lack of central reporting of aircraft sales for either tax or license requirements, the complexity of individual aircraft value calculations, the timing of sales (long timeframes from offer to closing during which time the market can go up or down substantially), multiple synchronous closings for jet aircraft in particular, international currency sales, and non-disclosure-of-price terms included in many transaction documents.\n\nMost banks hire a professional broker/appraiser to allocate a value to an individual aircraft prior to funding. Appraisals usually include an onsite inspection and can be influenced by complex variables such as the year (manufactured year, delivery year, serial number sequence); time on airframe and engines (or until upcoming major inspection and maintenance events); damage (including where/how repaired); logbook and upgrades history; previous owners (number, type usage, and geographic location); maintenance programs (specially approved maintenance schedules and/or power by the hour engine insurance type plans); avionics; options; current mechanical, interior and exterior condition etc.\n\nThe Aircraft Bluebook Price Digest is a quarterly print publication (also available on CD-ROM) that was established in the 1950s. It identifies and prices more than 3,000 used general aviation aircraft and helicopter make and model-years available in the United States. Prices reflect historical data and cannot, therefore, take into account current operating conditions, such as fuel prices, which have a big effect on commercial aircraft values. Coverage also includes avionics, airworthiness, common conversions and overhaul usage limits.\n\nThe Bluebook scale is an index published by the \"Price Digest\" that tabulates the condition of an aircraft. The scale is widely used in the aviation industry. The scale ranges from 10 for a new aircraft to 1 for an aircraft not fit for flight.\n\nAircraft Value Reference (VREF), establihsed in 1991, is published twice a year by the Aircraft Value Analysis Company. It is used by both aircraft brokers and a number of financial institutions to estimate the future value of aircraft.\n\nThe Airliner Price Guide, established in 1985, is published by ACI Aviation Consulting. It provides prices for new and used commercial aircraft and other data such as engine values. The print version of the guide is issued twice a year. An online service is updated in real time.\n\nThe International Bluebook is a free online service which offers general bluebook figures for jet aircraft models and conditions. The site does not provide calculations for individual aircraft, but these may be obtained via dealer’s sites or on jet aircraft multiple listing service (MLS) sites which use the service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161537", "title": "Andrew Mellon", "text": "Andrew Mellon\n\nAndrew William Mellon (; March 24, 1855 – August 26, 1937), sometimes A.W., was an American banker, businessman, industrialist, philanthropist, art collector, and politician. From the wealthy Mellon family of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, he established a vast business empire before transitioning into politics. He served as United States Secretary of the Treasury from March 9, 1921, to February 12, 1932, presiding over the boom years of the 1920s and the Wall Street crash of 1929. A conservative Republican, Mellon favored policies that reduced taxation and the national debt in the aftermath of World War I.\n\nMellon's father, Thomas Mellon, rose to prominence in Pittsburgh as a banker and attorney. Andrew began working at his father's bank, T. Mellon & Sons, in the early 1870s, eventually becoming the leading figure in the institution. He later renamed T. Mellon & Sons as Mellon National Bank and established another financial institution, the Union Trust Company. By the end of 1913, Mellon National Bank held more money in deposits than any other bank in Pittsburgh, and the second-largest bank in the region was controlled by Union Trust. In the course of his business career, Mellon owned or helped finance Alcoa, the New York Shipbuilding Corporation, Old Overholt whiskey, Standard Steel Car Company, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Koppers, the Pittsburgh Coal Company, the Carborundum Company, Union Steel Company, the McClintic-Marshall Construction Company, Gulf Oil, and numerous other businesses. He was also an influential donor to the Republican Party during the Gilded Age and the Progressive Era.\n\nIn 1921, newly-elected President Warren G. Harding chose Mellon as his Secretary of the Treasury. Mellon would remain in office until 1932, serving under Harding, Calvin Coolidge, and Herbert Hoover, all three of whom were members of the Republican Party. Mellon sought to reform federal taxation in the aftermath of World War I, cutting taxes on top earners but leaving in place a progressive income tax. Some of Mellon's proposals were enacted by the Revenue Act of 1921 and the Revenue Act of 1924, but it was not until the passage of Revenue Act of 1926 that the \"Mellon plan\" was fully realized. He also presided over a reduction in the national debt, which dropped substantially in the 1920s. Mellon's influence in state and national politics reached its zenith during Coolidge's presidency; one observer noted that \"it would be fair to call the [Coolidge] administration the reign of Coolidge and Mellon.\"\n\nMellon's national reputation collapsed following the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the onset of the Great Depression. Mellon participated in various efforts by the Hoover administration to revive the economy and maintain the international economic order, but he opposed direct government intervention in the economy. After Congress began impeachment proceedings against Mellon, President Hoover shifted Mellon to the position of United States ambassador to the United Kingdom. Mellon returned to private life after Hoover's defeat in the 1932 presidential election by Franklin D. Roosevelt. Beginning in 1933, the federal government launched a tax fraud investigation on Mellon, leading to a high-profile case that ended with Mellon's exoneration. Shortly before his death in 1937, Mellon helped establish the National Gallery of Art, a national art museum. His philanthropic efforts also played a major role in the later establishment of Carnegie Mellon University and the National Portrait Gallery.\n\nMellon's paternal grandparents, both of whom were Ulster Scots, migrated to the United States from County Tyrone, Ireland in 1818. With their son, Thomas Mellon, they settled in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania. Thomas Mellon established a successful legal practice in Pittsburgh, and in 1843 he married Sarah Jane Negley, an heiress descended from some of the first settlers of Pittsburgh. Thomas became a wealthy landowner and real estate speculator, and he and his wife had eight children, five of whom survived to adulthood. Andrew Mellon, the fourth son and sixth child of Thomas and Sarah, was born in 1855. Though he lacked strong convictions about slavery, Thomas Mellon became a prominent member of the local Republican Party, and in 1859 he won election to a position on the Pennsylvania court of common pleas. Because Thomas was suspicious of both private and public schools, he built a schoolhouse for his children and hired a teacher; Andrew attended this school beginning at age five.\n\nIn 1869, after leaving his judicial position, Thomas Mellon established T. Mellon & Sons, a bank located in Pittsburgh. Andrew joined his father at the bank, quickly becoming a valued employee despite being in his early teens. Andrew also attended Western University (which was later renamed the University of Pittsburgh), but he never graduated. After leaving Western University, Andrew briefly worked at a lumber and coal business before joining T. Mellon & Sons as a full-time employee in 1873. That same year, the Panic of 1873 devastated the local and national economy, wiping out a portion of the Mellon fortune. With Andrew taking a leading role at T. Mellon & Sons, the bank quickly recovered, and by late 1874 the bank's deposits had reached the level they had been at prior to the onset of the Panic.\n\nMellon's role at T. Mellon & Sons continued to grow after 1873, and in 1876 he was given power of attorney to direct the operations of the bank. That same year, Thomas introduced his son to Henry Clay Frick, a customer of the bank who would become one of Mellons's closest friends. In 1882, Thomas turned over full ownership of the bank to his son, but Thomas continued to be involved in the bank's activities. Five years later, Mellon's younger brother, Richard B. Mellon, joined T. Mellon & Sons as a co-owner and vice president.\n\nDuring the 1880s, Mellon began to expand the bank's activities. Along with Frick, Mellon gained control the Pittsburgh National Bank of Commerce, a national bank that was authorized to print banknotes. Mellon also acquired or helped found the Union Insurance Company, City Deposit Bank, the Fidelity Title and Trust Company, and the Union Trust Company. He branched out into industrial concerns, becoming a director of the Pittsburgh Petroleum Exchange and a co-founder of two natural gas companies that collectively controlled 35,000 acres of gas lands in the late 1880s. In 1890, Thomas Mellon transferred his properties to Andrew, who would manage the properties on behalf of himself, his parents, and his brothers. In late 1894, Thomas transferred all of his remaining assets to Andrew. Despite the large sums entrusted to Andrew, the businesses he ran were still fairly small in the 1890s; T. Mellon & Sons employed seven individuals in 1895.\n\nIn 1889, Mellon agreed to loan $25,000 to the Pittsburgh Reduction Company, a fledgling operation seeking to become the first successful industrial producer of aluminum. Mellon became a director of the company in 1891, and he and Richard played a major role in the establishment of aluminum factories in New Kensington, Pennsylvania and Niagara Falls, New York. The company would emerge as one of the most profitable ventures invested in by the Mellons, and in 1907 it was renamed as Alcoa. Moving into the petroleum industry, the Mellon family also established the Crescent Oil Company, the Crescent Pipeline Company, and the Bear Creek refinery. By 1894, the Mellon family's vertically-integrated companies produced ten percent of the oil exported by the United States. Partly due to the difficult economic conditions caused by the onset of the Panic of 1893, in 1895 the Mellons sold their oil interests to Standard Oil. At roughly the same time they were selling their oil concerns, Andrew and Richard invested in the Carborundum Company, a producer of silicon carbide. The brothers gained majority ownership of the Carborundum Company in 1898, and replaced the company's founder and president, Edward Goodrich Acheson, with a Carnegie protege, Frank W. Haskell. Mellon also invested in mining concerns, becoming vice president of the Trade Dollar Consolidated Mining Company.\n\nMellon and Henry Clay Frick enjoyed a long-lasting business and social relationship, and Frick frequently hosted Mellon, attorney Philander C. Knox, inventor George Westinghouse, and others for poker games. Frick and Mellon both joined the Duquesne Club and, after Frick established the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club, Mellon became one of that club's first members. The South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club built the South Fork Dam, which supported an artificial lake that the club used for boating and fishing. In 1889, the dam broke, causing the Johnstown Flood, which killed 2,000 people and destroyed 1,600 homes. In the aftermath of the flood, Knox led a legal defense that successfully argued that the club bore no legal responsibility for the flood. Mellon did not publicly comment on the flood, though he did donate $1,000 to a relief fund.\n\nBy the late 1890s, Mellon had amassed a substantial fortune, but his wealth paled in comparison to better-known business leaders such as John D. Rockefeller. In the late 1890s, the Union Trust Company emerged for the first time as one of Mellon's most important and profitable holdings after Mellon broadened the company's activities to include commercial banking. With an infusion of capital from Union Trust, Mellon underwrote the capitalization of National Glass and several other companies. He also became a co-owner of the McClintic-Marshall Construction Company and established Crucible Steel Company, the Pittsburgh Coal Company, and the Monongahela River Coal Company; the two coal companies collectively contributed 11 percent of the coal production of the United States. With Frick, Richard Mellon, and William Donner, Mellon co-founded Union Steel Company, which specialized in the production of nails and barbed wire. Though Frick had fallen out with steel magnate and long-time business partner Andrew Carnegie, Mellon received Carnegie's consent to venture into the steel industry. Responding to the growing emphasis on naval power in the aftermath of the Spanish–American War, Mellon and Frick also became major shareholders in the New York Shipbuilding Corporation.\n\nIn 1902, Mellon reorganized T. Mellon & Sons as the Mellon National Bank, a federally-chartered National Bank. Andrew Mellon, Richard Mellon, and Frick drew up a new business arrangement in which the three of them jointly controlled the Union Trust Company, which in turn controlled Mellon National Bank. They also established Union Savings Bank, which accepted deposits by mail, and the Mellon banks flourished in the first years of the 20th century. While Mellon's financial empire prospered, his investments in other areas, including Pittsburgh's streetcar network, the Union Steel Company (which was bought out by U.S. Steel), and the Carborundum Company, also paid off handsomely. Another successful Mellon investment, the Standard Steel Car Company, was created in partnership with three former U.S. Steel executives. As part of the Texas oil boom, the Mellons also helped J. M. Guffey establish the Guffey Company. The Mellons later removed Guffey as the head of his company, and in 1907 they reorganized the Guffey Company as Gulf Oil and installed William Larimer Mellon Sr. (a son of Andrew Mellon's older brother, James Ross Mellon) as the head of Gulf Oil. The success of Mellon's financial empire and his varied investments made him, according to biographer David Cannadine, the \"single most significant individual in the economic life and progress of western Pennsylvania\" in the first decade of the 20th century.\n\nThe Panic of 1907 devastated several companies based in Pittsburgh, ending a period of strong growth. Some of Mellon's investments experienced a sustained down period after 1907, but most experienced a quick recovery. Mellon also became an investor in George Westinghouse's Westinghouse Electric Corporation after he helped prevent the company from going into bankruptcy. By the end of 1913, Mellon National Bank held more money in deposits than any other bank in Pittsburgh, and the Farmer's Deposit National Bank, which held the second-largest amount of deposits, was controlled by Mellon's Union Trust Company. In 1914, Mellon became a co-owner of Koppers, which produced a more sophisticated coking oven than the one that had earlier been pioneered by Frick. He also served as a director of various other companies, including the Pennsylvania Railroad and the American Locomotive Company. Mellon was deeply involved in the financing of World War I, as the Union Trust Company and other Mellon institutions provided millions of dollars in loans to the United Kingdom and France, and Mellon himself invested in Liberty bonds.\n\nIn 1887, Frick, Andrew, and Richard Mellon jointly purchased Old Overholt, a whiskey distillery located in West Overton, Pennsylvania. At the time, Old Overholt was one of the largest and most respected whiskey producers in the country. In 1907, as prohibition became more popular across the country, Frick and Mellon removed their names from the distilling license, but retained ownership in the company. It is believed that Mellon's connections in the Treasury Department are what allowed the company to secure a medicinal permit during Prohibition. This permit allowed Overholt to sell existing whiskey stocks to druggists for medicinal use. When Frick died in December 1919, he left his share to Mellon. In 1925, under pressure from prohibitionists, Mellon sold his share of the company to a New York grocer.\n\nLike his father, Mellon consistently supported the Republican Party, and he frequently donated to state and local party leaders. Through state party boss Matthew Quay, Mellon influenced legislators to place high tariffs on aluminum products in the McKinley Tariff of 1890. During the early 20th century, Mellon was dismayed by the rise of progressivism and the antitrust actions pursued by the presidential administrations of Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and Woodrow Wilson. He especially opposed the Taft administration's investigations into Alcoa, which in 1912 signed a consent decree rather than going to trial. In the aftermath of World War I, he provided financial support to Henry Cabot Lodge and other Republicans in their successful campaign to prevent ratification of the Treaty of Versailles. Mellon attended the 1920 Republican National Convention as a nominal supporter of Pennsylvania Governor William Cameron Sproul (Mellon hoped Senator Philander Knox would win the nomination), but the convention chose Senator Warren G. Harding of Ohio as the party's presidential nominee. Mellon strongly approved of the party's conservative platform, and he served as a key fundraiser for Harding during the presidential campaign.\n\nFollowing Harding's victory in the 1920 presidential election, Harding considered various candidates for Secretary of the Treasury, including Frank Lowden, John W. Weeks, Charles Dawes, and, at the urging of Senator Knox, Andrew Mellon. By 1920, Mellon was little-known outside of banking circles, but his potential appointment to the cabinet received strong support from bankers and Pennsylvania Republican leaders like Knox, Senator Boies Penrose, and Governor Sproul. Mellon was reluctant to enter public life due to concerns about privacy and a belief that his ownership of various businesses, including Old Overholt distillery, would be a political liability. But Mellon also wanted to retire from active participation in business, and he saw a cabinet position as a prestigious capstone to his career.\n\nMellon agreed to accept appointment as Secretary of the Treasury in February 1921, and his nomination was quickly confirmed by the United States Senate. Though Mellon's supporters believed that he was highly qualified to address the economic issues facing the country, critics of the Harding administration saw the Mellon appointment as a sign that Harding would \"reseat the power of special privileged interests, the powers of avarice and greed, the powers that seek self-aggrandizement at the expense of the general public.\" Harding paired the nomination of Mellon with that of Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover, who was distrusted by many of the same Senate Republicans who favored Mellon's candidacy. Before joining the cabinet, Mellon sold his banking stock to his brother, Richard, but he continued to hold his non-banking stock. Through Richard and other business associates, Mellon continued to be involved with the major decisions of the Mellon business empire during his time in public service, and he occasionally lobbied congressmen on behalf of his businesses. His fortune continued to grow, and at one point in the 1920s he paid more in federal income tax than any other individual save John Rockefeller and Henry Ford.\n\nAs Treasury Secretary, Mellon focused on balancing the budget and paying off World War I debts in the midst of the Depression of 1920–21; he was largely unconcerned with international affairs and economic matters such as the unemployment rate. To Mellon's chagrin, his department was charged with enforcing Prohibition; he did not believe in teetotaling himself and viewed the law as unenforceable. Aside from balancing the budget, Mellon's top priority was an overhaul of the federal tax code. The income tax had become a major part of the federal government's revenue system with the passage of the Revenue Act of 1913, and federal taxation on income had increased during World War I to provide funding for the war effort. According to M. Susan Murnane, major reforms to the federal income tax in the aftermath of World War I were \"inevitable,\" but the exact nature of the tax system in the 1920s was debated by conservatives and progressives within the Republican Party. Unlike the progressives in his party, Mellon rejected the redistributive nature of the taxation system that had been left in place by the Wilson administration. Due in part to the high debts left over from the war, Mellon did not join with some conservatives in the party, who favored the virtual abolition of the income tax in favor of high tariff rates, excise taxes, a national sales tax, or some combination thereof.\n\nMellon instead advocated for the retention of a progressive income tax that would serve as an important, but not primary, source of revenue for the federal government. His so-called \"scientific taxation\" was designed to maximize federal revenue while minimizing the impact on business and industry. The central tenet of Mellon's tax plan was a reduction of the surtax, a progressive tax that only affected high-income earners. Mellon argued that such a reduction would minimize tax avoidance and would not affect federal revenue because it would lead to greater economic growth. He hoped that tax reform would encourage high earners to move their savings from tax-exempt state and municipal bonds to taxable, higher yield industrial stocks. Though much of the tax plan that he proposed had been developed by former Wilson administration officials Russell Cornell Leffingwell and Seymour Parker Gilbert, the press generally referred to it as the \"Mellon Plan.\"\n\nThe Revenue Act of 1918 had set a top marginal income tax rate of 73% and a corporate tax of approximately 10%. Due in part to the size of the U.S. public debt, which had grown from $1 billion before the war to $24 billion in 1921, the provisions of the Revenue Act of 1918 remained in place when Harding took office. In 1921, the Treasury Department and the House Ways and Means Committee jointly prepared a bill setting the top marginal rate at the level advocated by Mellon, but opposition in the Senate from progressives like Senator Robert M. La Follette limited the size of the tax cuts. In November 1921, Congress passed and Harding signed the Revenue Act of 1921, which raised personal tax exemptions and lowered the top marginal tax rate to 58%. Because it differed from his original proposals, Mellon was displeased by the bill. He also strongly disapproved of a \"Bonus Bill\" passed by Congress that would provide for additional compensation to veterans of World War I, partly because he feared it would interfere with his plans to reduce debt and taxes. With Mellon's support, Harding vetoed the bill, and Congress failed to override the veto.\n\nAs the economy recovered from recession and began to experience the prosperity of the Roaring Twenties, Mellon emerged as one of the most renowned figures in the Harding administration. One admiring congressman referred to Mellon as the \"greatest Secretary of the Treasury since Alexander Hamilton.\" Harding died after suffering a stroke in August 1923, and he was succeeded by Vice President Calvin Coolidge. Mellon enjoyed closer relations with President Coolidge than he had with President Harding, and Coolidge and Mellon shared similar views on most major issues, including on the necessity for further tax cuts. William Allen White, a contemporary journalist, stated that \"so completely did Andrew Mellon dominate the White House in the days when the Coolidge administration was at its zenith that it would be fair to call the administration the reign of Coolidge and Mellon.\"\n\nCoolidge, Mellon, business organizations, and administration allies conducted a publicity campaign designed to convince wavering congressmen to support Mellon's tax plan. Their efforts were opposed by the coalition of Democrats and progressive Republicans that exercised effective control over the 68th Congress. In February 1924, the House Ways and Means Committee approved of a bill based on Mellon's plan, but an alliance of progressive Republicans and Democrats engineered passage of an alternative tax bill written by Democrat John Nance Garner; Garner's plan also reduced income taxes, but set the top marginal tax rate at 46% rather than Mellon's preferred 33%. In June 1924, Coolidge signed the Revenue Act of 1924, which contained the income tax rates of Garner's bill and also increased the estate tax. Coolidge signed the bill but simultaneously called for further tax cuts. Congress also rejected Mellon's proposed constitutional amendment that would have barred the issuance of tax-exempt securities and, over Coolidge's veto, authorized a bonus to World War I veterans. Mellon did, however, win one legislative victory, as he convinced Congress to create the Board of Tax Appeals to adjudicate disputes between taxpayers and the government.\n\nMellon had originally planned to retire after one presidential term, but decided to remain in the cabinet in the hope of presiding over the full enactment of his taxation proposals. In the 1924 presidential election, the Republicans campaigned on further tax cuts, while both the Democrats and third party candidate Robert La Follette denounced Mellon's tax proposals as \"a device to relieve multi-millionaires at the expense of other taxpayers.\" Buoyed by the strong economy, and overcoming the scandals of the Harding years, Mellon won re-election by a decisive margin. Coolidge saw his own landslide re-election victory as a mandate to pursue his favored economic policies, including further tax cuts.\n\nWhen Congress reconvened after the 1924 elections, it immediately began working on another bill designed to reduce taxes on the highest earners. In February 1926, Coolidge signed the Revenue Act of 1926, which reduced the top marginal rate to 25%. Mellon was extremely pleased by the passage of the act, because, unlike the Revenue Act of 1921 and the Revenue Act of 1924, the Revenue Act of 1926 closely reflected Mellon's proposals. In addition to cutting taxes on top earners, the act also raised the personal exemption for federal income taxes, abolished the gift tax, reduced the estate tax rate, and repealed a provision that had required the public disclosure of federal income tax returns. Meanwhile, the booming economy fostered a $400 million budget surplus in 1926, and the country's national debt dropped from $24 billion in early 1921 to $19.6 billion at the end of fiscal year 1926.\n\nWith his top priority of tax reform accomplished, Mellon increasingly turned over management of the Treasury Department to his deputy, Ogden L. Mills. After the 1926 elections, Mellon and Mills sought to cut the corporate tax and fully repeal the estate tax. The Revenue Act of 1928 did indeed cut the corporate tax, but the estate tax was left unchanged. Mellon also focused on the construction of new federal buildings, and his efforts led to the construction of several buildings in the Federal Triangle. In 1928, Mellon stated that \"in no other nation, and at no other time in the history of the world, have so many people enjoyed such a high degree of prosperity or maintained a standard of living comparable to that which prevails throughout this country today.\"\n\nResponsibility for foreign relations lay with the State Department rather than the Treasury Department, and the Benjamin Strong Jr. and other central bankers took the lead with regard to international monetary policy, but Mellon nonetheless exercised some influenced in foreign affairs. He strongly opposed the cancellation of European debts from World War I, but recognized that Britain and other countries would be unable to pay those debts without a renegotiation of terms. In 1923, Mellon and British Chancellor of the Exchequer Stanley Baldwin negotiated an agreement in which Britain promised to pay off the debts over a 62-year period. After the adoption of the Dawes Plan, Mellon reached debt settlements with several other European countries. After protracted negotiations, the United States and France agreed to the Mellon-Berenger Agreement, which reduced France's debt and set terms for repayment.\n\nCoolidge surprised many observers by announcing that he would not seek another term in August 1927. The decision left Hoover as the presumed front-runner for the 1928 presidential election, but many conservatives within the party opposed Hoover's candidacy. The conservative resistance to Hoover centered around Mellon, who controlled Pennsylvania's delegation at the 1928 Republican National Convention and was influential with Republicans throughout the country. Though they had maintained an amicable relationship in public, Mellon privately distrusted Hoover, resented Hoover's engagement in the affairs of other cabinet departments, and feared that a President Hoover would move away from Mellon's tax policies. Several Republicans urged Mellon to run for president, but Mellon believed that he was too old to seek the presidency. Mellon attempted to convince Coolidge or Charles Evans Hughes to run, but neither heeded his appeals. In the months before the 1928 Republican Convention, Mellon maintained his neutrality in the presidential race, but with no compelling alternative Republican candidate willing to run, Mellon finally threw his support behind Hoover. With Mellon's backing, Hoover won the Republican nomination on the first ballot of the convention, and he went on to defeat Al Smith in the 1928 presidential election. Defying widespread expectations that he would retire, Mellon chose to stay on as Secretary of the Treasury. Along with Secretary of Agriculture James Wilson and Secretary of Labor James J. Davis, Mellon is one of only three cabinet members to serve in the same post under three consecutive presidents.\n\nSecretary Mellon had helped persuade the Federal Reserve Board to lower interest rates in 1921 and 1924; lower interest rates contributed to a booming economy, but they also encouraged stock market speculation. In 1928, responding to increasing fears of the dangers of speculation and a booming stock market, the Federal Reserve Board began raising interest rates. Mellon favored another interest rate increase in 1929, and in August 1929 the Federal Reserve Board raised the discount rate to six percent. The higher rate failed to curb speculation, and the activity on the stock market continued to grow. In October 1929, the New York Stock Exchange suffered the worst crash in its history in what was called \"Black Tuesday.\" As the vast majority of Americans did not own shares in the stock market, the crash did not immediately have disastrous effects on the U.S. economy as a whole. Mellon had little sympathy for the speculators who lost their money, and he was philosophically opposed to an interventionist economic policy designed to address the stock market crash. Nonetheless, Mellon immediately began calling for cuts to the discount rate, which would reach two percent in mid-1930, and successfully urged Congress to pass a bill providing for temporary, across-the-board tax cuts.\n\nBy mid-1930, many, including Mellon, believed that the economy had already experienced the worst effects of the stock market crash. He did not object to the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, which raised tariff rates to one of the highest levels in U.S. history. Despite the optimism of Hoover and Mellon, in late 1930 the economy went into a deep slump, as gross national product declined dramatically and numerous workers lost their jobs. While numerous banks failed, Democrats won control of Congress in the 1930 mid-term elections. As the economy declined, so did Mellon's popularity, which was further damaged by his opposition to another bonus bill for veterans. In mid-1931, the country entered a deep depression and, at Hoover's request, Mellon negotiated a moratorium on German debt repayments. After Mellon returned to the United States in August 1931, he was confronted by another series of bank failures. Among the banks that failed was the Bank of Pittsburgh, the lone remaining major Pittsburgh bank not controlled by the Mellon family. Again following Hoover's lead, Mellon presided over the creation of the National Credit Association, a voluntary initiative among the larger banks that was designed to assist failing institutions. As the National Credit Association proved to be ineffective at stemming the tide of bank failures, Congress and the Hoover administration established the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to provide federal loans to banks.\n\nWith the unemployment rate approaching twenty percent, Mellon became one of the most \"loathed leaders\" in the United States, second only to Hoover himself. Facing this unprecedented economic catastrophe, Mellon urged Hoover to refrain from using the government to intervene in the depression. Mellon believed that economic recessions, such as those that had occurred in 1873 and 1907, were a necessary part of the business cycle because they purged the economy, which in turn would lead to a situation in which \"people will work harder, lead a more moral life.\" Facing a large deficit, Mellon and Mills called for a return to the tax rates set by the Revenue Act of 1924, and also sought new taxes on automobiles, gasoline, and other items. Congress responded by passing the Revenue Act of 1932, which included many of Treasury Department's proposals. In early 1932, Congressman Wright Patman of Texas initiated impeachment proceedings against Mellon, contending that Mellon had violated numerous federal laws designed to prevent conflicts of interest. Though Mellon had defeated similar investigations in the past, his falling popularity left him unable to effectively counter Patman's charges. Hoover removed Mellon from Washington by offering him the position of ambassador to the United Kingdom. Mellon accepted the post, and Mills replaced his former boss as Secretary of the Treasury.\n\nMellon arrived in Britain in April 1932, receiving a friendly reception from a country he had often visited over the previous thirty years. From his post, he watched the collapse of the international economic order, including the debt accords that he had helped negotiate. He also convinced the British to allow Gulf Oil to operate in Kuwait, a British protectorate in the oil-rich region of the Persian Gulf. Defying Mellon's expectations, Hoover was defeated by Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1932 presidential election. Mellon left office when Hoover's term ended in March 1933, returning to private life after twelve years of government service.\n\nKnox and Penrose both died in 1921, leaving a power vacuum in Pennsylvania Republican politics. Along with his nephew, William Larimer Mellon, Mellon became an influential player in Pennsylvania politics, and their support helped ensure the elections of Senator David A. Reed and Senator George W. Pepper in 1922. Mellon was unable to assert the same level of control that Boies Penrose had had over state politics, and his leadership of the state party was challenged by William Scott Vare of Philadelphia and progressive leader Gifford Pinchot, who won the 1922 Pennsylvania gubernatorial election. Nonetheless, Mellon would continue to exert an important influence on Pennsylvania politics throughout the 1920s, especially in senatorial elections and in Allegheny County. Mellon's influence over state politics waned in the early 1930s, as the progressive allies of Governor Pinchot took control of the state Republican Party.\n\nNumerous financial institutions failed in the months prior to Roosevelt's inauguration, but Mellon National Bank, the Union Trust Company, and another Mellon banking operation, Mellbank Corporation, were all able to avoid closure. Mellon strongly opposed Roosevelt's New Deal policies, especially the 1933 Banking Act, which required a separation between commercial and investment banking. Mellon believed that the various New Deal policies, including Social Security and unemployment insurance, undermined the free market system that had produced one of the largest economies in the world. Aside from banking reform, other New Deal policies, including regulations on utilities and coal mines and laws designed to promote labor unions, also affected Mellon's business empire. Additionally, the Revenue Act of 1934 and the Revenue Act of 1935 rescinded many of Mellon's tax policies and contained other provisions that were designed to increase taxation on top earners and corporations.\n\nEven after leaving office, Mellon continued to be vilified by many in the public, and in 1933 Harvey O'Connor published a popular and unfavorable biography, \"Mellon's Millions\". Democrats won effective control of Allegheny County in the 1933 elections, and the following year Democrat Joseph F. Guffey won Pennsylvania's Senate election and George Howard Earle III won the state's gubernatorial election. Mellon endured numerous attacks during these campaigns, and his unpopularity in Pittsburgh led him to spend most of his final years in Washington rather than his home town.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Roosevelt administration conducted several high-profile tax evasion prosecutions against individuals such as Thomas W. Lamont and Jimmy Walker. In response to accusations levied by Republican Congressman Louis Thomas McFadden of Pennsylvania in early 1933, Attorney General Homer Cummings began an inquiry into Mellon's tax history. Between February 1935 and May 1936, the Board of Tax Appeals heard a widely covered case in which the federal government accused Mellon of tax fraud. During the proceedings, Mellon divulged numerous details of his business career that had previously been unknown to the public.\n\nMellon was diagnosed with cancer in November 1936. His health declined in 1937, and he died on August 26, 1937. Newspapers across the country took note of his death. Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau Jr. stated that Mellon had lived through \"an epoch in the economic history of the nation, and his passing takes one of the most important industrial and financial figures of our time.\" Mellon was buried at Trinity Episcopal Church Cemetery, Upperville, Virginia. Months after Mellon's death, the Board of Tax appeals handed down a ruling exonerating Mellon of all tax fraud charges.\n\nIn the early 1880s, Mellon had a serious relationship with Fannie Larimer Jones, but he broke off the relationship after learning that she was suffering from tuberculosis. After this experience, Mellon refrained from courting women for several years. In 1898, while traveling with Frick and Frick's wife to Europe, Mellon met Nora McMullen, a nineteen-year-old Englishwoman of Ulster Scots ancestry. Mellon visited McMullen's home of Hertford Castle in 1898 and 1899, and, after a period of courtship, Nora married Mellon in 1900. Nora gave birth to a daughter, Ailsa, in 1901. Nora disliked living in Pittsburgh, and she was unhappy in her marriage. By the end of 1903, she had begun an affair with Alfred George Curphey, who would also later be involved with the wife of George Vivian, 4th Baron Vivian. Mellon and Nora eventually reconciled, and in 1907 she gave birth to a son, Paul. The reconciliation proved short-lived, as Nora took up with Curphey again in 1908 and requested a divorce the following year. In order to avoid a public scandal, Andrew reluctantly agreed to a separation in 1909. Seeking to hold divorce proceedings privately before a judge rather than publicly before a jury, in 1911 Mellon convinced the Pennsylvania legislature to amend a law that had required a jury trial in divorce proceedings. In response, Nora attacked Mellon in the press, and the divorce proceedings were widely covered by the media. In 1912, Mellon and Nora finally agreed on a divorce settlement, largely on Mellon's terms.\n\nMellon did not remarry. Nora lived in Pittsburgh for several years before eventually settling in the Hudson Valley, and the two children alternated living with either parent. In 1923, Nora married Harvey Arthur Lee, a British-born antiques dealer 14 years her junior. Two years after the Lees' divorce in 1928, Nora Lee resumed the surname Mellon, at the request of her son, Paul. In the 1920s, while Mellon served as Secretary of the Treasury, Ailsa was courted by several influential men, including Otto Christian Archibald von Bismarck, Robert Horne, and Gelasio Caetani. In 1926, in the \"greatest society event that the nation's capital had witnessed\" since before World War I, Ailsa married David K. E. Bruce, son of Democratic Senator William Cabell Bruce of Maryland. After attending Yale University and the University of Cambridge, Paul briefly worked at Mellon National Bank. He later settled in Virginia, becoming a well-known philanthropist. Mellon's nephew, Richard King Mellon, succeeded Andrew as the head of the Mellon financial empire.\n\nEmulating his father, Mellon eschewed philanthropy for much of his life, but in the early 1900s he began donating to local organizations such as the YMCA. Mellon committed to his first large-scale act of philanthropy in 1913, when he and his brother, Richard, established the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research as a department of the University of Pittsburgh. In 1965, the institute merged with the Carnegie Institute of Technology to form Carnegie Mellon University. Mellon also served as an alumni president and trustee of the University of Pittsburgh, and made several major donations to the school, including the land on which the Cathedral of Learning and Heinz Chapel were constructed. In total it is estimated that Mellon donated over $43 million to the University of Pittsburgh.\n\nEncouraged by Frick, and guided by Charles Carstairs. Mellon began collecting art in the mid-to-late 1890s. Over the ensuing decades, his art collection continued to grow as he purchased pieces from Knoedler and Joseph Duveen, and during the 1920s his personal collection was generally considered to be one of the finest art collections in Washington. In the early 1930s, he purchased, according to Cannadine, just under half of the \"greatest paintings\" from the Soviet Union's Hermitage Museum in the Soviet sale of Hermitage paintings. Twenty-one paintings, of the highest quality, were later given to the National Gallery of Art.\n\nMellon decided to use his personal fortune and art collection to establish a national art museum in Washington modeled after the National Gallery in London. In 1936, Mellon presented President Roosevelt with an offer to establish a national art museum to which Mellon would donate his art collection as well as an endowment, while the federal government would pay for the institution's upkeep. He conditioned the offer on the establishment of a board of trustees, a majority of whom would be chosen by Mellon. Despite the ongoing tax case against Mellon, the Roosevelt administration accepted the offer, and Congress passed legislation authorizing the construction of the National Gallery of Art on Mellon's terms. The National Gallery of Art opened in 1941 and continues to operate. Mellon's friend and former employee, David E. Finley Jr., would later preside over the establishment of the National Portrait Gallery, which also hosts several paintings donated by Mellon.\n\nMellon was initiated to the Scottish Rite Freemasonry, till he raised the 33rd and highest degree.\n\nThe Andrew W. Mellon Memorial Fountain in Washington was created by Sidney Waugh and was dedicated in May 1952 by Harry S. Truman. Washington, D.C. also hosts the Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium and the Andrew Mellon Building. The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the product of the merger of the Avalon Foundation and the Old Dominion Foundation (set up separately by his children), is named in his honor, as is the 378-foot US Coast Guard Cutter \"Mellon (WHEC-717)\".\n\nAndrew W. Mellon appears in the HBO drama series \"Boardwalk Empire\", in the fifth, eighth and twelfth episodes of the third season, in his capacity as Secretary of the Treasury. His character is played by Carnegie Mellon alumnus James Cromwell.\n\nIn the alternate history/time travel story \"A Slip in Time\" by S. M. Stirling, featuring a history in which the First World War was avoided and the Austro-Hungarian Empire survived, Andrew Mellon was the President of the United States in 1926.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1406260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406260", "title": "Authority control", "text": "Authority control\n\nIn library science, authority control is a process that organizes bibliographic information, for example in library catalogs by using a single, distinct spelling of a name (heading) or a numeric identifier for each topic. The word \"authority\" in \"authority control\" derives from the idea that the names of people, places, things, and concepts are \"authorized,\" i.e., they are established in one particular form. These one-of-a-kind headings or identifiers are applied consistently throughout catalogs which make use of the respective authority file, and are applied for other methods of organizing data such as linkages and cross references. Each controlled entry is described in an authority \"record\" in terms of its scope and usage, and this organization helps the library staff maintain the catalog and make it user-friendly for researchers.\n\nCatalogers assign each subject—such as author, topic, series, or corporation—a particular unique identifier or heading term which is then used consistently, uniquely, and unambiguously for all references to that same subject, which obviates variations from different spellings, transliterations, pen names, or aliases. The unique header can guide users to all relevant information including related or collocated subjects. Authority records can be combined into a database and called an authority file, and maintaining and updating these files as well as \"logical linkages\" to other files within them is the work of librarians and other information cataloguers. Accordingly, authority control is an example of controlled vocabulary and of bibliographic control.\n\nWhile in theory any piece of information is amenable to authority control such as personal and corporate names, uniform titles, series names, and subjects, library cataloguers typically focus on author names and titles of works. Subject headings from the Library of Congress fulfill a function similar to authority records, although they are usually considered separately. As time passes, information changes, prompting needs for reorganization. According to one view, authority control is not about creating a perfect seamless system but rather it is an ongoing effort to keep up with these changes and try to bring \"structure and order\" to the task of helping users find information.\n\n\nSometimes within a catalog there are different names or spellings for only one person or subject. This can bring confusion since researchers may miss some information. Authority control is used by cataloguers to collocate materials that logically belong together but which present themselves differently. Records are used to establish uniform titles which collocate all versions of a given work under one unique heading even when such versions are issued under different titles. With authority control, one unique preferred name represents all variations and will include different variations, spellings and misspellings, uppercase versus lowercase variants, differing dates, and so forth. For example, in Wikipedia, the first wife of Charles, Prince of Wales is described by an article Diana, Princess of Wales as well as numerous other descriptors, e.g. Princess Diana, but both \"Princess Diana\" and \"Diana, Princess of Wales\" describe the same person; an authority record would choose one title as the preferred one for consistency. In an online library catalog, various entries might look like the following:\n\nThese different terms describe the same person. Accordingly, authority control reduces these entries to one unique entry or official authorized heading, sometimes termed an \"access point\":\n\nGenerally there are different authority file headings and identifiers used by different libraries in different countries, possibly inviting confusion, but there are different approaches internationally to try to lessen the confusion. One international effort to prevent such confusion is the Virtual International Authority File which is a collaborative attempt to provide a single heading for a particular subject. It is a way to standardize information from different authority files around the world such as the Integrated Authority File (GND) maintained and used cooperatively by many libraries in German-speaking countries and the United States Library of Congress. The idea is to create a single worldwide virtual authority file. For example, the ID for Princess Diana in the GND is \"118525123\" (preferred name: \"Diana <Wales, Prinzessin>\") while the United States Library of Congress uses the term \"Diana, Princess of Wales, 1961-1997\"; other authority files have other choices. The Virtual International Authority File choice for all of these variations is \"VIAF ID: 107032638\" — that is, a common number representing all of these variations.\n\nThe English Wikipedia prefers the term \"Diana, Princess of Wales\", but at the bottom of the article about her, there are links to various international cataloguing efforts for reference purposes.\n\nSometimes two different authors have been published under the same name. This can happen if there is a title which is identical to another title or to a collective uniform title. This, too, can cause confusion. Different authors can be distinguished correctly from each other by, for example, adding a middle initial to one of the names; in addition, other information can be added to one entry to clarify the subject, such as birth year, death year, range of active years such as 1918–1965 when the person flourished, or a brief descriptive epithet. When cataloguers come across different subjects with similar or identical headings, they can disambiguate them using authority control.\n\nA customary way of enforcing authority control in a bibliographic catalog is to set up a separate index of authority records, which relates to and governs the headings used in the main catalog. This separate index is often referred to as an \"authority file.\" It contains an indexable record of all decisions made by cataloguers in a given library (or—as is increasingly the case—cataloguing consortium), which cataloguers consult when making, or revising, decisions about headings. As a result, the records contain documentation about sources used to establish a particular preferred heading, and may contain information discovered while researching the heading which may be useful.\n\nWhile authority files provide information about a particular subject, their primary function is not to provide information but to organize it. They contain enough information to establish that a given author or title is unique, but that is all; irrelevant but interesting information is generally excluded. Although practices vary internationally, authority records in the English-speaking world generally contain the following information:\n\n\nFor example, the Irish writer Brian O'Nolan, who lived from 1911 to 1966, wrote under many pen names such as Flann O'Brien and Myles na Gopaleen. Catalogers at the United States Library of Congress chose one form—\"O'Brien, Flann, 1911-1966\"—as the official heading. The example contains all three elements of a valid authority record: the first heading \"O'Brien, Flann, 1911-1966\" is the form of the name that the Library of Congress chose as authoritative. In theory, every record in the catalog that represents a work by this author should have this form of the name as its author heading. What follows immediately below the heading beginning with \"Na Gopaleen, Myles, 1911-1966\" are the \"see\" references. These forms of the author's name will appear in the catalog, but only as transcriptions and not as headings. If a user queries the catalog under one of these variant forms of the author's name, he or she would receive the response: \"See O'Brien, Flann, 1911-1966.\" There is an additional spelling variant of the Gopaleen name: \"Na gCopaleen, Myles, 1911-1966\" has an extra \"C\" inserted because the author also employed the non-anglicized Irish spelling of his pen-name, in which the capitalized \"C\" shows the correct root word while the preceding \"g\" indicates its pronunciation in context. So if a library user comes across this spelling variant, he or she will be led to the same author regardless. \"See also\" references, which point from one authorized heading to another authorized heading, are exceedingly rare for personal name authority records, although they often appear in name authority records for corporate bodies. The final four entries in this record beginning with \"His At Swim-Two-Birds ... 1939.\" constitute the justification for this particular form of the name: it appeared in this form on the 1939 edition of the author's novel \"At Swim-Two-Birds\", whereas the author's other \"noms de plume\" appeared on later publications.\n\nThe act of choosing a single authorized heading to represent all forms of a name is quite often a difficult and complex task, considering that any given individual may have legally changed their name or used a variety of legal names in the course of their lifetime, as well as a variety of nicknames, pen names, stage names or other alternative names. It may be particularly difficult to choose a single authorized heading for individuals whose various names have controversial political or social connotations, when the choice of authorized heading may be seen as endorsement of the associated political or social ideology.\n\nAn alternative to using authorized headings is the idea of \"access control,\" where various forms of a name are related without the endorsement of one particular form.\n\nBefore the advent of digital online public access catalogs and the Internet, creating and maintaining a library's authority files were generally carried out by individual cataloging departments within each library. Naturally, then, there was considerable difference in the authority files of the different libraries. For the early part of library history, it was generally accepted that, as long as a library's catalog was internally consistent, the differences between catalogs in different libraries did not matter greatly.\n\nAs libraries became more attuned to the needs of researchers and began interacting more with other libraries, the value of standard cataloging practices came to be recognized. With the advent of automated database technologies, catalogers began to establish cooperative consortia, such as OCLC and RLIN in the United States, in which cataloging departments from libraries all over the world contributed their records to, and took their records from, a shared database. This development prompted the need for national standards for authority work.\n\nIn the United States, the primary organization for maintaining cataloging standards with respect to authority work operates under the aegis of the Library of Congress, and is known as the Name Authority Cooperative Program, or NACO Authority.\n\nThere are various standards using different acronyms.\n\nStandards for authority metadata:\n\nStandards for object identification, controlled by an identification-authority:\n\nStandards for identified-object metadata (examples): vCard, Dublin Core, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "24864169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24864169", "title": "Bellamy-Ferriday House and Garden", "text": "Bellamy-Ferriday House and Garden\n\nThe Bellamy-Ferriday House and Garden (also known as the Joseph Bellamy House) is a historic house museum at 9 Main Street North in Bethlehem, Connecticut. The main house was built between about 1754 and 1767 by the Rev. Joseph Bellamy, a prominent Congregationalist minister who played an influential role in the First Great Awakening. The property, the National Register of Historic Places in 1982. The house and surrounding gardens are owned and operated by Connecticut Landmarks; admission is charged. Another 81 acres of forest and fields adjacent to the museum property are maintained as Bellamy Preserve, the town of Bethlehem's \"Central Park,\" by the Bethlehem Land Trust.\n\nThe Bellamy-Ferriday House is located just north of the village green in the center of Bethlehem. Its landscaped acreage is screened from the green by mature trees, and is accessed via a drive on Main Street North (Connecticut Route 61). The house consists of a 2-1/2 story main block, oriented facing south, with a two-story ell and modern wing to the north. The main block is roughly square, and is topped by a gabled roof with a central chimney and gabled dormers. Its exterior is finished in wooden clapboards with corner quoin blocks, and there is a projecting two-story entry section in the rightmost bay. It has a Palladian window in the second floor, and a shallow portico supported by four fluted Ionic columns.\n\nReverend Joseph Bellamy was granted of land on the north side of what is now Bethlehem village (it was then known as the North Purchase of Woodbury, incorporated as Bethlehem 1787) in 1738, when he became the North Purchase parish's first settled minister. Through the 1740s and 1750s Bellamy rose in prominence as one of the leading theologians of the First Great Awakening. The traditional history of this house is that its ell was built about 1754 on land Bellamy purchased in 1741 that stood adjacent to his large tract, and is where his family lived while the main block was built. The ell lacks evidence of a chimney adequate for cooking and heating, however, and it is more likely the house was built and occupied around 1760. Later, Henry Ferriday bought the property; his daughter, Carolyn Woolsey Ferriday, owned it until her death in 1990. Under the terms of her will, the house and several surrounding acres were subsequently turned into a small museum by the Antiquarian and Landmarks Society, now known as Connecticut Landmarks.\n\nThe museum features American and European antiques and a formal parterre garden with a collection of roses, peonies and lilacs. A weeping willow on the property once stood at the grave of Napoleon Bonaparte.\nConnecticut Landmarks also operates other historic house museums, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "37063532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37063532", "title": "Bibliography of encyclopedias: architecture and architects", "text": "Bibliography of encyclopedias: architecture and architects\n\nThis is a list of encyclopedias and encyclopedic/biographical dictionaries published on the subject of architecture and architects in any language. Entries are in the English language except where noted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30678936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30678936", "title": "Captain Kidd's cannon", "text": "Captain Kidd's cannon\n\nCaptain Kidd's cannon is an iron cannon that was discovered in 2007 off of the coast of Catalina Island in the Dominican Republic. The cannon is believed to be part of the wreckage of the \"Quedagh Merchant\", a ship that was commandeered and later abandoned by Captain Kidd in 1699. It is the first pirate cannon that has been recovered from the Caribbean. One of 26 cannons found off the coast of Catalina Island, it was first taken to Indiana University's School of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation for investigation and research before being displayed in the exhibit \"National Geographic: Treasures of the Earth\" at The Children's Museum of Indianapolis in Indianapolis, Indiana.\n\nThe cannon is made entirely of iron and weighs approximately . The cannon muzzle is in diameter. The width of the trunnion is approximately . The diameter of the cascabel is approximately . The length of the cannon itself is approximately . Upon retrieval from the ocean, the cannon was encrusted with coral and the salt water had caused rusting and deterioration.\n\nThe cannon was found about off the coastal waters of Catalina Island in the Dominican Republic. The cannon was only below the surface of the water. After it was extracted from the ocean, the cannon was transported to Indiana University to be studied. Initial investigations of the coral encrusted on the cannon allowed scientists to better understand the dynamics of the 1699 wreck of the \"Quedagh Merchant\". It is believed that the ship, once abandoned by Kidd, was looted and then set adrift and ablaze down the Rio Dulce.\nAn underwater science lab conducted electrolytic conservation treatments to remove salt from the years of immersion in the ocean. Indiana University will construct a mold of the cannon and make museum-quality, exact reproductions which will be sent back to the Dominican Republic for development of a land-based exhibit on shore by the shipwreck. The cannon continued to undergo the electrolytic conservation treatment when it arrived at the Children's Museum of Indianapolis for the National Geographic Treasures of the Earth exhibit. Following the discovery, Indiana University has designated the site a \"Living Museum in the Sea.\"\n\nThe cannons, anchors, and wreckage from the \"Quedagh Merchant\" were first discovered by a local man who reported what he had found to the Dominican Republic's government. The government made a request to Charles Beeker who has been conducting research in the Dominican Republic for nearly twenty years and his research team at Indiana University to investigate and examine the remains. Beeker, the director of the Office of Underwater Science at Indiana University has been authorized to bring the cannon to his lab for five years for conservation and observation.\n\n"}
{"id": "455664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455664", "title": "Catalan mythology about witches", "text": "Catalan mythology about witches\n\nIn Catalan popular culture, there are a large number of legends about witches (; ). In the popular imagination, a witch is a woman who, by means of a pact with the Devil, has acquired supernatural power, which she uses for her own benefit and for evil purposes. \n\nToday, the general population no longer believes in witches, and many people view the witch only as a well-loved traditional character, appearing only in children's stories.\n\nCatalan tradition distinguished between bruixeria (\"witchcraft\") based on an explicit compact with the Devil, and fetilleria (deriving from a word related to \"fetish\", and Old Portuguese \"feitiço\"); magic worked through charms and fetishes. The former was considered inherently evil, the latter might include the working of magical cures. This article is focused on bruixeria.\n\nWitches supposedly have \"the mark of the devil\" on their buttocks, made by a forceful bite by the Devil's teeth, which takes the form of two crossed horns, a toad, a ram with large horns, or a simple little circle. Legend also has it that the Devil can mark the witch's eye in various ways: with horns, or by making it empty, or with two pupils. Some traditions say that witches have two pupils in the left eye and deer horns in the right one. (This belief in the mark of the devil goes well beyond Catalonia, although these particular forms are specifically Catalan.) \n\nAccording to Catalan tradition (again, this may not be uniquely Catalan), one can wash marks on the skin with holy water in order to know whether they are the Devil's work: the Devil's mark will not wash off. Witches were also said to have a heart-shaped mark on their left side; for a witch of great abilities, the heart-shaped mark would be hairy.\n\nIt was said that the whispering of fallen leaves blown about a rooftop was the sound of witches criticizing the behavior of the family of the house. \n\nTo prevent witches from sowing evil herbs to damage the fields and crops, one would place to the right of the gate a figure of a guardsman, precisely vertical. \n\nAn old woman who could no longer hear the litany was in danger of being considered a witch for her deafness to the word of God.\n\nAccording to one Catalan tradition, a person who wants to become a witch should go to the seashore, undress completely, and roll around on the sand. After giving seven full revolutions, stand and make three circles.\n\nBy the full moon of October and of January, witches were said to make marks on their buttocks, by means of which they maintain and strengthen their malign powers, which otherwise diminish and cool down by the action of time and age. In October, they were said to pray to the Devil with a rosary that had the cross broken off.\n\nWitches were said to fly mounted on forks, poles, and especially brooms; in each case, the flying object was first anointed with an unguent provided by the Devil. It was said that, because in the past witches were always persecuted and garroted with brooms, the Devil had given them this particular power in order to be able to escape. While they fly, they supposedly would repeat, over and over\"\"Per ací, per allà, cap ací, cap allà\",\" (\"Here, there, hence, thence\") as if they were in a cavalcade of animals.\n\nWitches were said to make unguents or brews from the flesh of the hanged, from live infants, from black flour or grain, in a cauldron big enough to hold seven witches, cooked over a fire lit by the heat from their furious dancing. This was the unguent that enabled them to fly, to turn into whatever species of animal they desire, to prophesy, and to make all manner of evil spells. \n\nWitches were said to take the form of cats, in order to more easily enter houses and to enable them to take items of clothing, shoes, needles, and so forth. They supposedly stole in order to be able to bewitch and to do harm; they did not steal money nor valuable objects. \n\nWitches were said to be able to see the stars through the roof, to see people naked even through their clothing, and to look inside a person and know what organ is making that person ill. (This last may be related to the traditions of witches as healers.)\n\nWitches were said to climb up on top of the clouds, and make it rain or, especially, hail (which was particularly bad for the crops). One could ward this off by making certain signs of the cross or singing certain hymns, so that the devil would have to take the cloud elsewhere.\n\nWitches were said to take toads as counsellors and to initiate to the novices. \n\nMany traditions about witches related to specific days of the year, especially the eves of certain Christian holidays and saint's days; witches were also said to be very powerful during Lent, which is, in a sense, the eve of Easter.\n\nCertain traditional stories related specifically to All Saints Day (November 1).\n\nOn All Saints Day, witches were said to break the crosses from any graves they pass, destroying all proof of the existence of the buried dead.\n\nAnother tradition has it that one could destroy a witch by going to her house on November 1, and marking a star on the gate. One would then go to a mass dedicated to Saint Martin. When the witch got home, the star would have burned, and the witch would be slowly consumed, her own witchcraft turned against her.\n\nOn Christmas Eve, a witch was said to test the strength of her craft by looking upwards through the roof of her house; if she can't see all the stars, even the smallest, it is a sign that her condition is fading; then she must wait for the first full moon night, especially if it falls on Saint Silvester's Day, to mark her buttocks and restore the power of her witchcraft.\n\nIt was said that one must not leave a toddler alone in the house on Christmas Eve, because the witches take them. There is a story that a woman of Palau de Vidre went to Midnight Mass and left her infant child at home alone; the witches supposedly took the child outside and left him on top of the garden gate.\n\n\"Guardar un fil filat la nit de Nadal, guarda de les bruixes.\" (\"To keep a thread spun on Christmas Eve, will keep you from the witches.\")\n\nOn New Year's Eve, witches were said to have the most power. To maintain that power, a witch was supposed to make seven laps around her house, make certain gestures and sprinkle everything with holy water, blessed leaves from Palm Sunday, or some other blessed object. (Note the remarkable contrast to traditions from elsewhere in Europe, where witches would shy away from any blessed object.) At the stroke of midnight, she would go to dance inside the oven; merely to come near a witch during any of this was said to be particularly dangerous. \n\nThe witches of Alt Berguedà and Cadí were said to apply unguents, climb up the chimney and, mounted on brooms, head for Pedraforca to hold a great gathering. The main feature of the gathering was said to be a great circle dance. Similarly, the witches of the Alt Pallars and of the Vall d'Aran were said to meet on the plain of Beret. In Camp de Tarragona, the witches were said to assemble on the peak of Montserrat, where they dance naked in the cold to the sound of a violin played by the Devil. \n\nOn this night, also, witches were said to carry children away. On New Year's Eve, one should put the children to bed early and make the sign of the cross over them to ward off the evil power. \n\nSupposedly, at New Year's, more than any other night of the year, one must take measures against a visit by the witches. One would cover the embers of the fireplace with ashes, and make a cross over them with one or another fire tool, while reciting a formula (the text of which varies a great deal, from place to place within Catalonia). A householder would leave the fire tongs open in the form of a cross over the embers, or leave two fire tools crossed. These crosses were supposed to summon angels to come down and warm themselves by the embers and, by their presence, ward off devils and the witches. \n\nAn alternative tradition was simply to put salt on the chimney. It also was the custom to wash and sprinkle with holy water all the doors and windows, and above all the keyhole, pushing through it a blessed sprig of laurel or rosemary and reciting a prayer (which, again, has a great number of variants). In the region of Montserrat blessed palm leaves would be placed, crossed on the chimney to stop the witches from coming down it. In Lluçanés, they would pour out all the water in the house to prevent the witches from being able to bewitch the house by washing it on their visit.\n\nAnother time of year when witches were specifically to be warded off was the Eve of the Feast of Saint John the Baptist, a night associated with the gathering of herbs: supposedly, herbs gathered on that night were particularly powerful. On this night, witches were also said to take the form of partridges or of flies, and also to fly overhead and pour their poisonous brews onto the heads of those whom they wished to harm. \n\nCatalans would light bonfires to scare away the airborne witches. On that night, by the tower of Roquetes, outside Sant Andreu de Palomar the flying embers were said to be witches fleeing the smoke from the bonfires; the flying witches were said to take embers in their hands to try to light the mountain afire, but they would fail because of the virtue that all herbs were said to have on this night. On the peak of Pedraforca, witches were said to gather and to sing:\n\nTheir master, a goat, was said to leap and dance in the center of the circle, and to answer as a refrain to each verse:\n\nUnsurprisingly, it was said to be very dangerous to encounter one of these gatherings, but one could tell where the witches had danced by the remnants of rue, basil, valerian, and sage, and by the \"fairy rings\" of mushrooms. There is a story from Sant Martí de Sarroca in Penedès, of an old man witnessing the witches' dance, with appropriately dramatic demonic appearances, the ground shaking like an earthquake from their steps, and so forth.\n\nThe witches of Andorra, of both sexes, were said to dance naked at the lake of Engolasters. (This legend appears to be reflected in the recently revived festival of El Brut i La Bruta, celebrated in the Catalan village of Torà in the \"comarca\" of Segarra. \"See external site http://www.brutibruta.com.\") They form three concentric circles, and at a certain point in the music, they come together and the bump each other hard, rump to rump, dancing to the music of a demon, or a cavalcade of demons, with wooden flute and drum. Andorran witches also supposedly gathered at the summits of Font Argent and of Fra Miquel. Male and female witches were said to have intercourse with demons of the opposite sex.\n\nBefore this gathering, Andorran witches were required to fast and to sleep, but they sleep with one eye open, because if they were late for the gathering, the Devil would punish them.\n\nNaturally, there are many other specific local stories of particular local witches, including one known as the \"Bruixa Napa del Prats del Lluçanès\" (or \"Bruixa Napa\", or \"Bruixa Prats\") who is often depicted accompanied by her daughter.\n\nIn Arbúcies, there is a rhyme that goes:\n\nOther stories include a story from Girona that a particular gargoyle is actually a witch turned to stone, or a story from Canigó of witches producing a hailstorm by urinating into a hole and beating the liquid with vines.\n\nIt may be worth reiterating that Catalans today are no more likely to believe in witches than any other modern people. This article is strictly an attempt to give some specificity to the historic beliefs about witches in one particular region of Europe for which the beliefs are relatively well documented.\n\nThis article was loosely translated (and rearranged) from . That article lacks references. Some related material can be found online at https://web.archive.org/web/20040429210945/http://members.fortunecity.es/mitcat/bruixes.html, at http://www.brutibruta.com, and (offline) in the writings of Joan Amades.\n"}
{"id": "26325113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26325113", "title": "Certificate of life", "text": "Certificate of life\n\nA Certificate of Life (also called a \"Certificate of Existence\", \"Letter of Existence\", \"Life Certificate\", \"Proof of Life\") is a certificate produced by a trusted entity to confirm that an individual was alive at the time of its creation.\n\nGovernments, pension and insurance companies and other bodies may need to check periodically that the people they are paying have not died in order that they do not overpay annuities and pensions.\n\nWhere individuals are resident outside their country of origin, a Certificate of Life may sometimes be obtained from a person's embassy in their country of residence by producing proof of identity such as a passport.\n"}
{"id": "15534995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15534995", "title": "Collins Bird Guide", "text": "Collins Bird Guide\n\nThe Collins Bird Guide is a field guide to the birds of the Western Palearctic.\n\nIts authors are Lars Svensson, Killian Mullarney, Dan Zetterström and Peter J. Grant, and it is illustrated by Killian Mullarney and Dan Zetterström (with two plates of North American passerines contributed by Larry McQueen). It has been described as \"undoubtedly the finest field guide that has ever been produced\", and \"the last great bird book of the 20th century\".\n\nIt was originally published in Swedish and Danish in 1999, and in English in hardback in the same year, and later in paperback. A large-format English edition has also been produced, as has a German and Dutch edition. The first edition was translated to 14 European languages, including Spanish, Portuguese, French, Dutch and German. A second edition, revised and enlarged, was published in January 2010. A series of updates and corrections were made in 2015, with no change to the edition number.\n\nThe cover of the first edition, in all formats, depicts a barn owl. On the second edition, this was replaced by an arctic tern.\n\nEleven pages of introductory material are followed by the book's main content: 366 pages of text and colour paintings. The text for each species gives brief status notes, followed by a section detailing identification, and concludes with a section on voice. Accompanying most species accounts is a small colour map showing breeding, wintering and migrant range.\n\nThe guide is also available as a paid-for app, for iPhone and Android devices. The app includes all of the text and images from the print edition, as well as audio recordings. Additional data can be bought separately; the first such package being a set of distribution maps for 271 species, from the British Trust for Ornithology's \"Bird Atlas 2007–11\".\n\nAll versions cover Europe, North Atlantic islands, much of North Africa and the Middle East. \n\nMost of the species covered in the main part of the guide are regular breeding, wintering or migrant species in its area of coverage, although some vagrants are also included. There are additional sections giving brief accounts of (a) vagrants and (b) introduced breeding species and species recorded only as escapes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4855110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4855110", "title": "Comparison of geographic information systems software", "text": "Comparison of geographic information systems software\n\nThis is a comparison of notable GIS software. To be included on this list, the software must have a linked existing article.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24675263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24675263", "title": "Continental Classics", "text": "Continental Classics\n\nContinental Classics is a series of books.\n\n\"Taras Bulba: A Tale of the Cossacks\" by Nicolai V. Gogol translated by Isabel F. Hapgood\n\n\"Sebastopol\" by Leo Tolstoy\n\n\"The Crushed Flower and Other Stories\", by Leonid Andreev translated by Herman Bernstein.\n\n\"The Career of a Nihilist\" by S. Stepniak [pseud.]\n\nParisian points of view by Ludovic Halevy translated by Edith V. B. Matthews, with an introduction by Brander Matthews.\n\nThe Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard (Member of the Institute) by Anatole France, translation and introduction by Lafcadio Hearn.\n\n\"For the Right\" by Karl Emil Franzos translated by Julie Sutter. Preface by George MacDonald.\n\nBlack Diamonds by Maurus Jokai translated by Frances A. Gerard.\n\n\"Dame Care (Frau Sorge) by Hermann Sudermann tr. from the German by Bertha Overbeck.\n\n\"The New god, A Tale Of The Early Christians\" by Richard Voss\n\nDebit and Credit by Gustav Freytag, translated from German by L. C. C., with a preface by Christian Charles Josias Bunsen.\n\n\"Spanish, Italian and Oriental tales\", including stories by I. M. Palmarini, Camillo Boito, Antonio Fogazzaro and Pedra de Alarcon. \n\n\"Modern Ghosts\", with introduction by George William Curtis.\n\nThe house by the medlar-tree by Giovanni Verga translated by Mary A. Craig with an introduction by W. D. Howells.\n\n\"The battle of Waterloo and other stories\", by Alexander Kielland, translated from Norwegian by William Archer, with an introduction by H. H. Boyesen. Includes:\n\n\"Mystery tales\", reprint of \"The Lock and Key Library: North Europe Stories\", by Julian Hawthorne. Includes:\n\n\"Danish folk tales\"\n\n\"The wonderful adventures of Nils\"\n"}
{"id": "17473997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17473997", "title": "Eugène Vinaver", "text": "Eugène Vinaver\n\nEugène Vinaver ( \"Yevgeniĭ Maksimovich Vinaver\", 18 June 1899 – 21 July 1979) was a Russian-born British literary scholar who is best known today for his edition of the works of Sir Thomas Malory.\n\nVinaver was born in Saint-Petersburg, the son of Jewish-Russian lawyer, national politician, and Jewish community leader Maxim Vinaver, who emigrated to France in 1919.\n\nEugene Vinaver studied in École pratique des hautes études where he was a pupil of Joseph Bédier.\n\nFrom the late 1920s, he lived in England (one of his teachers was Mildred Pope) and in 1933 he was appointed Professor of French Language and Literature at the University of Manchester. He received his doctorate from Oxford University in 1950.\n\nIn 1928, Eugene Vinaver founded in Oxford the Arthurian society, which published two volumes under the title \"Arthuriana\" (1929, 1930). This society was renamed Society for the study of the medieval languages and literatures. Arthuriana became \"Medium Aevum\". In 1948, the International Arthurian Society was organized by Eugène Vinaver and Jean Frappier.\n\nIn 1947, Eugène Vinaver published a new edition of Malory's \"Morte d'Arthur\", based on the 15th century Winchester Manuscript which W.F. Oakeshott had discovered in the Fellows' Library at Winchester College in 1934. He noted the structural differences between the text in the manuscript and Caxton's edition of \"Morte d'Arthur\", such as chapter headings and divisions, and wording changes.\n\nIn addition to his interest in Arthurian legend, Vinaver was also a recognised authority on Racine and Flaubert.\n\nVinaver was a correspondent member of the British Academy, laureate of the French Academy of Sciences, and the Medieval Academy of America, a foreign member of Académie royale de langue et de littérature française of Belgium. He was awarded the Order of the Legion of Honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35629765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35629765", "title": "Fine Wind, Clear Morning", "text": "Fine Wind, Clear Morning\n\nFine Wind, Clear Morning (), also known as South Wind, Clear Sky or Red Fuji, is a wood block print by Japanese artist Hokusai (1760–1849), part of his \"Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji\" series, dating from to 1832. The work has been described as \"one of the simplest and at the same time one of the most outstanding of all Japanese prints\".\n\nIn early autumn when, as the title specifies, the wind is southerly and the sky is clear, the rising sun can turn Mount Fuji red. Hokusai captures this moment with compositional abstraction but meteorological specificity, especially when compared to the rest of the series. The three shades of deepening blue of the sky mirror the three hues of the mountain. The lingering remnants of snow at the peak of the mountain and dark shadows encompassing the forest at its base place it very precisely in time. Mount Fuji's solidly symmetrical shape on the right half of the image is balanced by the delicate clouds to the left, for a striking composition.\n\nThe earliest impressions appear faded when compared to the versions usually seen, but are closer to Hokusai's original conception. The original prints have a deliberately uneven blue sky, which increases the sky's brightness and gives movement to the clouds. The peak is brought forward with a halo of Prussian blue. Subsequent prints have a strong, even blue tone and the printer added a new block, overprinting the white clouds on the horizon with light blue. Later prints also typically employ a strong \"benigara\" (Bengal red) pigment, which lent the painting its common name of \"Red Fuji\". The green block colour was recut, lowering the meeting point between forest and mountain slope.\n\nAn alternative impression of the print was made with a completely different colour-scheme. In this version the clouds are only just visible in the upper portion. The sky is a mostly rendered in a flat pale blue with a thin strip of grey at the top, and a graduated strip of Prussian blue along the horizon which extends up the slope of the mountain.\n\nThis print and Hokusai's other masterpiece from his \"Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji\" series, \"The Great Wave off Kanagawa\", are perhaps the most widely recognized pieces of Japanese art in the world. Both are superb examples of the Japanese art of Ukiyo-e, \"pictures of the floating world\". Although Ukiyo-e can depict anything from contemporary city life to classical literature, and Hokusai's notebooks show that his own interests spanned an equally wide range, it was landscapes like this that earned him his fame. The saturated colors and stylized forms in such prints helped inspire the Impressionist and Post-impressionist movements decades later.\n\nPrints can be found in museums worldwide including the British Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the Indianapolis Museum of Art.\n\n"}
{"id": "5443152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5443152", "title": "Golden Book Encyclopedia", "text": "Golden Book Encyclopedia\n\nThe Golden Book Encyclopedia is a set of children's encyclopedias published by Western Printing and Lithographing Company under the name Golden Press. Advertised with circulars in newspapers, the encyclopedias were sent out in weekly or bi-weekly installments. Supermarket chains, such as Acme Markets, used these encyclopedias as a promotional hook to lure shoppers.\n\nThe front page of every volume describes the books as, \"Fact-filled Volumes Dramatically Illustrated with More Than 6,000 Pictures. The Only Encyclopedia for Young Grade-school children. Accurate and Authoritative. Entertainingly written and illustrated to make learning an adventure.\" Subjects covered in the series included nature, science, history, geography, literature, and the arts.\n\nThe first edition of the encyclopedia was published in a joint venture between Simon & Schuster and Western Printing and Lithographing Company in 1946. The author of the edition was Dorothy A. Bennett and the illustrator was Cornelius De Witt. A 16-volume hardcover edition was published from 1959 to 1969; these sets were written by Bertha Morris Parker, formerly of the Laboratory Schools at the University of Chicago and research associate at the Chicago Natural History Museum. The 1988 edition lists the author as \"Golden Press,\" and contains 4 extra volumes, making it a 20-volume set.\n\n1959 Edition\n\nBesides publishing an encyclopedia for children, Golden Press has also published similar reference material, which includes \"The Golden Book Encyclopedia of Natural Science\" and \"The Golden Home and High School Encyclopedia\".\n\n60 million copies of individual \"Encyclopedia\" volumes were sold between 1959 and 1961.\n"}
{"id": "17715786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17715786", "title": "Hermann Streber", "text": "Hermann Streber\n\nHermann Streber (b. at Munich, 27 September 1839; d. at Tölz, 9 August 1896) was a German Roman Catholic priest and writer, particularly associated with the second edition of the \"Kirchenlexikon\".\n\nHis father was Franz Seraph Streber. He entered the Ludwigsgymnasium in 1850, but a nervous fever prevented him from qualifying for the university through the usual final school examination. From this ailment he never completely recovered.\n\nEntering the university by a private examination in 1858, he devoted over two years to the study of philosophy and theology, attending besides historical lectures. During this period he compiled a description and catalogue of the ancient coins in the Royal Cabinet of Medals. In 1861 he entered the archiepiscopal seminary at Freising, and in 1864 was ordained priest.\n\nAfter the death of his father he was unable to pursue his original intention of studying numismatics. In 1867 he was appointed religious teacher at the Wilhelmsgymnasium. Having received six months' leave of absence in 1868, he won the doctorate in theology in Rome (January, 1869). He then resumed his duties as religious teacher until June, 1870, when he was dismissed for alleged \"intriguing in favour of the dogma of infallibility\".\n\nHe was then named pastor of Wolfersdorf, near Freising. Invited by Joseph Hergenröther to assist him in editing the new edition of the \"Kirchenlexikon\", Streber resigned his parish, and settled in Würzburg. When Hergenröther was summoned as cardinal to Rome, Streber moved to Bonn to be near Kaulen, the new editor, and worked on the \"Nomenclator\". He wrote many articles for the \"Kirchenlexikon\", the direction of which was for a time entirely in his hands.\n\nIn 1892 illness forced him to withdraw to his brother's house at Tölz, where he lived in retirement until death.\n\n"}
{"id": "49763320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49763320", "title": "HomeStars", "text": "HomeStars\n\nHomeStars.com is a Canadian company which publishes reviews written by homeowners about home improvement professionals such as repairman, contractors, renovators, and retailers.\n\nHomeStars was formed in 2006 by Nancy Peterson. The Globe and Mail ran a feature on the company shortly after its foundation. The company began as an online community of homeowners, sharing reviews based on their personal experience to help other homeowners find reputable contractors. Each review can contain details on the delivery of the work, the contractor’s work habits and the quality of the follow-up. Similar to other review sites such as TripAdvisor, contractors are able to respond to any reviews that are written about them.\n\nThe National Post announced in 2015 that HomeStars had over two million companies listed on its website and hundreds of thousands of consumer reviews about those contractors. In 2015, ProfitGuide ranked HomeStars as the 77th fastest growing company in Canada. Its founder and CEO, Nancy Peterson, won an award in 2015 as one of Canada's top female entrepreneurs, where she ranked in 71st position.\n\nThe company has received praise for how it ensures its reviews are authentic. HomeStars detects fake reviews by a combination of a proprietary algorithm that detects suspicious activity and moderators who investigate reviews to ensure work was done. Once a negative review is published, some contractors may threaten legal action against the homeowner. If the homeowner decides to remove the review, it will be flagged as ‘removed by author’, which acts as a warning to others. Also, if HomeStars detects a contractor is attempting to post fake reviews or threaten homeowners, a suspicious activity flag will be posted prominently on their listing page.\n\nWhile the company has received mainly positive feedback, some contractors have voiced their anger after receiving bad reviews. Peterson was quoted by The Globe and Mail saying \"we're doing the right thing if companies hate us\", when discussing negative comments about the website. Another article has suggested that when contractors provide inadequate services, it is only natural for the contractor to blame review websites and not their own poor services.\n\nThere have been a number of lawsuits where contractors had attempted to file defamation lawsuits against homeowners who had written negative reviews about poor work. HomeStars helps people understand the difference between a negative review and a defamatory review. HomeStars was criticized for publishing a high rating on a contractor who then went bankrupt and left customers who had made large down-payments with unfinished work.\n\nHomeStars was acquired by HomeAdvisors parent company IAC, in February 2017. HomeAdvisor offers similar services in the US, and the acquisition of HomeStars is part of HomeAdvisor's strategy \"to build a dominant global business and brand\" according to their press release. \n"}
{"id": "9352805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9352805", "title": "IBM iSeries benchmarks", "text": "IBM iSeries benchmarks\n\nIBM has developed benchmarks to compare the performance of their various iSeries server offerings. Computational Intensive Workload (CIW) measures performance in a situation where there is a high ratio of computation to Input/Output communication. The reverse situation is simulated by the Commercial Processing Workload (CPW).\n\nThe CPW is a simplified variant of the industry-wide TPC-C benchmarking standard.\n\n"}
{"id": "402201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=402201", "title": "Izanagi", "text": "Izanagi\n\nHe with his spouse and younger sister Izanami gave birth to the many islands of Japan (\"kuniumi\"), and begat numerous deities of Shintoism (\"kamiumi\"). But she died after giving birth to the fire-god Kagu-tsuchi. Izanagi executed the fire god with the \"ten-grasp sword\" (Totsuka-no-Tsurugi). Afterwards, he paid his wife a visit in Yomi-no-kuni (the Underworld) in the hopes of retrieving her. But she had partaken of food cooked in the furnace of the Underworld, rendering her return impossible. Izanagi betrayed his promise not to look at her, and lit up a fire, only to behold her in her monstrous and hellish state. To avenge her shame, she dispatched the lightning god \"Yakusa no ikazuchi no kami\" (\"Raijin\") and the horrible hag Yomotsu-shikome to chase after him. Izanagi escaped, but the goddess vowed to kill a thousand of his people every day. Izanagi retorted that a thousand and five hundred will be born every day.\n\nIn the cleansing right after his return, he beget Amaterasu (the sun goddess) from his left eye, Tsukuyomi (the moon god) from his right eye and Susanoo (tempest or storm god) from his nose.\n\nIzanagi's visit to his wife Izanami in Yomi-no-kuni somewhat parallels the Greek Orpheus's visit to Eurydice in the underworld, but a more striking resemblance is his wife's inability to return after eating the food in hell, matched by Persephone of Greek myth. There is also an odd resemblance to the tale of Adam and Eve, while one of China's Four Great Folktales, \"Baishe Zhuan\", appears to be a modernized retelling.\n\n"}
{"id": "43210431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43210431", "title": "Jacob Druyvesteyn", "text": "Jacob Druyvesteyn\n\nJacob Druyvesteyn (1612 – 1691) was a Dutch lawyer and mayor of Haarlem.\n\nHe was born in Haarlem as the son of Aart Jansz Druyvesteyn and became a lawyer. He was appointed magistrate in the city council from 1637 and in 1639 he was portrayed as a flag bearer in Frans Hals' schutterstuk \"The Officers of the St George Militia Company in 1639\". Traditionally flag bearers were bachelors, but he was not a bachelor for long, because he married Wilhelmina Coymans, the wealthy daughter of Joseph Coymans in the same year. In 1647 he became mayor like his father before him. Among other offices, he served as head bailiff of Kennemerland and board member of the Dutch East India Company and in 1657 he was colonel of the schutterij. \n\nHe had 9 children, and his son Aarnoudt also became mayor. He died in Haarlem.\n\n"}
{"id": "55891691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55891691", "title": "James Smithson Medal", "text": "James Smithson Medal\n\nThe James Smithson Medal, established in 1965, is awarded to those who have made \"exceptional contributions to art, science, history, education and technology\". It is presented by the Smithsonian Institution which states that it is the organisation's \"most prestigious and highest award\".\n"}
{"id": "45353841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45353841", "title": "Latvian identity card", "text": "Latvian identity card\n\nLatvian identity card (), also called Personal certificate, is officially recognised biometric identity document issued to Latvian citizens. They are also valid for travel within Europe (except Belarus, Russia, and Ukraine), Georgia, French Overseas territories and Montserrat (max. 14 days) (without the need for a Latvian passport).\n\nLatvian citizens who have a valid passport are not obliged to obtain an ID card.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34113625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34113625", "title": "Light's Golden Jubilee", "text": "Light's Golden Jubilee\n\nLight's Golden Jubilee was a celebration of the 50th anniversary of Thomas Edison's incandescent light bulb, held on October 21, 1929, just days before the stock market crash of 1929 that swept the United States headlong into the Great Depression. The Jubilee also served as the dedication of Henry Ford's Greenfield Village, originally known as the Thomas Edison Institute.\n\nOriginally, \"Light’s Golden Jubilee\" was a celebration organized by the General Electric Company, which had absorbed Edison's original business and saw great business value in drawing connections between itself and the illustrious inventor. Thomas Edison and his family, however, believed that the aging inventor was being used and appealed to Henry Ford, Edison's long-time friend. Eventually, the celebration turned into a collaboration between Henry Ford and General Electric, though Ford won control over much of the ceremony, which he relocated from its planned location in Schenectady, New York — General Electric's headquarters — to Dearborn, Michigan, the site of Ford's Greenfield Village.\n\nThe events began with a train procession to Dearborn, with Edison getting off at the Smith Creek Station, where he had been ejected as a young telegraph operator many years ago.\n\nOnce the inventor had arrived in Dearborn, in what Benedict Anderson has called \"an experience of simultaneity,\" millions from around the country were invited to join in the commemoration of the ‘father of light.’ The entire country was urged to turn off their lights for the evening, only to flick the switch back on at the exact moment when the elderly and emotional Edison, seated in his now-relocated laboratory in Greenfield Village, connected two wires to recreate the exact moment of the invention of the light bulb, a moment broadcast over the radio airwaves on as many as 140 stations.\n\nThe evening concluded with numerous speeches at a formal candlelight dinner, which took place in Ford's still unfinished replica of Independence Hall at Greenfield Village, complete with its own Liberty Bell. In attendance were celebrities such as President Herbert Hoover and Mrs. Hoover, in their first voyage outside of the capital since President Hoover's inauguration, Walter Chrysler, Marie Curie, George Eastman, Aimée de Heeren, Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon, Adolph Ochs, John D. Rockefeller, Jr., Will Rogers, Julius Rosenwald, Charles Schwab, and Orville Wright, with Albert Einstein chiming in during the speeches via a special radio hookup.\n\nIn response to the praise lavished upon him, Edison, overcome with emotion, said, \"The experience makes me realize as never before that Americans are sentimental and this crowning event of Light’s Golden Jubilee fills me with gratitude. As to Henry Ford, words are inadequate to express my feelings. I can only say to you that, in the fullest and richest meaning of the term—he is my friend.\"\n\nThe preceding year had similarly been filled with smaller-scale demonstrations of the influence of Edison's innovations: electrical displays across the country; Broadway signs temporarily darkened to show the difference their light made in the atmosphere of cities across the country; and an \"open season\" for biographies, newspaper articles, and commemorations of the inventor.\n\nAs part of the celebration, Ford formally dedicated Greenfield Village to his friend Thomas Edison, a man who once encouraged a young Henry Ford to pursue the creation of a gasoline powered automobile. Upon hearing of Ford's efforts to create a \"carriage without any horses,\" Edison urged the young inventor along, shouting, as Ford himself recalls it, \"Young man, that’s the thing!\" and emphatically banging his fist on a table.\n\nA landmark component of Ford's creation was Edison's original laboratory, library, and machine shop from Edison's home of Menlo Park, New Jersey, relocated by Ford \"at great cost\" and complete with seven train cars of, as Edison put it, the same \"damn New Jersey clay.\" The only difference, Edison claimed, between this relocated laboratory and his original was that \"we never kept it as clean as this!\" Ultimately, Henry Ford spent about $3 million on Greenfield Village's collection of \"Edisonia\" alone. After Edison's death, the Henry Ford Museum at Greenfield Village would hold the inventor's literal last breath, trapped, at Ford's request, in a bottle by Edison's son.\n"}
{"id": "15328380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15328380", "title": "List of potato museums", "text": "List of potato museums\n\nA potato museum is a museum about potatoes. There are many such museums around the world, predominantly in North America and Europe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19542874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19542874", "title": "List of record charts", "text": "List of record charts\n\nA record chart, also known as a music chart, is a method of ranking music judging by the popularity during a given period of time. Examples of record charts are the Hit parade, Hot 100 or Top 40. Although primarily a marketing or supermarketing tool like any other sales statistic, they have become a form of popular media culture in their own right.\n\nRecord charts are compiled using a variety of criteria. These commonly include sales of records, cassettes and compact discs; amount of radio airplay; requests to radio disk jockeys; voting for songs by the radio listeners and, recently, number of downloads.\n\nSome charts are specific to a particular musical genre and most to a particular geographical location. The most common period of time covered by a chart is one week, with the chart being printed or broadcast at the end of this time. Summary charts for years and decades are then calculated from their component weekly charts. Component charts have become an increasingly important way to measure the commercial success of individual songs.\n\nReviewers often describe records using round number milestones within a chart. For example, a record that peaks at number 7 may be called a \"Top 10\" hit, even when there is no chart limited to only the top 10 records in that particular location.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19528769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19528769", "title": "Lu rebellamentu di Sichilia", "text": "Lu rebellamentu di Sichilia\n\nLu rebellamentu di Sichilia, fully Cronica di lu rebellamentu di Sichilia contra re Carlu, is a Sicilian historical chronicle of the War of the Vespers written around 1290. The anonymous \"Rebellamentu\", probably written at Messina, was ascribed to Atanasiu di Iaci by Pasquale Castorina in 1883. Though the \"Rebellamentu\" sometimes adds valuable details to the history of the Vespers, it is frequently untrustworthy. Its monastic provenance is evident in its moralising tone. The antiquity of its language has placed its authenticity beyond doubt, despite its lack of an early manuscript tradition. This has not prevented speculation that it was written contemporarily with events: one verb in one manuscript is found in the first-person present; this may represent the author inadvertently stepping out of his usual frame of reference, or merely an error in that manuscript.\n\nThe \"Rebellamentu\" covers the years 1279–82 and treats John of Procida as a hero. It is also the earliest chronicle to record that violence broke out after a Sicilian woman was raped by a French soldier, a story also recorded by Atanasiu di Iaci elsewhere. It says that when the Sicilians complained to Charles of Anjou about their high taxes, he responded, \"\"Vi farro spendiri munita di soli, como altra volta havitu spisu\",\" threatening that he would re-issue leather money as had been done in the past. This probably indicates that the legend that William I issued leather money, otherwise first recorded by Tommaso Fazello in his \"De Rebus Siculis\" (1558), was current in the late thirteenth century. The \"Rebellamentu\" also makes the Orsini Pope Nicholas III party to a conspiracy to dethrone Charles of Anjou. The Florentine chronicler Giovanni Villani, who was biased against the Orsini because of the legation of Napoleone Orsini to Florence in 1306, supports the allegation. \n\nThe \"Rebellamentu\" covers John's negotiations with the Byzantine emperor Michael VIII Palaeologus and with Peter III of Aragon, the Sicilian Vespers, the coronation of Peter in Palermo in August 1282, the retreat of Charles to Calabria, and the entry of Peter and John into Messina in October 1282. The excerpt below describes how Peter was crowned by the Bishop of Cefalù because the incumbent of the Archdiocese of Palermo, Piero II de Santa Fede, had recently died, and the Archbishop of Monreale, Giovanni Roccamezza, was away in Rome:\nThe Spinelli Codex, the oldest surviving copy of the text, was probably copied from an older manuscript (perhaps the original) around 1330. It was published in English translation in 2015.\n\nTwo later Tuscan histories of the Vespers—the \"Liber Jani de Procida et Palialoco\" and the \"Leggenda di Messer Gianni di Procida\"—may share the \"Reballamentu\" as a source. Conversely, all three may derive from an earlier, now lost source. All three agree on the centrality of John of Procida in the Vespers. The opera \"Les vêpres siciliennes\" (1855), with music by Giuseppe Verdi and a libretto by Eugène Scribe, drew upon the \"Rebellamentu\" for elements of its story, notably the rape.\n\n"}
{"id": "56126872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56126872", "title": "MENASA", "text": "MENASA\n\nMENASA is an English-language acronym referring to the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia region. It consists mostly of Islamic regions of MENA and South Asia, with Dubai chosen as its United Nations headquarters.\n"}
{"id": "3091095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3091095", "title": "Maritime Museum of San Diego", "text": "Maritime Museum of San Diego\n\nThe Maritime Museum of San Diego, established in 1948, preserves one of the largest collections of historic sea vessels in the United States. Located on the San Diego Bay, the centerpiece of the museum's collection is the \"Star of India\", an 1863 iron bark. The museum maintains the MacMullen Library and Research Archives aboard the 1898 ferryboat \"Berkeley\". The museum also publishes the quarterly peer-reviewed journal \"Mains'l Haul: A Journal of Pacific Maritime History\".\n\nThe Maritime Museum at the Star of India Wharf is located on the west side of North Harbor Drive, between the ends of Ash Street and Grape Street, south of San Diego International Airport.\n\n\nStarting in 2011 the Maritime Museum of San Diego built a full-sized, fully functional, historically accurate replica of Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo’s flagship, \"San Salvador\". The replica was constructed in full public view in the bayside Spanish Landing park in San Diego, giving people the opportunity to watch a living recreation of the first modern industrial activity in the Americas. She was launched in 2015 and is stationed at the San Diego Bay Embarcadero as part of the Museum's fleet of historic and replica ships. She opened for public tours in September 2016 in conjunction with the Maritime Museum's annual Festival of Sail. Later that month she is expected to start making coastal tours up the California coast.\n\nNot affiliated with the Maritime Museum, but located a short distance away, is the independently operated USS \"Midway\" Aircraft Carrier Museum. Although at first it was feared the \"Midway\" would compete with the Maritime Museum for visitors, in fact visitation of the Maritime Museum has increased since the Midway museum opened.\n\n"}
{"id": "8119167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8119167", "title": "Mila Rechcigl", "text": "Mila Rechcigl\n\nMiloslav Rechcigl, Jr., or Mila Rechcigl, is a trained biochemist, nutritionist and cancer researcher, writer, editor, historian, bibliographer and genealogist. He was one of the founders and past President for many years of the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences.\n\nHe was born on July 30, 1930 in Mladá Boleslav, Czechoslovakia. His father, Miloslav Rechcigl, Sr., was a prominent politician in the pre-World War II Czechoslovakia, having been elected as the youngest member to the Czechoslovak Parliament and who held the position of President of the Millers Association of Bohemia and Moravia. After the communist takeover, he escaped from his native country and in 1950 immigrated to the United States, where he became a naturalized citizen in 1955. He studied at Cornell University from 1951–58, receiving his B.S., M.N.S., and Ph.D. degrees there, specializing in biochemistry, nutrition, physiology, and food science.\n\nHe then spent two years conducting research at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland, as a Postdoctoral Research Fellow. Subsequently, he was appointed as research biochemist to the staff of the Laboratory of Biochemistry at the National Cancer Institute. During 1968-69 he was selected for one year of training in a special USPHS executive program in health administration, research management, grants administration, and science policy.\n\nThis led to his appointment as Special Assistant for Nutrition and Health in the Health Services and Mental Health Administration. In 1970 he joined the US Agency for International Development,which was originally a part of the US Department of State, as nutrition advisor and later was put in charge of research program.\n\nIn his research, he initially specialized in amino acid metabolism, including the utilization of D-amino acids and non specific forms of nitrogen. He then studied the relationship between protein and vitamin A which led to the finding that the amount, as well as biological value, of dietary protein are important in the process of converting carotene to vitamin A.\nOther studies dealt with metabolic changes during cachexia of tumor-bearing animals. One of the most striking affects of tumor on the host was the depression of enzyme catalase in the livers and in the kidneys which some investigators thought was due to a hypothetical substance, referred to as toxohormone. This was disproved by finding significant levels of the enzyme in liver tumors.\n\nA number of his studies dealt with the question of enzyme turnover \"in vivo\". Using specific metabolic inhibitors, he evaluated relative rates of synthesis and degradation of the enzyme catalase under a variety of physiological, pathological and pharmacological conditions. These studies led to the conclusion that the rate of synthesis rather than the rate of destruction may be the preferential way of the mammalian organism to control its enzyme levels.\n\nHis finding of greatly different levels of catalase activity in certain substrains of mice, which were under genetic control, provided an excellent model for pursuing fundamental research in biochemical genetics in the mammalian system. The analyses of the first, the second the backcross generations between high-enzyme and low-enzyme mouse substrains showed that the difference was due to a single autosomal gene pair with low dominant to high. Using specific metabolic inhibitors, it was subsequently found that the genetic difference between the two substrains lies primarily in the markedly increased rate of the enzyme destruction in the liver of one of the substrains. This was a unique finding since in all normal rats and mice studied previously the rates of enzyme destruction seemed to be almost constant. Although transient alteration in the rate of enzyme degradation has been observed under certain physiological conditions with other enzyme systems, the observation on catalase iwas believed to be the first demonstration of such regulatory mechanism under genetic control.\n\nOther studies dealt with the morphology, biochemistry and physiology of microbodies, on which he collaborated with Prof. Z.. Hruban of the University of Chicago, that led to the monograph Microbodies and Related Particles (1969).\n\nHe is the author or editor of over thirty monographs and handbooks in the field of biochemistry, physiology, nutrition, food science and food technology, agriculture, and international development, in addition to a large number of scientific articles and book chapters, including:\n\n\n\nApart from his purely scientific endeavors as a researcher and science administrator, Dr. Rechcigl devoted almost 50 years of his life to the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences (SVU), an international organization, with headquarters in Washington, D. C. \nHe was responsible for the first two Society's World Congresses, both of which were a great success and which put the Society on the world map. He also edited the Congress lectures and arranged for their publication, under the title The Czechoslovak Contribution to World Culture and Czechoslovakia Past and Present The publications received acclaim in the American academic circles and greatly contributed to the growing prestige of the Society worldwide.\n\nDr. Rechcigl was also involved, one way or another, with most of the subsequent SVU World Congresses, including the recent SVU Congresses in Prague, Brno, Bratislava, Washington, D.C., Plzeň, Olomouc and České Budějovice.Prior to his last term as the SVU President (2004–06), he held similar posts during 1974-76, 1976–78, and again in 1994-96, 1996–98, 1998–2000, 2000–02 and 2002-04.\n\nIn 1999, in conjunction with President Václav Havel's visit to Minnesota, he organized a memorable conference at the University of Minnesota on \"Czech and Slovak America: Quo Vadis?\"\n\nTogether with his wife Eva, he published eight editions of the SVU Biographical Directory, the last of which was printed in Prague in 2003. He was instrumental in launching a new English periodical Kosmas. Czechoslovak and Central European Journal. He also proposed the establishment of the SVU Research Institute and the creation of the SVU Commission for Cooperation with Czechoslovakia, and its Successor States, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which played an important role in the first years after the Velvet Revolution of 1989. Under the sponsorship of the SVU Research Institute, together with his colleagues, he conducted a series of workshops about research management and the art of \"grantsmanship\" for scientists and scholars, as well as for the administrators and science policy makers, at Czech and Slovak universities, the Academies of Sciences (Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Slovak Academy of Sciences) and the Government.\n\nHe established the National Heritage Commission with the aim of preserving Czech and Slovak cultural heritage in America. Under its aegis, he had undertaken a comprehensive survey of Czech-related historic sites and archival materials in the US. Based on this survey, he has prepared a detailed listing, Czech-American Historic Sites, Monuments, and Memorials which was published through the courtesy of Palacký University of Olomouc (2004). The second part of the survey, bearing the title Czechoslovak American Archivalia. was also published by Palacky University (2004).\n\nAmong historians, Dr. Rechcigl is well known for his studies on history, genealogy, and bibliography of Czech Americans and Slovak Americans. A number of his publications deal with the early immigrants from the Czech lands and Slovakia, including the immigration of Moravian Brethren to America. In the last few years he has been working on the cultural contributions of Czech Americans and Slovak Americans. A selection of his biographical portraits of prominent Czech Americans from the 17th century to date has been published in Prague, under the title \"Postavy nasí Ameriky\" (\"Personalities of our America\"). On the occasion of his 75th birthday, the Society published a collection of his essays, under the title Czechs and Slovaks in America, as a part of the East European Monographs series, distributed by the Columbia University Press.\n\nDr. Rechcigl is a member of the Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi, member of the Scientific Research Society of the Sigma Xi, member of the Cosmos Club, Honorary Member of the International Honor Society of Delta Tau Kappa and Honorary Member of the Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences. He was also elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), Fellow of the Washington Academy of Sciences and Fellow of the American Institute of Chemists (AIC) and Fellow of the International College of Applied Nutrition.\n\nIn 1991, on the occasion of its 100th anniversary, the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences awarded him the Hlavka Memorial Medal. In 1997 he received a newly established prize \"Gratias agit\" from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic. In 1999, on the occasion of President Václav Havel's visit to the US, President Havel presented him, on behalf of SVU, the Presidential Memorial Medal. More recently, he was given an honorary title Nebraska Admiral (\"Admiral of the Great Navy of the State of Nebraska\")by the Governor of Nebraska Mike Johanns and the key to the Capital of Nebraska by the Mayor of Lincoln and the SVU Prague Chapter awarded him the 2002 Prague SVU Award. In 2005, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic Cyril Svoboda honored him by awarding him the Jan Masaryk Medal for his contributions in preserving and fostering relations between the Czech Republic and the United States. In 2006 he received Comenius Award from the Czech Cultural Center in Houston.\n\nMila Rechcigl lives with his wife Eva in Washington, D.C. area.\nThey have two children, Jack and Karen, who live in Florida. Jack Rechcigl is a professor of soil and water sciences at University of Florida and Director of Gulf Coast Research and Education Center in Wimauma.\n\n"}
{"id": "14260687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14260687", "title": "Mobile operating system", "text": "Mobile operating system\n\nA mobile operating system (or mobile OS) is an operating system for phones, tablets, smartwatches, or other mobile devices. While computers such as typical laptops are 'mobile', the operating systems usually used on them are not considered mobile ones, as they were originally designed for desktop computers that historically did not have or need specific \"mobile\" features. This distinction is becoming blurred in some newer operating systems that are hybrids made for both uses.\n\nMobile operating systems combine features of a personal computer operating system with other features useful for mobile or handheld use; usually including, and most of the following considered essential in modern mobile systems; a touchscreen, cellular, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi Protected Access, Wi-Fi, Global Positioning System (GPS) mobile navigation, video- and single-frame picture cameras, speech recognition, voice recorder, music player, near field communication, and infrared blaster. By Q1 2018, over 383 million smartphones were sold with 85.9 percent running Android and 14.1 percent running iOS. Android alone is more popular than the popular desktop operating system Windows, and in general smartphone use (even without tablets) outnumber desktop use.\n\nMobile devices with mobile communications abilities (e.g., smartphones) contain two mobile operating systemsthe main user-facing software platform is supplemented by a second low-level proprietary real-time operating system which operates the radio and other hardware. Research has shown that these low-level systems may contain a range of security vulnerabilities permitting malicious base stations to gain high levels of control over the mobile device.\n\nMobile operating systems have majority use since 2017 (measured by web use); with even only the smartphones running them (excluding tablets) more used than any other kind of device. Thus traditional desktop OS is now a minority used kind of OS; see usage share of operating systems. However, variations occur in popularity by regions, while desktop-minority also applies on some days in regions such as United States and United Kingdom.\n\nMobile operating system milestones mirror the development of mobile phones and smartphones:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese operating systems often run atop baseband or other real time operating systems that handle hardware aspects of the phone.\nAndroid (based on the modified Linux kernel) is a mobile operating system developed by Google Inc. Besides having the largest installed base worldwide on smartphones, it is also the most popular operating system for general purpose computers (a category that includes desktop computers and mobile devices), even though Android is not a popular operating system for regular (desktop) personal computers (PCs). Although the Android operating system is free and open-source software, in devices sold, much of the software bundled with it (including Google apps and vendor-installed software) is proprietary software and closed source.\n\nAndroid's releases before 2.0 (1.0, 1.5, 1.6) were used exclusively on mobile phones. Android 2.x releases were mostly used for mobile phones but also some tablets, Android 3.0 was a tablet-oriented release and does not officially run on mobile phones, while both phone and tablet compatibility was merged with Android 4.0. The current Android version is 9.0 Pie.\nAndroid's releases are named after sweets or dessert items, except for the first and second releases:\n\n\n\nAndroid One is a software experience that run on the unmodified Android operating system, which closely resembled those which running on Pixel devices or previously, the Google Nexus program. Unlike most of the \"stock\" Android that running on the market, Android One UI closely resemble of the Pixel UI, due to Android One program are software experience that develop by Google and distribute to partner who signup for the program, such as Nokia and Xiaomi. Thus, the overall UI are intended to be clean as possible (Intended by Google), while OEM partners may tweak or add additional apps such as camera to the firmware, otherwise most of the apps will be handle by Google proprietary apps. The update was handle by Google and will be internally tested by OEM before distribute via OTA update to the end users.\n\n\n\nBlackBerry Secure is an operating system developed by BlackBerry, based on the Android Open Source Project (AOSP). Officially announced the name for their Android based front-end touch interface on August 2017, before the announcement, BlackBerry Secure was running on BlackBerry brand devices such as BlackBerry Priv, DTEK 50/60 and BlackBerry KEYone. Currently, BlackBerry plan to license out the BlackBerry Secure to other OEM's.\n\n\nColorOS is a custom front-end touch interface, based on the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) and is developed by OPPO Electronics Corp. , OPPO officially releases ColorOS with every OPPO device, and released an official ROM for the OnePlus One.\n\n\nEmotion User Interface (EMUI) is a front-end touch interface developed by Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. and is based on Google's Android Open Source Project (AOSP). EMUI is preinstalled on most Huawei and Honor devices.\n\n\n/e/ is an open source operating system forked from the source code of LineageOS. The OS currently in its beta version covers about 49 devices.. /e/ essentially targets Android smart phone devices. The OS uses MicroG as a replacement for the Google Play Services.\n\n\nFlyme OS is an operating system developed by Meizu Technology Co., Ltd., an open source OS based on Google Android Open Source Project (AOSP). Flyme OS is mainly installed on Meizu Smartphones such as the MX's series; however, it also has official ROM support for a few Android devices.\n\n\nHTC Sense is a software suite developed by HTC, used primarily on the company's Android-based devices. Serving as a successor to HTC's TouchFLO 3D software for Windows Mobile, Sense modifies many aspects of the Android user experience, incorporating added features (such as an altered home screen and keyboard), widgets, HTC-developed applications, and redesigned applications. The first device with Sense, the HTC Hero, was released in 2009.\n\n\nIndus OS is a custom mobile operating system based on the Android Open Source Project (AOSP). It is developed by the Indus OS team based in India. No longer valid as of 2018Indus OS is available on Micromax, Intex, Karbonn, and other Indian smartphone brands.\n\n\nLG UX (formerly named Optimus UI) is a front-end touch interface developed by LG Electronics with partners, featuring a full touch user interface. It is sometimes incorrectly identified as an operating system. LG UX is used internally by LG for sophisticated feature phones and tablet computers, and is not available for licensing by external parties.\n\nOptimus UI 2 which based on Android 4.1.2 has been released on the Optimus K II and the Optimus Neo 3. It features a more refined user interface compared to the prior version based on Android 4.1.1, would include together which new functionality such as voice shutter and quick memo.\n\n\nLineage Android Distribution is a custom mobile operating system based on the Android Open Source Project (AOSP). It serves as the successor to the highly popular custom ROM, CyanogenMod, from which it was forked in December 2016 when Cyanogen Inc. announced it was discontinuing development and shut down the infrastructure behind the project. Since Cyanogen Inc. retained the rights to the Cyanogen name, the project rebranded its fork as LineageOS.\n\nSimilar to CyanogenMod, it does not include any proprietary apps unless the user installs them. It allows Android users who can no longer obtain update support from their manufacturer to continue updating their OS version to the latest one based on official release from Google AOSP and heavy theme customization.\n\n\nMi User Interface (MIUI), developed by the Chinese electronic company Xiaomi Inc., is a mobile operating system based on the Android Open Source Project (AOSP). MIUI is mostly found in Xiaomi smartphones such as the Mi and Redmi Series; however, it also has official ROM support for few Android devices. Although MIUI is based on AOSP, which is open source, it consists of closed source and proprietary software of its own.\n\n\nMIUI for POCO is a custom mobile operating system that is based on MIUI, which itself was based onAndroid \"Open Source Project (AOSP)\". Just like it predecessor, it also develop by Xiaomi Inc. Unlike the original MIUI, MIUI for POCO was specifically customized for their Poco series smartphone, including difference UI and more frequent update compare to the original MIUI. Just like MIUI which is based on open source AOSP, MIUI for POCO also consists of closed source and proprietary software of its own.\n\n\nOxygenOS is based on the open source Android Open Source Project (AOSP) and is developed by OnePlus to replace Cyanogen OS on OnePlus devices such as the OnePlus One, and it is preinstalled on the OnePlus 2, OnePlus X, OnePlus 3, OnePlus 3T, OnePlus 5, OnePlus 5T and OnePlus 6. As stated by Oneplus, OxygenOS is focused on stabilizing and maintaining of \"stock\" like those found on Nexus devices. It consists of mainly Google apps and minor UI customization to maintain the sleekness of \"pure\" Android.\n\n\nPixel UI is developed by Google that is based on open source Android. Unlike the Nexus phones, where Google shipped with the \"stock\" Android, the UI that came with the first generation Pixel phones were slightly modified as compared to the \"stock\" Android. As part of the Google Pixel software, the Pixel UI and its home launcher are closed source and proprietary, thus it is only available on the Pixel family devices. (However, third party mods allow non Pixel smartphones to install Pixel Launcher with Google Now feed integration).\n\n\nReplicant is a custom mobile operating system based on the Android with all proprietary drivers and bloat closed source software removed.\n\n\nSamsung Experience (formerly called TouchWiz) is a front-end touch interface developed by Samsung Electronics with partners, featuring a full touch user interface. It is sometimes incorrectly identified as an independent operating system. Samsung Experience is used internally by Samsung for smartphones, feature phones and tablet computers, and is not available for licensing by external parties as it is closed source and proprietary. The Android version of Samsung Experience also comes with Samsung-made apps preloaded (except starting with the Galaxy S6 which have removed all Samsung pre-loaded apps installed, leaving one with Galaxy Apps, to save storage space and initially due to the removal of MicroSD). With the release of Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8+, Samsung Experience 8.1 was preinstall on it with introducing new function known as Samsung DeX. Similar to the concept of Microsoft Continuum, Samsung DeX allowed high end Galaxy devices such as S8/S8+ or Note 8 to connect into a docking station, which extends the functionality to allow desktop-like functionality by connecting a keyboard, mouse, and monitor. Samsung also announced \"Linux on Galaxy\", which allows to use the standard Linux distribution on the DeX platform.\n\n\nSony Xperia UI, (formerly known as Timescape UI), was the front-end UI that developed by Sony Mobile (formerly Sony Ericsson) for their Sony Xperia series that is running Android platform. Sony Xperia UI mostly consists of Sony own's application such as Sony Music (formerly known as Walkman Music player), Albums and Video Player. During it's time as Timescape UI, the UI was different than the standard Android UI, instead of traditional apps dock on the bottom part, it was located at the four corner of the home screen, while the middle of the screen consist of the widget. However the recent development of UI are closely resemble to those of Stock Android.\n\n\nZenUI is a front-end touch interface developed by ASUS with partners, featuring a full touch user interface. ZenUI is used by Asus for its Android phones and tablet computers, and is not available for licensing by external parties. ZenUI also comes preloaded with Asus-made apps like ZenLink (PC Link, Share Link, Party Link & Remote Link).\n\n\nChrome OS is an operating system designed by Google that is based on the Linux kernel and uses the Google Chrome web browser as its principal user interface. As a result, Chrome OS primarily supports web applications. Google announced the project in July 2009, conceiving it as an operating system in which both applications and user data reside in the cloud: hence Chrome OS primarily runs web applications.\n\nDue to increase of popularity with 2 in 1 PCs, most of the recent Chromebook are introduce with touch screen capability, with Android applications started to become available for the operating system in 2014. And in 2016, access to Android apps in the entire Google Play Store was introduced on supported Chrome OS devices. With the support of Android applications, there are Chromebook devices that position it self closely to tablet based instead of notebooks.\n\nChrome OS is only available pre-installed on hardware from Google manufacturing partners. An open source equivalent, Chromium OS, can be compiled from downloaded source code. Early on, Google provided design goals for Chrome OS, but has not otherwise released a technical description.\n\nFuchsia is a capability-based, real-time operating system (RTOS) currently being developed by Google. It was first discovered as a mysterious code post on GitHub in August 2016, without any official announcement. In contrast to prior Google-developed operating systems such as Chrome OS and Android, which are based on Linux kernels, Fuchsia is based on a new microkernel called \"Zircon\", derived from \"Little Kernel\", a small operating system intended for embedded systems. Upon inspection, media outlets noted that the code post on GitHub suggested Fuchsia's capability to run on universal devices, from embedded systems to smartphones, tablets and personal computers. In May 2017, Fuchsia was updated with a user interface, along with a developer writing that the project was not a for experimental, prompting media speculation about Google's intentions with the operating system, including the possibility of it replacing Android.\n\nCurrent Fuchsia version list:\n\nSailfish OS is from Jolla. It is open source with GNU General Public License (GPL) for middleware stack core which comes from MER. Sailfish due to Jolla's business model and due to alliances with various partners and due to intentional design of OS internals, is capable to adopt in several layers third party software including Jolla software e.g. Jolla's UI is proprietary software (closed source), so such components can be proprietary with many different kinds of licences. However, user can replace them with open source components like e.g. NEMO UI instead Jolla's UI. Using third party software extends usability but does not make the OS code close, in the same way as preinstalled Microsoft Word (closed source) on a Linux device does not make Linux closed source.\n\nAfter Nokia abandoned in 2011 the MeeGo project, most of the MeeGo team left Nokia, and established Jolla as a company to use MeeGo and Mer business opportunities. The MER standard allows it to be launched on any hardware with kernel compatible with MER. In 2012, Linux Sailfish OS based on MeeGo and using middleware of MER core stack distribution was launched for public use. The first device, the Jolla smartphone, was unveiled on May 20, 2013. In 2015, Jolla Tablet was launched and the BRICS countries declared it an officially supported OS there. Jolla started licensing Sailfish OS 2.0 for third parties. Some devices sold are updateable to Sailfish 2.0 with no limits.\n\nEach Sailfish OS version release is named after a Finnish lake:\n\nTizen (based on the Linux kernel) is a mobile operating system hosted by Linux Foundation, together with support from the Tizen Association, guided by a Technical Steering Group composed of Intel and Samsung.\n\nTizen is an operating system for devices including smartphones, tablets, In-Vehicle Infotainment (IVI) devices, and smart TVs. It is an open source system (however the SDK was closed source and proprietary) that aims to offer a consistent user experience across devices. Tizen's main components are the Linux kernel and the WebKit runtime. According to Intel, Tizen \"combines the best of LiMo and MeeGo.\" HTML5 apps are emphasized, with MeeGo encouraging its members to transition to Tizen, stating that the \"future belongs to HTML5-based applications, outside of a relatively small percentage of apps, and we are firmly convinced that our investment needs to shift toward HTML5.\" Tizen will be targeted at a variety of platforms such as handsets, touch pc, smart TVs and in-vehicle entertainment. On May 17, 2013, Tizen released version 2.1, code-named Nectarine.\n\nWhile Tizen itself was open source, most of the UX and UI layer that developed by Samsung was mainly closed source and proprietary, such as the TouchWiz UI on the Samsung Z's series smartphone.\n\nCurrent Tizen version list:\n\n\nUbuntu Touch is from Canonical Ltd.. It is open source and uses the GPL license. The OS is built on the Android Linux kernel, using Android drivers and services via an LXC container, but does not use any of the Java-like code of Android.\n\nThough Canonical formally announced it was discontinuing the Ubuntu mobile OS with its integral component Unity8, the independent German non-profit UBPorts Community/(\"Foundation\" paperwork pending in the local Berlin-government) decided to takeover the project. Canonical started Ubuntu Touch based on Ubuntu 15.04 (Vivid Vervet) and UBPorts upgraded the base to the nearest, current long-term support version Ubuntu 16.04 LTS (Xenial Xerus).\n\nOriginal Canonical Ubuntu Touch version list:\n\n\nUBPorts Ubuntu Touch version list:\n\n\nSmaller open source mobile operating systems under active development include LuneOS, Plasma Mobile, postmarketOS and Maemo Leste.\n\niOS (formerly named iPhone OS) was by created Apple Inc. It has the second largest installed base worldwide on smartphones, but the largest profits, due to aggressive price competition between Android-based manufacturers. It is closed source and proprietary, and is built on the open source Darwin operating system. The iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad and second or third-generation Apple TV all use iOS, which is derived from macOS.\n\nNative third party applications were not officially supported until the release of iPhone OS 2.0 on July 11, 2008. Before this, \"jailbreaking\" allowed third party applications to be installed, and this method is still available.\n\nCurrently all iOS devices are developed by Apple and manufactured by Foxconn or another of Apple's partners.\n\nCurrent iOS version list:\n\n\nWindows 10 is a personal computer operating system developed and released by Microsoft as part of the Windows NT family of operating systems. It was released on July 29, 2015. Just like its predecessors, it was designed to run across multiple Microsoft product such as PCs and Tablets. The Windows user interface was revised to handle transitions between a mouse-oriented interface and a touchscreen-optimized interface based on available input devices‍—‌particularly on 2-in-1 PCs.\n\nWindows 10 also introduces the universal apps, expanding on Metro-style apps, these apps can be designed to run across multiple Microsoft product families with nearly identical code‍—‌including PCs, tablets, smartphones, embedded systems, Xbox One, Surface Hub and Mixed Reality.\n\nCurrent Windows 10 version list:\n\n\nKaiOS is from Kai. It is based on Firefox OS. Unlike most mobile operating systems which focus on smartphones, KaiOS was developed mainly for budget and affordable phones, giving these categories phone access to more advanced technologies which are usually found on smartphones, such as app stores and Wi-Fi/4G capabilities.\n\nBlackBerry 10 (based on the QNX OS) is from BlackBerry. As a smartphone OS, it is closed source and proprietary, and only runs on phones and tablets manufactured by BlackBerry.\n\nOne of the dominant platforms in the world in late 2000s, its global market share was reduced significantly by mid-2010s. In late 2016, BlackBerry announced that it will continue support the OS, with a promise to release 10.3.3. Therefore, BlackBerry 10 would not received any major updates as BlackBerry and its partners would focus more on their Android base development.\n\nCurrent BlackBerry 10 version list:\n\n\nWindows 10 Mobile (formerly called Windows Phone) is from Microsoft. It is closed source and proprietary.\n\nUnveiled on February 15, 2010, Windows Phone includes a user interface inspired by Microsoft's Metro Design Language. It is integrated with Microsoft services such as OneDrive and Office, Xbox Music, Xbox Video, Xbox Live games and Bing, but also integrates with many other non-Microsoft services such as Facebook and Google accounts. Windows Phone devices were made primarily by Microsoft Mobile/Nokia, and also by HTC and Samsung.\n\nOn January 21, 2015, Microsoft announced that the Windows Phone brand will be phased out and replaced with Windows 10 Mobile, bringing tighter integration and unification with its PC counterpart Windows 10, and provide a platform for smartphones and tablets with screen sizes under 8 inches.\n\nIn October 2017, Microsoft officially announced that they would no longer push any major updates to Windows 10 Mobile, instead it would put it in maintenance mode, where Microsoft would push bug fixes and general improvements only, therefore Windows 10 Mobile would not receive any new feature updates.\n\nCurrent Windows 10 Mobile version list:\n\n\nCyanogenMod was a custom mobile operating system based on the Android Open Source Project (AOSP). It was a custom ROM that was co-developed by the CyanogenMod community. The OS did not include any proprietary apps unless the user installed them. Due to its open source nature, CyanogenMod allowed Android users who could no longer obtain update support from their manufacturer to continue updating their OS version to the latest one based on official releases from Google AOSP and heavy theme customization. The last version of the OS was CyanogenMod 13 which was based on Android Asus\n\nOn December 24, 2016, CyanogenMod announced on their blog that they would no longer be releasing any CyanogenMod updates. All development moved to LineageOS.\n\n\nCyanogen OS was based on CyanogenMod and maintained by Cyanogen Inc; however, it included proprietary apps and it was only available for commercial uses.\n\n\nFirefox OS (project name: Boot to Gecko, also known as B2G) is from Mozilla. It was an open source mobile operating system released under the Mozilla Public License built on the Android Linux kernel and used Android drivers, but did not use any Java-like code of Android.\n\nAccording to Ars Technica, \"Mozilla says that B2G is motivated by a desire to demonstrate that the standards-based open Web has the potential to be a competitive alternative to the existing single-vendor application development stacks offered by the dominant mobile operating systems.\" In September 2016, Mozilla announced that work on Firefox OS has ceased, and all B2G-related code would be removed from mozilla-central.\n\nMeeGo was from non-profit organization The Linux Foundation. It is open source and GPL. At the 2010 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Nokia and Intel both unveiled \"MeeGo\", a mobile operating system that combined Moblin and Maemo to create an open-sourced experience for users across all devices. In 2011 Nokia announced that it would no longer pursue MeeGo in favor of Windows Phone. Nokia announced the Nokia N9 on June 21, 2011 at the Nokia Connection event in Singapore. LG announced its support for the platform. Maemo was a platform developed by Nokia for smartphones and Internet tablets. It is open source and GPL, based on Debian GNU/Linux and draws much of its graphical user interface (GUI), frameworks, and libraries from the GNOME project. It uses the Matchbox window manager and the GTK-based Hildon as its GUI and application framework.\n\nwebOS was developed by Palm. webOS is an open source mobile operating system running on the Linux kernel, initially developed by Palm, which launched with the Palm Pre. After being acquired by HP, two phones (the Veer and the Pre 3) and a tablet (the TouchPad) running webOS were introduced in 2011. On August 18, 2011, HP announced that webOS hardware would be discontinued, but would continue to support and update webOS software and develop the webOS ecosystem. HP released webOS as open source under the name Open webOS, and plans to update it with additional features. On February 25, 2013 HP announced the sale of WebOS to LG Electronics, who used the operating system for its \"smart\" or Internet-connected TVs. However, HP retained patents underlying WebOS and cloud-based services such as the App Catalog.\n\nIn 1999, Research In Motion released its first BlackBerry devices, providing secure real-time push-email communications on wireless devices. Services such as BlackBerry Messenger provide the integration of all communications into a single inbox. In September 2012, RIM announced that the 200 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped. As of September 2014, there were around 46 million active BlackBerry service subscribers. In early 2010s, RIM has undergone a platform transition, changing its company name to BlackBerry Limited and making new devices on a new platform named \"BlackBerry 10\".\n\nWindows Mobile is a discontinued operating system from Microsoft that it replaced with Windows Phone. It is closed source and proprietary.\n\nThe Windows CE operating system and Windows Mobile middleware was widely spread in Asia (which mostly uses Android now). The two improved variants of this operating system, Windows Mobile 6 Professional (for touch screen devices) and Windows Mobile 6 Standard, were unveiled in February 2007. It was criticized for having a user interface which is not optimized for touch input by fingers; instead, it is more usable with a stylus. Like iOS, and most other Mobile OS, it supports both touch screen, physical and Bluetooth keyboard configurations. Microsoft phased out the Windows Mobile OS to focus on Windows Phone.\n\nWindows Phone is a family of mobile operating systems developed by Microsoft for smartphones as the replacement successor to Windows Mobile and Zune. Windows Phone features a new user interface derived from Metro design language. Windows Phone was replaced by Windows 10 Mobile in 2015.\n\nThe Symbian platform was developed by Nokia for some models of smartphones. It is proprietary software, it was however used by Ericsson (SonyEricsson), Sending and Benq. The operating system was discontinued in 2012, although a slimmed-down version for basic phones was still developed until July 2014. Microsoft officially shelved the platform in favor of Windows Phone after its acquisition of Nokia.\n\nBada platform (stylized as bada; Korean: 바다) was an operating system for mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers. It was developed by Samsung Electronics. Its name is derived from \"바다 (bada)\", meaning \"ocean\" or \"sea\" in Korean. It ranges from mid- to high-end smartphones. To foster adoption of Bada OS, since 2011 Samsung reportedly has considered releasing the source code under an open-source license, and expanding device support to include Smart TVs. Samsung announced in June 2012 intentions to merge Bada into the Tizen project, but would meanwhile use its own Bada operating system, in parallel with Google Android OS and Microsoft Windows Phone, for its smartphones. All Bada-powered devices are branded under the Wave name, but not all of Samsung's Android-powered devices are branded under the name Galaxy.\nOn February 25, 2013, Samsung announced that it will stop developing Bada, moving development to Tizen instead. Bug reporting was finally terminated in April 2014.\n\nPalm OS/Garnet OS was from Access Co. It is closed source and proprietary. webOS was introduced by Palm in January 2009, as the successor to Palm OS with Web 2.0 technologies, open architecture and multitasking abilities.\n\nIn 2006, Android and iOS did not exist and only 64 million smartphones were sold. In 2018 Q1, 383.5 million smartphones were sold and global market share was 85.9% for Android and 14.1% for iOS.\n\nAccording to StatCounter web use statistics (a proxy for all use), smartphones (alone without tablets) have majority use globally, with desktop computers used much less (and Android in particular more popular than Windows). Use varies however by continent with smartphones way more popular in the biggest continents, i.e. Asia, and the desktop still more popular in some, though not in North America.\n\nThe desktop is still popular in many countries (while overall down to 44.9% in the first quarter of 2017), smartphones are more popular even in many developed countries (or about to be in more). A few countries on any continent are desktop-minority; European countries (and some in South America, and a few, e.g. Haiti, in North America; and most in Asia and Africa) are smartphone-majority, Poland and Turkey highest with 57.68% and 62.33%, respectively. In Ireland, smartphone use at 45.55% outnumbers desktop use and mobile as a whole gains majority when including the tablet share at 9.12%. Spain is also slightly desktop-minority.\n\nThe range of measured mobile web use varies a lot by country, and a StatCounter press release recognizes \"India amongst world leaders in use of mobile to surf the internet\" (of the big countries) where the share is around (or over) 80% and desktop is at 19.56%, with Russia trailing with 17.8% mobile use (and desktop the rest).\nSmartphones (alone, without tablets), first gained majority in December 2016 (desktop-majority was lost the month before), and it wasn't a Christmas-time fluke, as while close to majority after smartphone majority happened again in March 2017.\n\nIn the week from November 7–13, 2016, smartphones alone (without tablets) overtook desktop, for the first time (for a short period; non-full-month). Mobile-majority applies to countries such as Paraguay in South America, Poland in Europe and Turkey; and most of Asia and Africa. Some of the world is still desktop-majority, with e.g. in the United States at 54.89% (but no not on all days). However, in some territories of the United States, such as Puerto Rico, desktop is way under majority, with Windows under 30% overtaken by Android.\n\nOn October 22, 2016 (and subsequent weekends), mobile showed majority. Since October 27, the desktop hasn't shown majority, not even on weekdays. And smartphones alone have showed majority since December 23 to the end of the year, with the share topping at 58.22% on Christmas Day. To the \"mobile\"-majority share then of smartphones, tablets could be added giving a 63.22% majority. While an unusually high top, a similarly high also happened on Monday April 17, 2017, with then only smartphones share slightly lower and tablet share slightly higher, with them combined at 62.88%.\n\nFormerly, according to StatCounter press release, the world has turned desktop-minority; , at about 49% desktop use for that month, but mobile wasn't ranked higher, tablet share had to be added to it to exceed desktop share.\n\nNote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6322737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6322737", "title": "Muhammad's letters to the heads of state", "text": "Muhammad's letters to the heads of state\n\nAccording to al-Tabari in his \"History of the Prophets and Kings\", Muhammad decided after the Treaty of Hudaybiyyah to send letters to many rulers of the world, inviting them to Islam.\n\nMuhammad, according to traditional Islamic historiography, sent ambassadors with such letters to Heraclius the Caesar of Byzantium, Chosroes II the Khosrau of Persia, the Negus of Abyssinia, Muqawqis the ruler of Egypt, Harith Gassani the governor of Syria, Munzir ibn Sawa and to the ruler of Bahrain.\n\nThe text of the letter to Heraclius, as transmitted by Muslim historians, reads as follows:\n"}
{"id": "18460536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18460536", "title": "N/a", "text": "N/a\n\nn/a or N/A is a common abbreviation in tables and lists for the phrase not applicable, not available, or no answer. It is used to indicate when information in a certain table cell is not provided, either because it does not apply to a particular case in question or because the answer is not available.\n\nThe notation was in use at least as early as the 1920s, with a 1925 guide to conducting community surveys stating:\n\nThe guide goes on to indicate that every blank should be filled, even if only to indicate that the blank is not applicable, so that those processing the surveys would be able to see that the blank had not merely been overlooked. An \"Information Circular\" from the U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Mines, from the same year specified that it used \"NA\" to indicate that information was \"not available\" and \"NAp\" to indicate that a category information was \"Not applicable\". The n/a notation continues to serve the purpose of indicating that the blank can not be filled, and has not been left blank erroneously.\n\nIn the early years of computer programming, computerized forms that required fields to be filled in could cause problems where the field was one for which no answer would be applicable to certain persons filling out the form. Before programmers became aware of a problem with a particular field, persons filling out that field might fill it in with a term such as this, which the program processing the form would misinterpret as an intent to provide the requested information. For example, if a form contained a field for a middle name, and the person filling out the form put \"N/A\", the computer might interpret this as \"N/A\" being the person's middle name.\n\n"}
{"id": "26212639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26212639", "title": "PIGS (economics)", "text": "PIGS (economics)\n\nPIGS is an acronym used in economics and finance. The PIGS acronym originally refers, often derogatorily, to the economies of the Southern European countries of Portugal, Italy, Greece, and Spain. During the European debt crisis, the variant PIIGS were also increasingly used to refer to the economies of Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece, and Spain, EU member states that were unable to refinance their government debt or to bail out over-indebted banks on their own during the crisis. Other variants included PIIGGS to refer to Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece, United Kingdom (the second \"G\" standing for Great Britain), and Spain.\n\nThe term originated in the 1990s with the increased integration of the EU economies, and it was often used in reference to the growing debt and economic vulnerability of the Southern European EU countries. It was again popularised during the European sovereign-debt crisis of the late 2000s and expanded in use during this period. In the 1990s, Ireland was not included in this term; the country was still in the midst of its \"Celtic Tiger\" period, with debt significantly below the Eurozone average and a government surplus as late as 2006. However, taking on the guarantee of banks' debt, the Irish government budget deficit rose to 32% of GDP in 2010, which was the world's largest. Ireland then became associated with the term, replacing Italy or changing the acronym to \"PIIGS\", with Italy also indicated as the second \"I\".\nAfter the crisis started in 2008, Karim Abadir used the term \"GIPSI\" to reflect the sequencing he believed would take place. Sometimes a second \"G\" (\"PIGGS\" or \"PIIGGS\"), for Great Britain, was also added. In 2012, Patrick Allen writing for CNBC suggested that Germany should be added to the list. Occasionally, the acronym is expanded to to include Ireland and Iceland.\n\nThe term is widely considered derogatory and its use was curbed during the period of the European crisis by the \"Financial Times\" and Barclays Capital in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "922984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=922984", "title": "Penny dreadful", "text": "Penny dreadful\n\nPenny dreadfuls were cheap popular serial literature produced during the nineteenth century in the United Kingdom. The pejorative term is roughly interchangeable with penny horrible, penny awful, and penny blood. The term typically referred to a story published in weekly parts, each costing one penny. The subject matter of these stories was typically sensational, focusing on the exploits of detectives, criminals, or supernatural entities. First published in the 1830s, penny dreadfuls featured characters such as Sweeney Todd, Dick Turpin and Varney the Vampire. \"The Guardian\" described penny dreadfuls as “Britain’s first taste of mass-produced popular culture for the young.”\n\nWhile the term \"penny dreadful\" was originally used in reference to a specific type of literature circulating in mid-Victorian Britain, it came to encompass a variety of publications that featured cheap sensational fiction, such as story papers and booklet \"libraries\". The penny dreadfuls were printed on cheap wood pulp paper and were aimed at young working class men. More than a million boys’ periodicals were sold a week, but the popularity of penny dreadfuls was challenged in the 1890s by the rise of competing literature, especially the half-penny periodicals published by Alfred Harmsworth.\n\nCrime broadsides were commonly sold at public executions in the United Kingdom in the 18th and 19th centuries. These were often produced by printers who specialised in them. They were typically illustrated by a crude picture of the crime, a portrait of the criminal, or a generic woodcut of a hanging taking place. There would be a written account of the crime and of the trial and often the criminal's confession of guilt. A doggerel verse warning others to not follow the executed person's example, to avoid their fate, was another common feature.\n\nVictorian era Britain experienced social changes that resulted in increased literacy rates. With the rise of capitalism and industrialisation, people began to spend more money on entertainment, contributing to the popularisation of the novel. Improvements in printing resulted in newspapers such as Joseph Addison's \"The Spectator\" and Richard Steele's \"The Tatler\", and England's more fully recognizing the singular concept of reading as a form of leisure; it was, of itself, a new industry. Other significant changes included industrialisation and an increased capacity for travel via the invention of tracks, engines, and the corresponding railway distribution.\n\nThese changes created both a market for cheap popular literature, and the ability for it to be circulated on a large scale. The first penny serials were published in the 1830s to meet this demand. The serials were priced to be affordable to working-class readers, and were considerably cheaper than the serialised novels of authors such as Charles Dickens, which cost a shilling [twelve pennies] per part.\n\nThe stories themselves were reprints, or sometimes rewrites, of the earliest Gothic thrillers such as \"The Castle of Otranto\" or \"The Monk\", as well as new stories about famous criminals. Some of the most famous of these penny part-stories were \"The String of Pearls: A Romance\" (introducing Sweeney Todd, \"the Demon Barber of Fleet Street\"), \"The Mysteries of London\" (inspired by the French serial \"The Mysteries of Paris\"), and \"Varney the Vampire\" (1845–47). \"Varney\" is the tale of the vampire Sir Francis Varney, and introduced many of the tropes present in vampire fiction recognizable to modern audiences — it was the first story to refer to sharpened teeth for a vampire. Highwaymen were popular heroes; \"Black Bess or the Knight of the Road\", outlining the largely imaginary exploits of real-life English highwayman Dick Turpin, continued for 254 episodes. Other serials were thinly-disguised plagiarisms of popular contemporary literature. The publisher Edward Lloyd, for instance, published a number of penny serials derived from the works of Charles Dickens entitled \"Oliver Twiss\", \"Nickelas Nicklebery\", and \"Martin Guzzlewit\".\n\nWorking class boys who could not afford a penny a week often formed clubs that would share the cost, passing the flimsy booklets from reader to reader. Other enterprising youngsters would collect a number of consecutive parts, then rent the volume out to friends. In 1866, \"Boys of England\" was introduced as a new type of publication, an eight-page magazine that featured serial stories as well as articles and shorts of interest. Numerous competitors quickly followed, with such titles as \"Boys' Leisure Hour, Boys' Standard, Young Men of Great Britain\", etc. As the price and quality of other types of fiction works were the same, these also fell under the general definition of penny dreadfuls.\n\nAppearing in the 1860s, American dime novels were edited and rewritten for a British audience. These appeared in booklet form, such as the \"Boy's First Rate Pocket Library\". Frank Reade, Buffalo Bill, and Deadwood Dick were all popular with the penny dreadful audience.\n\nThe penny dreadfuls were influential since they were, in the words of one commentator, \"the most alluring and low-priced form of escapist reading available to ordinary youth, until the advent in the early 1890s of future newspaper magnate Alfred Harmsworth's price-cutting 'halfpenny dreadfuller'\". In reality, the serial novels were overdramatic and sensational, but generally harmless. If anything, the penny dreadfuls, although obviously not the most enlightening or inspiring of literary selections, resulted in increasingly literate youth in the Industrial period. The wide circulation of this sensationalist literature, however, contributed to an ever-greater fear of crime in mid-Victorian Britain.\n\nThe popularity of penny dreadfuls was challenged in the 1890s by the rise of competing literature. Leading the challenge were popular periodicals published by Alfred Harmsworth. Priced at one half-penny, Harmsworth's story papers were cheaper and, at least initially, were more respectable than the competition. Harmsworth claimed to be motivated by a wish to challenge the pernicious influence of penny dreadfuls. In an editorial in the first number of \"The Half-penny Marvel\" in 1893 it was stated that:\nIt is almost a daily occurrence with magistrates to have before them boys who, having read a number of 'dreadfuls', followed the examples set forth in such publications, robbed their employers, bought revolvers with the proceeds, and finished by running away from home, and installing themselves in the back streets as 'highwaymen'. This and many other evils the 'penny dreadful' is responsible for. It makes thieves of the coming generation, and so helps fill our gaols.\n\"The Half-penny Marvel\" was soon followed by a number of other Harmsworth half-penny periodicals, such as \"The Union Jack\" and \"Pluck\". At first the stories were high-minded moral tales, reportedly based on true experiences, but it was not long before these papers started using the same kind of material as the publications they competed against. A. A. Milne, the author of \"Winnie the Pooh\", once said, \"Harmsworth killed the penny dreadful by the simple process of producing the 'ha'penny dreadfuller'\". The quality of the Harmsworth/Amalgamated Press papers began to improve throughout the early 20th century, however. By the time of the First World War, papers such as \"Union Jack\" dominated the market in the UK.\n\nTwo popular characters to come out of the penny dreadfuls were Jack Harkaway, introduced in the \"Boys of England\" in 1871, and Sexton Blake, who began in \"the Half-penny Marvel\" in 1893. In 1904, the \"Union Jack\" became \"Sexton Blake's own paper\", and he appeared in every issue thereafter, up until the paper's demise in 1933. In total, Blake appeared in roughly 4,000 adventures, right up into the 1970s, a record exceeded only by Nick Carter and Dixon Hawke. Harkaway was also popular in America and had many imitators.\n\nThe fictional Sweeney Todd, the subject of both a successful musical by Stephen Sondheim and a feature film by Tim Burton, also first appeared in an 1846/1847 penny dreadful titled \"The String of Pearls: A Romance\" by James Malcolm Rymer and Thomas Peckett Prest.\n\nOver time, the penny dreadfuls evolved into the British comic magazines. Owing to their cheap production, their perceived lack of value, and such hazards as war-time paper drives, the penny dreadfuls, particularly the earliest ones, are fairly rare today.\n\nSome items that have been named after this topic include a song called \"Penny Dreadfuls\" by Animal Collective, the Irish literary magazine \"The Penny Dreadful\" and a Showtime horror television series set in Victorian England titled \"Penny Dreadful\".\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "35848652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35848652", "title": "Science in Action (TV series)", "text": "Science in Action (TV series)\n\nScience in Action was a weekly half-hour television program devoted to science. The program was produced by the California Academy of Sciences, and was broadcast from 1950-1966. It was thus among the first live science television program in the United States; \"The Johns Hopkins Science Review\" was broadcast from 1948–1955, and is apparently the very first such program. In all, 566 programs were produced. Dr. Tom Groody hosted the program for its first two years; he was succeeded by Dr. Earl S. Herald, who was the host for the following fourteen years until production ceased in 1966. \n\nMarcel LaFollette has written, \"Production approaches that are now standard practice on \"NOVA\" and the Discovery Channel derive, in fact, from experimentation by television pioneers like Lynn Poole and Don Herbert and such programs as \"Adventure\", \"Zoo Parade\", \"Science in Action\", and the Bell Telephone System’s science specials. These early efforts were also influenced by television’s love of the dramatic, refined during its first decade and continuing to shape news and public affairs programming, as well as fiction and fantasy, today.\" LaFollette included the program in her 2008 overview of early broadcasting devoted to science popularization.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018890", "title": "Seyahatnâme", "text": "Seyahatnâme\n\nSeyāḥat-nāme (Persian/Ottoman Turkish: سياحت نامه, \"book of travels\") is the name of a literary form and tradition whose examples can be found throughout centuries in the Middle Ages around the Islamic world, starting with the Arab travellers of the Umayyad period. In a more specific sense, the name refers to the travel notes by the Ottoman Turkish traveller Evliya Çelebi (1611–1682).\n\nThe \"Seyahâtnâme\" of Evliya Çelebi is an outstanding example of this tradition. \n\nThe author’s personal name is unknown, and “Evliya” is only his pen name, which he adopted in honor of his teacher, Evliya Mehmed Efendi. Evliya Çelebi’s father was the chief jeweller to the courts, and thanks to the talent of his father Evliya was allowed to enjoy the favor of the court. Because of his gift in reciting the Quran, Evliya was presented to Sultan Murad IV and admitted to the palace, where he received extensive training in calligraphy, music, Arabic grammar, and tajwid. Shortly before Murad IV’s expedition to Baghdad in 1638, Evliya was appointed a sipahi of the Porte. Despite his diverse talents and the opportunity to climb the social ladder, Evliya had a keen interest in geography and invested his wealth into life goal of traveling. He set out on a journey to assemble a complete description of the Ottoman Empire and its neighbors and to provide a complete record of his travels as a first-person narrative. \n\nIn his ten-volume Seyâhatnâme, Evliya describes in Volume I: the capital city of Istanbul (his birthplace) and its surroundings; in II: Bursa, İzmir, Batum, Trabzon, Abkhazia, Crete, Erzurum, Azerbaijan, Georgia, etc.; in III: Damascus, Syria, Palestine, Urmia, Sivas, Kurdistan, Armenia, Rumelia (Bulgaria and Dobruja), etc.; in IV: Van, Tabriz, Baghdad, Basra, etc.; in V: Van, Basra, Hungary, Russia, Anatolia, Bursa, the Dardanelles, Adrianople, Moldavia, Transylvania, Bosnia, Dalmatia, Sofia; in VI: Transylvania, Albania, Hungary, Nové Zámky, Belgrade, Herzegovina, Ragusa (Dubrovnik), Montenegro, Kanizsa, Croatia; in VII: Hungary, Buda, Erlau, Temesvár, Transylvania, Wallachia, Moldavia, the Crimea, Kazak, South Russia, the Caucasus, Dagestan, Azak; in VIII: Azak, Kafa, Bahçesaray (Crimea), Istanbul, Crete, Macedonia, Greece, Athens, the Dodecanese, Peloponnesus, Albania, Valona, Ochrida, Adrianople, Istanbul; in IX: (Pilgrimage to Mecca) south-west Anatolia, Smyrna, Ephesus, Rhodes, south Anatolia, Syria, Aleppo, Damascus, Medina, Mecca, Suez; in X: Egypt (with historical excursus), Cairo, Upper Egypt, Sudan, Abyssinia. \n\nEvliya prefers legend to bare historical fact, and at times exaggerates or creates anecdotes designed for comic effect. His Seyâhatnâme thus appears as a work of 17th-century light literature, which was intelligible to a wide circle thanks to the mixed use of the colloquial Turkish of the 17th century with occasional borrowings of phrases and expressions from the ornate style. Such attempt to appeal to a wide audience may explain the author’s lack of concern for historical truth. He even recorded certain occurrences as though he had seen or experienced them himself even though a close examination reveals that he knows of them only from hearsay or literary sources, which he does not cite. \n\nIn spite of these reservations, Evliya’s Seyâhatnâme offers a wealth of information on cultural history, folklore, and geography. The significance of the work lies in the fact that it reflects the mental approach of the 17th century Ottoman Turkish intellectuals in their attitudes to the non-Muslim Occident, and sheds light on the administration and internal organization of the Ottoman empire of that time.\n\nBecause of the value of his work, the generic term of \"Seyâhatnâme\" is often refer to Evliya Çelebi's books in particular, as far as the Turkish language and studies are concerned.\n\nAside from several translations into modern Turkish, substantial portions of Evliya’s Seyâhatnâme have been translated into Arabic, Armenian, Greek, Hungarian, Romanina, Russian, and Serbian. The most recent English translation is Robert Dankoff and Sooyong Kim’s 2010 translation, \"An Ottoman Traveller: Selections from the Book of Travels of Evliya Çelebi\", which includes sections from all volumes.\n\nOther than the \"Seyahâtnâme\" of Evliya Çelebi, other seyahatnames include the \"Mirat ul Memalik\" (\"Mirror of Countries\") by the Ottoman admiral Seydi Ali Reis.\n\nA related genre, specific to the journeys and experiences of Ottoman ambassadors, is the \"sefâretnâme\" (سفارت نامه), whose examples were edited by their authors with a view to their presentation to the Sultan and the high administration, thus also bearing a semi-official character, although they remained of interest for the general reader as well.\n\n\nSeyahatname in Ottoman Language - Contributor Robarts - University of Toronto"}
{"id": "28825336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28825336", "title": "Sofia First Chronicle", "text": "Sofia First Chronicle\n\nThe Sofia First Chronicle (Софийская первая летопись) is a Russian chronicle associated with the St. Sophia Cathedral, Novgorod, Russia. Its copies exist in two versions: Early Redaction (\"starshy izvod\"), which ends by 1418 and Later Redaction (\"mladshy izvod\"), with sporadic additions up to 1471, and up to 1508 in one of the copies. \n\nTogether with the Novgorod Fourth Chronicle, it is believed that it is derived from a common source. Russian philologist Aleksey Shakhmatov tentatively called it the Novgorodsko-Sofiysky Svod (Novgorod-Sofia Corpus) and initially dated it by 1448, but later revised his opinion to 1430s. Some Russian philologists shared his opinion, while others attribute the common source to the 1418 Corpus of Photius, Metropolitan of Moscow.\n\n"}
{"id": "40849944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849944", "title": "Sources for the historicity of Jesus", "text": "Sources for the historicity of Jesus\n\nChristian sources, such as the New Testament books in the Christian Bible, include detailed stories about Jesus but scholars differ on the historicity of specific episodes described in the Biblical accounts of Jesus. The only two events subject to \"almost universal assent\" are that Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist and was crucified by the order of the Roman Prefect Pontius Pilate.\n\nNon-Christian sources that are used to study and establish the historicity of Jesus include Jewish sources such as Josephus, and Roman sources such as Tacitus. These sources are compared to Christian sources such as the Pauline Epistles and the Synoptic Gospels. These sources are usually independent of each other (e.g. Jewish sources do not draw upon Roman sources), and similarities and differences between them are used in the authentication process.\n\nIn a review of the state of research, the Jewish scholar Amy-Jill Levine stated that \"no single picture of Jesus has convinced all, or even most scholars\" and that all portraits of Jesus are subject to criticism by some group of scholars.\n\nThe writings of the 1st century Romano-Jewish historian Flavius Josephus include references to Jesus and the origins of Christianity. Josephus' \"Antiquities of the Jews\", written around 93–94 CE, includes two references to Jesus in Books and .\n\nOf the two passages, the James passage in Book 20 is used by scholars to support the existence of Jesus, the \"Testimonium Flavianum\" in Book 18 his crucifixion. Josephus' James passage attests to the existence of Jesus as a historical person and that some of his contemporaries considered him the Messiah. According to Bart Ehrman, Josephus' passage about Jesus was altered by a Christian scribe, including the reference to Jesus as the Messiah.\n\nA textual argument against the authenticity of the James passage is that the use of the term \"Christos\" there seems unusual for Josephus. An argument based on the flow of the text in the document is that, given that the mention of Jesus appears in the \"Antiquities\" before that of the John the Baptist, a Christian interpolator may have inserted it to place Jesus in the text before John. A further argument against the authenticity of the James passage is that it would have read well even without a reference to Jesus.\n\nThe passage deals with the death of \"James the brother of Jesus\" in Jerusalem. Whereas the works of Josephus refer to at least twenty different people with the name Jesus, this passage specifies that this Jesus was the one \"who was called Christ\". Louis Feldman states that this passage, above others, indicates that Josephus did say something about Jesus.\n\nModern scholarship has almost universally acknowledged the authenticity of the reference in of the \"Antiquities\" to \"the brother of Jesus, who was called Christ, whose name was James\", and considers it as having the highest level of authenticity among the references of Josephus to Christianity.\n\nThe \"Testimonium Flavianum\" (meaning the testimony of Flavius [Josephus]) is the name given to the passage found in of the \"Antiquities\" in which Josephus describes the condemnation and crucifixion of Jesus at the hands of the Roman authorities. Scholars have differing opinions on the total or partial authenticity of the reference in the passage to the execution of Jesus by Pontius Pilate. The general scholarly view is that while the \"Testimonium Flavianum\" is most likely not authentic in its entirety, it is broadly agreed upon that it originally consisted of an authentic nucleus with a reference to the execution of Jesus by Pilate which was then subject to Christian interpolation. Although the exact nature and extent of the Christian redaction remains unclear, there is broad consensus as to what the original text of the \"Testimonium\" by Josephus would have looked like.\n\nThe references found in \"Antiquities\" have no parallel texts in the other work by Josephus such as the \"Jewish War\", written twenty years earlier, but some scholars have provided explanations for their absence, such as that the \"Antiquities\" covers a longer time period and that during the twenty-year gap between the writing of the \"Jewish Wars\" (c. 70 CE) and \"Antiquities\" (after 90 CE) Christians had become more important in Rome and were hence given attention in the \"Antiquities\".\n\nA number of variations exist between the statements by Josephus regarding the deaths of James and the New Testament accounts. Scholars generally view these variations as indications that the Josephus passages are not interpolations, because a Christian interpolator would more likely have made them correspond to the Christian traditions. Robert Eisenman provides numerous early Christian sources that confirm the Josephus testament, that James was the brother of Jesus.\n\nThe Roman historian and senator Tacitus referred to Christ, his execution by Pontius Pilate and the existence of early Christians in Rome in his final work, \"Annals\" (c. AD 116), . The relevant passage reads: \"called Christians by the populace. Christus, from whom the name had its origin, suffered the extreme penalty during the reign of Tiberius at the hands of one of our procurators, Pontius Pilatus.\"\n\nScholars generally consider Tacitus's reference to the execution of Jesus by Pontius Pilate to be both authentic, and of historical value as an independent Roman source about early Christianity that is in unison with other historical records. William L. Portier has stated that the consistency in the references by Tacitus, Josephus and the letters to Emperor Trajan by Pliny the Younger reaffirm the validity of all three accounts.\n\nTacitus was a patriotic Roman senator and his writings shows no sympathy towards Christians. Andreas Köstenberger and separately Robert E. Van Voorst state that the tone of the passage towards Christians is far too negative to have been authored by a Christian scribe – a conclusion shared by John P. Meier Robert E. Van Voorst states that \"of all Roman writers, Tacitus gives us the most precise information about Christ\".\n\nJohn Dominic Crossan considers the passage important in establishing that Jesus existed and was crucified, and states: \"That he was crucified is as sure as anything historical can ever be, since both Josephus and Tacitus... agree with the Christian accounts on at least that basic fact.\" Bart D. Ehrman states: \"Tacitus's report confirms what we know from other sources, that Jesus was executed by order of the Roman governor of Judea, Pontius Pilate, sometime during Tiberius's reign.\" Eddy and Boyd state that it is now \"firmly established\" that Tacitus provides a non-Christian confirmation of the crucifixion of Jesus.\n\nAlthough the majority of scholars consider it to be genuine, a few scholars question the authenticity of the passage given that Tacitus was born 25 years after Jesus' death.\n\nSome scholars have debated the historical value of the passage given that Tacitus does not reveal the source of his information. Gerd Theissen and Annette Merz argue that Tacitus at times had drawn on earlier historical works now lost to us, and he may have used official sources from a Roman archive in this case; however, if Tacitus had been copying from an official source, some scholars would expect him to have labeled Pilate correctly as a \"prefect\" rather than a \"procurator\". Theissen and Merz state that Tacitus gives us a description of widespread prejudices about Christianity and a few precise details about \"Christus\" and Christianity, the source of which remains unclear. However, Paul R. Eddy has stated that given his position as a senator Tacitus was also likely to have had access to official Roman documents of the time and did not need other sources.\n\nMichael Martin notes that the authenticity of this passage of the Annals has also been disputed on the grounds that Tacitus would not have used the word “messiah” in an authentic Roman document.\n\nWeaver notes that Tacitus spoke of the persecution of Christians, but no other Christian author wrote of this persecution for a hundred years.\n\nHotema notes that this passage was not quoted by any Church father up to the 15th century, although the passage would have been very useful to them in their work; and that the passage refers to the Christians in Rome being a multitude, while at that time the Christian congregation in Rome would actually have been very small.\n\nRichard Carrier has put forward the ideas that the 'Christ, the author of this name, was executed by the procurator Pontius Pilate in the reign of Tiberius' line is a Christian interpolation and that Tacitus wrote about Chrestians not Christians.\n\nScholars have also debated the issue of hearsay in the reference by Tacitus. Charles Guignebert argued that \"So long as there is that possibility [that Tacitus is merely echoing what Christians themselves were saying], the passage remains quite worthless\". R. T. France states that the Tacitus passage is at best just Tacitus repeating what he had heard through Christians. However, Paul R. Eddy has stated that as Rome's preeminent historian, Tacitus was generally known for checking his sources and was not in the habit of reporting gossip. Tacitus was a member of the Quindecimviri sacris faciundis, a council of priests whose duty it was to supervise foreign religious cults in Rome, which as Van Voorst points out, makes it reasonable to suppose that he would have acquired knowledge of Christian origins through his work with that body.\n\nMara (son of Sarapion) was a Stoic philosopher from the Roman province of Syria. Sometime between 73 AD and the 3rd century, Mara wrote a letter to his son (also called Sarapion) which may contain an early non-Christian reference to the crucifixion of Jesus.\n\nThe letter refers to the unjust treatment of \"three wise men\": the murder of Socrates, the burning of Pythagoras, and the execution of \"the wise king\" of the Jews. The author explains that in all three cases the wrongdoing resulted in the future punishment of those responsible by God and that when the wise are oppressed, not only does their wisdom triumph in the end, but God punishes their oppressors.\n\nThe letter includes no Christian themes and the author is presumed to be a pagan. Some scholars see the reference to the execution of the \"wise king\" of the Jews as an early non-Christian reference to Jesus. Criteria that support the non-Christian origin of the letter include the observation that \"king of the Jews\" was not a Christian title, and that the letter's premise that Jesus lives on based on the wisdom of his teachings is in contrast to the Christian concept that Jesus continues to live through his resurrection.\n\nScholars such as Robert Van Voorst see little doubt that the reference to the execution of the \"king of the Jews\" is about the death of Jesus. Others such as Craig A. Evans see less value in the letter, given its uncertain date, and the possible ambiguity in the reference.\n\nThe Roman historian Suetonius (c. 69 – after 122 CE) made references to early Christians and their leader in his work \"Lives of the Twelve Caesars\" (written 121 CE). The references appear in and which describe the lives of Roman Emperors Claudius and Nero. The Nero 16 passage refers to the abuses by Nero and mentions how he inflicted punishment on Christians – which is generally dated to around AD 64. This passage shows the clear contempt of Suetonius for Christians - the same contempt expressed by Tacitus and Pliny the younger in their writings, but does not refer to Jesus himself.\n\nThe earlier passage in Claudius, may include a reference to Jesus, but is subject to debate among scholars. In Suetonius refers to the expulsion of Jews by Claudius and states:\n\nThe reference in Claudius 25 involves the agitations in the Jewish community which led to the expulsion of some Jews from Rome by Claudius, and is likely the same event mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles (). Most historians date this expulsion to around AD 49–50. Suetonius refers to the leader of the Christians as \"Chrestus\", a term also used by used by Tacitus, referred in Latin dictionaries as a (amongst other things) version of 'Christus'. However, the wording used by Suetonius implies that Chrestus was alive at the time of the disturbance and was agitating the Jews in Rome. This weakens the historical value of his reference as a whole, and there is no overall scholarly agreement about its value as a reference to Jesus. However, the confusion of Suetonius also points to the lack of Christian interpolation, for a Christian scribe would not have confused the Jews with Christians.\n\nMost scholars assume that in the reference Jesus is meant and that the disturbances mentioned were due to the spread of Christianity in Rome. However, scholars are divided on the value of the Suetonius' reference. Some scholars such as Craig A. Evans, John Meier and Craig S. Keener see it as a likely reference to Jesus. Others such as Stephen Benko and H. Dixon Slingerland see it as having little or no historical value.\n\nMenahem Stern states Suetonius definitely was referring to Jesus; because he would have added \"a certain\" to Chrestus if he had meant some unknown agitator.\n\nThe Babylonian Talmud in a few cases includes possible references to Jesus using the terms \"Yeshu\", \"Yeshu ha-Notzri\", \"ben Stada\", and \"ben Pandera\". Some of these references probably date back to the Tannaitic period (70–200 CE). In some cases, it is not clear if the references are to Jesus, or other people, and scholars continue to debate their historical value, and exactly which references, if any, may be to Jesus.\n\nRobert Van Voorst states that the scarcity of Jewish references to Jesus is not surprising, given that Jesus was not a prominent issue for the Jews during the first century, and after the devastation caused by the Siege of Jerusalem in the year 70, Jewish scholars were focusing on preserving Judaism itself, rather than paying much attention to Christianity.\n\nRobert Eisenman argues that the derivation of Jesus of Nazareth from \"ha-Notzri\" is impossible on etymological grounds, as it would suggest rather \"the Nazirite\" rather than \"the Nazarene\".\n\nVan Voorst states that although the question of who was referred to in various points in the Talmud remains subject to debate among scholars, in the case of \"Sanhedrin 43a\" (generally considered the most important reference to Jesus in rabbinic literature), Jesus can be confirmed as the subject of the passage, not only from the reference itself, but from the context that surrounds it, and there is little doubt that it refers to the death of Jesus of Nazareth. Christopher M. Tuckett states that if it is accepted that death narrative of Sanhedrin 43a refers to Jesus of Nazareth then it provides evidence of Jesus' existence and execution.\n\nAndreas Kostenberger states that the passage is a Tannaitic reference to the trial and death of Jesus at Passover and is most likely earlier than other references to Jesus in the Talmud. The passage reflects hostility toward Jesus among the rabbis and includes this text:\n\nIt is taught: On the eve of Passover they hung Yeshu and the crier went forth for forty days beforehand declaring that \"[Yeshu] is going to be stoned for practicing witchcraft, for enticing and leading Israel astray. Anyone who knows something to clear him should come forth and exonerate him.\" But no one had anything exonerating for him and they hung him on the eve of Passover. \n\nPeter Schäfer states that there can be no doubt that the narrative of the execution of Jesus in the Talmud refers to Jesus of Nazareth, but states that the rabbinic literature in question are not Tannaitic but from a later Amoraic period and may have drawn on the Christian gospels, and may have been written as responses to them. Bart Ehrman and separately Mark Allan Powell state that given that the Talmud references are quite late, they can give no historically reliable information about the teachings or actions of Jesus during his life.\n\nAnother reference in early second century Rabbinic literature (Tosefta Hullin II 22) refers to Rabbi Eleazar ben Dama who was bitten by a snake, but was denied healing in the name of Jesus by another Rabbi for it was against the law, and thus died. This passage reflects the attitude of Jesus' early Jewish opponents, i.e. that his miracles were based on evil powers.\n\nEddy and Boyd, who question the value of several of the Talmudic references state that the significance of the Talmud to historical Jesus research is that it never denies the existence of Jesus, but accuses him of sorcery, thus indirectly confirming his existence. R. T. France and separately Edgar V. McKnight state that the divergence of the Talmud statements from the Christian accounts and their negative nature indicate that they are about a person who existed. Craig Blomberg states that the denial of the existence of Jesus was never part of the Jewish tradition, which instead accused him of being a sorcerer and magician, as also reflected in other sources such as Celsus. Andreas Kostenberger states that the overall conclusion that can be drawn from the references in the Talmud is that Jesus was a historical person whose existence was never denied by the Jewish tradition, which instead focused on discrediting him.\n\nPliny the Younger (c. 61 – c. 112), the provincial governor of Pontus and Bithynia, wrote to Emperor Trajan \"c\". 112 concerning how to deal with Christians, who refused to worship the emperor, and instead worshiped \"Christus\". Charles Guignebert, who does not doubt that Jesus of the Gospels lived in Gallilee in the 1st century, nevertheless dismisses this letter as acceptable evidence for a historical Jesus.\n\nThallus, of whom very little is known, and none of whose writings survive, wrote a history allegedly around the middle to late first century CE, to which Eusebius referred. Julius Africanus, writing \"c\" 221, links a reference in the third book of the \"History\" to the period of darkness described in the crucifixion accounts in three of the Gospels . It is not known whether Thallus made any mention to the crucifixion accounts; if he did, it would be the earliest noncanonical reference to a gospel episode, but its usefulness in determining the historicity of Jesus is uncertain. The dating of Thallus is dependent on him writing about an event during the 207th Olympiad (49–52 AD), which means he wrote after that date, not near that date. This depends on the text being corrupt, which would mean Thallus could have been writing after the 217th Olympiad (89–92 AD), or even the 167th Olympiad (112–109 BC). He is first referenced by Theophilus, writing around 180 AD, which means Thallus could have written any time between 109 BC and 180 AD. All we know is Thallus mentioned a solar eclipse, and as solar eclipses are not possible at Passover, that would mean Thallus was not talking about the crucifixion of Jesus at all.\n\nPhlegon of Tralles, AD 80–140, similar to Thallus, Julius Africanus mentions a historian named Phlegon who wrote a chronicle of history around AD 140, where he records:\n“Phlegon records that, in the time of Tiberius Caesar, at full moon, there was a full eclipse of the sun from the sixth to the ninth hour.” (Africanus, Chronography, 18:1) Phlegon is also mentioned by Origen (an early church theologian and scholar, born in Alexandria):\n“Now Phlegon, in the thirteenth or fourteenth book, I think, of his Chronicles, not only ascribed to Jesus a knowledge of future events . . . but also testified that the result corresponded to His predictions.” (Origen Against Celsus, Book 2, Chapter 14)\n“And with regard to the eclipse in the time of Tiberius Caesar, in whose reign Jesus appears to have been crucified, and the great earthquakes which then took place … ” (Origen Against Celsus, Book 2, Chapter 33)\n“Jesus, while alive, was of no assistance to himself, but that he arose after death, and exhibited the marks of his punishment, and showed how his hands had been pierced by nails.” (Origen Against Celsus, Book 2, Chapter 59). However, Eusebius in The Chronicon (written in the 4th century AD) records what Phlegon said verbatim. \"Now, in the fourth year of the 202nd Olympiad [32 AD], a great eclipse of the sun occurred at the sixth hour [noon] that excelled every other before it, turning the day into such darkness of night that the stars could be seen in heaven, and the earth moved in Bithynia, toppling many buildings in the city of Nicaea.\" Phlegon never mentions Jesus or the 3 hour darkness. He also mentions a solar eclipse, which can not occur at Passover. Apart from the year (which may be a corruption), this description fits an earthquake and eclipse that occurred in North West Turkey on November, 29 AD.\n\nCelsus writing late in the second century produced the first full-scale attack on Christianity. Celsus' document has not survived but in the third century Origen replied to it, and what is known of Celsus' writing is through the responses of Origen. According to Origen, Celsus accused Jesus of being a magician and a sorcerer. While the statements of Celsus may be seen as valuable, they have little historical value, given that the wording of the original writings can not be examined.\n\nThe Dead Sea Scrolls are first century or older writings that show the language and customs of some Jews of Jesus' time. Scholars such as Henry Chadwick see the similar uses of languages and viewpoints recorded in the New Testament and the Dead Sea Scrolls as valuable in showing that the New Testament portrays the first century period that it reports and is not a product of a later period. However, the relationship between the Dead Sea scrolls and the historicity of Jesus has been the subject of highly controversial theories, and although new theories continue to appear, there is no overall scholarly agreement about their impact on the historicity of Jesus, despite the usefulness of the scrolls in shedding light on first-century Jewish traditions.\n\nThe following sources are disputed, and of limited historical value, but they are at least proof of Christians existing and being known and talked about in the first and second centuries.\n\nThere is a limestone burial box from the 1st century known as the James Ossuary with the Aramaic inscription, \"James, son of Joseph, brother of Jesus.\" The authenticity of the inscription was challenged by the Israel Antiquities Authority, who filed a complaint with the Israeli police. In 2012, the owner of the ossuary was found not guilty, with the judge ruling that the authenticity of the ossuary inscription had not been proven either way. It has been suggested it was a forgery.\n\nVarious books, memoirs and stories were written about Jesus by the early Christians. The most famous are the gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. All but one of these are believed to have been written within 50–70 years of the death of Jesus, with the Gospel of Mark believed to be the earliest, and the last the Gospel of John. Blainey writes that the oldest surviving record written by an early Christian is a short letter by St Paul: the First Epistle to the Thessalonians, which appeared about 25 years after the death of Jesus. This letter, while important in describing issues for the development of Gentilic Christianity, contains little of significance for understanding the life of the historic Jesus.\n\nBart Ehrman, Robert Eisenman and others critical of traditional Christian views, in assessing the problems involved in conducting historical Jesus research, say the Gospels are full of discrepancies, were written decades after Jesus' death, by authors who had not witnessed any events in Jesus' life. They go on to say the Gospels were authored not by eyewitnesses who were contemporary with the events that they narrate but rather by people who did not know Jesus, see anything he did, or hear anything he taught, and that the authors did not even share a language with Jesus. The accounts they produced are not disinterested; they are narratives produced by Christians who actually believed in Jesus, and were not immune from slanting the stories in light of their biases. Ehrman points out that the texts are widely inconsistent, full of discrepancies and contradictions in both details and larger portraits of who Jesus was.\n\nIn the context of Christian sources, even if all other texts are ignored, the Pauline epistles can provide some information regarding Jesus. This information does not include a narrative of the life of Jesus, and refers to his existence as a person, but adds few specific items apart from his death by crucifixion. This information comes from those letters of Paul whose authenticity is not disputed. Paul was not a companion of Jesus and claims his information comes from the holy spirit acquired after Jesus' death.\n\nOf the thirteen letters that bear Paul's name, seven are considered authentic by almost all scholars, and the others are generally considered pseudepigraphic. The 7 undisputed letters (and their approximate dates) are: 1 Thessalonians (c. 51 CE), Philippians (c. 52–54 CE), Philemon (c. 52–54 CE), 1 Corinthians (c. 53–54 CE), Galatians (c. 55 CE), 2 Corinthians (c. 55–56 CE) and Romans (c. 55–58 CE). The authenticity of these letters is accepted by almost all scholars, and they have been referenced and interpreted by early authors such as Origen and Eusebius.\n\nGiven that the Pauline epistles are generally dated to AD 50 to AD 60, they are the earliest surviving Christian texts that include information about Jesus. These letters were written approximately twenty to thirty years after the generally accepted time period for the death of Jesus, around AD 30–36. The letters were written during a time when Paul recorded encounters with the disciples of Jesus, e.g. states that several years after his conversion Paul went to Jerusalem and stayed with Apostle Peter for fifteen days. During this time, Paul disputed the nature of Jesus' message with Jesus's brother James, concerning the importance of adhering to kosher food restrictions and circumcision, important features of determining Jewish identity.\n\nThe Pauline letters were not intended to provide a narrative of the life of Jesus, but were written as expositions of Christian teachings. In Paul's view, the earthly life of Jesus was of a lower importance than the theology of his death and resurrection,a theme that permeates Pauline writings. However, the Pauline letters clearly indicate that for Paul Jesus was a real person (born of a woman as in Gal 4.4), a Jew (\"born under the law\", Romans 1.3) who had disciples (1 Corinthians 15.5), who was crucified (as in 1 Corinthians 2.2 and Galatians 3.1) and who resurrected from the dead (1 Corinthians 15.20, Romans 1.4 and 6.5, Philippians 3:10–11). And the letters reflect the general concept within the early Gentillic Christian Church that Jesus existed, was crucified and was raised from the dead.\n\nThe references by Paul to Jesus do not in themselves prove the existence of Jesus, but they do establish that the existence of Jesus was the accepted norm within the early Christians (including the Christian community in Jerusalem, given the references to collections there) twenty to thirty years after the death of Jesus, at a time when those who could have been acquainted with him could still be alive.\n\nThe seven Pauline epistles that are widely regarded as authentic include the following information that along with other historical elements are used to study the historicity of Jesus:\n\nThe existence of only these references to Jesus in the Pauline epistles has given rise to criticism of them by G. A. Wells, who is generally accepted as a leader of the movement to deny the historicity of Jesus. When Wells was still denying the existence of Jesus, he criticized the Pauline epistles for not mentioning items such as John the Baptist or Judas or the trial of Jesus and used that argument to conclude that Jesus was not a historical figure.\n\nJames D. G. Dunn addressed Wells' statement and stated that he knew of no other scholar that shared that view, and most other scholars had other and more plausible explanations for the fact that Paul did not include a narrative of the life of Jesus in his letters, which were primarily written as religious documents rather than historical chronicles at a time when the life story of Jesus could have been well known within the early Church. Dunn states that despite Wells' arguments, the theories of the non-existence of Jesus are a \"thoroughly dead thesis\".\n\nWhile Wells no longer denies the existence of Jesus, he has responded to Dunn, stating that his arguments from silence not only apply to Paul but all early Christian authors, and that he still has a low opinion of early Christian texts, maintaining that for Paul Jesus may have existed a good number of decades before.\n\nThe Pauline letters sometimes refer to creeds, or confessions of faith, that predate their writings. For instance reads: \"For what I received I passed on to you as of first importance: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures.\" refers to Romans 1:2 just before it which mentions an existing gospel, and in effect may be treating it as an earlier creed.\n\nOne of the keys to identifying a pre-Pauline tradition is given in \n\nHere Paul refers to others before him who preached the creed. James Dunn states that indicates that in the 30s Paul was taught about the death of Jesus a few years earlier.\n\nThe Pauline letters thus contain Christian creed elements of pre-Pauline origin. The antiquity of the creed has been located by many Biblical scholars to less than a decade after Jesus' death, originating from the Jerusalem apostolic community. Concerning this creed, Campenhausen wrote, \"This account meets all the demands of historical reliability that could possibly be made of such a text,\" whilst A. M. Hunter said, \"The passage therefore preserves uniquely early and verifiable testimony. It meets every reasonable demand of historical reliability.\"\n\nThese creeds date to within a few years of Jesus' death, and developed within the Christian community in Jerusalem. Although embedded within the texts of the New Testament, these creeds are a distinct source for Early Christianity. This indicates that existence and death of Jesus was part of Christian belief a few years after his death and over a decade before the writing of the Pauline epistles.\n\nThe four canonical gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, are the main sources for the biography of Jesus' life, the teachings and actions attributed to him. Three of these (Matthew, Mark, and Luke) are known as the synoptic Gospels, from the Greek σύν (syn \"together\") and ὄψις (opsis \"view\"), given that they display a high degree of similarity in content, narrative arrangement, language and paragraph structure. The presentation in the fourth canonical gospel, i.e. John, differs from these three in that it has more of a thematic nature rather than a narrative format. Scholars generally agree that it is impossible to find any direct literary relationship between the synoptic gospels and the Gospel of John.\n\nThe authors of the New Testament generally showed little interest in an absolute chronology of Jesus or in synchronizing the episodes of his life with the secular history of the age. The gospels were primarily written as theological documents in the context of early Christianity with the chronological timelines as a secondary consideration. One manifestation of the gospels being theological documents rather than historical chronicles is that they devote about one third of their text to just seven days, namely the last week of the life of Jesus in Jerusalem. Although the gospels do not provide enough details to satisfy the demands of modern historians regarding exact dates, scholars have used them to reconstruct a number of portraits of Jesus. However, as stated in the gospels do not claim to provide an exhaustive list of the events in the life of Jesus.\n\nScholars have varying degrees of certainty about the historical reliability of the accounts in the gospels, and the only two events whose historicity is the subject of almost universal agreement among scholars are the baptism and crucifixion of Jesus. Scholars such as E.P. Sanders and separately Craig A. Evans go further and assume that two other events in the gospels are historically certain, namely that Jesus called disciples, and caused a controversy at the Temple.\n\nEver since the Augustinian hypothesis, scholars continue to debate the order in which the gospels were written, and how they may have influenced each other, and several hypothesis exist in that regard, e.g. the Markan priority hypothesis holds that the Gospel of Mark was written first c. 70 CE. In this approach, Matthew is placed at being sometime after this date and Luke is thought to have been written between 70 and 100 CE. However, according to the competing, and more popular, Q source hypothesis, the gospels were not independently written, but were derived from a common source called Q. The two-source hypothesis then proposes that the authors of Matthew and Luke drew on the Gospel of Mark as well as on Q.\n\nThe gospels can be seen as having three separate lines: A literary line which looks at it from a textual perspective, secondly a historical line which observes how Christianity started as a renewal movement within Judaism and eventually separated from it, and finally a theological line which analyzes Christian teachings. Within the historical perspective, the gospels are not simply used to establish the existence of Jesus as sources in their own right alone, but their content is compared and contrasted to non-Christian sources, and the historical context, to draw conclusions about the historicity of Jesus.\n\nTwo possible patristic sources that may refer to eye witness encounters with Jesus are the early references of Papias and Quadratus, reported by Eusebius of Caesarea in the 4th century.\n\nThe works of Papias have not survived, but Eusebius quotes him as saying:\n\nRichard Bauckham states that while Papias was collecting his information (c. 90), Aristion and the elder John (who were Jesus' disciples) were still alive and teaching in Asia minor, and Papias gathered information from people who had known them. However, the exact identity of the \"elder John\" is wound up in the debate on the authorship of the Gospel of John, and scholars have differing opinions on that, e.g. Jack Finegan states that Eusebius may have misunderstood what Papias wrote, and the elder John may be a different person from the author of the fourth gospel, yet still a disciple of Jesus. Gary Burge, on the other hand sees confusion on the part of Eusebius and holds the elder John to be different person from the apostle John.\n\nThe letter of Quadratus (possibly the first Christian apologist) to emperor Hadrian (who reigned 117 – 138) is likely to have an early date and is reported by Eusebius in his \"Ecclesiastical History\" 4.3.2 to have stated:\n\nBy \"our Savior\" Quadratus means Jesus and the letter is most likely written before AD 124. Bauckham states that by \"our times\" he may refer to his early life, rather than when he wrote (117–124), which would be a reference contemporary with Papias. Bauckham states that the importance of the statement attributed to Quadratus is that he emphasizes the \"eye witness\" nature of the testimonies to interaction with Jesus. Such \"eye witness statements\" abound in early Christian writings, particularly the pseudonymous Christian Apocrypha, Gospels and Letters, in order to give them credibility.\n\nA number of later Christian texts, usually dating to the second century or later, exist as New Testament apocrypha, among which the gnostic gospels have been of major recent interest among scholars. The 1945 discovery of the Nag Hammadi library created a significant amount of scholarly interest and many modern scholars have since studied the gnostic gospels and written about them. However, the trend among the 21st century scholars has been to accept that while the gnostic gospels may shed light on the progression of early Christian beliefs, they offer very little to contribute to the study of the historicity of Jesus, in that they are rather late writings, usually consisting of sayings (rather than narrative, similar to the hypothesised Q documents), their authenticity and authorship remain questionable, and various parts of them rely on components of the New Testament. The focus of modern research into the historical Jesus has been away from gnostic writings and towards the comparison of Jewish, Greco-Roman and canonical Christian sources.\n\nAs an example, Bart Ehrman states that gnostic writings of the Gospel of Thomas (part of the Nag Hammadi library) have very little value in historical Jesus research, because the author of that gospel placed no importance on the physical experiences of Jesus (e.g. his crucifixion) or the physical existence of believers, and was only interested in the secret teachings of Jesus rather than any physical events. Similarly, the Apocryphon of John (also part of the Nag Hammadi library) has been useful in studying the prevailing attitudes in the second century, and questions of authorship regarding the Book of revelation, given that it refers to , but is mostly about the post ascension teachings of Jesus in a vision, not a narrative of his life. Some scholars such as Edward Arnal contend that the Gospel of Thomas continues to remain useful for understanding how the teachings of Jesus were transmitted among early Christians, and sheds light on the development of early Christianity.\n\nThere is overlap between the sayings of Jesus in the apocryphal texts and canonical Christian writings, and those not present in the canonical texts are called agrapha. There are at least 225 agrapha but most scholars who have studied them have drawn negative conclusions about the authenticity of most of them and see little value in using them for historical Jesus research. Robert Van Voorst states that the vast majority of the agrapha are certainly inauthentic. Scholars differ on the number of authentic agrapha, some estimating as low as seven as authentic, others as high as 18 among the more than 200, rendering them of little value altogether. While research on apocryphal texts continues, the general scholarly opinion holds that they have little to offer to the study of the historicity of Jesus given that they are often of uncertain origin, and almost always later documents of lower value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17059757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17059757", "title": "StoryMill", "text": "StoryMill\n\nStoryMill (originally Avenir) is a text editor designed for fiction writers. It provides scene, chapter and character management capabilities along with the ability to annotate text and a claimed industry-first timeline view.\n\nAvenir was developed by Todd Ransom, of Return Self Software, who also developed Montage, a Mac screenwriting application, for Mariner Software. From version 3, Avenir is being \"republished\" by Mariner, as StoryMill.\n"}
{"id": "55164400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55164400", "title": "The Peoplepedia", "text": "The Peoplepedia\n\nThe Peoplepedia: The Ultimate Reference on the American People is a 1996 book by Les Krantz and Jim McCormick. Covering \"Americans and their habits...from serious to silly\", it \"purports to illuminate 'who we are and how we see ourselves'\". It was written in three parts providing \"statistical snapshots of American life\": \"The American Mindset\" with popular opinions; \"The American Collective\" with facts about broad categories such as education or religion; and \"Notable Americans\" with biographical sketches. A review said it was \"entertaining but, in some places, deceptive\" and concentrated on men's biographies over women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142995", "title": "The Story of the Kelly Gang", "text": "The Story of the Kelly Gang\n\nThe Story of the Kelly Gang is a 1906 Australian silent film that traces the exploits of 19th-century bushranger and outlaw Ned Kelly and his gang. It was directed by Charles Tait and shot in and around the city of Melbourne. The film ran for more than an hour with a reel length of about , making it the longest narrative film yet seen in the world. It was first shown at Melbourne's Athenaeum Hall on 26 December 1906 and premiered in the United Kingdom in January 1908. A commercial and critical success, it is regarded as the origin point of the bushranging drama, a genre that dominated the early years of Australian film production. Since its release, many other films have been made about the Kelly legend.\n\nIn 2007, \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\" was inscribed on the UNESCO Memory of the World Register for being the world's first full-length narrative feature film.\n\nAustralian bushranger Ned Kelly had been executed only twenty-six years before \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\" was made, and Ned's mother Ellen and younger brother Jim were still alive at the time of its release. The film was made during an era when plays about bushrangers were extremely popular, and there were, by one estimate, six contemporaneous theatre companies giving performances of the Kelly gang story. Historian Ian Jones suggests bushranger stories still had an \"indefinable appeal\" for Australians in the early 20th century.\n\n\"The Story of the Kelly Gang\" was made by a consortium of two partnerships involved in theatre—entrepreneurs John Tait and Nevin Tait, and pioneering film exhibitors Millard Johnson and William Gibson. The Tait family owned the Melbourne Athenaeum Hall and part of their concert program often included short films. Melbourne film exhibitors Johnson and Gibson also had technical experience, including developing film stock. Credit for writing the film scenario is generally given to brothers Frank, John and sometimes Charles Tait. At a time when films were usually shorts of five to ten minutes duration, their inspiration for making a film of at least sixty minutes in length, and intended as a stand-alone feature, was undoubtedly based on the proven success of stage versions of the Kelly story.\n\nFilm historians Andrew Pike and Ross Cooper have noted that at the time, the filmmakers were unaware of the historical importance of the film they were making, and only much later \"poured forth their memories.\" Unfortunately, \"with the passage of time and the desire to make a good story of it\" they \"created a maze of contradictory information.\"\n\nFor example, in later years, William Gibson claimed that while touring through New Zealand showing the bio-pic \"Living London\", he noticed the large audiences attracted to Charles McMahon's stage play \"The Kelly Gang\". Film historian Eric Reade claimed the Taits themselves owned the stage rights to a Kelly play, while actors Sam Crewes and John Forde later also claimed to have thought of the idea of a making a film of the Kelly Gang's exploits, inspired by the success of stage plays.\n\nThere is evidence that at least one other bushranging film had been made before 1906. This was Joseph Perry's 1904 short \"Bushranging in North Queensland\", made by the Salvation Army's Limelight Department in Melbourne, one of the world's first film studios.\n\nThere is considerable uncertainty over who appeared in the film and a number of unsubstantiated claims have been made regarding participation. According to the Australian National Film and Sound Archive, the only actors positively identified are; \nOthers thought to be in the film include\nIn her memoirs, Viola Tait claimed the part of Ned was played by a Canadian stunt actor, who deserted the project part way through.\n\nShooting of the film reportedly involved a budget variously estimated between £400 (Gibson) and £1,000 (Tait) and took six months. While it is now commonly accepted that the Tait's experienced older brother Charles directed the film, only ten years after it was made, pioneer Australian director W. J. Lincoln claimed it was actually \"directed by Mr Sam Crews [sic], who... worked without a scenario, and pieced the story together as he went along.\" Lincoln also claimed that \"the principal characters were played by the promoters and their relatives, who certainly made no pretensions to any great histrionic talent.\"\n\nViola Tait's memoirs, published in the early 1970s, identifies Charles as being chosen as director because of his theatrical experience. Her account confirmed that many of the extended Tait family and their friends appeared in scenes.\n\nMillard Johnson was camera operator.\n\nMuch of the film was shot on the property of Elizabeth Tait's family (Charles' wife) at Heidelberg, now a suburb of Melbourne. Other scenes in the film may have been shot in the suburbs of St Kilda (indoor scenes), and possibly Eltham, Greensborough, Mitcham, and Rosanna. The Victoria Railways Department assisted by providing a train.\n\nCostumes were possibly borrowed from E. I. Cole's Bohemian Company, and members of the troupe may have also performed in the film. According to Viola Tait, Sir Rupert Clarke loaned the suit of Kelly armour his family then owned for use in the film.\n\nFilm historian Ina Bertrand suggests that the tone of \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\" is \"one of sorrow, depicting Ned Kelly and his gang as the last of the bushrangers.\" Bertrand identifies several scenes that suggest considerable film making sophistication on the part of the Taits. One is the composition of a scene of police shooting parrots in the bush. The second is the capture of Ned, shot from the viewpoint of the police, as he advances. A copy of the programme booklet has survived, containing a synopsis of the film, in six 'scenes'. The latter provided audiences with the sort of information later provided by intertitles, and can help historians imagine what the entire film may have been like.\n\nAccording to the synopsis given in the surviving programme, the film originally comprised six sequences. These provided a loose narrative based on the Kelly gang story.\n\nSome confusion regarding the plot has emerged as a result of a variant poster dating from the time the film was re-released in 1910. The similar (but different) photos suggest that either the film was being added to for its re-release, or an entirely new version was made by Johnson and Gibson, as the poster proclaims. In addition, a film fragment (\" the Perth fragment \") exists, showing Aaron Sherritt being shot in front of an obviously painted canvas flat. This is now thought to be from a different film altogether, perhaps a cheap imitation of \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\" made by a theatrical company, keen to cash in on the success of the original, or an earlier bushranger short.\n\nThe film was given a week of trial screenings in country towns in late 1906. This proved enormously successful and the movie recouped its budget for these screenings alone.\n\nIts Melbourne debut was made at the Athenaeum Hall on 26 December 1906. It ran for five weeks to full houses, local papers noting the extraordinary popularity of the film. Although the country screenings had been silent, when the film was screened in Melbourne it was accompanied by live sound effects, including blank cartridges as gunshots and coconut shells beaten together to simulate hoofbeats. At later screenings a lecturer would also narrate the action. These additions were well-received by the theatre critic for \"Melbourne Punch\", who stated that they greatly enhance the film's realism. He went on to say:\nComparing the film to other artistic depictions of the Kelly saga, one Adelaide critic wrote that it conveys \"a far more vivid impression of the actual life and deeds of the Kellys than letterpress and stagecraft combined.\"\n\nMany groups at the time, including some politicians and the police, interpreted the film as a glorification of criminality. The film was banned in \"Kelly Country\"—regional centres such as Benalla and Wangaratta—in April 1907, and in 1912 bushranger films were banned across New South Wales and Victoria.\n\nDespite the bans, the film toured Australia for over 20 years and was also shown in New Zealand, Ireland and Britain. When Queen's Royal Theatre was rebuilt in Dublin in 1909, it opened with a program headed by \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\". The backers and exhibitors made \"a fortune\" from the film, perhaps in excess of £25,000.\n\nThe film was considered lost until 1975, when five short segments totalling a few seconds of running time were found. In 1978 another 64 metres of the film was discovered in a collection belonging to a former film exhibitor. In 1980, further footage was found at a rubbish dump. The longest surviving single sequence, the scene at Younghusband's station, was found in the UK in 2006. In November 2006, the National Film and Sound Archive released a new digital restoration which incorporated the new material and recreated some scenes based on existing still photographs.\n\nThe restoration is now 17 minutes long and includes the key scene of Kelly's last stand.\n\nIn director Warwick Thornton's 2017 film \"Sweet Country\", a \"travelling picture show\" in 1920s Northern Territory shows \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\" to residents of an outback town, who cheer for the bushranger. The film's protagonist, an Aboriginal outlaw, is also named Kelly, but vilified and hunted by the same townspeople. According to \"The Australian\", Thornton, an Aboriginal, \"has little time\" for depictions of Ned Kelly as a larrikin folk hero and Irish victim of British colonisation. \"When there was a raiding party,\" said Thonrton, \"and a massacre happened, the Scottish, the Irish and the British were all shooting us. It doesn’t equate for me.”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6601055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6601055", "title": "Theodore Drake", "text": "Theodore Drake\n\nTheodore G.H. Drake, MD(1891- 1959) was a Canadian pediatrician and one of three doctors that developed Pablum.\n\nDrake was born on September 16, 1891 in Webbwood, Ontario. He obtained his university degree from the University of Toronto in 1914. He spent two years in residence at the Toronto General Hospital. During World War I, Drake was a medical officer. After the war he went back to the Toronto General Hospital where he eventually became head of the research institute.\n\nIn 1923, he, along with Dr. Alan Brown and Dr. Frederick Tisdale, helped work out the formula for Pablum. The cereal marked a breakthrough in nutritional science: it helped prevent rickets, a crippling childhood disease, by ensuring that children have enough vitamin D in their diet. Although Pablum was not the first food designed and sold specifically for babies, it was the first baby food to come pre-cooked and thoroughly dried. The ease of preparation made Pablum successful in an era when infant malnutrition was still a major problem in industrialized countries.\n\nDuring World War II, Drake designed nutritional diets for RCAF personnel as well as for POW parcels. After the war, he was named a member of the Order of the British Empire for his work.\n\nDrake met his first wife, Gerturd Salmond, overseas. She predeceased him by 15 years. His second wife was Nina Johnson. \n\nDrake was interested in the history of pediatric care. He began a collection of art and artifacts related to the history of children's health. Over 3000 artifacts and 1000 prints formed a base of his collection. This collection is now in the hands of the Royal Ontario Museum.\n\nDrake died on October 18, 1959.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5766534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5766534", "title": "Traffic Safety (book)", "text": "Traffic Safety (book)\n\nTraffic Safety, , is a book authored by Leonard Evans, published in 2004 by the Science Serving Society of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.\n\nThe book is organized as follows:\n\n\n\"Traffic Safety\" uses the methods of science to examine the deaths, injuries, and property damage from traffic crashes. It is more focused on public policy and countermeasures than the author’s 1991 book \"Traffic Safety and the Driver\". Results derived from many disciplines, including psychology, sociology, medicine, epidemiology, criminology, biomechanics, economics, physics, and engineering are synthesized into easily understood relationships.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8746415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8746415", "title": "Value and Capital", "text": "Value and Capital\n\nValue and Capital is a book by the British economist John Richard Hicks, published in 1939. It is considered a classic exposition of microeconomic theory. Central results include: \n\nThe book has 19 chapters and the following outline:\nIt begins with a simplified case and generalises from it. An individual consumer has a given money income for spending on only two goods. What determines quantity demanded of each good by that individual? The basic hypothesis is the set of restrictions on the utility function and demand equilibrium that results as to the consumer's budget constraint. That hypothesis drives the theoretical outcome of a price change in one of the goods on the quantity demanded of each good. The book decomposes the change into the substitution effect and the income effect. The latter is the change in real income in theoretical terms without which the distinction between real and nominal values would be more problematic. The two effects are now standard in consumer theory. The analysis conforms with a proportionate change in money income and money prices of both goods leaving quantity demanded of both goods unchanged. This is also consistent with the distinction between real and nominal values and represents a common hypothesis in economics of no money illusion.\n\nAn appendix generalises the 2-good case for consumption to the case of one good and a \"composite good\", that is, all other consumer goods. It derives the conditions under which the demand properties in equilibrium as to the price ratio and the marginal rate of substitution attributed to the 2-good case apply to the more general case, allowing the neat distinction between the income effect and the substitution effect. \n\nIn his Nobel lecture, Hicks cites \"Value and Capital\" for clarifying an aspect of what became known as the aggregation problem. The problem is most acute in measuring the capital stock by its market value for the real-world case of heterogeneous capital goods (for example, steel presses and shovels). He showed that if the price ratios between the goods (equal to their marginal rates of substitution in equilibrium) did not remain constant with additional capital, aggregation of capital-good values would not be a strictly valid measure of the capital stock. He also showed that there was no unambiguous way of measuring the \"period of production\" (proposed by Böhm-Bawerk) that would in general serve as a measure of the capital stock.\n\nFrom consumer equilibrium for an individual, the book aggregates to market equilibrium across all individuals, producers, and goods. In so doing, Hicks introduced Walrasian general equilibrium theory to an English-speaking audience. This was the first publication to attempt a rigorous statement of \"stability conditions\" for general equilibrium. In doing so, Hicks formalised comparative statics. The book synthesises dynamic-adjustment elements from Walras and Wicksell and from Marshall and Keynes. It distinguishes temporary, intermediate, and long-run equilibrium with expectations as to future market conditions affecting behaviour in current markets (Bliss, 1987, pp. 642–43).\n\n"}
