{"id": "2777285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2777285", "title": "Adult stem cell", "text": "Adult stem cell\n\nAdult stem cells are undifferentiated cells, found throughout the body after development, that multiply by cell division to replenish dying cells and regenerate damaged tissues. Also known as somatic stem cells (from Greek Σωματικóς, meaning \"of the body\"), they can be found in juvenile as well as adult animals and humans, unlike embryonic stem cells. \n\nScientific interest in adult stem cells is centered on their ability to divide or \"self-renew\" indefinitely, and generate all the cell types of the organ from which they originate, potentially regenerating the entire organ from a few cells. Unlike for embryonic stem cells, the use of human adult stem cells in research and therapy is not considered to be controversial, as they are derived from adult tissue samples rather than human embryos designated for scientific research. They have mainly been studied in humans and model organisms such as mice and rats.\n\nA stem cell possesses two properties:\n\nHematopoietic stem cells are found in the bone marrow and umbilical cord blood and give rise to all the blood cell types.\n\nMammary stem cells provide the source of cells for growth of the mammary gland during puberty and gestation and play an important role in carcinogenesis of the breast. Mammary stem cells have been isolated from human and mouse tissue as well as from cell lines derived from the mammary gland. Single such cells can give rise to both the luminal and myoepithelial cell types of the gland, and have been shown to have the ability to regenerate the entire organ in mice.\n\nIntestinal stem cells divide continuously throughout life and use a complex genetic program to produce the cells lining the surface of the small and large intestines. Intestinal stem cells reside near the base of the stem cell niche, called the crypts of Lieberkuhn. Intestinal stem cells are probably the source of most cancers of the small intestine and colon.\n\nMesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are of stromal origin and may differentiate into a variety of tissues. MSCs have been isolated from placenta, adipose tissue, lung, bone marrow and blood, Wharton's jelly from the umbilical cord, and teeth (perivascular niche of dental pulp and periodontal ligament). MSCs are attractive for clinical therapy due to their ability to differentiate, provide trophic support, and modulate innate immune response. These cells have the ability to differentiate into various cell types such as osteoblasts, chondroblasts, adipocytes, neuroectodermal cells, and hepatocytes. Bioactive mediators that favor local cell growth are also secreted by MSCs. Anti-inflammatory effects on the local microenvironment, which promote tissue healing, are also observed. The inflammatory response can be modulated by adipose-derived regenerative cells (ADRC) including mesenchymal stem cells and regulatory T-lymphocytes. The mesenchymal stem cells thus alter the outcome of the immune response by changing the cytokine secretion of dendritic and T-cell subsets. This results in a shift from a pro-inflammatory environment to an anti-inflammatory or tolerant cell environment.\n\nEndothelial stem cells are one of the three types of multipotent stem cells found in the bone marrow. They are a rare and controversial group with the ability to differentiate into endothelial cells, the cells that line blood vessels.\n\nThe existence of stem cells in the adult brain has been postulated following the discovery that the process of neurogenesis, the birth of new neurons, continues into adulthood in rats. The presence of stem cells in the mature primate brain was first reported in 1967. It has since been shown that new neurons are generated in adult mice, songbirds and primates, including humans. Normally, adult neurogenesis is restricted to two areas of the brain – the subventricular zone, which lines the lateral ventricles, and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. Although the generation of new neurons in the hippocampus is well established, the presence of true self-renewing stem cells there has been debated. Under certain circumstances, such as following tissue damage in ischemia, neurogenesis can be induced in other brain regions, including the neocortex.\n\nNeural stem cells are commonly cultured \"in vitro\" as so called neurospheres – floating heterogeneous aggregates of cells, containing a large proportion of stem cells. They can be propagated for extended periods of time and differentiated into both neuronal and glia cells, and therefore behave as stem cells. However, some recent studies suggest that this behaviour is induced by the culture conditions in progenitor cells, the progeny of stem cell division that normally undergo a strictly limited number of replication cycles \"in vivo\". Furthermore, neurosphere-derived cells do not behave as stem cells when transplanted back into the brain.\n\nNeural stem cells share many properties with haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Remarkably, when injected into the blood, neurosphere-derived cells differentiate into various cell types of the immune system.\n\nOlfactory adult stem cells have been successfully harvested from the human olfactory mucosa cells, which are found in the lining of the nose and are involved in the sense of smell. If they are given the right chemical environment these cells have the same ability as embryonic stem cells to develop into many different cell types. Olfactory stem cells hold the potential for therapeutic applications and, in contrast to neural stem cells, can be harvested with ease without harm to the patient. This means they can be easily obtained from all individuals, including older patients who might be most in need of stem cell therapies.\n\nHair follicles contain two types of stem cells, one of which appears to represent a remnant of the stem cells of the embryonic neural crest. Similar cells have been found in the gastrointestinal tract, sciatic nerve, cardiac outflow tract and spinal and sympathetic ganglia. These cells can generate neurons, Schwann cells, myofibroblast, chondrocytes and melanocytes.\n\nMultipotent stem cells with a claimed equivalency to embryonic stem cells have been derived from spermatogonial progenitor cells found in the testicles of laboratory mice by scientists in Germany and the United States, and, a year later, researchers from Germany and the United Kingdom confirmed the same capability using cells from the testicles of humans. The extracted stem cells are known as human adult germline stem cells (GSCs)\n\nMultipotent stem cells have also been derived from germ cells found in human testicles.\n\nTo ensure self-renewal, stem cells undergo two types of cell division (see \"Stem cell division and differentiation\" diagram). Symmetric division gives rise to two identical daughter cells, both endowed with stem cell properties, whereas asymmetric division produces only one stem cell and a progenitor cell with limited self-renewal potential. Progenitors can go through several rounds of cell division before finally differentiating into a mature cell. It is believed that the molecular distinction between symmetric and asymmetric divisions lies in differential segregation of cell membrane proteins (such as receptors) between the daughter cells.\n\nDiscoveries in recent years have suggested that adult stem cells might have the ability to differentiate into cell types from different germ layers. For instance, neural stem cells from the brain, which are derived from ectoderm, can differentiate into ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm. Stem cells from the bone marrow, which is derived from mesoderm, can differentiate into liver, lung, GI tract and skin, which are derived from endoderm and mesoderm. This phenomenon is referred to as stem cell transdifferentiation or plasticity. It can be induced by modifying the growth medium when stem cells are cultured \"in vitro\" or transplanting them to an organ of the body different from the one they were originally isolated from. There is yet no consensus among biologists on the prevalence and physiological and therapeutic relevance of stem cell plasticity. More recent findings suggest that pluripotent stem cells may reside in blood and adult tissues in a dormant state. These cells are referred to as \"Blastomere Like Stem Cells\" and \"very small embryonic like\" – \"VSEL\" stem cells, and display pluripotency in vitro. As BLSC's and VSEL cells are present in virtually all adult tissues, including lung, brain, kidneys, muscles, and pancreas Co-purification of BLSC's and VSEL cells with other populations of adult stem cells may explain the apparent pluripotency of adult stem cell populations. However, recent studies have shown that both human and murine VSEL cells lack stem cell characteristics and are not pluripotent.\n\nStem cell function becomes impaired with age, and this contributes to progressive deterioration of tissue maintenance and repair. A likely important cause of increasing stem cell dysfunction is age-dependent accumulation of DNA damage in both stem cells and the cells that comprise the stem cell environment. (See also DNA damage theory of aging.)\n\nAdult stem cells can, however, be artificially reverted to a state where they behave like embryonic stem cells (including the associated DNA repair mechanisms). This was done with mice as early as 2006 with future prospects to slow down human aging substantially. Such cells are one of the various classes of induced stem cells.\n\nAdult stem cell research has been focused on uncovering the general molecular mechanisms that control their self-renewal and differentiation.\n\nAdult stem cell treatments have been used for many years to successfully treat leukemia and related bone/blood cancers utilizing bone marrow transplants. The use of adult stem cells in research and therapy is not considered as controversial as the use of embryonic stem cells, because the production of adult stem cells does not require the destruction of an embryo.\n\nEarly regenerative applications of adult stem cells has focused on intravenous delivery of blood progenitors known as Hematopetic Stem Cells (HSC's). CD34+ hematopoietic Stem Cells have been clinically applied to treat various diseases including spinal cord injury, liver cirrhosis and Peripheral Vascular disease. Research has shown that CD34+ hematopoietic Stem Cells are relatively more numerous in men than in women of reproductive age group among spinal cord Injury victims. Other early commercial applications have focused on Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs). For both cell lines, direct injection or placement of cells into a site in need of repair may be the preferred method of treatment, as vascular delivery suffers from a \"pulmonary first pass effect\" where intravenous injected cells are sequestered in the lungs. Clinical case reports in orthopedic applications have been published. Wakitani has published a small case series of nine defects in five knees involving surgical transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells with coverage of the treated chondral defects. Centeno et al. have reported high field MRI evidence of increased cartilage and meniscus volume in individual human clinical subjects as well as a large n=227 safety study. Many other stem cell based treatments are operating outside the US, with much controversy being reported regarding these treatments as some feel more regulation is needed as clinics tend to exaggerate claims of success and minimize or omit risks.\n\nThe therapeutic potential of adult stem cells is the focus of much scientific research, due to their ability to be harvested from the patient. In common with embryonic stem cells, adult stem cells have the ability to differentiate into more than one cell type, but unlike the former they are often restricted to certain types or \"lineages\". The ability of a differentiated stem cell of one lineage to produce cells of a different lineage is called transdifferentiation. Some types of adult stem cells are more capable of transdifferentiation than others, but for many there is no evidence that such a transformation is possible. Consequently, adult stem therapies require a stem cell source of the specific lineage needed, and harvesting and/or culturing them up to the numbers required is a challenge. Additionally, cues from the immediate environment (including how stiff or porous the surrounding structure/extracellular matrix is) can alter or enhance the fate and differentiation of the stem cells.\n\nPluripotent stem cells, i.e. cells that can give rise to any fetal or adult cell type, can be found in a number of tissues, including umbilical cord blood. Using genetic reprogramming, pluripotent stem cells equivalent to embryonic stem cells have been derived from human adult skin tissue. Other adult stem cells are multipotent, meaning they are restricted in the types of cell they can become, and are generally referred to by their tissue origin (such as mesenchymal stem cell, adipose-derived stem cell, endothelial stem cell, etc.). A great deal of adult stem cell research has focused on investigating their capacity to divide or self-renew indefinitely, and their potential for differentiation. In mice, pluripotent stem cells can be directly generated from adult fibroblast cultures.\n\nIn recent years, acceptance of the concept of adult stem cells has increased. There is now a hypothesis that stem cells reside in many adult tissues and that these unique reservoirs of cells not only are responsible for the normal reparative and regenerative processes but are also considered to be a prime target for genetic and epigenetic changes, culminating in many abnormal conditions including cancer. (See cancer stem cell for more details.)\n\nAdult stem cells express transporters of the ATP-binding cassette family that actively pump a diversity of organic molecules out of the cell. Many pharmaceuticals are exported by these transporters conferring multidrug resistance onto the cell. This complicates the design of drugs, for instance neural stem cell targeted therapies for the treatment of clinical depression.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55676284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55676284", "title": "An Lingshou", "text": "An Lingshou\n\nAn Lingshou () was a Chinese Buddhist nun who lived in the first half of the 4th century Common Era. Her father initially refused her permission to become a nun, wanting her to follow the traditional roles of a woman as a wife and mother. He ultimately relented when his spiritual advisor, the monk Fotudeng, pointed out that allowing her to become a nun would bring glory and salvation to the family, a role that fit within the family-oriented values that emphasized an person's duty to the family over individual desires. Her success paved the way for other women to choose a religious life, one that was not focused on the traditional role of a woman in society. \n\nAn Lingshou (flourished in the first half of the fourth century), of Dongguan, or Donghuan, in present-day Shandong. She was the daughter (her given name has been lost) of the government official Xu Chong during the Later Zhao dynasty in North China. Her father wanted her to marry, but An had no interest in doing so, preferring the contemplative life. He said that she was selfish and placing her desires over her duties to her parents and family. She replied that her Buddhist faith would help her parents find salvation. Xu Chong then took the issue to Fotudeng who said that allowing An to become a nun would bring the family honor and glory and guide them to salvation.\n\nAn became a disciple of Fotudeng and Zhu Jingiang and founded the Jinshu Monastery. She is said to have converted over 200 people and built five monasteries and a retreat. The Emperor Shi Hu promoted her father to the governorship of Qinghe in Hebei Province in recognition of her merits.\n"}
{"id": "3978038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3978038", "title": "Anders Sandøe Ørsted Bull", "text": "Anders Sandøe Ørsted Bull\n\nAnders Sandøe Ørsted Bull (13 September 1817 – 15 April 1907) was a Norwegian civil servant and government minister. He served as acting Minister of the Army in 1875 (twice), 1881 and 1884. He also served as mayor of Oslo in 1877 and 1878.\n\nHe was born at Bergen in Hordaland, Norway. He was a son of Chief Justice Georg Jacob Bull (1785-1854) and Barbara Albertine Ørsted (1783-1865). His mother was a sister of Danish physicist Hans Christian Ørsted and of Danish jurist Anders Sandøe Ørsted. He was a grandson of Chief Justice Johan Randulf Bull, a grandnephew of Johan Lausen Bull and an uncle of chief physician Edvard Isak Hambro Bull.\n\nIn 1835, he became a student at Bergen Cathedral School. He joined the Ministry of the Army in 1837. In 1840, he became a legal candidate. He was a representative in 1846, bureau chief in 1850 and expedition secretary in 1854. He was appointed General War Commissioner of the Army in 1860.\nIn 1875, he was acting Minister of the Army from 26 May to 4 June, and from 6 July to 20 July. He was also acting Minister of the Army from 16 September to 25 September 1881 and from 19 March to 2 April 1884. He later served as the Mayor of Oslo in 1877 and 1878.\n\nHe was married in 1848 to Caroline Elisabeth Dahl (b. 1822), surviving daughter of the artist Johan Christian Dahl. They had the son Karl Sigwald Johannes Bull who would become Minister of Defence from 1910 to 1912. \n"}
{"id": "19190355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19190355", "title": "Angelo Infanti", "text": "Angelo Infanti\n\nAngelo Infanti (16 February 1939 – 12 October 2010) was an Italian film actor. He appeared in more than 90 films between 1961 and 2010. He was born on 16 February 1939 in Zagarolo, Italy. He died on 12 October 2010 in Tivoli, Italy due to cardiac arrest.\n\nInfanti is best known to non-Italian audiences as Fabrizio in \"The Godfather\". Fabrizio was a bodyguard to Michael Corleone who was hiding in Sicily. Fabrizio betrays Michael by setting up explosives in his car, but kills his new bride instead. In the novel, Fabrizio is later shot dead in revenge for the killing. This scene was filmed but cut from the motion picture before its theatrical release. It appears in the 1977 \"The Godfather: A Novel for Television\", which combined the first two films - \"The Godfather\" and \"The Godfather Part II\", adding back scenes that had been previously cut and telling the story chronologically beginning with Vito Andolini's childhood in Sicily.\n\n"}
{"id": "1439303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1439303", "title": "Arthur Haulot", "text": "Arthur Haulot\n\nBaron Arthur Haulot (15 November 1913 – 24 May 2005) was a Belgian journalist, humanist and poet who served, during World War II as an active member of the Belgian resistance. As president of the \"Jeunes Socialistes\" (young socialists), he was made prisoner and taken to the Dachau concentration camp.\n\nAfter his liberation from the camp, he spoke about the atrocities of the Nazi regime and its efforts to impose a regime that precludes free speech and many forms of freedom and liberties, this leading to extermination of any opponents to the regime, and many people considered as \"passively opposed\" to the Regime, like the Jews, the Romani and many others.\n\nHe died in Brussels as a result of a thrombosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "35431425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35431425", "title": "CVac", "text": "CVac\n\nCVac, short for ‘Cancer Vaccine’, is a potential immunotherapeutic agent that developed in Australia.\n\nCVac was developed by the biotechnology company Prima BioMed (Nasdaq: PBMD) through to Phase II clinical studies between 2001 and 2015. After inconclusive clinical data in ovarian cancer 2013 and 2014, Prima announced in February 2015 that it had ceased recruiting into CVAc clinical studies and was seeking commercial partners for the product.\n\nCVac is an \"ex vivo\" dendritic cell priming technology involving MFP, or mannan fusion protein, where a fusion protein of MUC1 and Glutathione S-transferase is coupled to oxidized polymannose. The dendritic cells are the orchestrators of the immune system. ‘Priming’ dendritic cells involves exposing those cells to disease antigens in order to get the immune system to properly recognise the antigen and mount an appropriate response. With CVac this takes place outside the body of the patient (\"ex vivo\"), with dendritic cells obtained by leukapheresis. The antigen in this case is MUC1, known to be overexpressed on a variety of cancer cells and in CVac MUC1 is conjugated to the carbohydrate mannan to facilitate uptake by the dendritic cells. CVAc can be administered subcutaneously, whereas Provenge is intravenous.\n\nCVac originated in the mid-1990s at the Austin Research Institute, a medical research facility then associated with Melbourne's Austin Hospital (and that merged with the Burnet Institute in 2006). The original version of the product was developed in the laboratory of the Austin Professor Ian McKenzie in 1993. CVac therapy was originally intended to be \"in vivo\" but the Austin researchers started getting better results in \"ex vivo\" therapy.\n\nPrima BioMed was formed around 2001 to commercialise a number of Austin Research Institute projects including CVac. The company was taken public in July 2001 on the ASX in a reverse takeover of a defunct mineral explorer called Prima Resources. CVac ultimately ended up as Prima BioMed's core project until Prima's acquisition of the French biotechnology company Immutep SA in 2014.\n\nCVac was approved for use by the Dubai Health City Authority in May 2011.\n\nCVac was manufactured in Germany by Fraunhofer IZI (Das Fraunhofer-Institut für Zelltherapie und Immunologie), an institute of the Fraunhofer Society in Leipzig, Saxony The Fraunhofer IZI was authorized to manufacture the treatment in Europe in late 2011 after meeting criteria laid down by the German \"Arzneimittelgesetz\" (Drug Law). Prima intended that its product would be manufactured at this one central location, with patient blood being flown to Leipzig and primed dendritic cells being shipped back to the relevant trial site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41690013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41690013", "title": "Charles Henry Bond", "text": "Charles Henry Bond\n\nCharles Henry Bond was an American businessman who was president and general manager of Waitt & Bond, one of Boston's largest real estate holders, and a patron of the arts.\n\nBond was born on July 13, 1846, in the Cliftondale neighborhood of Saugus, Massachusetts, to Charles Milton Bond Jr. and Mary (Amerige) Bond. During his youth, Bond developed a love for music which would last throughout his life.\n\nIn 1863, at the age of seventeen, Bond entered the cigar business. In 1870, he and Henry Waitt established Waitt & Bond in a small shop in Saugus. The business grew rapidly, and it was relocated to a large factory in Boston. Waitt & Bond eventually became the largest cigar manufacturer in New England and one of the largest in the United States.\n\nWith a fortune accumulated from his cigar business, Bond became involved in real estate. He was one of the most active dealers and largest holders of real estate in Boston. He became especially involved in real estate during the final year of his life. Among the properties Bond owned were the Oceanside Hotel in Gloucester's Magnolia village, the Hotel Netherlands on Boylston Street in Boston, and Brandon Hall in Brookline. In 1908, Bond began work on the construction of a theater on Tremont Street in Boston, which was to be known as the Lyric Theatre. The project struggled as a result of the financial hit Bond took in the Panic of 1907 and remained unfinished at the time of Bond's death. In the spring of 1909 the project was taken over by The Shubert Organization, and the theater was renamed the Shubert Theatre.\n\nBond also owned a number of properties in Washington, D.C., including the Bond Building.\n\nBond was twice married. In 1872 he married Martha A. Morrison of Lawrence, Massachusetts. The couple had two children. His second wife was Isabelle \"Belle\" Bacon of Washington, D.C. She and Bond had five children.\n\nHe maintained a residence in Cliftondale until 1899, when he moved to a home on Commonwealth Avenue in Boston. He also owned Peacehaven, a summer estate in Swampscott, Massachusetts.\n\nA Unitarian, Bond and was a member of the Second Church of Boston. For many years he was a member of the church's standing committee as well as its music committee. During his later years, Bond became interested in Christian Science.\n\nBond was a staunch member of the Republican Party. He was occasionally involved in politics, but never held elected office. He was also a member of numerous clubs and fraternal organizations, including the Freemasons, Knights Templar, the Tedesco Country Club, and the Sons of Colonial Wars.\n\nIn 1885, Bond founded the Cliftondale Public Library. He served as the Library Association president and was a member of Saugus' first Water Board and a trustee of the Saugus Public Library as well. Bond also gave Saugus land to construct the Cliftondale School. His donations to the Saugus camp of the Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War were credited for its success, and the camp was named in Bond's honor.\n\nA patron of the arts, he provided funding for the training of many vocal artists, including Geraldine Farrar. He was a member of the Boston Art Club and served on its entertainment committee. Bond was also a trustee of the New England Conservatory of Music.\n\nBond offered an award known as the Bond Speaking Prize to the most proficient students at Saugus High School, Wesleyan University, and New Orleans University. He also aided students at St. Lawrence University.\n\nOn July 3, 1908, Bond was found dead in a bathtub in his summer residence. Medical Examiner Joseph G. Pinkham ruled the cause of death as drowning and that the death was accidental. However, it was reported that Bond left a note in his bedroom which read, \"I have been killed by my friends and enemies. It is more than I can bear. I can stand it no longer. My heart is broken. I leave everything to my wife.\" At the time of his death, it was believed that Bond's real estate ventures threatened his fortune. One month before his death, all of Bond's properties were placed in the hands of trustees. \"The Washington Post\" reported that Bond's dissatisfaction with the trustees' actions may have caused him to take his life.\n\nAfter his death, Bond's wife donated money for Bond Hall to be built in his honor at the MacDowell Colony in Peterborough, New Hampshire.\n"}
{"id": "42617854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42617854", "title": "Childbirth in Haiti", "text": "Childbirth in Haiti\n\nChildbirth in Haiti follows a system of behavior determined by local beliefs, traditions and attitudes, and is also affected by economic conditions and limitations of available health care facilities.\n\nIn Haiti, infertility carries a negative social stigma; women are expected to bear children. The period of pregnancy and birth is viewed as a happy, celebratory time for a family, not a medical health problem.\n\nPregnant women are expected to fulfill their work obligations up until their delivery. It is normal for pregnant women to experience an increase in salivation and to spit frequently, since they do not believe in swallowing their excess saliva. Women may sometimes carry a spit cup with them and feel no embarrassment in using it in public. Pregnant women are restricted from eating spices, which they believe may irritate the fetus. However, they are encouraged to eat vegetables and red fruits, which are believed to build up the blood of the fetus. Pregnant women are also encouraged to eat large portions as they are eating for two.\n\nMany pregnant women in Haiti receive little health care because of poverty, lack of access, scarcity of healthcare professionals, and views on prenatal care. These issues are more pronounced for women in rural areas, since most of the health care professionals are concentrated in the capitol. The doctor-patient ratio in Haiti is 1 to 67,000, and a percentage of health care workers leave the country each year to work in the United States and Canada, where the pay is better. The available health infrastructure is significantly decreased in the aftermath of the 2010 earthquake, which destroyed vital health facilities.\n\nMany pregnant women see no need for prenatal care, and some fear and actively avoid modern medicine and hospitals, viewing pregnancy, labor and delivery as normal parts of a woman's life cycle.\n\nIn Haiti, many women work until the delivery of the baby. Thus, many of them do not labor in a hospital. Either they labor in the home or their work location. Many women are very active during the laboring process. They will squat, stand, pace, or sit to create more comfortable positions for themselves. They will express their emotions by yelling, screaming, cursing, grunting, or moaning.\n\nPain medications are not commonly available in Haitian birth culture. Most women labor and birth their babies away from the hospital, and do not ask for pain medications.\n\nDuring the labor process, the father of the baby is absent, and the mother may be alone, with a midwife, or female family member and friends may surround her. Much of the decision-making relies on the woman in labor, and coaching from the support people is kept at a minimum.\n\nTraditionally, most women in Haiti have births attended by midwives who are not always formally educated. Midwives are generally taught by older midwives with experience. Birth typically takes place in the home. Geographically, many roads are still destroyed from the earthquake in 2010, and in any case women do not have cars to get themselves to a hospital or a birth center.\n\nPre-eclampsia and eclampsia complications are some of the leading causes in Haiti's high maternal mortality rate. These complications account for seventeen percent of all maternal deaths. (Small, 2005). Because of the lack of prenatal care, many women do not realize the signs of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia until the delivery of the baby. By then, it is often too late to intervene. Medical facilities are often not available nearby in any case. Those in need of emergency C-sections often never receive them because many women do not have the money for them.\n\nIn Haiti, the postpartum period begins immediately after birth and lasts about 40 days. The mother remains in the home, focusing on rest and recuperation. She takes an active role in her own care, dressing warmly, taking daily sitz baths and drinking tea to rejuvenate.<ref name=\"Birth/Children\"></ref>\n\nIn the first three days, strict bed rest is encouraged as well as the avoidance of anything \"cold,\" such as drafts, going outside, and certain foods. Along with \"cold\" foods mothers are also taught to avoid \"white\" foods, such as white Lima beans, lobster, and milk. \"White\" and \"cold\" foods are believed to increase vaginal discharge and/or risk for hemorrhage. Foods acceptable for the mother to eat during this period include porridge, rice, beans, and plantain. Haitians believe that women are more susceptible to gas entering the body, during this period. To prevent this, mothers are encouraged to wear a tight belt or piece of linen around the waist to tighten bones loosened during childbirth.\n\nA common practice during the postpartum period is the \"three baths.\" In the first three days, the mother bathes in fortified water prepared from boiling special herbs in the water, including papaya, sour orange, sour soup (corossol), mint (ti baume), anise, bugleweed and eucalyptus. These herbs relax the mother and cause her muscles to tighten. This is known as the first bath. Mothers are also encouraged to drink a special tea made from the same mixture. The second bath occurs after the three-day mark for another three days where the mother bathes in herb-fortified water that is warmed by the sun, not boiled. The third bath occurs at the one-month mark and is a cold bath, the first one the mother takes since delivery. A cold bath is done to promote healing and tightening of the muscles and bones loosened during delivery.<ref name=\"Birth/Children\"></ref>\n\nBreastfeeding is widely practiced in Haiti for cultural and socioeconomic reasons; 97% of infants are breastfed. Breastfeeding is encouraged for up to nine months with mothers in rural areas continuing for longer because it is economical and practical. A misconception held in Haiti is that breastmilk is the cause of infant illnesses such as diarrhea, tetanus, or intestinal parasites. Haitian mothers are also particular about the form of milk given to infants, as it is believed that milk that is too thick or thin can be detrimental to both mother and child. If the milk is too thick, it is believed to cause impetigo in the infant. If the milk is too thin, believed to be caused by maternal fright or worry, the milk has \"turned\" and may cause diarrhea and failure to thrive in the infant, and headache and possibly postpartum depression in the mother. In alternatives to breast milk the \"hot\" and \"cold\" diet that many Haitians believe in is followed here as well. The postpartum period is considered a \"hot\" period and requires \"cold\" foods. Whole milk is acceptable. However, formula is considered a \"hot\" food and is avoided. Herbal tea is also introduced early in the infant and is an integral part of feeding.\n\nThere are many rites of passage and birth rituals practiced in Haiti.<ref name=\"Birth/Children\"></ref> Naming of the newborn baby occurs one month after birth. The nose of newborn is gently pinched several times a day in an effort to narrow the nostrils, which is considered more attractive in Haiti. The hair of the infant is not cut prior to one year of age. Male circumcision is not encouraged, as it is believed to reduce sexual satisfaction. Purgatives (lok) are often given to newborns to cleanse their insides of first stools. A common purgative is made with a base of red oil from a plant known as \"maskreti\" in Creole. Other main ingredients include castor oil, sugar, garlic, boiled water, salt, and nutmeg. Mothers are cautioned that rapid dehydration may result from this practice. *Nutmeg, castor oil, and a spider web are among some of the substances placed on umbilical stump to speed healing and prevent newborn from \"catching umbilical cold\". In rural areas, the placenta is buried to prevent harm to the child.\n\nIn traditional families, mothers occupy the caregiver role. In single-parent families where the mother is the provider, the role of caregiver is extended to the maternal grandmother. For the first three months, caregivers avoid taking the newborn outside after late afternoon because it is a \"cold \" environment. The air is dangerous at this time and can cause the infant to become sick and agitated, with darker bowel movements as another symptom. If baby must be outside, the caregiver covers their body and head well. At one month, the caregiver can begin bathing the infant in cold water to build up their resistance. Caregivers massage the limbs and buttocks of the newborn after bathing. They pull and push on the most exterior parts of limbs, as if locking them into place, to shape the child's body and give it tone.\n\nCaregivers are also discouraged from holding the infant for long periods of times. It is believed that if the caregiver holds the baby too much, the baby will be slower in hitting milestones, such as learning to sit up, crawl, and walk. Caregivers are encouraged to leave baby on the ground and any bumps or falls that occur are seen as necessary milestones in their learning process. Mothers reluctant to follow this practice are often criticized. The caregiver is also responsible for extracting milk from the infant's body to prevent the infant from having body odor when they reach adolescence. Squeezing the infant's nipples does this. This milk is present in newborns due to the high level of the mother's hormones from the womb and breastfeeding, causing them to lactate for a period of time. There are no visible negative side effects caused by the act of squeezing the nipples of the infant.\n"}
{"id": "7932424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7932424", "title": "Chook raffle", "text": "Chook raffle\n\nChook raffle is an the Australian tradition of \"raffling off\" chooks, i.e. whole (dressed) chickens, often in clubs or pubs. \"Chook\" is an Australian term for a chicken. Most often the chicken is prepared by a butcher, but live chickens are sometimes raffled.\n\nThe chook raffle is a special case of a meat raffle, but is more often used as a fund-raising activity by an amateur club or organisation. Perhaps because of this association, the expression tends to be used disparagingly about someone who claims to have, or should have, superior organisational skills, that they \"couldn't run a chook raffle\".\n\nThe term is also used to describe any random process. An example is selecting the winner of an election by drawing a name from a hat, said to be turning the process into a \"chook raffle\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37143", "title": "Chrysippus", "text": "Chrysippus\n\nChrysippus of Soli (; , ; ) was a Greek Stoic philosopher. He was a native of Soli, Cilicia, but moved to Athens as a young man, where he became a pupil of Cleanthes in the Stoic school. When Cleanthes died, around 230 BC, Chrysippus became the third head of the school. A prolific writer, Chrysippus expanded the fundamental doctrines of Zeno of Citium, the founder of the school, which earned him the title of Second Founder of Stoicism.\n\nChrysippus excelled in logic, the theory of knowledge, ethics, and physics. He created an original system of propositional logic in order to better understand the workings of the universe and role of humanity within it. He adhered to a deterministic view of fate, but nevertheless sought a role for personal freedom in thought and action. Ethics, he thought, depended on understanding the nature of the universe, and he taught a therapy of extirpating the unruly passions which depress and crush the soul. He initiated the success of Stoicism as one of the most influential philosophical movements for centuries in the Greek and Roman world.\n\nOf his written works, none have survived except as fragments quoted in the works of later authors. Recently, segments of some of his works were discovered among the Herculaneum papyri.\n\nChrysippus, the son of Apollonius of Tarsus, was born at Soli, Cilicia. He was slight in stature, and is reputed to have trained as a long-distance runner. While still young, he lost his substantial inherited property when it was confiscated to the king's treasury. Chrysippus moved to Athens, where he became the disciple of Cleanthes, who was then the head (\"scholarch\") of the Stoic school. He is believed to have attended the courses of Arcesilaus and his successor Lacydes, in the Platonic Academy.\n\nChrysippus threw himself eagerly into the study of the Stoic system. His reputation for learning among his contemporaries was considerable. He was noted for intellectual audacity and self-confidence and his reliance on his own ability was shown, among other things, in the request he is supposed to have made to Cleanthes: \"Give me the principles, and I will find the proofs myself.\" He succeeded Cleanthes as head of the Stoic school when Cleanthes died, in around 230 BC.\n\nChrysippus was a prolific writer. He is said to rarely have gone without writing 500 lines a day and he composed more than 705 works. His desire to be comprehensive meant that he would take both sides of an argument and his opponents accused him of filling his books with the quotations of others. He was considered diffuse and obscure in his utterances and careless in his style, but his abilities were highly regarded, and he came to be seen as a preeminent authority for the school.\nHe died during the 143rd Olympiad (208–204 BC) at the age of 73. Diogenes Laërtius gives two different accounts of his death. In the first account, Chrysippus was seized with dizziness having drunk undiluted wine at a feast, and died soon after. In the second account, he was watching a donkey eat some figs and cried out: \"Now give the donkey a drink of pure wine to wash down the figs\", whereupon he died in a fit of laughter. His nephew Aristocreon erected a statue in his honour in the Kerameikos. Chrysippus was succeeded as head of the Stoic school by his pupil Zeno of Tarsus.\n\nOf his written works, none have survived except as fragments quoted in the works of later authors like Cicero, Seneca, Galen, Plutarch, and others. Recently, segments from \"Logical Questions\" and \"On Providence\" were discovered among the Herculaneum papyri. A third work by Chrysippus may also be among them.\n\nChrysippus had a long and successful career of resisting the attacks of the Academy and hoped not simply to defend Stoicism against the assaults of the past, but also against all possible attack in the future. He took the doctrines of Zeno and Cleanthes and crystallized them into what became the definitive system of Stoicism. He elaborated the physical doctrines of the Stoics and their theory of knowledge and he created much of their formal logic. In short, Chrysippus made the Stoic system what it was. It was said that \"without Chrysippus, there would have been no Stoa\".\n\nChrysippus wrote much on the subject of logic and created a system of propositional logic. Aristotle's term logic had been concerned with the interrelations of terms such as \"Socrates\" or \"man\" (\"all men are mortal, Socrates is a man, so Socrates is mortal\"). Stoic logic, on the other hand, was concerned with the interrelations of propositions such as \"it is day\" (\"if it is day, it is light: but it is day: so it is light\"). Though the earlier Megarian dialecticians – Diodorus Cronus and Philo – had worked in this field and the pupils of Aristotle – Theophrastus and Eudemus – had investigated hypothetical syllogisms, it was Chrysippus who developed these principles into a coherent system of propositional logic.\n\nChrysippus defined a proposition as \"that which is capable of being denied or affirmed as it is in itself\" and gave examples of propositions such as \"it is day\" and \"Dion is walking.\" He distinguished between simple and non-simple propositions, which in modern terminology are known as atomic and molecular propositions. A simple proposition is an elementary statement such as \"it is day.\" Simple propositions are linked together to form non-simple propositions by the use of logical connectives. Chrysippus enumerated five kinds of molecular propositions according to the connective used:\n\nThus several types of molecular propositions, familiar to modern logic, were listed by Chrysippus, including the conjunction, the disjunction, and the conditional, and Chrysippus studied their criteria of truth closely.\n\nThe first logicians to debate conditional statements were Diodorus Cronus and his pupil Philo. Writing five-hundred years later, Sextus Empiricus refers to a debate between Diodorus and Philo. Philo regarded all conditionals as true except those which with a correct antecedent had an incorrect consequent, and this meant a proposition such as \"if it is day, then I am talking,\" is true unless it is day and I fall silent. But Diodorus argued that a true conditional is one in which the antecedent clause could never lead to an untrue conclusion – thus, because the proposition \"if it is day, then I am talking\" can be false, it is invalid. However, paradoxical propositions were still possible such as \"if atomic elements of things do not exist, atomic elements exists.\" Chrysippus adopted a much stricter view regarding conditional propositions, which made such paradoxes impossible: to him, a conditional is true if denial of the consequent is logically incompatible with the antecedent. This corresponds to the modern-day strict conditional.\n\nChrysippus developed a syllogistic or system of deduction in which he made use of five types of basic arguments or argument forms called indemonstrable syllogisms, which played the role of axioms, and four inference rules, called \"themata\" by means of which complex syllogisms could be reduced to these axioms. The forms of the five indemonstrables were:\n\nOf the four inference rules, only two survived. One, the so-called first \"thema\", was a rule of antilogism. The other, the third \"thema\", was a cut rule by which chain syllogisms could be reduced to simple syllogisms. The purpose of Stoic syllogistic was not merely to create a formal system. It was also understood as the study of the operations of reason, the divine reason (\"logos\") which governs the universe, of which human beings are a part. The goal was to find valid rules of inference and forms of proof to help people find their way in life.\n\nChrysippus analyzed speech and the handling of names and terms. He also devoted much effort in refuting fallacies and paradoxes. According to Diogenes Laërtius, Chrysippus wrote twelve works in 23 books on the Liar paradox; seven works in 17 books on amphiboly; and another nine works in 26 books on other conundrums. In all, 28 works or 66 books were given over to puzzles or paradoxes. \nChrysippus is the first Stoic for whom the third of the four Stoic categories, i.e. the category \"somehow disposed\" is attested. In the surviving evidence, Chrysippus frequently makes use of the categories of \"substance\" and \"quality\", but makes little use of the other two Stoic categories (\"somehow disposed\" and \"somehow disposed in relation to something\"). It is not clear whether the categories had any special significance for Chrysippus, and a clear doctrine of categories may be the work of later Stoics.\n\nChrysippus came to be renowned as one of the foremost logicians of ancient Greece. When Clement of Alexandria wanted to mention one who was master among logicians, as Homer was master among poets, it was Chrysippus, not Aristotle, he chose. Diogenes Laërtius wrote: \"If the gods use dialectic, they would use none other than that of Chrysippus.\" The logical work by Chrysippus came to be neglected and forgotten. Aristotle's logic prevailed, partly because it was seen as more practical, and partly because it was taken up by the Neoplatonists. As recently as the 19th century, Stoic logic was treated with contempt, a barren formulaic system, which was merely clothing the logic of Aristotle with new terminology. It was not until the 20th century, with the advances in logic, and the modern propositional calculus, that it became clear that Stoic logic constituted a significant achievement.\n\nFor the Stoics, truth is distinguished from error by the sage who possesses right reason. Chrysippus's theory of knowledge was empirical. The senses transmit messages from the external world, and their reports are controlled not by referring them to innate ideas, but by comparing them to previous reports stored in the mind. Zeno had defined impressions of sense as \"an impression in the soul\" and this was interpreted literally by Cleanthes, who compared the impression on the soul to the impression made by a seal on wax. Chrysippus preferred to regard it as an alteration or change in the soul; that is, the soul receives a modification from every external object that acts upon it, just as the air receives countless strokes when many people are speaking at once.\n\nIn the receipt of an impression, the soul is purely passive and the impression reveals not only its own existence, but that also of its cause—just as light displays itself and the elements that are in it. The power to name the object resides in the understanding. First must come the impression, and the understanding—having the power of utterance—expresses in speech the affection it receives from the object. True presentations are distinguished from those that are false by the use of memory, classification and comparison. If the sense organ and the mind are healthy—and provided that an external object can be really seen or heard—the presentation, due to its clearness and distinctness, has the power to extort the assent that always lies in our power, to give or to withhold. In a context in which people are understood to be rational beings, reason is developed out of these notions.\n\nChrysippus insisted on the organic unity of the universe, as well as the correlation and mutual interdependence of all of its parts. He said, \"the universe is its own soul and its own controlling mind.\" Following Zeno, Chrysippus determined fiery breath or aether to be the primitive substance of the universe. Objects are made up of inert formless matter and an informing soul, \"pneuma\", provides form to the undifferentiated matter. The \"pneuma\" pervades all of substance and maintains the unity of the universe and constitutes the soul of the human being.\n\nThe classical elements change into one another by a process of condensation and rarefaction. Fire first becomes solidified into air; then air into water; and lastly, water into earth. The process of dissolution takes place in the reverse order: earth being rarefied into water, water into air and air into fire.\n\nThe human soul was divided by Chrysippus into eight faculties: the five senses, the power of reproduction, the power of speech, and the \"ruling part\" that is located in the chest rather than the head. Individual souls are perishable; but, according to the view originated by Chrysippus, the souls of wise people survive longer after their death. No individual soul can, however, survive beyond the periodic conflagration, when the universe is renewed.\n\nFor Chrysippus, all things happen according to fate: what seems to be accidental has always some hidden cause. The unity of the world consists in the chain-like dependence of cause upon cause. Nothing can take place without a sufficient cause. According to Chrysippus, every proposition is either true or false, and this must apply to future events as well:\nIf any motion exists without a cause, then not every proposition will be either true or false. For that which has not efficient causes is neither true nor false. But every proposition is either true or false. Therefore, there is no motion without a cause. And if this is so, then all effects owe their existence to prior causes. And if this is so, all things happen by fate. It follows therefore that whatever happens, happens by fate.\nThe Stoic view of fate is entirely based on a view of the universe as a whole. Individual things and persons only come into consideration as dependent parts of this whole. Everything is, in every respect, determined by this relation, and is consequently subject to the general order of the world.\n\nIf his opponents objected that, if everything is determined by destiny, there is no individual responsibility, since what has been once foreordained must happen, come what may, Chrysippus replied that there is a distinction to be made between simple and complex predestination. Becoming ill may be fated whatever happens but, if a person's recovery is linked to consulting a doctor, then consulting the doctor is fated to occur together with that person's recovery, and this becomes a complex fact. All human actions – in fact, our destiny – are decided by our relation to things, or as Chrysippus put it, events are \"co-fated\" to occur:\nThe non-destruction of one's coat, he says, is not fated simply, but co-fated with its being taken care of, and someone's being saved from his enemies is co-fated with his fleeing those enemies; and having children is co-fated with being willing to lie with a woman. ... For many things cannot occur without our being willing and indeed contributing a most strenuous eagerness and zeal for these things, since, he says, it was fated for these things to occur in conjunction with this personal effort. ... But it will be in our power, he says, with what is in our power being included in fate.\nThus our actions are predetermined, and are causally related to the overarching network of fate, but nevertheless the moral responsibility of how we respond to impressions remains our own. The one all-determining power is active everywhere, working in each particular being according to its nature, whether in rational or irrational creatures or in inorganic objects. Every action is brought about by the co-operation of causes depending on the nature of things and the character of the agent. Our actions would only be involuntary if they were produced by external causes alone, without any co-operation, on the part of our wills, with external causes. Virtue and vice are set down as things in our power, for which, consequently, we are responsible. Moral responsibility depends only on freedom of the will, and what emanates from our will is our own, no matter whether it is possible for us to act differently or not. This rather subtle position which attempts to reconcile determinism with human responsibility is known as soft-determinism, or compatibilism.\n\nChrysippus also argued for the existence of fate based on divination, which he thought there was good evidence for. It would not be possible for diviners to predict the future if the future itself was accidental. Omens and portents, he believed, are the natural symptoms of certain occurrences. There must be countless indications of the course of providence, for the most part unobserved, the meaning of only a few having become known to humanity. To those who argued that divination was superfluous as all events are foreordained, he replied that both divination and our behaviour under the warnings which it affords are included in the chain of causation.\n\nThe Stoics believed that the universe is God, and Chrysippus affirmed that \"the universe itself is God and the universal outpouring of its soul.\" It is the guiding principle of the universe, \"operating in mind and reason, together with the common nature of things and the totality which embraces all existence.\" Based on these beliefs, physicist and philosopher Max Bernhard Weinstein identified Chrysippus as a Pandeist.\n\nChrysippus sought to prove the existence of God, making use of a teleological argument:\nIf there is anything that humanity cannot produce, the being who produces it is better than humanity. But humanity cannot produce the things that are in the universe – the heavenly bodies, etc. The being, therefore, who produces them is superior to humanity. But who is there that is superior to humanity, except God? Therefore, God exists.\nChrysippus spoke of God and gods interchangeably. He interpreted the gods of traditional Greek religion by viewing them as different aspects of the one reality. Cicero tells us that \"he further maintained that aether is that which people call Zeus, and that the air which permeates the seas is Poseidon, and that the earth is what is known by the name of Demeter, and he treated in similar style the names of the other gods.\" In addition, the universe exists for the benefit of the universal god:\nWe should infer in the case of a beautiful dwelling-place that it was built for its owners and not for mice; we ought, therefore, in the same way to regard the universe as the dwelling-place of the gods.\n\nIn response to the question of how evil could exist in a good universe, Chrysippus replied \"evil cannot be removed, nor is it well that it should be removed.\" Firstly, he argued, following Plato, that it was impossible for good to exist without evil, for justice could not be known without injustice, courage without cowardice, temperance without intemperance or wisdom without foolishness. Secondly, apparent evils exist as a consequent of nature's goodness, thus it was necessary for the human skull to be made from small and thin bones for reasons of utility, but this superior utility meant that the skull is vulnerable to blows. Thirdly, evils are distributed according to the rational will of Zeus, either to punish the wicked or because they are important to the world-order as a whole. Thus evil is good under disguise, and is ultimately conducive to the best. Chrysippus compared evil to the coarse jest in the comedy; for, just as the jest, though offensive in itself, improves the piece as a whole, \"so too you may criticize evil regarded by itself, yet allow that, taken with all else, it has its use.\"\n\nChrysippus regarded bodies, surfaces, lines, places, the void and time as all being infinitely divisible. He determined one of the principal features of the infinite set: since a man and a finger have an infinite number of parts as do the universe and a man, it cannot be said that a man has more parts than his finger, nor that the universe has more parts than a man.\n\nChrysippus also responded to a problem first posed by Democritus. If a cone is divided by a plane parallel to its base, are the surfaces of the segments equal or unequal? If they are equal, then the cone becomes a cylinder; if they are unequal, then the surface of the cone must be stepped. The reply of Chrysippus was that the surfaces are both equal and unequal. Chrysippus was, in effect, negating the law of excluded middle with respect to the equal and unequal, and thus he may have anticipated an important principle of modern infinitesimal calculus, namely, the limit and the process of convergence towards a limit.\n\nChrysippus was notable for claiming that \"one\" is a number. One was not always considered a number by the ancient Greeks since they viewed one as that by which things are measured. Aristotle in his \"Metaphysics\" wrote, \"... a measure is not the things measured, but the measure or the One is the beginning of number.\" Chrysippus asserted that one had \"magnitude one\" (), although this was not generally accepted by the Greeks, and Iamblichus wrote that \"magnitude one\" was a contradiction in terms.\n\nChrysippus taught that ethics depended on physics. In his \"Physical Theses\", he stated: \"for there is no other or more appropriate way of approaching the subject of good and evil on the virtues or happiness than from the nature of all things and the administration of the universe.\" The goal of life, said Chrysippus, is to live in accordance with one's experience of the actual course of nature. A person's individual nature is part of the nature of the whole universe, and thus life should be lived in accordance with one's own human nature as well as that of the universe. Human nature is ethical, and humanity is akin to the Divine, emanating from the primal fire or aether, which, though material, is the embodiment of reason; and people should conduct themselves accordingly. People have freedom, and this freedom consists in emancipation from irrational desires (lust, riches, position in life, domination, etc.) and in subjecting the will to reason. Chrysippus laid the greatest stress on the worth and dignity of the individual, and on the power of will.\n\nThe Stoics admitted between the good and the bad a third class of things – the indifferent (\"adiaphora\"). Of things morally indifferent, the best includes health, and riches, and honour, and the worst includes sickness and poverty. Chrysippus accepted that it was normal in ordinary usage to refer to the preferred indifferent things as \"good\", but the wise person, said Chrysippus, uses such things without requiring them. Practice and habit are necessary to render virtue perfect in the individual – in other words, there is such a thing as moral progress, and character has to be built up.\n\nThe Stoics sought to be free of the unruly emotions, which they regarded as being contrary to nature. The passions or emotions (\"pathe\") are the disturbing element in right judgment. Chrysippus wrote a whole book, \"On Passions\" (), concerning the therapy of the emotions. The passions are like diseases which depress and crush the soul, thus he sought to eradicate them (\"apatheia\"). Wrong judgements turn into passions when they gather an impetus of their own, just as, when one has started running, it is difficult to stop. One cannot hope to eradicate the emotions when one is in the heat of love or anger: this can only be done when one is calm. Therefore, one should prepare in advance, and deal with the emotions in the mind as if they were present. By applying reason to emotions such as greed, pride, or lust, one can understand the harm which they cause.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1072751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072751", "title": "Circumstellar habitable zone", "text": "Circumstellar habitable zone\n\nIn astronomy and astrobiology, the circumstellar habitable zone (CHZ), or simply the habitable zone, is the range of orbits around a star within which a planetary surface can support liquid water given sufficient atmospheric pressure. The bounds of the CHZ are based on Earth's position in the Solar System and the amount of radiant energy it receives from the Sun. Due to the importance of liquid water to Earth's biosphere, the nature of the CHZ and the objects within it may be instrumental in determining the scope and distribution of Earth-like extraterrestrial life and intelligence.\n\nThe habitable zone is also called the Goldilocks zone, a metaphor of the children's fairy tale of \"Goldilocks and the Three Bears\", in which a little girl chooses from sets of three items, ignoring the ones that are too extreme (large or small, hot or cold, etc.), and settling on the one in the middle, which is \"just right\".\n\nSince the concept was first presented in 1953, many stars have been confirmed to possess a CHZ planet, including some systems that consist of multiple CHZ planets. Most such planets, being super-Earths or gas giants, are more massive than Earth, because such planets are easier to detect. On November 4, 2013, astronomers reported, based on \"Kepler\" data, that there could be as many as 40 billion Earth-sized planets orbiting in the habitable zones of Sun-like stars and red dwarfs in the Milky Way. 11 billion of these may be orbiting Sun-like stars. Proxima Centauri b, located about 4.2 light-years (1.3 parsecs) from Earth in the constellation of Centaurus, is the nearest known exoplanet, and is orbiting in the habitable zone of its star. The CHZ is also of particular interest to the emerging field of habitability of natural satellites, because planetary-mass moons in the CHZ might outnumber planets.\n\nIn subsequent decades, the CHZ concept began to be challenged as a primary criterion for life, so the concept is still evolving. Since the discovery of evidence for extraterrestrial liquid water, substantial quantities of it are now thought to occur outside the circumstellar habitable zone. The concept of deep biospheres, like Earth's, that exist independently of stellar energy, are now generally accepted in astrobiology given the large amount of liquid water known to exist within in lithospheres and asthenospheres of the Solar System. Sustained by other energy sources, such as tidal heating or radioactive decay or pressurized by non-atmospheric means, liquid water may be found even on rogue planets, or their moons. Liquid water can also exist at a wider range of temperatures and pressures as a solution, for example with sodium chlorides in seawater on Earth, chlorides and sulphates on equatorial Mars, or ammoniates, due to its different colligative properties. In addition, other circumstellar zones, where non-water solvents favorable to hypothetical life based on alternative biochemistries could exist in liquid form at the surface, have been proposed.\n\nAn estimate of the range of distances from the Sun allowing the existence of liquid water appears in Newton's \"Principia\" (Book III, Section 1, corol. 4). The concept of a circumstellar habitable zone was first introduced in 1953 by Hubertus Strughold, who in his treatise \"The Green and the Red Planet: A Physiological Study of the Possibility of Life on Mars\", coined the term \"ecosphere\" and referred to various \"zones\" in which life could emerge. In the same year, Harlow Shapley wrote \"Liquid Water Belt\", which described the same theory in further scientific detail. Both works stressed the importance of liquid water to life. Su-Shu Huang, an American astrophysicist, first introduced the term \"habitable zone\" in 1959 to refer to the area around a star where liquid water could exist on a sufficiently large body, and was the first to introduce it in the context of planetary habitability and extraterrestrial life. A major early contributor to habitable zone theory, Huang argued in 1960 that circumstellar habitable zones, and by extension extraterrestrial life, would be uncommon in multiple star systems, given the gravitational instabilities of those systems.\n\nThe theory of habitable zones was further developed in 1964 by Stephen H. Dole in his book \"Habitable Planets for Man\", in which he discussed the concept of circumstellar habitable zone as well as various other determinants of planetary habitability, eventually guestimating the number of habitable planets in the Milky Way to be about 600 million. At the same time, science-fiction author Isaac Asimov introduced the concept of a circumstellar habitable zone to the general public through his various explorations of space colonization. The term \"Goldilocks zone\" emerged in the 1970s, referencing specifically a region around a star whose temperature is \"just right\" for water to be present in the liquid phase. In 1993, astronomer James Kasting introduced the term \"circumstellar habitable zone\" to refer more precisely to the region then (and still) known as the habitable zone. Kasting was the first to present a detailed model for the habitable zone for exoplanets.\n\nAn update to habitable zone theory came in 2000, when astronomers Peter Ward and Donald Brownlee introduced the idea of the \"galactic habitable zone\", which they later developed with Guillermo Gonzalez. The galactic habitable zone, defined as the region where life is most likely to emerge in a galaxy, encompasses those regions close enough to a galactic center that stars there are enriched with heavier elements, but not so close that star systems, planetary orbits, and the emergence of life would be frequently disrupted by the intense radiation and enormous gravitational forces commonly found at galactic centers.\n\nSubsequently, some astrobiologists propose that the concept be extended to other solvents, including dihydrogen, sulfuric acid, dinitrogen, formamide, and methane, among others, which would support hypothetical life forms that use an alternative biochemistry. In 2013, further developments in habitable zone theory were made with the proposal of a circum\"planetary\" habitable zone, also known as the \"habitable edge\", to encompass the region around a planet where the orbits of natural satellites would not be disrupted, and at the same time tidal heating from the planet would not cause liquid water to boil away.\n\nWhether a body is in the circumstellar habitable zone of its host star is dependent on the radius of the planet's orbit (for natural satellites, the host planet's orbit), the mass of the body itself, and the radiative flux of the host star. Given the large spread in the masses of planets within a circumstellar habitable zone, coupled with the discovery of super-Earth planets which can sustain thicker atmospheres and stronger magnetic fields than Earth, circumstellar habitable zones are now split into two separate regions—a \"conservative habitable zone\" in which lower-mass planets like Earth or Venus can remain habitable, complemented by a larger \"extended habitable zone\" in which super-Earth planets, with stronger greenhouse effects, can have the right temperature for liquid water to exist at the surface.\n\nThe inner edge of the HZ is the distance where a runaway greenhouse effect vaporizes the whole water reservoir and, as a second effect, induces the photodissociation of water vapor and the loss of hydrogen to space. The outer edge of the HZ is the distance from the star where adding more carbon dioxide to the atmosphere fails to keep the surface of the planet above the freezing point.\n\nEstimates for the habitable zone within the Solar System range from 0.38 to 10.0 astronomical units, though arriving at these estimates has been challenging for a variety of reasons. Numerous planetary mass objects orbit within, or close to, this range and as such receive sufficient sunlight to raise temperatures above the freezing point of water. However their atmospheric conditions vary substantially. The aphelion of Venus, for example, touches the inner edge of the zone and while atmospheric pressure at the surface is sufficient for liquid water, a strong greenhouse effect raises surface temperatures to at which water can only exist as vapour. The entire orbits of the Moon, Mars, and numerous asteroids also lie within various estimates of the habitable zone. Only at Mars' lowest elevations (less than 30% of the planet's surface) is atmospheric pressure and temperature sufficient for water to, if present, exist in liquid form for short periods. At Hellas Basin, for example, atmospheric pressures can reach 1,115 Pa and temperatures above zero Celsius (about the triple point for water) for 70 days in the Martian year. Despite indirect evidence in the form of seasonal flows on warm Martian slopes, no confirmation has been made of the presence of liquid water there. While other objects orbit partly within this zone, including comets, Ceres is the only one of planetary mass. A combination of low mass and an inability to mitigate evaporation and atmosphere loss against the solar wind make it impossible for these bodies to sustain liquid water on their surface. Despite this, studies are strongly suggestive of past liquid water on the surface Venus, Mars, Vesta and Ceres, suggesting a more common phenomena than previously thought. Since sustainable liquid water is thought to be essential to support complex life, most estimates, therefore, are inferred from the effect that a repositioned orbit would have on the habitability of Earth or Venus as their surface gravity allows sufficient atmosphere to be retained for several billion years.\n\nAccording to extended habitable zone theory, planetary mass objects with atmospheres capable of inducing sufficient radiative forcing could possess liquid water farther out from the Sun. Such objects could include those whose atmospheres contain a high component of greenhouse gas and terrestrial planets much more massive than Earth (super-Earth class planets), that have retained atmospheres with surface pressures of up to 100 kbar. There are no examples of such objects in the Solar System to study; not enough is known about the nature of atmospheres of these kinds of extrasolar objects, and the net temperature effect of such atmospheres including induced albedo, anti-greenhouse or other possible heat sources cannot be determined by their position in the habitable zone.\n\nFor reference, the average distance from the Sun of some major bodies within the various estimates of the habitable zone are: Mercury, 0.39 AU; Venus, 0.72 AU; Earth, 1.00 AU; Mars, 1.52 AU; Vesta, 2.36 AU; Ceres, 2.77 AU; Jupiter, 5.20 AU; Saturn, 9.58 AU.\n\nAstronomers use stellar flux and the inverse-square law to extrapolate circumstellar habitable zone models created for the Solar System to other stars. For example, although the Solar System has a circumstellar habitable zone centered at 1.34 AU from the Sun, a star with 0.25 times the luminosity of the Sun would have a habitable zone centered at formula_1, or 0.5, the distance from the star, corresponding to a distance of 0.67 AU. Various complicating factors, though, including the individual characteristics of stars themselves, mean that extrasolar extrapolation of the CHZ concept is more complex.\n\nSome scientists argue that the concept of a circumstellar habitable zone is actually limited to stars in certain types of systems or of certain spectral types. Binary systems, for example, have circumstellar habitable zones that differ from those of single-star planetary systems, in addition to the orbital stability concerns inherent with a three-body configuration. If the Solar System were such a binary system, the outer limits of the resulting circumstellar habitable zone could extend as far as 2.4 AU.\n\nWith regard to spectral types, Zoltán Balog proposes that O-type stars cannot form planets due to the photoevaporation caused by their strong ultraviolet emissions. Studying ultraviolet emissions, Andrea Buccino found that only 40% of stars studied (including the Sun) had overlapping liquid water and ultraviolet habitable zones. Stars smaller than the Sun, on the other hand, have distinct impediments to habitability. For example, Michael Hart proposed that only main-sequence stars of spectral class K0 or brighter could offer habitable zones, an idea which has evolved in modern times into the concept of a tidal locking radius for red dwarfs. Within this radius, which is coincidental with the red-dwarf habitable zone, it has been suggested that the volcanism caused by tidal heating could cause a \"tidal Venus\" planet with high temperatures and no hospitable environment to life.\n\nOthers maintain that circumstellar habitable zones are more common, and that it is indeed possible for water to exist on planets orbiting cooler stars. Climate modelling from 2013 supports the idea that red dwarf stars can support planets with relatively constant temperatures over their surfaces in spite of tidal locking. Astronomy professor argues that even white dwarfs may support a relatively brief habitable zone through planetary migration. At the same time, others have written in similar support of semi-stable, temporary habitable zones around brown dwarfs. Also, a habitable zone in the outer parts of stellar systems may exist during the pre-main-sequence phase of stellar evolution, especially around M-dwarfs, potentially lasting for billion-year timescales.\n\nCircumstellar habitable zones change over time with stellar evolution. For example, hot O-type stars, which may remain on the main sequence for fewer than 10 million years, would have rapidly changing habitable zones not conducive to the development of life. Red dwarf stars, on the other hand, which can live for hundreds of billions of years on the main sequence, would have planets with ample time for life to develop and evolve. Even while stars are on the main sequence, though, their energy output steadily increases, pushing their habitable zones farther out; our Sun, for example, was 75% as bright in the Archaean as it is now, and in the future, continued increases in energy output will put Earth outside the Sun's habitable zone, even before it reaches the red giant phase. In order to deal with this increase in luminosity, the concept of a \"continuously habitable zone\" has been introduced. As the name suggests, the continuously habitable zone is a region around a star in which planetary-mass bodies can sustain liquid water for a given period of time. Like the general circumstellar habitable zone, the continuously habitable zone of a star is divided into a conservative and extended region.\n\nIn red dwarf systems, gigantic stellar flares which could double a star's brightness in minutes and huge starspots which can cover 20% of the star's surface area, have the potential to strip an otherwise habitable planet of its atmosphere and water. As with more massive stars, though, stellar evolution changes their nature and energy flux, so by about 1.2 billion years of age, red dwarfs generally become sufficiently constant to allow for the development of life.\n\nOnce a star has evolved sufficiently to become a red giant, its circumstellar habitable zone will change dramatically from its main-sequence size. For example, the Sun is expected to engulf the previously-habitable Earth as a red giant. However, once a red giant star reaches the horizontal branch, it achieves a new equilibrium and can sustain a new circumstellar habitable zone, which in the case of the Sun would range from 7 to 22 AU. At such stage, Saturn's moon Titan would likely be habitable in Earth's temperature sense. Given that this new equilibrium lasts for about 1 Gyr, and because life on Earth emerged by 0.7 Gyr from the formation of the Solar System at latest, life could conceivably develop on planetary mass objects in the habitable zone of red giants. However, around such a helium-burning star, important life processes like photosynthesis could only happen around planets where the atmosphere has carbon dioxide, as by the time a solar-mass star becomes a red giant, planetary-mass bodies would have already absorbed much of their free carbon dioxide. Moreover, as Ramirez and Kaltenegger (2016) showed, intense stellar winds would completely remove the atmospheres of such smaller planetary bodies, rendering them uninhabitable anyway. Thus, Titan would not be habitable even after the Sun becomes a red giant. Nevertheless, life need not originate during this stage of stellar evolution for it to be detected. Once the star becomes a red giant, and the habitable zone extends outward, the icy surface would melt, forming a temporary atmosphere that can be searched for signs of life that may have been thriving before the start of the red giant stage.\n\nA planet's atmospheric conditions influence its ability to retain heat, so that the location of the habitable zone is also specific to each type of planet: desert planets (also known as dry planets), with very little water, will have less water vapor in the atmosphere than Earth and so have a reduced greenhouse effect, meaning that a desert planet could maintain oases of water closer to its star than Earth is to the Sun. The lack of water also means there is less ice to reflect heat into space, so the outer edge of desert-planet habitable zones is further out.\n\nA planet cannot have a hydrosphere—a key ingredient for the formation of carbon-based life—unless there is a source for water within its stellar system. The origin of water on Earth is still not completely understood; possible sources include the result of impacts with icy bodies, outgassing, mineralization, leakage from hydrous minerals from the lithosphere, and photolysis. For an extrasolar system, an icy body from beyond the frost line could migrate into the habitable zone of its star, creating an ocean planet with seas hundreds of kilometers deep such as GJ 1214 b or Kepler-22b may be.\n\nMaintenance of liquid surface water also requires a sufficiently thick atmosphere. Possible origins of terrestrial atmospheres are currently theorised to outgassing, impact degassing and ingassing. Atmospheres are thought to be maintained through similar processes along with biogeochemical cycles and the mitigation of atmospheric escape. In a 2013 study led by Italian astronomer Giovanni Vladilo, it was shown that the size of the circumstellar habitable zone increased with greater atmospheric pressure. Below an atmospheric pressure of about 15 millibars, it was found that habitability could not be maintained because even a small shift in pressure or temperature could render water unable to form as a liquid.\n\nAlthough traditional definitions of the habitable zone assume that carbon dioxide and water vapor are the most important greenhouse gases (as they are on the Earth), a study led by Ramses Ramirez and co-author Lisa Kaltenegger has shown that the size of the habitable zone is greatly increased if prodigious volcanic outgassing of hydrogen is also included along with the carbon dioxide and water vapor. The outer edge in our solar system would extend out as far as 2.4 AU in that case. Similar increases in the size of the habitable zone were computed for other stellar systems. An earlier study by Ray Pierrehumbert and Eric Gaidos had eliminated the CO-HO concept entirely, arguing that young planets could accrete many tens to hundreds of bars of hydrogen from the protoplanetary disc, providing enough of a greenhouse effect to extend the solar system outer edge to 10 AU. In this case, though, the hydrogen is not continuously replenished by volcanism, and is lost within millions to tens-of-millions of years.\n\nIn the case of planets orbiting in the CHZs of red dwarf stars, the extremely close distances to the stars cause tidal locking, an important factor in habitability. For a tidally locked planet, the sidereal day is as long as the orbital period, causing one side to permanently face the host star and the other side to face away. In the past, such tidal locking was thought to cause extreme heat on the star-facing side and bitter cold on the opposite side, making many red dwarf planets uninhabitable; however, three-dimensional climate models in 2013, showed that the side of a red dwarf planet facing the host star could have extensive cloud cover, increasing its bond albedo and reducing significantly temperature differences between the two sides.\n\nPlanetary-mass natural satellites have the potential to be habitable as well. However, these bodies need to fulfill additional parameters, in particular being located within the circumplanetary habitable zones of their host planets. More specifically, moons need to be far enough from their host giant planets that they are not transformed by tidal heating into volcanic worlds like Io, but must still remain within the Hill radius of the planet so that they are not pulled out of orbit of their host planet. Red dwarfs that have masses less than 20% of that of the Sun cannot have habitable moons around giant planets, as the small size of the circumstellar habitable zone would put a habitable moon so close to the star that it would be stripped from its host planet. In such a system, a moon close enough to its host planet to maintain its orbit would have tidal heating so intense as to eliminate any prospects of habitability.\n\nA planetary object that orbits a star with high orbital eccentricity may spend only some of its year in the CHZ and experience a large variation in temperature and atmospheric pressure. This would result in dramatic seasonal phase shifts where liquid water may exist only intermittently. It is possible that subsurface habitats could be insulated from such changes and that extremophiles on or near the surface might survive through adaptions such as hibernation (cryptobiosis) and/or hyperthermostability. Tardigrades, for example, can survive in a dehydrated state temperatures between and . Life on a planetary object orbiting outside CHZ might hibernate on the cold side as the planet approaches the apastron where the planet is coolest and become active on approach to the periastron when the planet is sufficiently warm.\n\nAmong exoplanets, a review in 2015 came to the conclusion that Kepler-62f, Kepler-186f and Kepler-442b were likely the best candidates for being potentially habitable. These are at a distance of 1200, 490 and 1,120 light-years away, respectively. Of these, Kepler-186f is similar in size to Earth with a 1.2-Earth-radius measure, and it is located towards the outer edge of the habitable zone around its red dwarf star. Among nearest terrestrial exoplanet candidates, Tau Ceti e is 11.9 light-years away. It is in the inner edge of its solar system's habitable zone, giving it an estimated average surface temperature of .\n\nStudies that have attempted to estimate the number of terrestrial planets within the circumstellar habitable zone tend to reflect the availability of scientific data. A 2013 study by Ravi Kumar Kopparapu put \"η\", the fraction of stars with planets in the CHZ, at 0.48, meaning that there may be roughly 95–180 billion habitable planets in the Milky Way. However, this is merely a statistical prediction; only a small fraction of these possible planets have yet been discovered.\n\nPrevious studies have been more conservative. In 2011, Seth Borenstein concluded that there are roughly 500 million habitable planets in the Milky Way. NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory 2011 study, based on observations from the \"Kepler\" mission, raised the number somewhat, estimating that about \"1.4 to 2.7 percent\" of all stars of spectral class F, G, and K are expected to have planets in their CHZs.\n\nThe first discoveries of extrasolar planets in the CHZ occurred just a few years after the first extrasolar planets were discovered. However these early detections were all gas giant sized, and many in eccentric orbits. Despite this, studies indicate the possibility of large, Earth-like moons around these planets supporting liquid water.\nOne of the first discoveries was 70 Virginis b, a gas giant initially nicknamed \"Goldilocks\" due to it being neither \"too hot\" nor \"too cold.\" Later study revealed temperatures analogous to Venus, ruling out any potential for liquid water. 16 Cygni Bb, also discovered in 1996, has an extremely eccentric orbit that spends only part of its time in the CHZ, such an orbit would causes extreme seasonal effects. In spite of this, simulations have suggested that a sufficiently large companion could support surface water year-round.\n\nGliese 876 b, discovered in 1998, and Gliese 876 c, discovered in 2001, are both gas giants discovered in the habitable zone around Gliese 876 that may also have large moons. Another gas giant, Upsilon Andromedae d was discovered in 1999 orbiting Upsilon Andromidae's habitable zone.\n\nAnnounced on April 4, 2001, HD 28185 b is a gas giant found to orbit entirely within its star's circumstellar habitable zone and has a low orbital eccentricity, comparable to that of Mars in the Solar System. Tidal interactions suggest it could harbor habitable Earth-mass satellites in orbit around it for many billions of years, though it is unclear whether such satellites could form in the first place.\n\nHD 69830 d, a gas giant with 17 times the mass of Earth, was found in 2006 orbiting within the circumstellar habitable zone of HD 69830, 41 light years away from Earth. The following year, 55 Cancri f was discovered within the CHZ of its host star 55 Cancri A. Hypothetical satellites with sufficient mass and composition are thought to be able to support liquid water at their surfaces.\n\nThough in theory such giant planets could possess moons, the technology did not exist to detect moons around them, and no extrasolar moons had been detected. Planets within the zone with the potential for solid surfaces were therefore of much greater interest.\n\nThe 2007 discovery of Gliese 581 c, the first super-Earth in the circumstellar habitable zone, created significant interest in the system by the scientific community, although the planet was later found to have extreme surface conditions that may resemble Venus. Gliese 581 d, another planet in the same system and thought to be a better candidate for habitability, was also announced in 2007. Its existence was later disconfirmed in 2014. Gliese 581 g, yet another planet thought to have been discovered in the circumstellar habitable zone of the system, was considered to be more habitable than both Gliese 581 c and d. However, its existence was also disconfirmed in 2014.\n\nDiscovered in August 2011, HD 85512 b was initially speculated to be habitable, but the new circumstellar habitable zone criteria devised by Kopparapu et al. in 2013 place the planet outside the circumstellar habitable zone.\n\nKepler-22 b, discovered in December 2011 by the \"Kepler\" space probe, is the first transiting exoplanet discovered around a Sun-like star. With a radius 2.4 times that of Earth, Kepler-22b has been predicted by some to be an ocean planet.\nGliese 667 Cc, discovered in 2011 but announced in 2012, is a super-Earth orbiting in the circumstellar habitable zone of Gliese 667 C.\n\nGliese 163 c, discovered in September 2012 in orbit around the red dwarf Gliese 163 is located 49 light years from Earth. The planet has 6.9 Earth masses and 1.8–2.4 Earth radii, and with its close orbit receives 40 percent more stellar radiation than Earth, leading to surface temperatures of about ° C. HD 40307 g, a candidate planet tentatively discovered in November 2012, is in the circumstellar habitable zone of HD 40307. In December 2012, Tau Ceti e and Tau Ceti f were found in the circumstellar habitable zone of Tau Ceti, a Sun-like star 12 light years away. Although more massive than Earth, they are among the least massive planets found to date orbiting in the habitable zone; however, Tau Ceti f, like HD 85512 b, did not fit the new circumstellar habitable zone criteria established by the 2013 Kopparapu study.\n\nRecent discoveries have uncovered planets that are thought to be similar in size or mass to Earth. While there is no universal definition of \"Earth-sized\", ranges are typically defined by mass. The lower range used in many definitions of the super-Earth class is 1.9 Earth masses; likewise, sub-Earths range up to the size of Venus (~0.815 Earth masses). An upper limit of 1.5 Earth radii is also considered, given that above the average planet density rapidly decreases with increasing radius, indicating these planets have a large fraction of volatiles by volume overlying a rocky core. A truly Earth-like planet, an Earth analog or \"Earth twin\", would need to meet many conditions beyond size and mass; such properties are not observable using current technology.\n\nA solar analog (or \"solar twin\") is a star that resembles the Sun. To date no solar twin with an exact match as that of the Sun has been found, however, there are some stars that are nearly identical to the Sun, and are such considered solar twins. An exact solar twin would be a G2V star with a 5,778 K temperature, be 4.6 billion years old, with the correct metallicity and a 0.1% solar luminosity variation. Stars with an age of 4.6 billion years are at the most stable state. Proper metallicity and size are also very important to low luminosity variation.\n\nUsing data collected by NASA's \"Kepler\" Space observatory and the W. M. Keck Observatory, scientists have estimated that 22% of solar-type stars in the Milky Way galaxy have Earth-sized planets in their habitable zone.\n\nOn 7 January 2013, astronomers from the \"Kepler\" team announced the discovery of Kepler-69c (formerly \"KOI-172.02\"), an Earth-size exoplanet candidate (1.7 times the radius of Earth) orbiting Kepler-69, a star similar to our Sun, in the CHZ and expected to offer habitable conditions. The discovery of two planets orbiting in the habitable zone of Kepler-62, by the Kepler team was announced on April 19, 2013. The planets, named Kepler-62e and Kepler-62f, are likely solid planets with sizes 1.6 and 1.4 times the radius of Earth, respectively.\n\nWith a radius estimated at 1.1 Earth, Kepler-186f, discovery announced in April 2014, is the closest yet size to Earth of an exoplanet confirmed by the transit method though its mass remains unknown and its parent star is not a Solar analog.\n\nKapteyn b, discovered in June 2014 is a possible rocky world of about 4.8 Earth masses and about 1.5 earth radii was found orbiting the habitable zone of the red subdwarf Kapteyn's Star, 12.8 light-years away.\n\nOn 6 January 2015, NASA announced the 1000th confirmed exoplanet discovered by the \"Kepler\" Space Telescope. Three of the newly confirmed exoplanets were found to orbit within habitable zones of their related stars: two of the three, Kepler-438b and Kepler-442b, are near-Earth-size and likely rocky; the third, Kepler-440b, is a super-Earth. Announced 16 January, K2-3d a planet of 1.5 Earth radii was found orbiting within the habitable zone of K2-3, receiving 1.4 times the intensity of visible light as Earth.\n\nKepler-452b, announced on 23 July 2015 is 50% bigger than Earth, likely rocky and takes approximately 385 Earth days to orbit the habitable zone of its G-class (solar analog) star Kepler-452.\n\nThe discovery of a system of three tidally-locked planets orbiting the habitable zone of an ultracool dwarf star, TRAPPIST-1, was announced in May 2016. The discovery is considered significant because it greatly increases the possibility of smaller, cooler, more numerous and closer stars possessing habitable planets.\n\nTwo potentially habitable planets, discovered by the K2 mission in July 2016 orbiting around the M dwarf K2-72 around 227 light year from the Sun: K2-72c and K2-72e are both of similar size to Earth and receive similar amounts of stellar radiation.\n\nAnnounced on the 20 April 2017, LHS 1140b is a super-dense super-Earth 39 light years away, 6.6 times Earth's mass and 1.4 times radius, its star 15% the mass of the Sun but with much less observable stellar flare activity than most M dwarfs. The planet is one of few observable by both transit and radial velocity that's mass is confirmed with an atmosphere may be studied.\n\nDiscovered by radial velocity in June 2017, with approximately 3 times the mass of Earth, Luyten b orbits within the habitable zone of Luyten's Star just 12.2 light years away.\n\nAt 11 light-years away, a second closest planet, Ross 128 b, was announced in November 2017 following a decade's radial velocity study of relatively \"quiet\" red dwarf star Ross 128. At 1.35 Earth's mass is it roughly Earth sized and likely rocky in composition.\n\nDiscovered in March 2018, K2-155d is about 1.64 time the radius of Earth, is likely rocky and orbits in the habitable zone of its red dwarf star 203 light years away.\n\nLiquid-water environments have been found to exist in the absence of atmospheric pressure, and at temperatures outside the CHZ temperature range. For example, Saturn's moons Titan and Enceladus and Jupiter's moons Europa and Ganymede, all of which are outside the habitable zone, may hold large volumes of liquid water in subsurface oceans.\n\nOutside the CHZ, tidal heating and radioactive decay are two possible heat sources that could contribute to the existence of liquid water. Abbot and Switzer (2011) put forward the possibility that subsurface water could exist on rogue planets as a result of radioactive decay-based heating and insulation by a thick surface layer of ice.\n\nWith some theorising that life on Earth may have actually originated in stable, subsurface habitats, it has been suggested that it may be common for wet subsurface extraterrestrial habitats such as these to 'teem with life'. Indeed, on Earth itself living organisms may be found more than 6 kilometres below the surface.\n\nAnother possibility is that outside the CHZ organisms may use alternative biochemistries that do not require water at all. Astrobiologist Christopher McKay, has suggested that methane () may be a solvent conducive to the development of \"cryolife\", with the Sun's \"methane habitable zone\" being centered on from the star. This distance is coincident with the location of Titan, whose lakes and rain of methane make it an ideal location to find McKay's proposed cryolife. In addition, testing of a number of organisms has found some are capable of surviving in extra-CHZ conditions.\n\nThe Rare Earth hypothesis argues that complex and intelligent life is uncommon and that the CHZ is one of many critical factors. According to Ward & Brownlee (2004) and others, not only is a CHZ orbit and surface water a primary requirement to sustain life but a requirement to support the secondary conditions required for multicellular life to emerge and evolve. The secondary habitability factors are both geological (the role of surface water in sustaining necessary plate tectonics) and biochemical (the role of radiant energy in supporting photosynthesis for necessary atmospheric oxygenation). But others, such as Ian Stewart and Jack Cohen in their 2002 book \"Evolving the Alien\" argue that complex intelligent life may arise outside the CHZ. Intelligent life outside the CHZ may have evolved in subsurface environments, from alternative biochemistries or even from nuclear reactions.\n\nOn Earth, several complex multicellular life forms (or eukaryotes) have been identified with the potential to survive conditions that might exist outside the conservative habitable zone. Geothermal energy sustains ancient circumvental ecosystems, supporting large complex life forms such as \"Riftia pachyptila\". Similar environments may be found in oceans pressurised beneath solid crusts, such as those of Europa and Enceladus, outside of the habitable zone. Numerous microorganisms have been tested in simulated conditions and in low Earth orbit, including eukaryotes. An animal example is the \"Milnesium tardigradum\", which can withstand extreme temperatures well above the boiling point of water and the cold vacuum of outer space. In addition, the plants \"Rhizocarpon geographicum\" and \"Xanthoria elegans\" have been found to survive in an environment where the atmospheric pressure is far too low for surface liquid water and where the radiant energy is also much lower than that which most plants require to photosynthesize. The fungi \"Cryomyces antarcticus\" and \"Cryomyces minteri\" are also able to survive and reproduce in Mars-like conditions.\n\nSpecies, including humans, known to possess animal cognition require large amounts of energy, and have adapted to specific conditions, including an abundance of atmospheric oxygen and the availability of large quantities of chemical energy synthesized from radiant energy. If humans are to colonize other planets, true Earth analogs in the CHZ are most likely to provide the closest natural habitat; this concept was the basis of Stephen H. Dole's 1964 study. With suitable temperature, gravity, atmospheric pressure and the presence of water, the necessity of spacesuits or space habitat analogues on the surface may be eliminated and complex Earth life can thrive.\n\nPlanets in the CHZ remain of paramount interest to researchers looking for intelligent life elsewhere in the universe. The Drake equation, sometimes used to estimate the number of intelligent civilizations in our galaxy, contains the factor or parameter , which is the average number of planetary-mass objects orbiting within the CHZ of each star. A low value lends support to the Rare Earth hypothesis, which posits that intelligent life is a rarity in the Universe, whereas a high value provides evidence for the Copernican mediocrity principle, the view that habitability—and therefore life—is common throughout the Universe. A 1971 NASA report by Drake and Bernard Oliver proposed the \"water hole\", based on the spectral absorption lines of the hydrogen and hydroxyl components of water, as a good, obvious band for communication with extraterrestrial intelligence that has since been widely adopted by astronomers involved in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence. According to Jill Tarter, Margaret Turnbull and many others, CHZ candidates are the priority targets to narrow waterhole searches and the Allen Telescope Array now extends Project Phoenix to such candidates.\n\nBecause the CHZ is considered the most likely habitat for intelligent life, METI efforts have also been focused on systems likely to have planets there. The 2001 Teen Age Message and the 2003 Cosmic Call 2, for example, were sent to the 47 Ursae Majoris system, known to contain three Jupiter-mass planets and possibly with a terrestrial planet in the CHZ. The Teen Age Message was also directed to the 55 Cancri system, which has a gas giant in its CHZ. A Message from Earth in 2008, and Hello From Earth in 2009, were directed to the Gliese 581 system, containing three planets in the CHZ—Gliese 581 c, d, and the unconfirmed g.\n\n"}
{"id": "10280220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10280220", "title": "Civil resistance", "text": "Civil resistance\n\nCivil resistance is political action that relies on the use of nonviolent resistance by civil groups to challenge a particular power, force, policy or regime. Civil resistance operates through appeals to the adversary, pressure and coercion: it can involve systematic attempts to undermine the adversary's sources of power, both domestic and international. Forms of action have included demonstrations, vigils and petitions; strikes, go-slows, boycotts and emigration movements; and sit-ins, occupations, and the creation of parallel institutions of government. Civil resistance movements' motivations for avoiding violence are generally related to context, including a society's values and its experience of war and violence, rather than to any absolute ethical principle. Cases of civil resistance can be found throughout history and in many modern struggles, against both tyrannical rulers and democratically elected governments. The phenomenon of civil resistance is often associated with the advancement of democracy.\n\nCivil resistance is a long-standing and widespread phenomenon in human history. Several works on civil resistance adopt a historical approach to the analysis of the subject. Cases of civil resistance, both successful and unsuccessful, include:\n\n\nNumerous other campaigns, both successful and unsuccessful, could be included in a longer listing. In 1967 Gene Sharp produced a list of 84 cases. He followed this with further surveys. In 2013 Maciej Bartkowski authored a long list of cases in the past 200 years, arranged alphabetically by country.\n\nIt is not easy to devise a method of proving the relative success of different methods of struggle. Often there are problems in identifying a given campaign as successful or otherwise. In 2008 Maria J. Stephan and Erica Chenoweth produced a widely-noted article on \"Why Civil Resistance Works\", the most thorough and detailed analysis (to that date) of the rate of success of civil resistance campaigns, as compared to violent resistance campaigns. After looking at over 300 cases of both types of campaign, from 1900 to 2006, they concluded that \"nonviolent resistance methods are likely to be more successful than violent methods in achieving strategic objectives\". Their article (later developed into a book) noted particularly that \"resistance campaigns that compel loyalty shifts among security forces and civilian bureaucrats are likely to succeed\".\n\nOn the other hand, the evidence of several of the 2011 uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa appears to provide contrasting pathways by which this logic may fail to materialise, with splits in the armed forces contributing towards civil war in Libya and Syria, and a shift in armed forces loyalty in Egypt failing to contribute towards enduring democratic reform. Criticisms of the central thesis of the book on \"Why Civil Resistance Works\" have included: \n\nSome leaders of civil resistance struggles have urged the use of non-violent methods for primarily ethical reasons, while others have emphasized practical considerations. Some have indicated that both of these types of factor have to be taken into account – and that they necessarily overlap.\n\nIn his chapter on \"Pilgrimage to Nonviolence\" Martin Luther King gave a notably multi-faceted account of the various considerations, experiences and influences that constituted his \"intellectual odyssey to nonviolence\". By 1954 this had led to the intellectual conviction that \"nonviolent resistance was one of the most potent weapons available to oppressed people in their quest for social justice.\"\n\nSome have opted for civil resistance when they were in opposition to the government, but then have later, when in government, adopted or accepted very different policies and methods of action. For example, in one of her BBC Reith Lectures, first broadcast in July 2011, Aung San Suu Kyi, the pro-democracy campaigner in Myanmar (formerly Burma), stated: \"Gandhi's teachings on non-violent civil resistance and the way in which he had put his theories into practice have become part of the working manual of those who would change authoritarian administrations through peaceful means. I was attracted to the way of non-violence, but not on moral grounds, as some believe. Only on practical political grounds.\" Subsequently, as State Counsellor of Myanmar from 2016 onwards, she incurred much criticism, especially in connection with the failure to prevent, and to condemn, the killings and expulsions of the Rohingya people in Rakhine State.\n\nThe experience of civil resistance suggests that it can at least partially replace other forms of power. Some have seen civil resistance as offering, potentially, a complete alternative to power politics. The core vision is of non-violent methods replacing armed force in many or all of its forms.\n\nSeveral writers, while sharing the vision of civil resistance as progressively overcoming the use of force, have warned against a narrowly instrumental view of non-violent action. For example, Joan V. Bondurant, a specialist on the Gandhian philosophy of conflict, indicated concern about \"the symbolic violence of those who engage in conflict with techniques which they, at least, perceive to be nonviolent.\" She saw Gandhian satyagraha as a form of \"creative conflict\" and as \"contrasted both to violence and to methods not violent or just short of violence\".\n\nIt is generally difficult in practice to separate out entirely the use of civil resistance and power-political considerations of various kinds. One frequently-encountered aspect of this problem is that regimes facing opposition taking the form of civil resistance often launch verbal attacks on the opposition in terms designed to suggest that civil resistance is simply a front for more sinister forces. It has sometimes been attacked as being planned and directed from abroad, and as intimately connected to terrorism, imperialism, communism etc. A classic case was the Soviet accusation that the 1968 Prague Spring, and the civil resistance after the Soviet-led invasion of August 1968, were the result of Western machinations. Similarly, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, in March 2011, accused \"enemies\" of using \"very sophisticated tools\" to undermine Syria's stability; and President Vladimir Putin of Russia, in speeches in 2014, described events in Ukraine and the Arab countries as foreign-influenced. Such accusations of sinister power-political involvement are often presented without convincing evidence.\n\nThere can be some more plausible connections between civil resistance and other forms of power. Although civil resistance can sometimes be a substitute for other forms of power, it can also operate in conjunction with them. Such conjunction is never problem-free. Michael Randle has identified a core difficulty regarding strategies that seek to combine the use of violent and non-violent methods in the same campaign: \"The obvious problem about employing a mixed strategy \"in the course of an actual struggle\" is that the dynamics of military and civil resistance are at some levels diametrically opposed to each other.\" However, the connections between civil resistance and other forms of power are not limited to the idea of a \"mixed strategy\". They can assume many forms. Eight ways in which civil resistance can in practice relate to other forms of power are identified here, with examples in each case:\n\nThe promise of civil resistance as a means of opposing oppressive rule has led to many proposals that countries might rely, in whole or in part, on civil resistance as a means of defence against external attack (for example, invasion) and internal usurpation (for example, coup d'état). Preparations for such resistance are sometimes seen as potentially helping to deter such threats in the first place. Various terms have been used to describe either the policy of relying on such non-military action by a society or social group, or the general phenomenon of sustained country-wide campaigns against outside attack or dictatorial rule. These terms - all near-synonyms - include \"defence by civil resistance\", \"non-violent defence\", \"civilian defence\", \"civilian-based defence\", and \"social defence\". For further information and references to some relevant literature, see social defence.\n\nThe term is not new. Gandhi used it in many of his writings. In 1935 he wrote: \"... I found that even civil disobedience failed to convey the full meaning of the struggle. I therefore adopted the phrase civil resistance.\" It is a near-synonym for nonviolent resistance, civil disobedience, people power and satyagraha. While each of these terms has its uses and connotations, \"civil resistance\" is one appropriate term to use in cases where the resistance has a civic quality, relating to a society as a whole; where the action involved is not necessarily disobedience, but instead involves supporting the norms of a society against usurpers; where the decision not to use violent methods is not based on a general philosophy of nonviolence, but on a wide range of prudential, ethical and legal considerations; and where the technical and communications infrastructure of modern civil societies provides a means of organizing resistance. Because of such considerations, the term has been used in this century in many analyses in academic journals.\n\nWhat exactly are the advantages of the term \"civil resistance\", as distinct from its near-synonyms \"non-violent action\" and \"non-violent resistance\"? All these terms have merits, and refer to largely the same phenomena. Indeed, there is a long history, in many languages, of using a wide variety of terms to describe these phenomena. The term \"civil resistance\" has been used increasingly for two main reasons:\n\nThere have been concerns that the term \"civil resistance\" might on occasion be misused, or at least stretched in a highly controversial way, to encompass acts of violence. Thus, arising from experience within the anti-globalization movement, one participant-observer has seen \"new forms of civil resistance\" as being associated with a problematic departure from a previously more widely shared commitment to maintaining non-violent discipline. Because of these concerns, those who have used the term \"civil resistance\" have tended to emphasise its non-violent character, and to use it in addition to – and not in substitution of – such terms as \"non-violent resistance\".\n\n\n\nOther works related to the topic\n\n"}
{"id": "1290423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1290423", "title": "Collingridge dilemma", "text": "Collingridge dilemma\n\nThe Collingridge dilemma is a methodological quandary in which efforts to influence or control the further development of technology face a double-bind problem:\nThe idea was coined by David Collingridge, The University of Aston, Technology Policy Unit, in his 1980 book \"The Social Control of Technology\". The dilemma is a basic point of reference in technology assessment debates.\n\nIn \"This Explains Everything,\" edited by John Brockman, technology critic Evgeny Morozov explains Collingridge's idea by quoting Collingridge himself: \"When change is easy, the need for it cannot be foreseen; when the need for change is apparent, change has become expensive, difficult, and time-consuming.\" \n\nIn \"The Pacing Problem, the Collingridge Dilemma & Technological Determinism\" by Adam Thierer, a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, the Collingridge dilemma is related to the \"pacing problem\" in technology regulation. The \"pacing problem\" refers to the notion that technological innovation is increasingly outpacing the ability of laws and regulations to keep up, first explained in Larry Downes' 2009 book \"The Laws of Disruption\", in which he famously states that \"technology changes exponentially, but social, economic, and legal systems change incrementally\". In Thierer's essay, he tries to correlate these two concepts by saying that \"the 'Collingridge dilemma' is simply a restatement of the pacing problem but with greater stress on the social drivers behind the pacing problem and an implicit solution to 'the problem' in the form of preemptive control of new technologies while they are still young and more manageable.\"\n\nA widely-adopted solution to Collingridge dilemma is the \"Precautionary Principle\", the belief that new innovations should not be embraced \"until their developers can prove that they will not cause any harm to individuals, groups, specific entities, cultural norms, or various existing laws, norms, or traditions\". If they fail to do so, this innovation should be \"prohibited, curtailed, modified, junked, or ignored\". This approach received criticisms from technology critics like Kevin Kelly who believe the contour of such principle is ill-defined and such principle is biased against anything new because it drastically elevates threshold for anything innovative. According to American philosopher Max More, the Precautionary Principle \"is very good for one thing—stopping technological progress...not because it leads in bad directions, but because it leads in no direction at all.\"\n"}
{"id": "385343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385343", "title": "Daws Butler", "text": "Daws Butler\n\nCharles Dawson Butler (November 16, 1916 – May 18, 1988) was an American voice actor. He worked mostly for the Hanna-Barbera animation production company where he originated the voices of many familiar characters, including Loopy De Loop, Wally Gator, Yogi Bear, Hokey Wolf, Elroy Jetson, Quick Draw McGraw, Snagglepuss, Spike the Bulldog, and Huckleberry Hound.\n\nButler was born on November 16, 1916 in Toledo, Ohio, the only child of Charles Allen Butler and Ruth Butler. The family later moved from Ohio to Oak Park, Illinois, where Butler got interested in impersonating people.\n\nIn 1935, the future voice master started as an impressionist, entering multiple amateur contests and winning most of them. He had entered them, not with the intention of showing his talent, but as a personal challenge to overcome his shyness, with success. Nonetheless, Butler won professional engagements at vaudeville theaters.\n\nLater, he teamed up with fellow performers Jack Lavin and Willard Ovitz to form the comedy trio The Three Short Waves. The team played in theaters, on radio, and in nightclubs, generating positive reviews from regional critics and audiences. They dissolved their act in 1941, when Daws Butler joined the U.S. Navy as America entered World War II. Some time after, he met his wife Myrtis during a wartime function near Washington, D.C.\n\nHis first voice work for an animated character came in 1948 in the animated short \"Short Snorts on Sports\", which was produced by Screen Gems. That same year at MGM, Tex Avery hired Butler to provide the voice of a British wolf on \"Little Rural Riding Hood\" and also to narrate several of his cartoons.\n\nThroughout the late 1940s and mid-1950s, he had roles in many Avery-directed cartoons; the Fox in \"Out-Foxed\", the narrator in \"The Cuckoo Clock\", the Cobbler in \"The Peachy Cobbler\", Mr. Theeves in \"Droopy's \"Double Trouble\"\", Mysto the Magician in \"Magical Maestro\", John the Cab and John the B-29 Bomber in \"One Cab's Family\" and \"Little Johnny Jet\", and Maxie in \"The Legend of Rockabye Point\".\n\nStarting with \"The Three Little Pups\", Butler provided the voice for a nameless wolf that spoke in a Southern accent and whistled all the time (the tune was Henry C. Work's \"Kingdom Coming\"). This character also appeared in \"Sheep Wrecked\", \"Billy Boy\" and many more cartoons. While at MGM, Avery wanted Butler to try to do the voice of Droopy, at a time when Bill Thompson had been unavailable due to radio engagements. Instead, Butler recommended Don Messick, another actor and Butler's lifelong friend, who could imitate Thompson. Thus, Messick voiced Droopy in several shorts.\n\nIn 1949, Butler landed a role in a televised puppet show created by former Warner Bros. cartoon director Bob Clampett called \"Time for Beany\". Butler was teamed with Stan Freberg, and together they did all the voices of the puppets. Butler voiced Beany Boy and Captain Huffenpuff. Freberg voiced Cecil and Dishonest John. An entire stable of recurring characters were seen. The show's writers were Charles Shows and Lloyd Turner, whose dependably funny dialog was still always at the mercy of Butler's and Freberg's ad libs. \"Time for Beany\" ran from 1949-54, and won several Emmy Awards.\n\nButler briefly turned his attention to writing and voicing several TV commercials. In the 1950s, Stan Freberg asked him to help him write comedy skits for his Capitol Records albums. Their first collaboration, \"St. George and the Dragonet\" (based on \"Dragnet\"), was the first comedy record to sell over one million copies. Freberg was more of a satirist who did song parodies, but the bulk of his dialogue routines were co-written by and co-starred Butler.\n\nButler teamed again with Freberg and actress June Foray in a CBS radio series, \"The Stan Freberg Show\", which ran from July to October 1957 as a summer replacement for Jack Benny's program. Freberg's box-set, \"Tip of the Freberg\" (Rhino Entertainment, 1999) chronicles every aspect of Freberg's career except the cartoon voice-over work, and it showcases his career with Daws Butler. In \"Mr. Magoo\", the UPA theatrical animated short series for Columbia Pictures, Butler played Magoo's nephew Waldo (also voiced by Jerry Hausner at various times).\n\nButler provided the voices of many nameless Walter Lantz characters for theatrical shorts later seen on the \"Woody Woodpecker\" program. His characters included the penguin Chilly Willy and his rival Smedley, a southern-speaking dog (the same voice used for Tex Avery's laid-back wolf character and for Hanna-Barbera's Huckleberry Hound).\n\nIn 1957, after MGM had closed their animation unit, producers William Hanna and Joseph Barbera quickly formed their own company, and Daws Butler and Don Messick were on hand to provide voices. The first, \"The Ruff and Reddy Show\", with Butler voicing Reddy, set the formula for the rest of the series of cartoons that the two helmed until the mid-1960s. He played the title roles in \"The Huckleberry Hound Show\", \"The Quick Draw McGraw Show\", and \"The Yogi Bear Show\", as well as a variety of other characters.\n\nThe characters with voices by Butler from 1957 to 1978 included:\n\n\nButler would voice most of these characters for decades, in both TV shows and in some commercials. The breakfast cereal mascot Cap'n Crunch became an icon of sorts on Saturday morning TV through many commercials produced by Jay Ward. Butler played Cap'n from the 1960s to the 1980s. He based the voice on that of character actor Charles Butterworth. In 1961, while Mel Blanc was recovering from a road accident, Daws Butler substituted for him to voice Barney Rubble in five episodes of \"The Flintstones\" (\"The Hit Songwriter\", \"Droop-Along Flintstone\", \"Fred Flintstone Woos Again\", \"The Rock Quarry Story\", \"The Little White Lie\").\n\nIn 1964, Butler was featured as Huckleberry Hound on a 45rpm record, \"Bingo, Ringo,\" a comedic story combining the Beatles' drummer Ringo Starr and Lorne Greene's hit record \"Ringo.\"\n\nIn \"Wacky Races\", Butler provided the voices for a number of the racers, Rock Slag, Big Gruesome, the Red Max, Sgt. Blast, Peter Perfect, and Rufus Ruffcut. He voiced a penguin and a turtle in the movie \"Mary Poppins\", his only known work for Disney. Along with Mel Blanc, Stan Freberg, Paul Frees and June Foray, Butler also provided voices for countless children's records featuring recreations of several successful Disney cartoons and films.\n\nButler based some of his voices on popular celebrities of the day. Yogi Bear began as an Art Carney impression; Butler had done a similar voice in several of Robert McKimson's films at Warner Brothers and Stan Freberg's comedy record \"The Honey-Earthers.\" However, Butler soon changed Yogi's voice, making it much deeper and more sing-songy, thus making it a more original voice.\n\nHokey Wolf began as an impression of Phil Silvers, and Snagglepuss as Bert Lahr. In fact, when Snagglepuss began appearing in commercials for Kellogg's Cocoa Krispies in 1961, Lahr threatened to sue Butler for \"stealing\" his voice. As part of the settlement, the disclaimer \"Snagglepuss voice by Daws Butler\" was required to appear on each commercial, making him the only voice actor ever to receive one in an animated TV commercial. Butler redesigned these voices, making them his own inventions. Huckleberry Hound was inspired many years earlier, in 1945, by a North Carolina neighbor of Daws' wife's family, and he had in fact been using that voice for a long time, for Avery's laid-back wolf and Lantz' Smedley.\n\nIn the 1970s, he was the voice of \"Hair Bear\" on \"Help!... It's the Hair Bear Bunch!\" and a few characters in minor cartoons such as \"C.B. Bears\". On \"Laff-a-Lympics\", Butler was virtually the entire \"Yogi Yahooey\" team. He also played the title character in \"The Funky Phantom\", as well as Louie and Pug on \"The Pink Panther Show\". In 1977, he guest starred as Captain Numo and his lackey Schultz on the \"What's New, Mr. Magoo?\" episode \"Secret Agent Magoo\".\n\nButler remained somewhat low-key in the 1970s and 1980s until a revival of \"The Jetsons\" and Hanna-Barbera's crossover series \"Yogi's Treasure Hunt\", both in 1985. Also in 1983, he voiced the title character, Wacky WallWalker in \"Deck the Halls with Wacky Walls\".\n\nIn 1975, Butler began an acting workshop which spawned such talents as Nancy Cartwright, Corey Burton, Joe Bevilacqua, Bill Farmer, Pat Parris, Tony Pope, Linda Gary, Bob Bergen, Mona Marshall, Sherry Lynn, Joey Camen, writer Earl Kress and many more.\n\nIn the year of his death, \"The Good, the Bad, and Huckleberry Hound\" was released, a tour-de-force featuring most of his classic early characters.\n\nDaws met and married Myrtis Martin in 1943 while he was in the United States Navy during World War II. They had four sons, David, Don, Paul and Charles, and remained married until his death in 1988.\n\nDaws Butler died from a heart attack on May 18, 1988. Many of his roles were assumed by Greg Burson, who had been personally trained by Butler until his death.\n\nDaws Butler trained many voice actors including Nancy Cartwright (the voice of Bart Simpson), Corey Burton (the voice of Dale in \"Chip 'n' Dale\"), Bill Farmer (the current voice of Goofy, Pluto, and Horace Horsecollar), Bob Bergen (voice of Porky Pig), Joe Bevilacqua (whom Butler personally taught how to do all of his characters), Greg Burson (voice of Yogi Bear and Bugs Bunny), Mona Marshall (voices in South Park), Sherry Lynn and Joey Camen. Butler's voice and scripts were a frequent part of Bevilacqua's now-defunct XM show. \n\nBevilacqua also wrote Butler's official biography, published by Bear Manor Media. A new book of cartoon scripts written by Daws Butler and Joe Bevilacqua, \"Uncle Dunkle and Donnie: Fractured Fables\", was scheduled for publication in the fall of 2009. A four-volume, 4½-hour audio set of \"Uncle Dunkle and Donnie\" was to be released simultaneously with Bevilacqua performing all 97 characters in 35 stories. Butler also trained Hal Rayle, who ultimately determined that his best-known character of Doyle Cleverlobe from \"Galaxy High School\" should sound like Elroy Jetson after he finished puberty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31545554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31545554", "title": "Eastminster (ship)", "text": "Eastminster (ship)\n\nEastminster was an iron full-rigged ship built in Port Glasgow, Scotland, in 1876. She operated as an emigrant vessel.\n\n\"Eastminster\" was last seen departing Maryborough, Queensland, Australia, after ignoring a warning from the harbor pilot, heading out to sea in a rising gale on 17 February 1888, bound for Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia. \"Eastminster\" was presumed lost during a tropical cyclone that passed through the area immediately afterward. Her wreckage was reported on a coral reef in the Capricorn and Bunker Group in the Coral Sea approximately 100 nautical miles (185 km) east of Rockhampton, Queensland.\n\n"}
{"id": "5198024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5198024", "title": "Efficient coding hypothesis", "text": "Efficient coding hypothesis\n\nThe efficient coding hypothesis was proposed by Horace Barlow in 1961 as a theoretical model of sensory coding in the brain. Within the brain, neurons often communicate with one another by sending electrical impulses referred to as action potentials or spikes. One goal of sensory neuroscience is to decipher the meaning of these spikes in order to understand how the brain represents and processes information about the outside world. Barlow hypothesized that the spikes in the sensory system formed a neural code for efficiently representing sensory information. By efficient Barlow meant that the code minimized the number of spikes needed to transmit a given signal. This is somewhat analogous to transmitting information across the internet, where different file formats can be used to transmit a given image. Different file formats require different number of bits for representing the same image at given distortion level, and some are better suited for representing certain classes of images than others. According to this model, the brain is thought to use a code which is suited for representing visual and audio information representative of an organism's natural environment.\n\nThe development of the Barlow's hypothesis was influenced by information theory introduced by Claude Shannon only a decade before. Information theory provides the mathematical framework for analyzing communication systems. It formally defines concepts such as information, channel capacity, and redundancy. Barlow's model treats the sensory pathway as a communication channel where neuronal spiking is an efficient code for representing sensory signals. The spiking code aims to maximize available channel capacity by minimizing the redundancy between representational units. H. Barlow was not the very first one to introduce the idea: it already appears in an 1954 article written by F. Attneave.\n\nA key prediction of the efficient coding hypothesis is that sensory processing in the brain should be adapted to natural stimuli. Neurons in the visual (or auditory) system should be optimized for coding images (or sounds) representative of those found in nature. Researchers have shown that filters optimized for coding natural images lead to filters which resemble the receptive fields of simple-cells in V1. In the auditory domain, optimizing a network for coding natural sounds leads to filters which resemble the impulse response of cochlear filters found in the inner ear.\n\nDue to constraints on the visual system such as the number of neurons and the metabolic energy required for \"neural activities\", the visual processing system must have an efficient strategy for transmitting as much information as possible. Information must be compressed as it travels from the retina back to the visual cortex. While the retinal receptors can receive information at 10^9 bit/s, the optic nerve, which is composed of 1 million ganglion cells transmitting at 1 bit/sec, only has a transmission capacity of 10^6 bit/s. Further reduction occurs that limits the overall transmission to 40 bit/s which results in inattentional blindness. Thus, the hypothesis states that neurons should encode information as efficiently as possible in order to maximize neural resources. For example, it has been shown that visual data can be compressed up to 20 fold without noticeable information loss.\n\nEvidence suggests that our visual processing system engages in bottom-up selection. For example, inattentional blindness suggests that there must be data deletion early on in the visual pathway. This bottom-up approach allows us to respond to unexpected and salient events more quickly and is often directed by attentional selection. This also gives our visual system the property of being goal-directed. Many have suggested that the visual system is able to work efficiently by breaking images down into distinct components. Additionally, it has been argued that the visual system takes advantage of redundancies in inputs in order to transmit as much information as possible while using the fewest resources.\n\nSimoncelli and Olshausen outline the three major concepts that are assumed to be involved in the development of systems neuroscience:\nOne assumption used in testing the Efficient Coding Hypothesis is that neurons must be evolutionarily and developmentally adapted to the natural signals in their environment. The idea is that perceptual systems will be the quickest when responding to \"environmental stimuli\". The visual system should cut out any redundancies in the sensory input.\n\nCentral to Barlow's hypothesis is information theory, which when applied to neuroscience, argues that an efficiently coding neural system \"should match the statistics of the signals they represent\". Therefore, it is important to be able to determine the statistics of the natural images that are producing these signals. Researchers have looked at various components of natural images including luminance contrast, color, and how images are registered over time. They can analyze the properties of natural scenes via digital cameras, spectrophotometers, and range finders.\n\nResearchers look at how luminance contrasts are spatially distributed in an image: the luminance contrasts are highly correlated the closer they are in measurable distance and less correlated the farther apart the pixels are. Independent component analysis (ICA) is an algorithm system that attempts to \"linearly transform given (sensory) inputs into independent outputs (synaptic currents) \". ICA eliminates the redundancy by decorrelating the pixels in a natural image. Thus the individual components that make up the natural image are rendered statistically independent. However, researchers have thought that ICA is limited because it assumes that the neural response is linear, and therefore insufficiently describes the complexity of natural images. They argue that, despite what is assumed under ICA, the components of the natural image have a \"higher-order structure\" that involves correlations among components. Instead, researchers have now developed temporal independent component analysis (TICA), which better represents the complex correlations that occur between components in a natural image. Additionally, a \"hierarchical covariance model\" developed by Karklin and Lewicki expands on sparse coding methods and can represent additional components of natural images such as \"object location, scale, and texture\".\n\nThe chromatic spectra as it comes from natural light, but also as it is reflected off of \"natural materials\" can be easily characterized with principal components analysis (PCA). Because the cones are absorbing a specific amount of photons from the natural image, researchers can use cone responses as a way of describing the natural image. Researchers have found that the three classes of cone receptors in the retina can accurately code natural images and that color is decorrelated already in the LGN. Time has also been modeled: natural images transform over time, and we can use these transformations to see how the visual input changes over time.\n\nIf neurons are encoding according to the efficient coding hypothesis then individual neurons must be expressing their full output capacity. Before testing this hypothesis it is necessary to define what is considered to be a neural response. Simoncelli and Olshausen suggest that an efficient neuron needs to be given a maximal response value so that we can measure if a neuron is efficiently meeting the maximum level. Secondly, a population of neurons must not be redundant in transmitting signals and must be statistically independent. If the efficient coding hypothesis is accurate, researchers should observe is that there is sparsity in the neuron responses: that is, only a few neurons at a time should fire for an input.\n\nOne approach is to design a model for early sensory processing based on the statistics of a natural image and then compare this predicted model to how real neurons actually respond to the natural image. \nThe second approach is to measure a neural system responding to a natural environment, and analyze the results to see if there are any statistical properties to this response.\n\n1. Predicted model approach\n\nIn one study by Doi et al. in 2012, the researchers created a predicted response model of the retinal ganglion cells that would be based on the statistics of the natural images used, while considering noise and biological constraints. They then compared the actual information transmission as observed in real retinal ganglion cells to this optimal model to determine the efficiency. They found that the information transmission in the retinal ganglion cells had an overall efficiency of about 80% and concluded that \"the functional connectivity between cones and retinal ganglion cells exhibits unique spatial structure...consistent with coding efficiency.\nA study by van Hateren and Ruderman in 1998 used ICA to analyze video-sequences and compared how a computer analyzed the independent components of the image to data for visual processing obtained from a cat in DeAngelis et al. 1993. The researchers described the independent components obtained from a video sequence as the \"basic building blocks of a signal\", with the independent component filter (ICF) measuring \"how strongly each building block is present\". They hypothesized that if simple cells are organized to pick out the \"underlying structure\" of images over time then cells should act like the independent component filters. They found that the ICFs determined by the computer were similar to the \"receptive fields\" that were observed in actual neurons.\n\n2. Analyzing actual neural system in response to natural images\n\nIn a report in \"Science\" from 2000, William E. Vinje and Jack Gallant outlined a series of experiments used to test elements of the efficient coding hypothesis, including a theory that the non-classical receptive field (nCRF) decorrelates projections from the primary visual cortex. To test this, they took recordings from the V1 neurons in awake macaques during \"free viewing of natural images and conditions\" that simulated natural vision conditions. The researchers hypothesized that the V1 uses sparse code, which is minimally redundant and \"metabolically more efficient\". They also hypothesized that interactions between the classical receptive field (CRF) and the nCRF produced this pattern of sparse coding during the viewing of these natural scenes. In order to test this, they created eye-scan paths and also extracted patches that ranged in size from 1-4 times the diameter of the CRF. They found that the sparseness of the coding increased with the size of the patch. Larger patches encompassed more of the nCRF—indicating that the interactions between these two regions created sparse code. Additionally as stimulus size increased, so did the sparseness. This suggests that the V1 uses sparse code when natural images span the entire visual field. The CRF was defined as the circular area surrounding the locations where stimuli evoked action potentials. They also tested to see if the stimulation of the nCRF increased the independence of the responses from the V1 neurons by randomly selecting pairs of neurons. They found that indeed, the neurons were more greatly decoupled upon stimulation of the nCRF. In conclusion, the experiments of Vinje and Gallant showed that the V1 uses sparse code by employing both the CRF and nCRF when viewing natural images, with the nCRF showing a definitive decorrelating effect on neurons which may increase their efficiency by increasing the amount of independent information they carry. They propose that the cells may represent the individual components of a given natural scene, which may contribute to pattern recognition\n\nAnother study done by Baddeley et al. had shown that firing-rate distributions of cat visual area V1 neurons and monkey inferotemporal (IT) neurons were exponential under naturalistic conditions, which implies optimal information transmission for a fixed average rate of firing. A subsequent study of monkey IT neurons found that only a minority were well described by an exponential firing distribution. De Polavieja later argued that this discrepancy was due to the fact that the exponential solution is correct only for the noise-free case, and showed that by taking noise into consideration, one could account for the observed results.\n\nA study by Dan, Attick, and Reid in 1996 used natural images to test the hypothesis that early on in the visual pathway, incoming visual signals will be decorrelated to optimize efficiency. This decorrelation can be observed as the '\"whitening\" of the temporal and spatial power spectra of the neuronal signals\". The researchers played natural image movies in front of cats and used a multielectrode array to record neural signals. This was achieved by refracting the eyes of the cats and then contact lenses being fitted into them. They found that in the LGN, the natural images were decorrelated and concluded, \"the early visual pathway has specifically adapted for efficient coding of natural visual information during evolution and/or development\".\n\nOne of the implications of the efficient coding hypothesis is that the neural coding depends upon the statistics of the sensory signals. These statistics are a function of not only the environment (e.g., the statistics of the natural environment), but also the organism's behavior (e.g., how it moves within that environment). However, perception and behavior are closely intertwined in the perception-action cycle. For example, the process of vision involves various kinds of eye movements. An extension to the efficient coding hypothesis called active efficient coding (AEC) extends efficient coding to active perception. It hypothesizes that biological agents optimize not only their neural coding, but also their behavior to contribute to an efficient sensory representation of the environment. Along these lines, models for the development of active binocular vision and active visual tracking have been proposed.\n\nResearchers should consider how the visual information is used: \nThe hypothesis does not explain how the information from a visual scene is used—which is the main purpose of the visual system. It seems necessary to understand why we are processing image statistics from the environment because this may be relevant to how this information is ultimately processed. However, some researchers may see the irrelevance of the purpose of vision in Barlow's theory as an advantage for designing experiments.\n\nSome experiments show correlations between neurons:\nWhen considering multiple neurons at a time, recordings \"show correlation, synchronization, or other forms of statistical dependency between neurons\". However, it is relevant to note that most of these experiments did not use natural stimuli to provoke these responses: this may not fit in directly to the efficient coding hypothesis because this hypothesis is concerned with natural image statistics. In his review article Simoncelli notes that perhaps we can interpret redundancy in the Efficient Coding Hypothesis a bit differently: he argues that statistical dependency could be reduced over \"successive stages of processing\", and not just in one area of the sensory pathway \n\nObserved redundancy:\nA comparison of the number of retinal ganglion cells to the number of neurons in the primary visual cortex shows an increase in the number of sensory neurons in the cortex as compared to the retina. Simoncelli notes that one major argument of critics in that higher up in the sensory pathway there are greater numbers of neurons that handle the processing of sensory information so this should seem to produce redundancy. However, this observation may not be fully relevant because neurons have different neural coding. In his review, Simoncelli notes \"cortical neurons tend to have lower firing rates and may use a different form of code as compared to retinal neurons\". Cortical Neurons may also have the ability to encode information over longer periods of time than their retinal counterparts. Experiments done in the auditory system have confirmed that redundancy is decreased.\n\nDifficult to test:\nEstimation of information-theoretic quantities requires enormous amounts of data, and is thus impractical for experimental verification. Additionally, informational estimators are known to be biased. However, some experimental success has occurred.\n\nNeed well-defined criteria for what to measure:\nThis criticism illustrates one of the most fundamental issues of the hypothesis. Here, assumptions are made about the definitions of both the inputs and the outputs of the system. The inputs into the visual system are not completely defined, but they are assumed to be encompassed in a collection of natural images. The output must be defined to test the hypothesis, but variability can occur here too based on the choice of which type of neurons to measure, where they are located and what type of responses, such as firing rate or spike times are chosen to be measured.\n\nHow to take noise into account:\nSome argue that experiments that ignore noise, or other physical constraints on the system are too simplistic. However, some researchers have been able to incorporate these elements into their analyses, thus creating more sophisticated systems.\n\nPossible applications of the efficient coding hypothesis include cochlear implant design. These neuroprosthetic devices stimulate the auditory nerve by an electrical impulses which allows some of the hearing to return to people who have hearing impairments or are even deaf. The implants are considered to be successful and efficient and the only ones in use currently. Using frequency-place mappings in the efficient coding algorithm may benefit in the use of cochlear implants in the future. Changes in design based on this hypothesis could increase speech intelligibility in hearing impaired patients. Research using vocoded speech processed by different filters showed that humans had greater accuracy in deciphering the speech when it was processed using an efficient-code filter as opposed to a cochleotropic filter or a linear filter. This shows that efficient coding of noise data offered perceptual benefits and provided the listeners with more information. More research is needed to apply current findings into medically relevant changes to cochlear implant design.\n"}
{"id": "1029022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029022", "title": "Embryonic stem cell", "text": "Embryonic stem cell\n\nEmbryonic stem cells (ES cells or ESCs) are pluripotent stem cells derived from the inner cell mass of a blastocyst, an early-stage pre-implantation embryo. Human embryos reach the blastocyst stage 4–5 days post fertilization, at which time they consist of 50–150 cells. Isolating the embryoblast, or inner cell mass (ICM) results in destruction of the blastocyst, a process which raises ethical issues, including whether or not embryos at the pre-implantation stage should have the same moral considerations as embryos in the post-implantation stage of development. Researchers are currently focusing heavily on the therapeutic potential of embryonic stem cells, with clinical use being the goal for many labs. Potential uses include the treatment of diabetes and heart disease. The cells are being studied to be used as clinical therapies, models of genetic disorders, and cellular/DNA repair. However, adverse effects in the research and clinical processes such as tumours and unwanted immune responses have also been reported.\n\nEmbryonic stem cells (ESCs), derived from the blastocyst stage of early mammalian embryos, are distinguished by their ability to differentiate into any cell type and by their ability to propagate. It is these traits that makes them valuable in the scientific and medical fields. ESCs are also described as having a normal karyotype, maintaining high telomerase activity, and exhibiting remarkable long-term proliferative potential.\n\nEmbryonic stem cells of the inner cell mass are pluripotent, meaning they are able to differentiate to generate primitive ectoderm, which ultimately differentiates during gastrulation into all derivatives of the three primary germ layers: ectoderm, endoderm, and mesoderm. These include each of the more than 220 cell types in the adult human body. Pluripotency distinguishes embryonic stem cells from adult stem cells, which are multipotent and can only produce a limited number of cell types.\n\nUnder defined conditions, embryonic stem cells are capable of propagating indefinitely in an undifferentiated state. Conditions must either prevent the cells from clumping, or maintain an environment that supports an unspecialized state. While being able to remain undifferentiated, ESCs also have the capacity, when provided with the appropriate signals, to differentiate (presumably via the initial formation of precursor cells) into nearly all mature cell phenotypes.\n\nDue to their plasticity and potentially unlimited capacity for self-renewal, embryonic stem cell therapies have been proposed for regenerative medicine and tissue replacement after injury or disease. Pluripotent stem cells have shown potential in treating a number of varying conditions, including but not limited to: spinal cord injuries, age related macular degeneration, diabetes, neurodegenerative disorders (such as Parkinson's disease), AIDS, etc. In addition to their potential in regenerative medicine, embryonic stem cells provide an alternative source of tissue/organs which serves as a possible solution to the donor shortage dilemma. Not only that, but tissue/organs derived from ESCs can be made immunocompatible with the recipient. Aside from these uses, embryonic stem cells can also serve as tools for the investigation of early human development, study of genetic disease and as in vitro systems for toxicology testing.\n\nAccording to a 2002 article in \"PNAS\", \"Human embryonic stem cells have the potential to differentiate into various cell types, and, thus, may be useful as a source of cells for transplantation or tissue engineering.\"\nHowever, embryonic stem cells are not limited to cell/tissue engineering.\n\nCurrent research focuses on differentiating ESCs into a variety of cell types for eventual use as cell replacement therapies (CRTs). Some of the cell types that have or are currently being developed include cardiomyocytes (CM), neurons, hepatocytes, bone marrow cells, islet cells and endothelial cells. However, the derivation of such cell types from ESCs is not without obstacles, therefore current research is focused on overcoming these barriers. For example, studies are underway to differentiate ESCs in to tissue specific CMs and to eradicate their immature properties that distinguish them from adult CMs.\n\n\nBesides becoming an important alternative to organ transplants, ESCs are also being used in field of toxicology and as cellular screens to uncover new chemical entities (NCEs) that can be developed as small molecule drugs. Studies have shown that cardiomyocytes derived from ESCs are validated in vitro models to test drug responses and predict toxicity profiles. ES derived cardiomyocytes have been shown to respond to pharmacological stimuli and hence can be used to assess cardiotoxicity like \"Torsades de Pointes\".\n\nESC-derived hepatocytes are also useful models that could be used in the preclinical stages of drug discovery. However, the development of hepatocytes from ESCs has proven to be challenging and this hinders the ability to test drug metabolism. Therefore, current research is focusing on establishing fully functional ESC-derived hepatocytes with stable phase I and II enzyme activity.\n\nSeveral new studies have started to address the concept of modeling genetic disorders with embryonic stem cells. Either by genetically manipulating the cells, or more recently, by deriving diseased cell lines identified by prenatal genetic diagnosis (PGD), modeling genetic disorders is something that has been accomplished with stem cells. This approach may very well prove invaluable at studying disorders such as Fragile-X syndrome, Cystic fibrosis, and other genetic maladies that have no reliable model system.\n\nYury Verlinsky, a Russian-American medical researcher who specialized in embryo and cellular genetics (genetic cytology), developed prenatal diagnosis testing methods to determine genetic and chromosomal disorders a month and a half earlier than standard amniocentesis. The techniques are now used by many pregnant women and prospective parents, especially couples who have a history of genetic abnormalities or where the woman is over the age of 35 (when the risk of genetically related disorders is higher). In addition, by allowing parents to select an embryo without genetic disorders, they have the potential of saving the lives of siblings that already had similar disorders and diseases using cells from the disease free offspring.\n\nDifferentiated somatic cells and ES cells use different strategies for dealing with DNA damage. For instance, human foreskin fibroblasts, one type of somatic cell, use non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), an error prone DNA repair process, as the primary pathway for repairing double-strand breaks (DSBs) during all cell cycle stages. Because of its error-prone nature, NHEJ tends to produce mutations in a cell’s clonal descendants.\n\nES cells use a different strategy to deal with DSBs. Because ES cells give rise to all of the cell types of an organism including the cells of the germ line, mutations arising in ES cells due to faulty DNA repair are a more serious problem than in differentiated somatic cells. Consequently, robust mechanisms are needed in ES cells to repair DNA damages accurately, and if repair fails, to remove those cells with un-repaired DNA damages. Thus, mouse ES cells predominantly use high fidelity homologous recombinational repair (HRR) to repair DSBs. This type of repair depends on the interaction of the two sister chromosomes formed during S phase and present together during the G2 phase of the cell cycle. HRR can accurately repair DSBs in one sister chromosome by using intact information from the other sister chromosome. Cells in the G1 phase of the cell cycle (i.e. after metaphase/cell division but prior the next round of replication) have only one copy of each chromosome (i.e. sister chromosomes aren’t present). Mouse ES cells lack a G1 checkpoint and do not undergo cell cycle arrest upon acquiring DNA damage. Rather they undergo programmed cell death (apoptosis) in response to DNA damage. Apoptosis can be used as a fail-safe strategy to remove cells with un-repaired DNA damages in order to avoid mutation and progression to cancer. Consistent with this strategy, mouse ES stem cells have a mutation frequency about 100-fold lower than that of isogenic mouse somatic cells.\n\nOn January 23, 2009, Phase I clinical trials for transplantation of oligodendrocytes (a cell type of the brain and spinal cord) derived from human ES cells into spinal cord-injured individuals received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), marking it the world's first human ES cell human trial. The study leading to this scientific advancement was conducted by Hans Keirstead and colleagues at the University of California, Irvine and supported by Geron Corporation of Menlo Park, CA, founded by Michael D. West, PhD. A previous experiment had shown an improvement in locomotor recovery in spinal cord-injured rats after a 7-day delayed transplantation of human ES cells that had been pushed into an oligodendrocytic lineage. The phase I clinical study was designed to enroll about eight to ten paraplegics who have had their injuries no longer than two weeks before the trial begins, since the cells must be injected before scar tissue is able to form. The researchers emphasized that the injections were not expected to fully cure the patients and restore all mobility. Based on the results of the rodent trials, researchers speculated that restoration of myelin sheathes and an increase in mobility might occur. This first trial was primarily designed to test the safety of these procedures and if everything went well, it was hoped that it would lead to future studies that involve people with more severe disabilities. The trial was put on hold in August 2009 due to FDA concerns regarding a small number of microscopic cysts found in several treated rat models but the hold was lifted on July 30, 2010.\n\nIn October 2010 researchers enrolled and administered ESTs to the first patient at Shepherd Center in Atlanta. The makers of the stem cell therapy, Geron Corporation, estimated that it would take several months for the stem cells to replicate and for the GRNOPC1 therapy to be evaluated for success or failure.\n\nIn November 2011 Geron announced it was halting the trial and dropping out of stem cell research for financial reasons, but would continue to monitor existing patients, and was attempting to find a partner that could continue their research. In 2013 BioTime (), led by CEO Dr. Michael D. West, acquired all of Geron's stem cell assets, with the stated intention of restarting Geron's embryonic stem cell-based clinical trial for spinal cord injury research.\n\nBioTime company Asterias Biotherapeutics (NYSE MKT: AST) was granted a $14.3 million Strategic Partnership Award by the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine (CIRM) to re-initiate the world’s first embryonic stem cell-based human clinical trial, for spinal cord injury. Supported by California public funds, CIRM is the largest funder of stem cell-related research and development in the world.\n\nThe award provides funding for Asterias to reinitiate clinical development of AST-OPC1 in subjects with spinal cord injury and to expand clinical testing of escalating doses in the target population intended for future pivotal trials.\n\nAST-OPC1 is a population of cells derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) that contains oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). OPCs and their mature derivatives called oligodendrocytes provide critical functional support for nerve cells in the spinal cord and brain. Asterias recently presented the results from phase 1 clinical trial testing of a low dose of AST-OPC1 in patients with neurologically-complete thoracic spinal cord injury. The results showed that AST-OPC1 was successfully delivered to the injured spinal cord site. Patients followed 2–3 years after AST-OPC1 administration showed no evidence of serious adverse events associated with the cells in detailed follow-up assessments including frequent neurological exams and MRIs. Immune monitoring of subjects through one year post-transplantation showed no evidence of antibody-based or cellular immune responses to AST-OPC1. In four of the five subjects, serial MRI scans performed throughout the 2–3 year follow-up period indicate that reduced spinal cord cavitation may have occurred and that AST-OPC1 may have had some positive effects in reducing spinal cord tissue deterioration. There was no unexpected neurological degeneration or improvement in the five subjects in the trial as evaluated by the International Standards for Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury (ISNCSCI) exam.\n\nThe Strategic Partnership III grant from CIRM will provide funding to Asterias to support the next clinical trial of AST-OPC1 in subjects with spinal cord injury, and for Asterias’ product development efforts to refine and scale manufacturing methods to support later-stage trials and eventually commercialization. CIRM funding will be conditional on FDA approval for the trial, completion of a definitive agreement between Asterias and CIRM, and Asterias’ continued progress toward the achievement of certain pre-defined project milestones.\n\nThe major concern with the possible transplantation of ESC into patients as therapies is their ability to form tumors including teratoma. Safety issues prompted the FDA to place a hold on the first ESC clinical trial, however no tumors were observed.\n\nThe main strategy to enhance the safety of ESC for potential clinical use is to differentiate the ESC into specific cell types (e.g. neurons, muscle, liver cells) that have reduced or eliminated ability to cause tumors. Following differentiation, the cells are subjected to sorting by flow cytometry for further purification. ESC are predicted to be inherently safer than IPS cells created with genetically-integrating viral vectors because they are not genetically modified with genes such as c-Myc that are linked to cancer. Nonetheless, ESC express very high levels of the iPS inducing genes and these genes including Myc are essential for ESC self-renewal and pluripotency, and potential strategies to improve safety by eliminating c-Myc expression are unlikely to preserve the cells' \"stemness\". However, N-myc and L-myc have been identified to induce iPS cells instead of c-myc with similar efficiency.\nMore recent protocols to induce pluripotency bypass these problems completely by using non-integrating RNA viral vectors such as sendai virus or mRNA transfection.\n\nDue to the nature of embryonic stem cell research, there are a lot of controversial opinions on the topic. Since harvesting embryonic stem cells necessitates destroying the embryo from which those cells are obtained, the moral status of the embryo comes into question. Scientists argue that the 5-day old mass of cells is too young to achieve personhood or that the embryo, if donated from an IVF clinic (which is where labs typically acquire embryos from), would otherwise go to medical waste anyway. Opponents of ESC research counter that any embryo has the potential to become a human, therefore destroying it is murder and the embryo must be protected under the same ethical view as a developed human being.\n\n\n\nIn vitro fertilization generates multiple embryos. The surplus of embryos is not clinically used or is unsuitable for implantation into the patient, and therefore may be donated by the donor with consent. Human embryonic stem cells can be derived from these donated embryos or additionally they can also be extracted from cloned embryos using a cell from a patient and a donated egg. The inner cell mass (cells of interest), from the blastocyst stage of the embryo, is separated from the trophectoderm, the cells that would differentiate into extra-embryonic tissue. Immunosurgery, the process in which antibodies are bound to the trophectoderm and removed by another solution, and mechanical dissection are performed to achieve separation. The resulting inner cell mass cells are plated onto cells that will supply support. The inner cell mass cells attach and expand further to form a human embryonic cell line, which are undifferentiated. These cells are fed daily and are enzymatically or mechanically separated every four to seven days. For differentiation to occur, the human embryonic stem cell line is removed from the supporting cells to form embryoid bodies, is co-cultured with a serum containing necessary signals, or is grafted in a three-dimensional scaffold to result.\n\nEmbryonic stem cells are derived from the inner cell mass of the early embryo, which are harvested from the donor mother animal. Martin Evans and Matthew Kaufman reported a technique that delays embryo implantation, allowing the inner cell mass to increase. This process includes removing the donor mother's ovaries and dosing her with progesterone, changing the hormone environment, which causes the embryos to remain free in the uterus. After 4–6 days of this intrauterine culture, the embryos are harvested and grown in \"in vitro\" culture until the inner cell mass forms “egg cylinder-like structures,” which are dissociated into single cells, and plated on fibroblasts treated with mitomycin-c (to prevent fibroblast mitosis). Clonal cell lines are created by growing up a single cell. Evans and Kaufman showed that the cells grown out from these cultures could form teratomas and embryoid bodies, and differentiate \"in vitro,\" all of which indicating that the cells are pluripotent.\n\nGail Martin derived and cultured her ES cells differently. She removed the embryos from the donor mother at approximately 76 hours after copulation and cultured them overnight in a medium containing serum. The following day, she removed the inner cell mass from the late blastocyst using microsurgery. The extracted inner cell mass was cultured on fibroblasts treated with mitomycin-c in a medium containing serum and conditioned by ES cells. After approximately one week, colonies of cells grew out. These cells grew in culture and demonstrated pluripotent characteristics, as demonstrated by the ability to form teratomas, differentiate \"in vitro,\" and form embryoid bodies. Martin referred to these cells as ES cells.\n\nIt is now known that the feeder cells provide leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and serum provides bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) that are necessary to prevent ES cells from differentiating. These factors are extremely important for the efficiency of deriving ES cells. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that different mouse strains have different efficiencies for isolating ES cells. Current uses for mouse ES cells include the generation of transgenic mice, including knockout mice. For human treatment, there is a need for patient specific pluripotent cells. Generation of human ES cells is more difficult and faces ethical issues. So, in addition to human ES cell research, many groups are focused on the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells).\n\nOn August 23, 2006, the online edition of \"Nature\" scientific journal published a letter by Dr. Robert Lanza (medical director of Advanced Cell Technology in Worcester, MA) stating that his team had found a way to extract embryonic stem cells without destroying the actual embryo. This technical achievement would potentially enable scientists to work with new lines of embryonic stem cells derived using public funding in the USA, where federal funding was at the time limited to research using embryonic stem cell lines derived prior to August 2001. In March, 2009, the limitation was lifted.\n\nThe iPSC technology was pioneered by Shinya Yamanaka’s lab in Kyoto, Japan, who showed in 2006 that the introduction of four specific genes encoding transcription factors could convert adult cells into pluripotent stem cells. He was awarded the 2012 Nobel Prize along with Sir John Gurdon \"for the discovery that mature cells can be reprogrammed to become pluripotent.\" \n\nIn 2007 it was shown that pluripotent stem cells highly similar to embryonic stem cells can be generated by the delivery of three genes (\"Oct4\", \"Sox2\", and \"Klf4\") to differentiated cells. The delivery of these genes \"reprograms\" differentiated cells into pluripotent stem cells, allowing for the generation of pluripotent stem cells without the embryo. Because ethical concerns regarding embryonic stem cells typically are about their derivation from terminated embryos, it is believed that reprogramming to these \"induced pluripotent stem cells\" (iPS cells) may be less controversial. Both human and mouse cells can be reprogrammed by this methodology, generating both human pluripotent stem cells and mouse pluripotent stem cells without an embryo.\n\nThis may enable the generation of patient specific ES cell lines that could potentially be used for cell replacement therapies. In addition, this will allow the generation of ES cell lines from patients with a variety of genetic diseases and will provide invaluable models to study those diseases.\n\nHowever, as a first indication that the induced pluripotent stem cell (iPS) cell technology can in rapid succession lead to new cures, it was used by a research team headed by Rudolf Jaenisch of the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to cure mice of sickle cell anemia, as reported by \"Science\" journal's online edition on December 6, 2007.\n\nOn January 16, 2008, a California-based company, Stemagen, announced that they had created the first mature cloned human embryos from single skin cells taken from adults. These embryos can be harvested for patient matching embryonic stem cells.\n\nThe online edition of \"Nature Medicine\" published a study on January 24, 2005, which stated that the human embryonic stem cells available for federally funded research are contaminated with non-human molecules from the culture medium used to grow the cells. It is a common technique to use mouse cells and other animal cells to maintain the pluripotency of actively dividing stem cells. The problem was discovered when non-human sialic acid in the growth medium was found to compromise the potential uses of the embryonic stem cells in humans, according to scientists at the University of California, San Diego.\n\nHowever, a study published in the online edition of \"Lancet Medical Journal\" on March 8, 2005 detailed information about a new stem cell line that was derived from human embryos under completely cell- and serum-free conditions. After more than 6 months of undifferentiated proliferation, these cells demonstrated the potential to form derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers both \"in vitro\" and in teratomas. These properties were also successfully maintained (for more than 30 passages) with the established stem cell lines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34208511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34208511", "title": "Employee relationship management", "text": "Employee relationship management\n\nAn employee relationship management (ERM) system is an information system that supports the relationship between a company and its employees.\n\nEmployee relationship management has focused on enabling employees to collaborate on typical managerial tasks with their employers. By engaging inputs from both sides of the employment relationship, ERM platforms aim to align the interests of both parties, worker and employer, and inform day-to-day business functions under a streamlined workflow.\n\nThe components of an employee relationship management platform are multiple, and, as in customer relationship management, achieve the goal of assisting the employee in the whole life cycle of her/his activity in and for the company.\n\nEmployee relationship management platforms include but are not limited to the following functions: \nand some other component may differ as the application changes.\n\nThe employee relationship management classification differentiates from other human resource information systems and workforce management systems]] by considering the whole employee, taking steps to ensure that the employee's work-life needs are well balanced and accounted for in the computation of work assignments. For example, current platforms on the market, such as WorkJam, allow workers to find jobs based on their availability, and once they are hired, employees can view schedules and choose when they work in accordance with employer and regulatory staffing requirements.\n"}
{"id": "9593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9593", "title": "Existentialism", "text": "Existentialism\n\nExistentialism () is a tradition of philosophical inquiry associated mainly with certain 19th and 20th-century European philosophers who, despite profound doctrinal differences, shared the belief that philosophical thinking begins with the human subject—not merely the thinking subject, but the acting, feeling, living human individual. While the predominant value of existentialist thought is commonly acknowledged to be freedom, its primary virtue is authenticity. In the view of the existentialist, the individual's starting point is characterized by what has been called \"the existential attitude\", or a sense of disorientation, confusion, or dread in the face of an apparently meaningless or absurd world. Many existentialists have also regarded traditional systematic or academic philosophies, in both style and content, as too abstract and remote from concrete human experience.\n\nSøren Kierkegaard is generally considered to have been the first existentialist philosopher, though he did not use the term existentialism. He proposed that each individual—not society or religion—is solely responsible for giving meaning to life and living it passionately and sincerely, or \"authentically\". Existentialism became popular in the years following World War II, and strongly influenced many disciplines besides philosophy, including theology, drama, art, literature, and psychology.\n\nThe term \"existentialism\" (French: \"L'existentialisme\") was coined by the French Catholic philosopher Gabriel Marcel in the mid-1940s. At first, when Marcel applied the term to him at a colloquium in 1945, Jean-Paul Sartre rejected it. Sartre subsequently changed his mind and, on October 29, 1945, publicly adopted the existentialist label in a lecture to the \"Club Maintenant\" in Paris. The lecture was published as \"L'existentialisme est un humanisme\" (\"Existentialism is a Humanism\"), a short book that did much to popularize existentialist thought. Marcel later came to reject the label himself in favour of the term Neo-Socratic, in honor of Kierkegaard's essay \"On The Concept of Irony\".\n\nSome scholars argue that the term should be used only to refer to the cultural movement in Europe in the 1940s and 1950s associated with the works of the philosophers Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, and Albert Camus. Other scholars extend the term to Kierkegaard, and yet others extend it as far back as Socrates. However, the term is often identified with the philosophical views of Jean-Paul Sartre.\n\nThe labels \"existentialism\" and \"existentialist\" are often seen as historical conveniences in as far as they were first applied to many philosophers in hindsight, long after they had died. In fact, while existentialism is generally considered to have originated with Kierkegaard, the first prominent existentialist philosopher to adopt the term as a self-description was Jean-Paul Sartre. Sartre posits the idea that \"what all existentialists have in common is the fundamental doctrine that existence precedes essence\", as scholar Frederick Copleston explains. According to philosopher Steven Crowell, defining existentialism has been relatively difficult, and he argues that it is better understood as a general approach used to reject certain systematic philosophies rather than as a systematic philosophy itself. Sartre himself, in a lecture delivered in 1945, described existentialism as \"the attempt to draw all the consequences from a position of consistent atheism\".\n\nAlthough many outside Scandinavia consider the term existentialism to have originated from Kierkegaard himself, it is more likely that Kierkegaard adopted this term (or at least the term \"existential\" as a description of his philosophy) from the Norwegian poet and literary critic Johan Sebastian Cammermeyer Welhaven. This assertion comes from two sources. The Norwegian philosopher Erik Lundestad refers to the Danish philosopher Fredrik Christian Sibbern. Sibbern is supposed to have had two conversations in 1841, the first with Welhaven and the second with Kierkegaard. It is in the first conversation that it is believed that Welhaven came up with \"a word that he said covered a certain thinking, which had a close and positive attitude to life, a relationship he described as existential\". This was then brought to Kierkegaard by Sibbern.\n\nThe second claim comes from the Norwegian historian Rune Slagstad, who claims to prove that Kierkegaard himself said the term \"existential\" was borrowed from the poet. He strongly believes that it was Kierkegaard himself who said that \"Hegelians do not study philosophy 'existentially'; to use a phrase by Welhaven from one time when I spoke with him about philosophy\".\n\nSartre claimed that a central proposition of Existentialism is that \"existence precedes essence\", which means that the most important consideration for individuals is that they are individuals—independently acting and responsible, conscious beings (\"existence\")—rather than what labels, roles, stereotypes, definitions, or other preconceived categories the individuals fit (\"essence\"). The actual life of the individuals is what constitutes what could be called their \"true essence\" instead of there being an arbitrarily attributed essence others use to define them. Thus, human beings, through their own consciousness, create their own values and determine a meaning to their life. Although it was Sartre who explicitly coined the phrase, similar notions can be found in the thought of existentialist philosophers such as Heidegger, and Kierkegaard:\n\nSome interpret the imperative to define oneself as meaning that anyone can wish to be anything. However, an existentialist philosopher would say such a wish constitutes an inauthentic existence - what Sartre would call 'bad faith'. Instead, the phrase should be taken to say that people are (1) defined only insofar as they act and (2) that they are responsible for their actions. For example, someone who acts cruelly towards other people is, by that act, defined as a cruel person. Furthermore, by this action of cruelty, such persons are themselves responsible for their new identity (cruel persons). This is as opposed to their genes, or \"human nature\", bearing the blame.\n\nAs Sartre says in his lecture \"Existentialism is a Humanism\": \"... man first of all exists, encounters himself, surges up in the world—and defines himself afterwards\". The more positive, therapeutic aspect of this is also implied: A person can choose to act in a different way, and to be a good person instead of a cruel person.\n\nSartre's definition of existentialism was based on Heidegger's magnum opus \"Being and Time\". In the correspondence with Jean Beaufret later published as the \"Letter on Humanism\", Heidegger implies that Sartre misunderstood him for his own purposes of subjectivism, and that he did not mean that actions take precedence over being so long as those actions were not reflected upon. Heidegger commented that \"the reversal of a metaphysical statement remains a metaphysical statement\", meaning that he thought Sartre had simply switched the roles traditionally attributed to essence and existence without interrogating these concepts and their history in the way that Heidegger claimed to have done.\n\nThe notion of the Absurd contains the idea that there is no meaning in the world beyond what meaning we give it. This meaninglessness also encompasses the amorality or \"unfairness\" of the world. This conceptualization can be highlighted in the way it opposes the traditional Judeo-Christian-Islamic perspective, which establishes that life's purpose is about the fulfillment of God's commandments. Such a purpose is what gives meaning to people's lives. To live the life of the absurd means rejecting a life that finds or pursues specific meaning for man's existence since there is nothing to be discovered. According to Albert Camus, the world or the human being is not in itself absurd. The concept only emerges through the juxtaposition of the two, where life becomes absurd due to the incompatibility between human beings and the world they inhabit. This view constitutes one of the two interpretations of the absurd in existentialist literature. The second view, which was first elaborated by Søren Kierkegaard, holds that absurdity is limited to actions and choices of human beings. These are considered absurd since they issue from human freedom, undermining their foundation outside of themselves.\n\nThe notion of the absurd in existentialism contrasts with the claim that \"bad things don't happen to good people\"; to the world, metaphorically speaking, there is no such thing as a good person or a bad person; what happens happens, and it may just as well happen to a \"good\" person as to a \"bad\" person. Because of the world's absurdity, at any point in time, anything can happen to anyone, and a tragic event could plummet someone into direct confrontation with the Absurd. The notion of the Absurd has been prominent in literature throughout history. Many of the literary works of Søren Kierkegaard, Samuel Beckett, Franz Kafka, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Eugène Ionesco, Miguel de Unamuno, Luigi Pirandello, Jean-Paul Sartre, Joseph Heller and Albert Camus contain descriptions of people who encounter the absurdity of the world.\n\nIt is in relation to the concept of the devastating awareness of meaninglessness that Albert Camus claimed that \"there is only one truly serious philosophical problem, and that is suicide\" in his \"The Myth of Sisyphus\". Although \"prescriptions\" against the possibly deleterious consequences of these kinds of encounters vary, from Kierkegaard's religious \"stage\" to Camus' insistence on persevering in spite of absurdity, the concern with helping people avoid living their lives in ways that put them in the perpetual danger of having everything meaningful break down is common to most existentialist philosophers. The possibility of having everything meaningful break down poses a threat of quietism, which is inherently against the existentialist philosophy. It has been said that the possibility of suicide makes all humans existentialists. The ultimate hero of absurdism lives without meaning and faces suicide without succumbing to it.\n\nFacticity is a concept defined by Sartre in \"Being and Nothingness\" as the \"in-itself\", which delineates for humans the modalities of being and not being. This can be more easily understood when considering facticity in relation to the temporal dimension of our past: one's past is what one is, in the sense that it co-constitutes oneself. However, to say that one is only one's past would be to ignore a significant part of reality (the present and the future), while saying that one's past is only what one was, would entirely detach it from oneself now. A denial of one's own concrete past constitutes an inauthentic lifestyle, and the same goes for all other kinds of facticity (having a human body — e.g., one that doesn't allow a person to run faster than the speed of sound — identity, values, etc.).\n\nFacticity is both a limitation and a condition of freedom. It is a limitation in that a large part of one's facticity consists of things one couldn't have chosen (birthplace, etc.), but a condition of freedom in the sense that one's values most likely depend on it. However, even though one's facticity is \"set in stone\" (as being past, for instance), it cannot determine a person: The value ascribed to one's facticity is still ascribed to it freely by that person. As an example, consider two men, one of whom has no memory of his past and the other who remembers everything. They both have committed many crimes, but the first man, knowing nothing about this, leads a rather normal life while the second man, feeling trapped by his own past, continues a life of crime, blaming his own past for \"trapping\" him in this life. There is nothing essential about his committing crimes, but he ascribes this meaning to his past.\n\nHowever, to disregard one's facticity when, in the continual process of self-making, one projects oneself into the future, that would be to put oneself in denial of oneself, and thus would be inauthentic. In other words, the origin of one's projection must still be one's facticity, though in the mode of not being it (essentially). An example of one focusing solely on one's possible projects without reflecting on one's current facticity: if one continually thinks about future possibilities related to being rich (e.g. a better car, bigger house, better quality of life, etc.) without considering the facticity of \"not currently having the financial means to do so\". In this example, considering both facticity and transcendence, an authentic mode of being would be considering future projects that might improve one's current finances (e.g. putting in extra hours, or investing savings) in order to arrive at a \"future-facticity\" of a modest pay rise, further leading to purchase of an affordable car.\n\nAnother aspect of facticity is that it entails angst, both in the sense that freedom \"produces\" angst when limited by facticity, and in the sense that the lack of the possibility of having facticity to \"step in\" for one to take responsibility for something one has done, also produces angst.\n\nAnother aspect of existential freedom is that one can change one's values. Thus, one is responsible for one's values, regardless of society's values. The focus on freedom in existentialism is related to the limits of the responsibility one bears, as a result of one's freedom: the relationship between freedom and responsibility is one of interdependency, and a clarification of freedom also clarifies that for which one is responsible.\n\nMany noted existentialist writers consider the theme of authentic existence important. Authentic existence involves the idea that one has to \"create oneself\" and then live in accordance with this self. What is meant by authenticity is that in acting, one should act as oneself, not as \"one's acts\" or as \"one's genes\" or any other essence requires. The authentic act is one that is in accordance with one's freedom. As a condition of freedom is facticity, this includes one's facticity, but not to the degree that this facticity can in any way determine one's transcendent choices (in the sense that one could then blame one's background [facticity] for making the choice one made [chosen project, from one's transcendence]). The role of facticity in relation to authenticity involves letting one's actual values come into play when one makes a choice (instead of, like Kierkegaard's Aesthete, \"choosing\" randomly), so that one also takes responsibility for the act instead of choosing either-or without allowing the options to have different values.\n\nIn contrast to this, the inauthentic is the denial to live in accordance with one's freedom. This can take many forms, from pretending choices are meaningless or random, through convincing oneself that some form of determinism is true, to a sort of \"mimicry\" where one acts as \"one should\".\n\nHow \"one should\" act is often determined by an image one has, of how one such as oneself (say, a bank manager, lion tamer, prostitute, etc.) acts. In Being and Nothingness, Sartre relates an example of a \"waiter\" in \"bad faith\": he merely takes part in the \"act\" of being a typical waiter, albeit very convincingly. This image usually corresponds to some sort of social norm, but this does not mean that all acting in accordance with social norms is inauthentic: The main point is the attitude one takes to one's own freedom and responsibility, and the extent to which one acts in accordance with this freedom.\n\nThe Other (when written with a capital \"O\") is a concept more properly belonging to phenomenology and its account of intersubjectivity. However, the concept has seen widespread use in existentialist writings, and the conclusions drawn from it differ slightly from the phenomenological accounts. The experience of the Other is the experience of another free subject who inhabits the same world as a person does. In its most basic form, it is this experience of the Other that constitutes intersubjectivity and objectivity. To clarify, when one experiences someone else, and this Other person experiences the world (the same world that a person experiences)—only from \"over there\"—the world itself is constituted as objective in that it is something that is \"there\" as identical for both of the subjects; a person experiences the other person as experiencing the same things. This experience of the Other's look is what is termed the Look (sometimes the Gaze).\n\nWhile this experience, in its basic phenomenological sense, constitutes the world as objective, and oneself as objectively existing subjectivity (one experiences oneself as seen in the Other's Look in precisely the same way that one experiences the Other as seen by him, as subjectivity), in existentialism, it also acts as a kind of limitation of freedom. This is because the Look tends to objectify what it sees. As such, when one experiences oneself in the Look, one doesn't experience oneself as nothing (no thing), but as something. Sartre's own example of a man peeping at someone through a keyhole can help clarify this: at first, this man is entirely caught up in the situation he is in; he is in a pre-reflexive state where his entire consciousness is directed at what goes on in the room. Suddenly, he hears a creaking floorboard behind him, and he becomes aware of himself as seen by the Other. He is thus filled with shame for he perceives himself as he would perceive someone else doing what he was doing, as a Peeping Tom. The Look is then co-constitutive of one's facticity.\n\nAnother characteristic feature of the Look is that no Other really needs to have been there: It is quite possible that the creaking floorboard was nothing but the movement of an old house; the Look isn't some kind of mystical telepathic experience of the actual way the other sees one (there may also have been someone there, but he could have not noticed that the person was there). It is only one's perception of the way another might perceive him.\n\n\"Existential angst\", sometimes called existential dread, anxiety, or anguish, is a term that is common to many existentialist thinkers. It is generally held to be a negative feeling arising from the experience of human freedom and responsibility. The archetypical example is the experience one has when standing on a cliff where one not only fears falling off it, but also dreads the possibility of throwing oneself off. In this experience that \"nothing is holding me back\", one senses the lack of anything that predetermines one to either throw oneself off or to stand still, and one experiences one's own freedom. Angst, according to the modern existentialist, Adam Fong, is the sudden realization of a lack of meaning, often while one completes a task that initially seems to have intrinsic meaning.\n\nIt can also be seen in relation to the previous point how angst is before nothing, and this is what sets it apart from fear that has an object. While in the case of fear, one can take definitive measures to remove the object of fear, in the case of angst, no such \"constructive\" measures are possible. The use of the word \"nothing\" in this context relates both to the inherent insecurity about the consequences of one's actions, and to the fact that, in experiencing freedom as angst, one also realizes that one is fully responsible for these consequences. There is nothing in people (genetically, for instance) that acts in their stead—that they can blame if something goes wrong. Therefore, not every choice is perceived as having dreadful possible consequences (and, it can be claimed, human lives would be unbearable if every choice facilitated dread). However, this doesn't change the fact that freedom remains a condition of every action.\n\nDespair, in existentialism, is generally defined as a loss of hope. More specifically, it is a loss of hope in reaction to a breakdown in one or more of the defining qualities of one's self or identity. If a person is invested in being a particular thing, such as a bus driver or an upstanding citizen, and then finds their being-thing compromised, they would normally be found in a state of despair—a hopeless state. For example, a singer who loses the ability to sing may despair if they have nothing else to fall back on—nothing to rely on for their identity. They find themselves unable to be what defined their being.\n\nWhat sets the existentialist notion of despair apart from the conventional definition is that existentialist despair is a state one is in even when they aren't overtly in despair. So long as a person's identity depends on qualities that can crumble, they are in perpetual despair—and as there is, in Sartrean terms, no human essence found in conventional reality on which to constitute the individual's sense of identity, despair is a universal human condition. As Kierkegaard defines it in \"Either/Or\": \"Let each one learn what he can; both of us can learn that a person’s unhappiness never lies in his lack of control over external conditions, since this would only make him completely unhappy.\" In \"Works of Love\", he said: \n\nExistentialists oppose definitions of human beings as primarily rational, and, therefore, oppose positivism and rationalism. Existentialism asserts that people actually make decisions based on subjective meaning rather than pure rationality. The rejection of reason as the source of meaning is a common theme of existentialist thought, as is the focus on the feelings of anxiety and dread that we feel in the face of our own radical freedom and our awareness of death. Kierkegaard advocated rationality as a means to interact with the objective world (e.g., in the natural sciences), but when it comes to existential problems, reason is insufficient: \"Human reason has boundaries\".\n\nLike Kierkegaard, Sartre saw problems with rationality, calling it a form of \"bad faith\", an attempt by the self to impose structure on a world of phenomena—\"the Other\"—that is fundamentally irrational and random. According to Sartre, rationality and other forms of bad faith hinder people from finding meaning in freedom. To try to suppress their feelings of anxiety and dread, people confine themselves within everyday experience, Sartre asserts, thereby relinquishing their freedom and acquiescing to being possessed in one form or another by \"the Look\" of \"the Other\" (i.e., possessed by another person—or at least one's idea of that other person).\n\nAn existentialist reading of the Bible would demand that the reader recognize that (s)he is an existing subject studying the words more as a recollection of events. This is in contrast to looking at a collection of \"truths\" that are outside and unrelated to the reader, but may develop a sense of reality/God. Such a reader is not obligated to follow the commandments as if an external agent is forcing these commandments upon them, but as though they are inside them and guiding them from inside. This is the task Kierkegaard takes up when he asks: \"Who has the more difficult task: the teacher who lectures on earnest things a meteor's distance from everyday life - or the learner who should put it to use?\"\n\nAlthough nihilism and existentialism are distinct philosophies, they are often confused with one another as both are rooted in the human experience of anguish and confusion stemming from the apparent meaninglessness of a world in which humans are compelled to find or create meaning. A primary cause of confusion is that Friedrich Nietzsche is an important philosopher in both fields. Existentialist philosophers often stress the importance of Angst as signifying the absolute lack of any objective ground for action, a move that is often reduced to a moral or an existential nihilism. A pervasive theme in the works of existentialist philosophy, however, is to persist through encounters with the absurd, as seen in Camus' \"The Myth of Sisyphus\" (\"One must imagine Sisyphus happy\"), and it is only very rarely that existentialist philosophers dismiss morality or one's self-created meaning: Kierkegaard regained a sort of morality in the religious (although he wouldn't himself agree that it was ethical; the religious suspends the ethical), and Sartre's final words in \"Being and Nothingness\" are \"All these questions, which refer us to a pure and not an accessory (or impure) reflection, can find their reply only on the ethical plane. We shall devote to them a future work.\"\n\nSøren Kierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche were two of the first philosophers considered fundamental to the existentialist movement, though neither used the term \"existentialism\" and it is unclear whether they would have supported the existentialism of the 20th century. They focused on subjective human experience rather than the objective truths of mathematics and science, which they believed were too detached or observational to truly get at the human experience. Like Pascal, they were interested in people's quiet struggle with the apparent meaninglessness of life and the use of diversion to escape from boredom. Unlike Pascal, Kierkegaard and Nietzsche also considered the role of making free choices, particularly regarding fundamental values and beliefs, and how such choices change the nature and identity of the chooser. Kierkegaard's knight of faith and Nietzsche's Übermensch are representative of people who exhibit Freedom, in that they define the nature of their own existence. Nietzsche's idealized individual invents his own values and creates the very terms they excel under. By contrast, Kierkegaard, opposed to the level of abstraction in Hegel, and not nearly as hostile (actually welcoming) to Christianity as Nietzsche, argues through a pseudonym that the objective certainty of religious truths (specifically Christian) is not only impossible, but even founded on logical paradoxes. Yet he continues to imply that a leap of faith is a possible means for an individual to reach a higher stage of existence that transcends and contains both an aesthetic and ethical value of life. Kierkegaard and Nietzsche were also precursors to other intellectual movements, including postmodernism, and various strands of psychotherapy. However, Kierkegaard believed that individuals should live in accordance with their thinking.\n\nThe first important literary author also important to existentialism was the Russian Fyodor Dostoyevsky. Dostoyevsky's \"Notes from Underground\" portrays a man unable to fit into society and unhappy with the identities he creates for himself. Jean-Paul Sartre, in his book on existentialism \"Existentialism is a Humanism\", quoted Dostoyevsky's \"The Brothers Karamazov\" as an example of existential crisis. Sartre attributes Ivan Karamazov's claim, \"If God did not exist, everything would be permitted\" to Dostoyevsky himself, though this quote does not appear in the novel. However, a similar sentiment is explicitly stated when Alyosha visits Dimitri in prison. Dimitri mentions his conversations with Rakitin in which the idea that \"Then, if He doesn't exist, man is king of the earth, of the universe\" allowing the inference contained in Sartre's attribution to remain a valid idea contested within the novel. Other Dostoyevsky novels covered issues raised in existentialist philosophy while presenting story lines divergent from secular existentialism: for example, in \"Crime and Punishment\", the protagonist Raskolnikov experiences an existential crisis and then moves toward a Christian Orthodox worldview similar to that advocated by Dostoyevsky himself.\n\nIn the first decades of the 20th century, a number of philosophers and writers explored existentialist ideas. The Spanish philosopher Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo, in his 1913 book \"The Tragic Sense of Life in Men and Nations\", emphasized the life of \"flesh and bone\" as opposed to that of abstract rationalism. Unamuno rejected systematic philosophy in favor of the individual's quest for faith. He retained a sense of the tragic, even absurd nature of the quest, symbolized by his enduring interest in Cervantes' fictional character Don Quixote. A novelist, poet and dramatist as well as philosophy professor at the University of Salamanca, Unamuno wrote a short story about a priest's crisis of faith, \"Saint Manuel the Good, Martyr\", which has been collected in anthologies of existentialist fiction. Another Spanish thinker, Ortega y Gasset, writing in 1914, held that human existence must always be defined as the individual person combined with the concrete circumstances of his life: \"Yo soy yo y mi circunstancia\" (\"I am myself and my circumstances\"). Sartre likewise believed that human existence is not an abstract matter, but is always situated (\"en situation\").\n\nAlthough Martin Buber wrote his major philosophical works in German, and studied and taught at the Universities of Berlin and Frankfurt, he stands apart from the mainstream of German philosophy. Born into a Jewish family in Vienna in 1878, he was also a scholar of Jewish culture and involved at various times in Zionism and Hasidism. In 1938, he moved permanently to Jerusalem. His best-known philosophical work was the short book \"I and Thou\", published in 1922. For Buber, the fundamental fact of human existence, too readily overlooked by scientific rationalism and abstract philosophical thought, is \"man with man\", a dialogue that takes place in the so-called \"sphere of between\" (\"das Zwischenmenschliche\").\n\nTwo Russian thinkers, Lev Shestov and Nikolai Berdyaev, became well known as existentialist thinkers during their post-Revolutionary exiles in Paris. Shestov, born into a Ukrainian-Jewish family in Kiev, had launched an attack on rationalism and systematization in philosophy as early as 1905 in his book of aphorisms \"All Things Are Possible\".\n\nBerdyaev, also from Kiev but with a background in the Eastern Orthodox Church, drew a radical distinction between the world of spirit and the everyday world of objects. Human freedom, for Berdyaev, is rooted in the realm of spirit, a realm independent of scientific notions of causation. To the extent the individual human being lives in the objective world, he is estranged from authentic spiritual freedom. \"Man\" is not to be interpreted naturalistically, but as a being created in God's image, an originator of free, creative acts. He published a major work on these themes, \"The Destiny of Man\", in 1931.\n\nGabriel Marcel, long before coining the term \"existentialism\", introduced important existentialist themes to a French audience in his early essay \"Existence and Objectivity\" (1925) and in his \"Metaphysical Journal\" (1927). A dramatist as well as a philosopher, Marcel found his philosophical starting point in a condition of metaphysical alienation: the human individual searching for harmony in a transient life. Harmony, for Marcel, was to be sought through \"secondary reflection\", a \"dialogical\" rather than \"dialectical\" approach to the world, characterized by \"wonder and astonishment\" and open to the \"presence\" of other people and of God rather than merely to \"information\" about them. For Marcel, such presence implied more than simply being there (as one thing might be in the presence of another thing); it connoted \"extravagant\" availability, and the willingness to put oneself at the disposal of the other.\n\nMarcel contrasted \"secondary reflection\" with abstract, scientific-technical \"primary reflection\", which he associated with the activity of the abstract Cartesian ego. For Marcel, philosophy was a concrete activity undertaken by a sensing, feeling human being incarnate—embodied—in a concrete world. Although Jean-Paul Sartre adopted the term \"existentialism\" for his own philosophy in the 1940s, Marcel's thought has been described as \"almost diametrically opposed\" to that of Sartre. Unlike Sartre, Marcel was a Christian, and became a Catholic convert in 1929.\n\nIn Germany, the psychologist and philosopher Karl Jaspers—who later described existentialism as a \"phantom\" created by the public—called his own thought, heavily influenced by Kierkegaard and Nietzsche, \"Existenzphilosophie\". For Jaspers, \"\"Existenz\"-philosophy is the way of thought by means of which man seeks to become himself...This way of thought does not cognize objects, but elucidates and makes actual the being of the thinker\".\n\nJaspers, a professor at the University of Heidelberg, was acquainted with Martin Heidegger, who held a professorship at Marburg before acceding to Husserl's chair at Freiburg in 1928. They held many philosophical discussions, but later became estranged over Heidegger's support of National Socialism (Nazism). They shared an admiration for Kierkegaard, and in the 1930s, Heidegger lectured extensively on Nietzsche. Nevertheless, the extent to which Heidegger should be considered an existentialist is debatable. In \"Being and Time\" he presented a method of rooting philosophical explanations in human existence (\"Dasein\") to be analysed in terms of existential categories (\"existentiale\"); and this has led many commentators to treat him as an important figure in the existentialist movement.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, existentialism became a well-known and significant philosophical and cultural movement, mainly through the public prominence of two French writers, Jean-Paul Sartre and Albert Camus, who wrote best-selling novels, plays and widely read journalism as well as theoretical texts. These years also saw the growing reputation of Heidegger's book \"Being and Time\" outside Germany.\nSartre dealt with existentialist themes in his 1938 novel \"Nausea\" and the short stories in his 1939 collection \"The Wall\", and had published his treatise on existentialism, \"Being and Nothingness\", in 1943, but it was in the two years following the liberation of Paris from the German occupying forces that he and his close associates—Camus, Simone de Beauvoir, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, and others—became internationally famous as the leading figures of a movement known as existentialism. In a very short period of time, Camus and Sartre in particular became the leading public intellectuals of post-war France, achieving by the end of 1945 \"a fame that reached across all audiences.\" Camus was an editor of the most popular leftist (former French Resistance) newspaper \"Combat\"; Sartre launched his journal of leftist thought, \"Les Temps Modernes\", and two weeks later gave the widely reported lecture on existentialism and secular humanism to a packed meeting of the Club Maintenant. Beauvoir wrote that \"not a week passed without the newspapers discussing us\"; existentialism became \"the first media craze of the postwar era.\"\n\nBy the end of 1947, Camus' earlier fiction and plays had been reprinted, his new play \"Caligula\" had been performed and his novel \"The Plague\" published; the first two novels of Sartre's \"The Roads to Freedom\" trilogy had appeared, as had Beauvoir's novel \"The Blood of Others\". Works by Camus and Sartre were already appearing in foreign editions. The Paris-based existentialists had become famous.\n\nSartre had traveled to Germany in 1930 to study the phenomenology of Edmund Husserl and Martin Heidegger, and he included critical comments on their work in his major treatise \"Being and Nothingness\". Heidegger's thought had also become known in French philosophical circles through its use by Alexandre Kojève in explicating Hegel in a series of lectures given in Paris in the 1930s. The lectures were highly influential; members of the audience included not only Sartre and Merleau-Ponty, but Raymond Queneau, Georges Bataille, Louis Althusser, André Breton, and Jacques Lacan. A selection from Heidegger's \"Being and Time\" was published in French in 1938, and his essays began to appear in French philosophy journals.\nHeidegger read Sartre's work and was initially impressed, commenting: \"Here for the first time I encountered an independent thinker who, from the foundations up, has experienced the area out of which I think. Your work shows such an immediate comprehension of my philosophy as I have never before encountered.\" Later, however, in response to a question posed by his French follower Jean Beaufret, Heidegger distanced himself from Sartre's position and existentialism in general in his \"Letter on Humanism\". Heidegger's reputation continued to grow in France during the 1950s and 1960s. In the 1960s, Sartre attempted to reconcile existentialism and Marxism in his work \"Critique of Dialectical Reason\". A major theme throughout his writings was freedom and responsibility.\n\nCamus was a friend of Sartre, until their falling-out, and wrote several works with existential themes including \"The Rebel\", \"Summer in Algiers\", \"The Myth of Sisyphus\", and \"The Stranger\", the latter being \"considered—to what would have been Camus's irritation—the exemplary existentialist novel.\" Camus, like many others, rejected the existentialist label, and considered his works concerned with facing the absurd. In the titular book, Camus uses the analogy of the Greek myth of Sisyphus to demonstrate the futility of existence. In the myth, Sisyphus is condemned for eternity to roll a rock up a hill, but when he reaches the summit, the rock will roll to the bottom again. Camus believes that this existence is pointless but that Sisyphus ultimately finds meaning and purpose in his task, simply by continually applying himself to it. The first half of the book contains an extended rebuttal of what Camus took to be existentialist philosophy in the works of Kierkegaard, Shestov, Heidegger, and Jaspers.\n\nSimone de Beauvoir, an important existentialist who spent much of her life as Sartre's partner, wrote about feminist and existentialist ethics in her works, including \"The Second Sex\" and \"The Ethics of Ambiguity\". Although often overlooked due to her relationship with Sartre, de Beauvoir integrated existentialism with other forms of thinking such as feminism, unheard of at the time, resulting in alienation from fellow writers such as Camus.\n\nPaul Tillich, an important existentialist theologian following Kierkegaard and Karl Barth, applied existentialist concepts to Christian theology, and helped introduce existential theology to the general public. His seminal work \"The Courage to Be\" follows Kierkegaard's analysis of anxiety and life's absurdity, but puts forward the thesis that modern humans must, via God, achieve selfhood in spite of life's absurdity. Rudolf Bultmann used Kierkegaard's and Heidegger's philosophy of existence to demythologize Christianity by interpreting Christian mythical concepts into existentialist concepts.\n\nMaurice Merleau-Ponty, an existential phenomenologist, was for a time a companion of Sartre. Merleau-Ponty's \"Phenomenology of Perception\" (1945) was recognized as a major statement of French existentialism. It has been said that Merleau-Ponty's work \"Humanism and Terror\" greatly influenced Sartre. However, in later years they were to disagree irreparably, dividing many existentialists such as de Beauvoir, who sided with Sartre.\n\nColin Wilson, an English writer, published his study \"The Outsider\" in 1956, initially to critical acclaim. In this book and others (e.g. \"Introduction to the New Existentialism\"), he attempted to reinvigorate what he perceived as a pessimistic philosophy and bring it to a wider audience. He was not, however, academically trained, and his work was attacked by professional philosophers for lack of rigor and critical standards.\n\nStanley Kubrick's 1957 anti-war film \"Paths of Glory\" \"illustrates, and even illuminates...existentialism\" by examining the \"necessary absurdity of the human condition\" and the \"horror of war\". The film tells the story of a fictional World War I French army regiment ordered to attack an impregnable German stronghold; when the attack fails, three soldiers are chosen at random, court-martialed by a \"kangaroo court\", and executed by firing squad. The film examines existentialist ethics, such as the issue of whether objectivity is possible and the \"problem of authenticity\". Orson Welles' 1962 film \" The Trial\", based upon Franz Kafka's book of the same name (Der Process), is characteristic of both existentialist and absurdist themes in its depiction of a man (Joseph K.) arrested for a crime for which the charges are neither revealed to him nor to the reader.\n\n\"Neon Genesis Evangelion\" is a Japanese science fiction animation series created by the anime studio Gainax and was both directed and written by Hideaki Anno. Existential themes of individuality, consciousness, freedom, choice, and responsibility are heavily relied upon throughout the entire series, particularly through the philosophies of Jean-Paul Sartre and Søren Kierkegaard. Episode 16's title, is a reference to Kierkegaard's book, \"The Sickness Unto Death\". Some contemporary films dealing with existentialist issues include \"Melancholia\", \"Fight Club\", \"I Heart Huckabees\", \"Waking Life\", \"The Matrix\", \"Ordinary People\", and \"Life in a Day\". Likewise, films throughout the 20th century such as \"The Seventh Seal\", \"Ikiru\", \"Taxi Driver\", the \"Toy Story\" films, \"The Great Silence\", \"Ghost in the Shell\", \"Harold and Maude\", \"High Noon\", \"Easy Rider\", \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\", \"A Clockwork Orange\", \"Groundhog Day\", \"Apocalypse Now\", \"Badlands\", and \"Blade Runner\" also have existentialist qualities.\nNotable directors known for their existentialist films include Ingmar Bergman, François Truffaut, Jean-Luc Godard, Michelangelo Antonioni, Akira Kurosawa, Terrence Malick, Stanley Kubrick, Andrei Tarkovsky, Hideaki Anno, Wes Anderson, Gaspar Noé, Woody Allen, and Christopher Nolan. Charlie Kaufman's \"Synecdoche, New York\" focuses on the protagonist's desire to find existential meaning. Similarly, in Kurosawa's \"Red Beard\", the protagonist's experiences as an intern in a rural health clinic in Japan lead him to an existential crisis whereby he questions his reason for being. This, in turn, leads him to a better understanding of humanity. The French film, \"Mood Indigo\" (directed by Michel Gondry) embraced various elements of existentialism. The film \"The Shawshank Redemption\", released in 1994, depicts life in a prison in Maine, United States to explore several existentialist concepts.\n\nExistential perspectives are also found in modern literature to varying degrees, especially since the 1920s. Louis-Ferdinand Céline's \"Journey to the End of the Night\" (Voyage au bout de la nuit, 1932) celebrated by both Sartre and Beauvoir, contained many of the themes that would be found in later existential literature, and is in some ways, the proto-existential novel. Jean-Paul Sartre's 1938 novel \"Nausea\" was \"steeped in Existential ideas\", and is considered an accessible way of grasping his philosophical stance. Between 1900 and 1960, other authors such as Albert Camus, Franz Kafka, Rainer Maria Rilke, T.S. Eliot, Herman Hesse, Luigi Pirandello, Ralph Ellison, and Jack Kerouac, composed literature or poetry that contained, to varying degrees, elements of existential or proto-existential thought. The philosophy's influence even reached pulp literature shortly after the turn of the 20th century, as seen in the existential disparity witnessed in Man's lack of control of his fate in the works of H.P. Lovecraft. Since the late 1960s, a great deal of cultural activity in literature contains postmodernist as well as existential elements. Books such as \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\" (1968) (now republished as \"Blade Runner\") by Philip K. Dick, \"Slaughterhouse-Five\" by Kurt Vonnegut, \"Fight Club\" by Chuck Palahniuk and \"Formless Meanderings\" by Bharath Srinivasan all distort the line between reality and appearance while simultaneously espousing existential themes.\n\nJean-Paul Sartre wrote \"No Exit\" in 1944, an existentialist play originally published in French as \"Huis Clos\" (meaning \"In Camera\" or \"behind closed doors\"), which is the source of the popular quote, \"Hell is other people.\" (In French, \"L'enfer, c'est les autres\"). The play begins with a Valet leading a man into a room that the audience soon realizes is in hell. Eventually he is joined by two women. After their entry, the Valet leaves and the door is shut and locked. All three expect to be tortured, but no torturer arrives. Instead, they realize they are there to torture each other, which they do effectively by probing each other's sins, desires, and unpleasant memories.\n\nExistentialist themes are displayed in the Theatre of the Absurd, notably in Samuel Beckett's \"Waiting for Godot\", in which two men divert themselves while they wait expectantly for someone (or something) named Godot who never arrives. They claim Godot is an acquaintance, but in fact, hardly know him, admitting they would not recognize him if they saw him. Samuel Beckett, once asked who or what Godot is, replied, \"If I knew, I would have said so in the play.\" To occupy themselves, the men eat, sleep, talk, argue, sing, play games, exercise, swap hats, and contemplate suicide—anything \"to hold the terrible silence at bay\". The play \"exploits several archetypal forms and situations, all of which lend themselves to both comedy and pathos.\" The play also illustrates an attitude toward human experience on earth: the poignancy, oppression, camaraderie, hope, corruption, and bewilderment of human experience that can be reconciled only in the mind and art of the absurdist. The play examines questions such as death, the meaning of human existence and the place of God in human existence.\n\nTom Stoppard's \"Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead\" is an absurdist tragicomedy first staged at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 1966. The play expands upon the exploits of two minor characters from Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\". Comparisons have also been drawn to Samuel Beckett's \"Waiting For Godot\", for the presence of two central characters who appear almost as two halves of a single character. Many plot features are similar as well: the characters pass time by playing Questions, impersonating other characters, and interrupting each other or remaining silent for long periods of time. The two characters are portrayed as two clowns or fools in a world beyond their understanding. They stumble through philosophical arguments while not realizing the implications, and muse on the irrationality and randomness of the world.\n\nJean Anouilh's \"Antigone\" also presents arguments founded on existentialist ideas. It is a tragedy inspired by Greek mythology and the play of the same name (Antigone, by Sophocles) from the 5th century BC. In English, it is often distinguished from its antecedent by being pronounced in its original French form, approximately \"Ante-GŌN.\" The play was first performed in Paris on 6 February 1944, during the Nazi occupation of France. Produced under Nazi censorship, the play is purposefully ambiguous with regards to the rejection of authority (represented by Antigone) and the acceptance of it (represented by Creon). The parallels to the French Resistance and the Nazi occupation have been drawn. Antigone rejects life as desperately meaningless but without affirmatively choosing a noble death. The crux of the play is the lengthy dialogue concerning the nature of power, fate, and choice, during which Antigone says that she is, \"... disgusted with [the]...promise of a humdrum happiness.\" She states that she would rather die than live a mediocre existence.\n\nCritic Martin Esslin in his book \"Theatre of the Absurd\" pointed out how many contemporary playwrights such as Samuel Beckett, Eugène Ionesco, Jean Genet, and Arthur Adamov wove into their plays the existentialist belief that we are absurd beings loose in a universe empty of real meaning. Esslin noted that many of these playwrights demonstrated the philosophy better than did the plays by Sartre and Camus. Though most of such playwrights, subsequently labeled \"Absurdist\" (based on Esslin's book), denied affiliations with existentialism and were often staunchly anti-philosophical (for example Ionesco often claimed he identified more with 'Pataphysics or with Surrealism than with existentialism), the playwrights are often linked to existentialism based on Esslin's observation.\n\nA major offshoot of existentialism as a philosophy is existentialist psychology and psychoanalysis, which first crystallized in the work of Otto Rank, Freud's closest associate for 20 years. Without awareness of the writings of Rank, Ludwig Binswanger was influenced by Freud, Edmund Husserl, Heidegger, and Sartre. A later figure was Viktor Frankl, who briefly met Freud as a young man. His logotherapy can be regarded as a form of existentialist therapy. The existentialists would also influence social psychology, antipositivist micro-sociology, symbolic interactionism, and post-structuralism, with the work of thinkers such as Georg Simmel and Michel Foucault. Foucault was a great reader of Kierkegaard even though he almost never refers this author, who nonetheless had for him an importance as secret as it was decisive.\n\nAn early contributor to existentialist psychology in the United States was Rollo May, who was strongly influenced by Kierkegaard and Otto Rank. One of the most prolific writers on techniques and theory of existentialist psychology in the USA is Irvin D. Yalom. Yalom states that\n\nAside from their reaction against Freud's mechanistic, deterministic model of the mind and their assumption of a phenomenological approach in therapy, the existentialist analysts have little in common and have never been regarded as a cohesive ideological school. These thinkers—who include Ludwig Binswanger, Medard Boss, Eugène Minkowski, V.E. Gebsattel, Roland Kuhn, G. Caruso, F.T. Buytendijk, G. Bally and Victor Frankl—were almost entirely unknown to the American psychotherapeutic community until Rollo May's highly influential 1985 book \"Existence\"—and especially his introductory essay—introduced their work into this country.\n\nA more recent contributor to the development of a European version of existentialist psychotherapy is the British-based Emmy van Deurzen.\n\nAnxiety's importance in existentialism makes it a popular topic in psychotherapy. Therapists often offer existentialist philosophy as an explanation for anxiety. The assertion is that anxiety is manifested of an individual's complete freedom to decide, and complete responsibility for the outcome of such decisions. Psychotherapists using an existentialist approach believe that a patient can harness his anxiety and use it constructively. Instead of suppressing anxiety, patients are advised to use it as grounds for change. By embracing anxiety as inevitable, a person can use it to achieve his full potential in life. Humanistic psychology also had major impetus from existentialist psychology and shares many of the fundamental tenets. Terror management theory, based on the writings of Ernest Becker and Otto Rank, is a developing area of study within the academic study of psychology. It looks at what researchers claim are implicit emotional reactions of people confronted with the knowledge that they will eventually die.\n\nAlso, Gerd B. Achenbach has refreshed the Socratic tradition with his own blend of philosophical counseling. So did Michel Weber with his Chromatiques Center in Belgium.\n\nWalter Kaufmann criticized 'the profoundly unsound methods and the dangerous contempt for reason that have been so prominent in existentialism.'\nLogical positivist philosophers, such as Rudolf Carnap and A. J. Ayer, assert that existentialists are often confused about the verb \"to be\" in their analyses of \"being\". Specifically, they argue that the verb \"is\" is transitive and pre-fixed to a predicate (e.g., an apple \"is red\") (without a predicate, the word \"is\" is meaningless), and that existentialists frequently misuse the term in this manner. Colin Wilson has stated in his book \"The Angry Years\" that existentialism has created many of its own difficulties: \"we can see how this question of freedom of the will has been vitiated by post-romantic philosophy, with its inbuilt tendency to laziness and boredom, we can also see how it came about that existentialism found itself in a hole of its own digging, and how the philosophical developments since then have amounted to walking in circles round that hole\".\n\nMany critics argue Jean-Paul Sartre's philosophy is contradictory. Specifically, they argue that Sartre makes metaphysical arguments despite his claiming that his philosophical views ignore metaphysics. Herbert Marcuse criticized Sartre's 1943 \"Being and Nothingness\" for projecting anxiety and meaninglessness onto the nature of existence itself: \"Insofar as Existentialism is a philosophical doctrine, it remains an idealistic doctrine: it hypostatizes specific historical conditions of human existence into ontological and metaphysical characteristics. Existentialism thus becomes part of the very ideology which it attacks, and its radicalism is illusory\".\n\nIn \"Letter on Humanism\", Martin Heidegger criticized Sartre's existentialism:\n\nExistentialism says existence precedes essence. In this statement he is taking \"existentia\" and \"essentia\" according to their metaphysical meaning, which, from Plato's time on, has said that \"essentia\" precedes \"existentia\". Sartre reverses this statement. But the reversal of a metaphysical statement remains a metaphysical statement. With it, he stays with metaphysics, in oblivion of the truth of Being.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23428277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23428277", "title": "Eye-gouging (rugby union)", "text": "Eye-gouging (rugby union)\n\nEye-gouging is a serious offence in rugby union where a player uses hands or fingers to inflict pain in an opponent's eyes. The game's laws refer to it as \"contact with eyes or the eye area of an opponent\" but such incidents are usually referred to as \"eye-gouging\" among players and in the media.\n\nThe laws of rugby union, as written by World Rugby, define foul play as: \"\"Anything a player does within the playing enclosure that is against the letter and spirit of the Laws of the Game. It includes obstruction, unfair play, repeated infringements, dangerous play and misconduct which is prejudicial to the Game\".\" Specifically, they state that \"A player must not do anything that is dangerous to the opponent\".\n\nWR Regulations provide for punishment for contact with eyes or the eye area of an opponent.\n\nAlthough this is usually called \"eye-gouging\" by the media, fans and players, the term \"gouging\" is not used in World Rugby's laws or regulations, which do list degrees of gravity of the offence. World Rugby themselves have used the term in a 2009 statement, when the body was known as the International Rugby Board (IRB): \"The IRB are firmly of the view there is no place in rugby for illegal or foul play and the act of eye-gouging is particularly heinous\".\n\nFollowing two separate high-profile test match incidents, involving Schalk Burger and Sergio Parisse, during the same week in June 2009, the IRB stated that it would review the sanction structure for this type of offence \"in order to send out the strongest possible message that such acts will not be tolerated\".\n\nThe regulations provide a scale of seriousness. As of the most recent revision to the regulations in 2016, separate scales are provided for \"contact with the \"eyes\"\" and \"contact with the \"eye area\"\", where the \"eyes\" are defined as all tissues within and covering the orbital cavity, including eyelids, and \"eye area\" covers areas outside the orbital cavity but in close proximity to the eye.\n\n\n\nThe maximum sanction for either is a 156-week (3 year) ban.\n\nIn sevens, bans are officially expressed in numbers of matches instead of weeks, reflecting the schedule of the Sevens World Series for men and women, as well as other major events for sevens teams.\n\nIn the early days of rugby, eye gouging was commonplace and happened mainly in the scrum due to a lack of control by referees and the opportunity the scrum offered for players to commit foul play due to the way the scrum is formed. The rising amount of foul play involving eye gouging eventually lead to the founding of the Rugby Football Union to control rugby and to reduce the amount of foul play. Eye-gouging then began to disappear from the early game as the laws of rugby became stricter due to English public school students starting to play rugby. After then foul play including eye-gouging became largely unspoken of and rugby authorities often ignored complaints of eye-gouging. This was due to authorities expecting players to deal with it themselves as it was claimed to be part of the nature of the game and was often viewed as a joke. In 1992, Richard Loe made contact with Greg Cooper's eyes while playing in the National Provincial Championship and was banned for nine months after a nine-hour deliberation by the New Zealand Rugby Union's judicial committee. This was viewed by observers as a turning point in attitudes towards eye-gouging and punishments for eye-gouging became stricter. According to John Daniell, a New Zealand lock who played for nearly a decade in France, eye gouging is fairly common and considered \"a way of life\" in French rugby, where it is known as \"la fourchette\".\n\nSanctions for eye-gouging have been subject to debate by journalists and commentators, depending on interpretation by presiding disciplinary officers. Punishments in the Northern Hemisphere are seen by some journalists as being harsher than those for similar offenses seen in Southern Hemisphere countries. South African national coach, Peter de Villiers stated he did not believe that an eye-gouging incident for which Schalk Burger was yellow carded merited any punishment.\n\nAs well as many cases involving professional rugby union, the case of Clarence Harding, an amateur player, has received considerable coverage due to the extreme damage caused to his eye. Harding was left without sight in his right eye and can no longer play rugby, and the injury has affected his livelihood and has since had the eye removed due to the pain. Matt Iles, the player alleged to have injured Harding, was found not guilty by the RFU as they could not determine which player was responsible. However, Maidstone RFC were fined £2,000 and deducted 50 points after being found \"guilty of conduct prejudicial to the interests of the game\". The incident was also investigated by Kent Police but no criminal charges were brought against Maidstone or Iles due to insufficient evidence.\n\nOn 2 October 2010, Gavin Quinnell suffered an eye injury during a game between Llanelli and Cross Keys, from which he lost the sight in his left eye. The incident was under investigation by the Welsh Rugby Union and Gwent Police, with the police arresting the perpetrator. However, the Crown Prosecution Service advised against prosecution, leading to the dropping of criminal charges, and the WRU eventually dropped its citing complaint, to the self-described shock of the Quinnell family, one of the most prominent in Welsh rugby.\n\nAn incident in the Rugby World Cup Final on 23 October 2011 led the IRB to reevaluate its disciplinary procedures. France centre Aurélien Rougerie apparently made contact with the eyes of New Zealand captain Richie McCaw, who would later state that he had been \"half-blinded\" for the last few minutes of the match. The original camera angles provided by host broadcaster Sky NZ showed no apparent foul play, and Rougerie was not cited within the 36-hour window allowed by IRB rules at the time. Three days after the match, new Sky NZ footage emerged which showed Rougerie apparently raking his hand across McCaw's eyes. The IRB could not cite Rougerie outside the 36-hour window, and the exception allowed in its rules for \"exceptional circumstances\" did not include the emergence of new evidence. In December 2011 the IRB announced that it would reconsider its procedures to address similar situations in the future.\n\nThis is a list of cases where eye-gouging has been reported to have happened in top national league, European Cup or international level rugby union matches. It is shown in chronological order; international matches are highlighted. Players banned for \"contact with eyes or the eye area of an opponent\" as well as \"eye-gouging\" are included.\n\n Prior to the announcement of the RFU's nine-week ban on 11 April 2011, Cueto had received a six-week ban from his club. The bans ultimately ran concurrently.\n\n"}
{"id": "5063051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5063051", "title": "Forced heirship", "text": "Forced heirship\n\nForced heirship is a form of testate partible inheritance whereby the estate of a deceased (\"de cujus\") is separated into (1) an indefeasible portion, the \"forced estate\" (Germ \"Pflichtteil\", Fr \"réserve\", It, \"legittima\", Sp \"legítima\"), passing to the deceased's next-of-kin (\"conjunctissimi\"), and (2) a discretionary portion, or \"free estate\" (Germ \"frei verfügbare Quote\", Fr \"quotité disponible\", It \"quota disponible\", Sp \"tercio de libre disposición\"), to be freely disposed of by will. Forced heirship is generally a feature of civil-law legal systems which do not recognize total freedom of testation. Normally, the deceased's estate is in-gathered and wound up without discharging liabilities, which means accepting inheritance includes accepting the liabilities attached to inherited property. The forced estate is divided into shares which include the share of issue (legitime or child's share) and the spousal share. This provides a minimum protection that cannot be defeated by will. The free estate, on the other hand, is at the discretion of a testator to be distributed by will on death to whomever he or she chooses. Takers in the forced estate are known as \"forced heirs\" (Germ \"Pflichtteilserben\", \"Noterben\", Fr \"réservataires\", It \"legittimari\", Sp \"herederos forzosos\").\n\nThe expression comes from Louisianan legal language and is ultimately a calque of Spanish \"sucesión forzosa\".\n\nForced heirship laws are most prevalent among civil law jurisdictions and in Islamic countries; these include major countries such as France, Italy, Spain, Saudi Arabia, and Japan. Reckoning shares in instances of multiple or no children and lack of surviving spouse vary from country to country.\n\nAdvocates of forced heirship contend that it is perfectly proper for testators to be required to make adequate provision for their dependants, and that most countries in the world permit wills to be varied where they would leave dependants destitute. Critics suggest that there is a great difference between varying wills to the minimum degree to provide sufficient financial support for dependants, and prohibiting the testator from distributing the estate or a proportion of the estate to any female children, or younger male children, and that it cannot be any less repugnant to force a deceased person to distribute their assets in a certain manner on their death than it would be to tell them how they may do so during their lifetime.\n\nThe institution began as a Germanic custom for intestate inheritance (which was the norm) under which all of a deceased's personalty was divided into thirds—the widow's part, bairns' part, and dead's part—the last of which, consisting of clothes, weapons, farm animals and implements, was usually buried with the deceased. With the adoption of Christian funerary practices, it became common to gift away the dead's part, and after the revival of the will, and consequently of testation, the dead's part came to be freely disposable.\n\nRealty, or heritable property, on the other hand, was originally inherited in joint tenancy, termed gavelkind, and passed on to the kin group as a whole. However, after the household superseded the kin group in importance in the late Middle Ages, preference was given to the deceased's immediate family, specifically any surviving sons, and none could be favored over his siblings. However, gavelkind inheritance gave rise to inter-family rivalries, so primogeniture laws arose in some areas of feudal Europe giving preference to the eldest son in order to stem feuding. Nevertheless, under medieval communal society, family land could not be sold except for cause, and the family essentially had a right of first refusal (\"laudatio parentum\") in any such sale; in some places, this restriction also applied to gifts. \n\nThe family was so favored that in order to keep property within the same family, women—who on marriage in effect joined another family—were accorded very few property rights. Therefore, widows were universally disinherited, though they were varyingly entitled to a dower and/or a terce (or curtesy in the case of widowers), that is, one third of the heritable marital estate. The terce was earliest known as \"tertia collaborationis\" and first appears in the Ripuarian law code, making it also a localized Germanic custom. In the customs of York and London, for example, a widow was entitled both to her widow's part (\"customary share\") and terce (\"widow's chamber\"), the last of which was half—not a third—of the marital estate.\n\nEventually, these elements were all consolidated into the modern form of forced heirship most notably in Revolutionary France, which treated personalty and realty in the same way and applied gavelkind inheritance and the system of thirds to both forms of property. After abandoning dowries and dowers in the 20th century, many European countries created or increased the spousal share to be on par with the share of issue (legitime); Spain is an exception.\n\nIn Louisiana, Civil Code article 1493 dictates that \"Forced heirs are descendants of the first degree who, at the time of the death of the decedent, are twenty-three years of age or younger or descendants of the first degree of any age who, because of mental incapacity or physical infirmity, are permanently incapable of taking care of their persons or administering their estates at the time of the death of the decedent\". If they are not disinherited (LCC art. 1494) they qualify as forced heirs. The disinherison must be made expressly and for one of eight just causes; otherwise, it is null (LCC art. 1621). The legitime is equal to 25% of the patrimony (if one forced heir); or 50% (if more than one); and each forced heir will receive the lesser of an equal proportion of the legitime or what they would have received through intestacy (LCC art. 1495, Succession of Greenlaw). If a person who would have otherwise qualified as a forced heir dies before the parent, rights to that share may pass to that person's children, although how that share is distributed among them if one or more is an interdict remains unsettled law. Forced heirs may demand collation, whereby certain gifts received by any successor in the three years before the death of the parent may be subtracted from their share. Louisiana does not have a forced heirship provision for spouses, however at death the spouse's interest in any community property is converted to his or her separate property; and a usufruct is granted over the remaining community (with the forced heirs as naked owners of their respective shares). That usufruct terminates at death or remarriage.\n\nWealthy individuals in the U.S. sometimes seek to circumvent forced heirship laws by transferring assets into an offshore company and seeking to settle the shares in the offshore company in a trust governed by the laws of a jurisdiction outside their domicile.\n\nSuccession of Lauga (1993) 624 So.2d 1156 say Art 1493 is unconstitutional so the 23 year age limit does not apply. The Louisiana Constitution was subsequently amended to overcome the Lauga decision.\n"}
{"id": "11306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11306", "title": "Frame problem", "text": "Frame problem\n\nIn artificial intelligence, the frame problem describes an issue with using first-order logic (FOL) to express facts about a robot in the world. Representing the state of a robot with traditional FOL requires the use of many axioms that simply imply that things in the environment do not change arbitrarily. For example, Hayes describes a \"block world\" with rules about stacking blocks together. In a FOL system, additional axioms are required to make inferences about the environment (for example, that a block cannot change position unless it is physically moved). The frame problem is the problem of finding adequate collections of axioms for a viable description of a robot environment.\n\nJohn McCarthy and Patrick J. Hayes defined this problem in their 1969 article, \"Some Philosophical Problems from the Standpoint of Artificial Intelligence\". In this paper, and many that came after, the formal mathematical problem was a starting point for more general discussions of the difficulty of knowledge representation for artificial intelligence. Issues such as how to provide rational default assumptions and what humans consider common sense in a virtual environment. Later, the term acquired a broader meaning in philosophy, where it is formulated as the problem of limiting the beliefs that have to be updated in response to actions. In the logical context, actions are typically specified by what they change, with the implicit assumption that everything else (the frame) remains unchanged.\n\nThe frame problem occurs even in very simple domains. A scenario with a door, which can be open or closed, and a light, which can be on or off, is statically represented by two propositions formula_1 and formula_2. If these conditions can change, they are better represented by two predicates formula_3 and formula_4 that depend on time; such predicates are called fluents. A domain in which the door is closed and the light off at time 0, and the door opened at time 1, can be directly represented in logic by the following formulae:\n\nThe first two formulae represent the initial situation; the third formula represents the effect of executing the action of opening the door at time 1. If such an action had preconditions, such as the door being unlocked, it would have been represented by formula_8. In practice, one would have a predicate formula_9 for specifying when an action is executed and a rule formula_10 for specifying the effects of actions. The article on the situation calculus gives more details.\n\nWhile the three formulae above are a direct expression in logic of what is known, they do not suffice to correctly draw consequences. While the following conditions (representing the expected situation) are consistent with the three formulae above, they are not the only ones.\n\nIndeed, another set of conditions that is consistent with the three formulae above is:\n\nThe frame problem is that specifying only which conditions are changed by the actions does not entail that all other conditions are not changed. This problem can be solved by adding the so-called “frame axioms”, which explicitly specify that all conditions not affected by actions are not changed while executing that action. For example, since the action executed at time 0 is that of opening the door, a frame axiom would state that the status of the light does not change from time 0 to time 1:\n\nThe frame problem is that one such frame axiom is necessary for every pair of action and condition such that the action does not affect the condition. In other words, the problem is that of formalizing a dynamical domain without explicitly specifying the frame axioms.\n\nThe solution proposed by McCarthy to solve this problem involves assuming that a minimal amount of condition changes have occurred; this solution is formalized using the framework of circumscription. The Yale shooting problem, however, shows that this solution is not always correct. Alternative solutions were then proposed, involving predicate completion, fluent occlusion, successor state axioms, etc.; they are explained below. By the end of the 1980s, the frame problem as defined by McCarthy and Hayes was solved. Even after that, however, the term “frame problem” was still used, in part to refer to the same problem but under different settings (e.g., concurrent actions), and in part to refer to the general problem of representing and reasoning with dynamical domains.\n\nThe following solutions depict how the frame problem is solved in various formalisms. The formalisms themselves are not presented in full: what is presented are simplified versions that are sufficient to explain the full solution.\n\nThis solution was proposed by Erik Sandewall, who also defined a formal language for the specification of dynamical domains; therefore, such a domain can be first expressed in this language and then automatically translated into logic. In this article, only the expression in logic is shown, and only in the simplified language with no action names.\n\nThe rationale of this solution is to represent not only the value of conditions over time, but also whether they can be affected by the last executed action. The latter is represented by another condition, called occlusion. A condition is said to be \"occluded\" in a given time point if an action has been just executed that makes the condition true or false as an effect. Occlusion can be viewed as “permission to change”: if a condition is occluded, it is relieved from obeying the constraint of inertia.\n\nIn the simplified example of the door and the light, occlusion can be formalized by two predicates formula_12 and formula_13. The rationale is that a condition can change value only if the corresponding occlusion predicate is true at the next time point. In turn, the occlusion predicate is true only when an action affecting the condition is executed.\n\nIn general, every action making a condition true or false also makes the corresponding occlusion predicate true. In this case, formula_19 is true, making the antecedent of the fourth formula above false for formula_20; therefore, the constraint that formula_21 does not hold for formula_20. Therefore, formula_1 can change value, which is also what is enforced by the third formula.\n\nIn order for this condition to work, occlusion predicates have to be true only when they are made true as an effect of an action. This can be achieved either by circumscription or by predicate completion. It is worth noticing that occlusion does not necessarily imply a change: for example, executing the action of opening the door when it was already open (in the formalization above) makes the predicate formula_24 true and makes formula_1 true; however, formula_1 has not changed value, as it was true already.\n\nThis encoding is similar to the fluent occlusion solution, but the additional predicates denote change, not permission to change. For example, formula_27 represents the fact that the predicate formula_1 will change from time formula_29 to formula_30. As a result, a predicate changes if and only if the corresponding change predicate is true. An action results in a change if and only if it makes true a condition that was previously false or vice versa.\n\nThe third formula is a different way of saying that opening the door causes the door to be opened. Precisely, it states that opening the door changes the state of the door if it had been previously closed. The last two conditions state that a condition changes value at time formula_29 if and only if the corresponding change predicate is true at time formula_29. To complete the solution, the time points in which the change predicates are true have to be as few as possible, and this can be done by applying predicate completion to the rules specifying the effects of actions.\n\nThe value of a condition after the execution of an action can be determined by\nthe fact that the condition is true if and only if:\n\n\nA successor state axiom is a formalization in logic of these two facts. For\nexample, if formula_38 and formula_39 are two\nconditions used to denote that the action executed at time formula_29 was\nto open or close the door, respectively, the running example is encoded as\nfollows.\n\nThis solution is centered around the value of conditions, rather than the\neffects of actions. In other words, there is an axiom for every condition,\nrather than a formula for every action. Preconditions to actions (which are not\npresent in this example) are formalized by other formulae. The successor state\naxioms are used in the variant to the situation calculus proposed by\nRay Reiter.\n\nThe fluent calculus is a variant of the situation calculus. It solves the frame problem by using first-order logic\nterms, rather than predicates, to represent the states. Converting\npredicates into terms in first-order logic is called reification; the\nfluent calculus can be seen as a logic in which predicates representing the\nstate of conditions are reified.\n\nThe difference between a predicate and a term in first-order logic is that a term is a representation of an object (possibly a complex object composed of other objects), while a predicate represents a condition that can be true or false when evaluated over a given set of terms.\n\nIn the fluent calculus, each possible state is represented by a term obtained by composition of other terms, each one representing the conditions that are true in state. For example, the state in which the door is open and the light is on is represented by the term formula_45. It is important to notice that a term is not true or false by itself, as it is an object and not a condition. In other words, the term formula_45 represent a possible state, and does not by itself mean that this is the current state. A separate condition can be stated to specify that this is actually the state at a given time, e.g., formula_47 means that this is the state at time formula_48.\n\nThe solution to the frame problem given in the fluent calculus is to specify the effects of actions by stating how a term representing the state changes when the action is executed. For example, the action of opening the door at time 0 is represented by the formula:\n\nThe action of closing the door, which makes a condition false instead of true, is represented in a slightly different way:\n\nThis formula works provided that suitable axioms are given about formula_51 and formula_52, e.g., a term containing the same condition twice is not a valid state (for example, formula_53 is always false for every formula_54 and formula_29).\n\nThe event calculus uses terms for representing fluents, like the fluent calculus, but also has axioms constraining the value of fluents, like the successor state axioms. In the event calculus, inertia is enforced by formulae stating that a fluent is true if it has been true at a given previous time point and no action changing it to false has been performed in the meantime. Predicate completion is still needed in the event calculus for obtaining that a fluent is made true only if an action making it true has been performed, but also for obtaining that an action had been performed only if that is explicitly stated.\n\nThe frame problem can be thought of as the problem of formalizing the principle that, by default, \"everything is presumed to remain in the state in which it is\" (Leibniz, \"An Introduction to a Secret Encyclopædia\", \"c\". 1679). This default, sometimes called the \"commonsense law of inertia\", was expressed by Raymond Reiter in default logic:\n\n(if formula_57 is true in situation formula_54, and it can be assumed that formula_57 remains true after executing action formula_60, then we can conclude that formula_57 remains true).\n\nSteve Hanks and Drew McDermott argued, on the basis of their Yale shooting example, that this solution to the frame problem is unsatisfactory. Hudson Turner showed, however, that it works correctly in the presence of appropriate additional postulates.\n\nThe counterpart of the default logic solution in the language of answer set programming is a rule with strong negation:\n\n(if formula_63 is true at time formula_64, and it can be assumed that formula_63 remains true at time formula_66, then we can conclude that formula_63 remains true).\n\nAction description languages elude the frame problem rather than solving it. An action description language is a formal language with a syntax that is specific for describing situations and actions. For example, that the action formula_68 makes the door open if not locked is expressed by:\n\nThe semantics of an action description language depends on what the language can express (concurrent actions, delayed effects, etc.) and is usually based on transition systems.\n\nSince domains are expressed in these languages rather than directly in logic, the frame problem only arises when a specification given in an action description logic is to be translated into logic. Typically, however, a translation is given from these languages to answer set programming rather than first-order logic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42145760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42145760", "title": "George Allen (Australian footballer)", "text": "George Allen (Australian footballer)\n\nGeorge Leslie Allen (born 13 May 1948, died 21 March 1971) was an Australian rules footballer who played with Sunshine in the Victorian Football Association. He was a prolific goalkicker during his brief career, but he died suddenly during a preseason game at the age of 22.\n\nAllen played his entire career with the Sunshine Football Club in the VFA. After playing some Under-16s football with the club from as early as 1961, he became a permanent member of the club's Thirds (Under-19s) team in 1966, where he kicked 98 goals to be the VFA Thirds Division 2 leading goalkicker. The following year, aged 18, he played for the Seconds, and was again the VFA's Division 2 leading goalkicker.\n\nHe played his first two senior games for Sunshine in 1967, and another eight games in 1968, before becoming a permanent member of the senior team in 1969. He immediately established himself as one of the Association's best full forwards, and he was the VFA's Division 2 leading goalkicker in each of 1969 and 1970, kicking 99 and 80 goals respectively – to give him a total of four leading goalkicker awards, across different grades, in just five seasons. In his senior career, he played 49 games and kicked 214 goals.\n\nOn Sunday 21 March, late in the first quarter of a pre-season practice match between Sunshine and Benalla in Benalla, Allen suddenly collapsed and died on the field. He had crashed heavily to the ground on his side in a marking contest a few minutes earlier, but had returned to full forward and shown no ill-effects from the contest until his collapse. He was 22 years old.\n\nOutside football, Allen worked in the Newport Workshops.\n"}
{"id": "51302033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51302033", "title": "Guilt trip", "text": "Guilt trip\n\nA guilt trip is a feeling of guilt or responsibility, especially an unjustified one induced by someone else. Creating a guilt trip in another person may be considered to be psychological manipulation in the form of punishment for a perceived transgression. Guilt trips are also considered to be a form of passive aggression. \n\nThe victim may be reminded of something bad they did, made to feel guilty about it and then given an option to escape that guilt. The option will depend on what the manipulator wants them to do. People often feel obliged to comply with guilt trip demands as a way of receiving others' approval.\n\nGeorge K. Simon interprets the guilt trip as a special kind of intimidation tactic. A manipulator suggests to the conscientious victim that he or she does not care enough, is too selfish or has it easy. This usually results in the victim feeling bad, keeping them in a self-doubting, anxious and submissive position.\n\nThe first known published use of the term is in 1967.\n\nThere are limited studies examining guilt trips and those studies tend to focus on guilt trips \nin parent-child relationships.\n\nThree types of guilt trip are proposed:\n\nAcademic articles\n\nBooks\n\n"}
{"id": "3231599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3231599", "title": "HMS Black Prince (1904)", "text": "HMS Black Prince (1904)\n\nHMS Black Prince was a armoured cruiser built for the Royal Navy in the mid-1900s. She was stationed in the Mediterranean when the First World War began and participated in the pursuit of the German battlecruiser and light cruiser . After the German ships reached Ottoman waters, the ship was sent to the Red Sea in mid-August to protect troop convoys arriving from India and to search for German merchant ships. After capturing two ships, \"Black Prince\" was transferred to the Grand Fleet in December 1914 and was sunk during the Battle of Jutland on 1 June 1916, with the loss of all hands.\n\nTwo armoured cruisers of a new design, \"Duke of Edinburgh\" and \"Black Prince\", the latter named for Edward, the Black Prince, were ordered for the Royal Navy as part of the 1902–03 Naval Estimates. They were the first ships to be designed for the Royal Navy under the supervision of the new Director of Naval Construction, Sir Philip Watts. The new design was significantly larger than the previous and -class cruisers, mounting a heavier main armament of six guns in single turrets.\n\n\"Black Prince\" displaced as built and fully loaded. The ship had an overall length of , a beam of and a draught of . She was powered by four-cylinder triple-expansion steam engines, driving two shafts, which produced a total of and gave a maximum speed of . The engines were powered by 20 Babcock & Wilcox water-tube boilers and six cylindrical boilers. The ship carried a maximum of of coal and an additional of fuel oil that was sprayed on the coal to increase its burn rate. At full capacity, she could steam for at a speed of . The ship's complement was 789 officers and enlisted men.\n\nHer main armament consisted of six BL 9.2-inch Mk X guns in single turrets, two on the centreline and two on each beam, giving a broadside of four 9.2 in guns. Her secondary armament of ten BL 6-inch Mark XI guns was arranged in single casemates. They were mounted amidships on the main deck and were only usable in calm weather. Twenty Vickers QF 3-pounders were fitted, six on turret roofs and fourteen in the superstructure. The ship also mounted three submerged 18-inch torpedo tubes.\n\n\"Black Prince\" was laid down on 3 June 1903 at the Thames Ironworks and Shipbuilding Company's shipyard at Blackwall, London. She was launched on 8 November 1904 and completed on 17 March 1906. When completed, \"Black Prince\" served with the 2nd Squadron until 1907, the 1st Cruiser Squadron from 1907–1908, the 5th Cruiser Squadron (as part of the Atlantic Fleet) from 1908–1912 and the Third from 1912–1913.\n\nAt the beginning of the First World War, \"Black Prince\" was one of the four armoured cruisers serving in the 1st Cruiser Squadron of the Mediterranean Fleet, commanded by Rear-Admiral Ernest Charles Thomas Troubridge. She participated in the pursuit of \"Goeben\" and \"Breslau\". Following the escape of the two German ships to neutral Turkey, \"Black Prince\" and \"Duke of Edinburgh\" were sent into the Red Sea to search for German merchant ships, with \"Black Prince\" capturing the German ocean liners \"Südmark\" and \"Istria\". On 6 November, she was ordered to Gibraltar to join a squadron of French and British ships to search for German warships still at sea off the African coast. This was cancelled on 19 November after the location of the German East Asia Squadron was revealed by survivors of the Battle of Coronel. \"Black Prince\" joined the Grand Fleet in December 1914 and was assigned to the 1st Cruiser Squadron under Rear-Admiral Sir Robert Keith Arbuthnot.\n\n\"Black Prince\" was modified in March 1916 as a result of lessons learned at the Battle of Coronel, with the 6-inch guns removed from their casemates and replaced by six 6-inch guns mounted individually behind shields between the beam 9.2-inch turrets.\n\nThe ship participated in the Battle of Jutland, where she was sunk with heavy loss of life. The circumstances under which she sank were mysterious for some years after. As the British had lost contact and did not see the ship destroyed, they were unsure as to whether a submarine or surface ship was responsible for sinking \"Black Prince\". During the battle, the 1st Cruiser Squadron was deployed as part of a screening force several miles ahead of the main force of the Grand Fleet, but \"Black Prince\" lost contact with the rest of the Squadron as it came into contact with German forces, at about 17:42. Soon after, two other members of the 1st Cruiser Squadron, and , were heavily engaged by German battleships and battlecruisers, with \"Defence\" blowing up and \"Warrior\" receiving heavy damage, which later caused her to sink.\n\nThere were no positive sightings of \"Black Prince\" by the British fleet after that, although a wireless signal from her was received at 20:45, reporting a submarine sighting. During the night of 31 May–1 June, the British destroyer , badly damaged after colliding with the German battleship , sighted what appeared to be a German battlecruiser, with two widely spaced funnels, described as being \"...a mass of fire from foremast to mainmast, on deck and between decks. Flames were issuing out of her from every corner.\" The mystery ship exploded at about midnight. It was later thought that the burning ship may have been \"Black Prince\", with the two midships funnels having collapsed or been shot away.\n\nRecent historians, however, hold to the German account of the ship's sinking. \"Black Prince\" briefly engaged the German battleship at about 23:35 GMT, scoring two hits with 6-inch shells. Separated from the rest of the British fleet, \"Black Prince\" approached the German lines shortly after midnight. She turned away from the German battleships, but it was too late. The German battleship fixed \"Black Prince\" in her searchlights and opened fire. Up to five other German ships, including the battleships , , and , joined in the bombardment, with return fire from \"Black Prince\" being ineffective. Most of the German ships were between of \"Black Prince\" — effectively point-blank range for contemporary naval gunnery. The ship was hit by at least twelve heavy shells and several smaller ones, sinking within 15 minutes. There were no survivors from her crew, all 857 being killed.\n\nThe wrecksite is designated as a \"protected place\" under the Protection of Military Remains Act 1986.\n\nIn the first episode of Series 4 of the SBS-TV (Australia) series \"Who Do You Think You Are?\", Australian writer-actor-comedian Shaun Micallef discovered that his great-grandfather Giovanni (John) Micallef, a steward on \"Black Prince\", was among those killed.\n\n"}
{"id": "22659964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22659964", "title": "Henry Baker (cricketer)", "text": "Henry Baker (cricketer)\n\nHenry Stephen Baker (26 December 1904 – 7 November 1926) was an Australian-born New Zealand cricketer who played for Otago. He was born in Melbourne and died in Dunedin.\n\nBaker made a single first-class appearance for the side, during the 1925-26 season, against Canterbury. From the lower-middle order, Baker scored 2 runs in the first innings in which he batted, and a duck in the second, as Otago lost the match by an innings margin.\n\nHe lived in the Dunedin suburb of Kensington, and worked as a factory hand. He died at the age of 21, less than 12 months after his only first-class appearance. He drowned while swimming off Tomahawk beach in Dunedin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "526827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526827", "title": "Kalanchoe", "text": "Kalanchoe\n\nKalanchoe , or kal-un-KOH-ee, or kal-un-kee, also written \"Kalanchöe\" or \"Kalanchoë\", is a genus of about 125 species of tropical, succulent flowering plants in the family Crassulaceae, mainly native to Madagascar and tropical Africa. Kalanchoe was one of the first plants to be sent into space, sent on a resupply to the Soviet Salyut 1 space station in 1971.\n\nMost are shrubs or perennial herbaceous plants, but a few are annual or biennial. The largest, \"Kalanchoe beharensis\" from Madagascar, can reach tall, but most species are less than tall.\n\nKalanchoes are characterized by opening their flowers by growing new cells on the inner surface of the petals to force them outwards, and on the outside of the petals to close them. Kalanchoe flowers are divided into 4 sections with 8 stamens. The petals are fused into a tube, in a similar way to some related genera such as \"Cotyledon\".\n\nThe genus was first described by the botanist Michel Adanson in 1763. Adanson cited Camellus as his source for the name. the name came from the Chinese name \"Kalanchauhuy\".\n\nKamel's species was most likely \"Kalanchoe ceratophylla\" as he describes the plant as having deeply divided leaves. \"Kalanchoe ceratophylla\" is called 伽蓝菜 (apparently 'Buddhist temple herb') in China, not very close in pronunciation: \"qiélán cài\" or \"jia lan cai\" depending on the romanisation (but the Cantonese 'gaa laam choi' may be closer). The genus Bryophyllum was described by Salisbury in 1806 and the genus Kitchingia was created by Baker in 1881. \"Kitchingia\" is now regarded as a synonym for \"Kalanchoe\", whereas some botanists treat \"Bryophyllum\" as a separate genus.\n\nThe genus is predominantly native to the Old World. \nOnly one species of this genus originates from the Americas, 56 from southern and eastern Africa and 60 species in Madagascar. It is also found in south-eastern Asia and China.\n\nThese plants are the food plant of the caterpillars of Red Pierrot butterfly. The butterfly lays its eggs on phylloclades, and after hatching, caterpillars burrow into phylloclades and eat their inside cells.\n\nThese plants are cultivated as ornamental houseplants and rock or succulent garden plants. This plant is known to the Chinese as \"10,000 purple 1,000 red\" (萬紫千紅, wànzǐqiānhóng), and is commonly purchased during the Lunar Calendar New Year for decorative purposes. They are popular because of their ease of propagation, low water requirements, and wide variety of flower colors typically borne in clusters well above the phylloclades. The section \"Bryophyllum\"—formerly an independent genus—contains species such as the \"air-plant\" \"Kalanchoe pinnata\". In these plants, new individuals develop vegetatively as plantlets, also known as bulbils or gemmae, at indentations in phylloclade margins. These young plants eventually drop off and take root. No males have been found of one species of this genus which does flower and produce seeds, and it is commonly called the mother of thousands: \"Kalanchoe daigremontiana\" is thus an example of asexual reproduction.\n\nThe cultivars ‘Tessa’ and ‘Wendy’ have gained the Royal Horticultural Society’s Award of Garden Merit.\n\nIn common with other Crassulaceae (such as the genera \"Tylecodon\", \"Cotyledon\" and \"Adromischus\"), some \"Kalanchoe\" species contain bufadienolide cardiac glycosides which can cause cardiac poisoning, particularly in grazing animals. This is a particular problem in the native range of many \"Kalanchoe\" species in the Karoo region of South Africa, where the resulting animal disease is known as krimpsiekte (shrinking disease) or as cotyledonosis. Similar poisonings have also occurred in Australia.\n\nIn traditional medicine, \"Kalanchoe\" species have been used to treat ailments such as infections, rheumatism and inflammation. \"Kalanchoe\" extracts also have immunosuppressive effects. \"Kalanchoe pinnata\" has been recorded in Trinidad and Tobago as being used as a traditional treatment for hypertension.\n\nA variety of bufadienolide compounds have been isolated from various \"Kalanchoe\" species. Five different bufadienolides have been isolated from \"Kalanchoe daigremontiana\". Two of these, daigremontianin and bersaldegenin 1,3,5-orthoacetate, have been shown to have a pronounced sedative effect. They also have the strong positive inotropic effect associated with cardiac glycosides, and with greater doses an increasing effect on the central nervous system.\n\nBufadienolide compounds isolated from \"Kalanchoe pinnata\" include bryophillin A which showed strong anti-tumor promoting activity, and bersaldegenin-3-acetate and bryophillin C which were less active. Bryophillin C also showed insecticidal properties.\n\n"}
{"id": "1220156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1220156", "title": "Leopold III, Duke of Austria", "text": "Leopold III, Duke of Austria\n\nLeopold III (1 November 1351 – 9 July 1386), known as the Just, a member of the House of Habsburg, was Duke of Austria from 1365. As head and progenitor of the Leopoldian line, he ruled over the Inner Austrian duchies of Carinthia, Styria and Carniola as well as the County of Tyrol and Further Austria from 1379 until his death.\n\nBorn in Vienna, Leopold was a younger son of Duke Albert II of Austria (thereby a grandson of King Albert I of Germany), and younger brother of the Dukes Rudolf IV and Albert III. His mother, Joanna of Pfirt, a daughter of Princess Joanna of Burgundy, was 51 when she gave birth to him and died shortly after. Upon the death of Albert II, his eldest son Rudolf IV, called the Founder, assumed the rule over the Habsburg dominions, despite the regulations on a joint rule left by his father. Nevertheless, on 18 November 1364 he promulgated his own house law (\"Rudolfinische Hausordnung\"), according to which the Austrian \"hereditary lands\" were again declared a common possession of the brothers, though the eldest received a number of additional rights.\n\nAfter Rudolf's death on 27 July 1365, Albert III and Leopold (their elder brother Friedrich had died in 1362) assumed the rule over the Habsburg lands, with Albert taking the additional rights as eldest. While Albert ruled, Leopold became a general leading Habsburg troops in battle. In 1368 he defeated a Bavarian incursion into Tirol, bringing all of Tirol under Habsburg authority in 1370. In 1372 Leopold broke with his brother over rights, prestige and income that he felt he was owed. On 25 July 1373 the brothers signed a peace treaty which granted Leopold control over Tirol, Further Austria and Carniola while income would be split between the dukes. In 1375 their relative Enguerrand VII de Coucy led a mercenary army into Alsace and Switzerland to capture the Habsburg possessions of Sundgau, Breisgau and the county of Ferrette in the Gugler war of 1375. After Leopold was unable to defeat his cousin, he retreated to Breisach on the Rhine. A coalition of Swiss cities then attacked and drove the Gugler army out of their country and ended the war.\n\nBy 1375 Leopold had inherited the former Gorizia possessions in the Windic March, White Carniola, Friuli and Istria and the city of Feldkirch in Vorarlberg. On 6 Aug 1376 he was granted the right to make alliances with foreign rulers. In 1377 Albert traveled to Prussia for about five months, leaving Leopold in charge of all the Habsburg lands. During this time, Leopold signed a peace treaty with one of his brother's bitterest rivals, Heinrich von Schaunberg. When on 7 July 1379 he and Albert III signed the Treaty of Neuberg, Leopold became the exclusive ruler of Styria (then including Wiener Neustadt), Carinthia, Carniola, Tyrol and the Further Austrian lands in Swabia. In 1382 he was granted the city of Trieste as part of his payment for defeating Venice.\n\nLeopold significantly promoted trade and commerce in the Tyrolean lands, encouraging the development of cities such as Meran. He gained control over the city of Basel in 1376 and could also purchase Laufenburg from his Swabian Habsburg cousins ten years later, however, his further attempts to expand his position in Switzerland failed, when he was killed in the Battle of Sempach.\n\nInitially buried in Königsfelden Monastery, his mortal remains were transferred firstly to St. Blaise Abbey in a solemn ceremony on 14 November 1770, and finally to Saint Paul's Abbey, Carinthia.\n\nHe was married, on 23 February 1365, to Viridis Visconti (1352–1414), second daughter of Barnabò Visconti, Lord of Milan, and Beatrice Regina della Scala. The marriage produced four sons and three daughters including the following:\n\nLeopold was succeeded by his eldest son William who died in 1406. Other sons included Leopold, future Duke of Further Austria, Ernest the Iron, future Duke of Inner Austria, and Frederick, future Duke of Further Austria.\n"}
{"id": "13038009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13038009", "title": "List of fatal cougar attacks in North America", "text": "List of fatal cougar attacks in North America\n\nThis is a list of known or suspected fatal cougar attacks that occurred in North America by decade in chronological order. The cougar is also commonly known as mountain lion, puma, mountain cat, catamount, or panther. The sub-population in Florida is known as the Florida panther.\n\nAt least 20 people in North America were killed by cougars between 1890 and 2011, including seven in California. More than two-thirds of the Canadian fatalities occurred on Vancouver Island in British Columbia. Fatal cougar attacks are extremely rare and occur much less frequently than fatal snake bites, fatal lightning strikes, or fatal bee stings. Children are particularly vulnerable. The majority of the child victims listed here were not accompanied by adults.\n\nAs with many predators, a cougar may attack if cornered, if a fleeing human stimulates their instinct to chase, or if a person \"plays dead.\" Standing still however may cause the cougar to consider a person easy prey. Exaggerating the threat to the animal through intense eye contact, loud shouting, and any other action to appear larger and more menacing, may make the animal retreat. Fighting back with sticks and rocks, or even bare hands, is often effective in persuading an attacking cougar to disengage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23420193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23420193", "title": "Macrobiology", "text": "Macrobiology\n\nMacrobiology is the branch of biology that studies large living organisms (termed Macro organisms) that can be seen by the naked eye. Macrobiology is the opposite of Microbiology.\n\nMacrocosm and Microcosm\n\nMacrocosm and Microcosm is an important concept in Macrobiology. It refers to a vision of cosmos where the part reflects the whole (macrocosm) and vice versa. It is a feature \"present in all esoteric schools of thinking\", according to scholar Pierre A. Riffard. It underlies practices such as astrology, alchemy and sacred geometry.\n\n"}
{"id": "41690520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41690520", "title": "Mike Reed (boxer)", "text": "Mike Reed (boxer)\n\nMike \"Yes Indeed\" Reed (born 12 January 1993) is a twice-defeated American professional boxer from Waldorf, Maryland. Reed campaigns in the super lightweight division and is promoted by Top Rank.\n\nReed was a decorated amateur, winning many National Championships. He won the 2005 National Silver Gloves Championship, the 2009 U.S. Junior National Championship, and the 2011 National Golden Gloves Championship. Reed finished second at the 2010 U.S. National Championships, third at the 2010 National PAL Championships, and fourth at the 2011 U.S. National Championships. Reed was named the 2011 Amateur Boxer of the Year by prominent boxing website Stiff Jab. Reed finished his illustrious amateur career with an impressive record of 90–13.\n\nHe was named 2014 Prospect of the Year by world-renowned blog, Boxing Along the Beltway after a stellar year in which he went 6–0, 2 KOs, defeating two undefeated fighters and signing with the premier promotion in the sport, Top Rank. \n\nAt the age of 24, Mike is a four-year pro. A blue-chip prospect at 140 pounds, Reed has stayed active in the ring and made good progress. He fought six times in 2013, six times in 2014, and five times in 2015. He has gone the full eight-round distance three times, and the full six-round distance five times.\n\n\"All of our matchmakers feel he will be making a big mark on the sport of boxing,\" Top Rank founder and CEO Bob Arum said in a news conference. \"Without much time passing, he will be appearing on the stage in a big televised fight on HBO, or on our pay-per-view events. He is one of the brightest lights in boxing.\" Reed can move and flutter, but he is a banger, a power puncher. Soft-spoken and relaxed off the clock, Reed is confrontational and direct in the ring.\n\nIn his last fight on March 18 in Philadelphia, he won a six-round unanimous decision against Samuel Amoako. Mike consistently outworked Amoako, landed the harder punches, and dominated the fight – scored 60-54 on all three scorecards.\n\nIn his previous fight on November 11 in Las Vegas, Mike won by seventh-round TKO against Rondale Hubbert. Hubbert did his best to see the final bell but ate a vicious right hand that sent him to the canvas. He would rise but Reed forced the stoppage with a left hand at the 1:09 mark.\n\nReed has stepped up his game over his past several fights, hardly a surprise given his rich boxing background. A noted amateur who claimed several titles in compiling a 90-13 record, the southpaw joined a movement of gifted boxers who – in light of major changes in the amateur ranks – opted to turn pro in lieu of making a run for the 2016 U.S. Olympic boxing team.\n\n\"He has gotten better and better each time out over the last year,\" insists Carl Moretti, vice president of operations for Top Rank. \"He has impressed all of us at Top Rank with his steady and consistent performances. Out of the ring, Mike and his dad Buck (Michael “Buck” Pinson) are as professional, respectful people as you’ll ever meet. Both are a great pleasure to work with and promote.\"\n\nAs classy as he is outside the ring, Reed has proven to be a fighter to watch from bell to bell.\n\nNow with a professional record of (21–1 12 KOs), the 23-year-old from Washington, D.C. remains focused on his aspirations of having his name mentioned alongside the iconic World Champions who paved the way for Reed's younger generation.\n\n"}
{"id": "13524800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13524800", "title": "Miles Peter Andrews", "text": "Miles Peter Andrews\n\nMiles Peter Andrews (1742 – 18 July 1814) was an 18th-century English playwright, gunpowder manufacturer and politician who sat in the House of Commons from 1796 to 1814.\n\nAndrews was the son of William Andrews, a drysalter of Watling Street and his wife Catherine Pigou. After helping his father in business in the day time, he was \"accustomed to sally forth in the evening with sword and bag to Ranelagh or some other public place\". He gradually made useful social connections and became a constant companion of Lord Lyttelton. He wrote plays musicals and operas. The first was performed at Drury Lane in 1774. In 1775 the opera diva Ann Cargill aged 15 ran away with him and she then had to be restrained at home by a court order. Andrews had several further plays performed at the Haymarket. Andrews lived in a mansion at Green Park where he entertained the fashionable society of London, and was a member of several clubs.\n\nWith his uncle Frederick Pigou, a director of the British East India Company, Andrews became the owner of an extensive gunpowder factory at Hawley Mills on the River Darent at Dartford, Kent.\nGeorge Colman the Younger described Andrews as \"one of the most persevering poetical pests\", and his plays as \"like his powder mills, particularly hazardous affairs, and in great danger of going off with a sudden and violent explosion\". This was no idle comparison as an explosion occurred in October 1790.\n\nIn 1796 Andrews succeeded Lord Lyttleton as Member of Parliament for Bewdley which he represented until his death in 1814. There is a memorial to him in St James's Church, Piccadilly.\n"}
{"id": "6199049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199049", "title": "Milton the Monster", "text": "Milton the Monster\n\nMilton the Monster, also called The Milton the Monster Show, is an American animated cartoon TV series that ran on ABC from October 9, 1965, to September 8, 1968. It was produced and directed by Hal Seeger.\n\nThe series starred Milton the Monster, a Frankenstein-looking monster with a flat-topped, seemingly hollow head which emitted various quantities of white steam or smoke based on his mood or situation. He was created by mad scientist Professor Montgomery Weirdo and his assistant Count Kook, who lived in a haunted house on Horror Hill. Milton is a smiling, good-natured fellow, thanks to the Professor having used too much \"tincture of tenderness\" as explained in the opening theme of each individual Milton the Monster segment. Milton was created not of individual body parts, but rather in a mold from such liquids as \"essence of terror\" and \"sinister sauce.\" Out of fear of his creation destroying him, Professor Weirdo intended to add just a touch of the aforementioned tincture of tenderness to the mold, but Count Kook bumped the Professor's elbow, resulting in too much of the tincture being added to the mix. Milton's voice, which was based on the southern accent used by Jim Nabors in his television role as Gomer Pyle, was provided by Bob McFadden who also provided voices for Professor Weirdo's resident monsters:\n\n\nProfessor Weirdo's nemesis was Professor Fruitcake, another mad scientist who lived in a castle on an opposite hill. Professor Fruitcake's major creation was Zelda the Zombie. Other characters in the series included Fangenstein, a biker monster apparently inspired by Marlon Brando, his sidekick Abercrombie Zombie, and Professor Weirdo's aunt, the witchy Aunt Hagatha.\n\nOther features on the show included:\n\n\nEpisode 1\n\nEpisode 2\n\nEpisode 3\n\nEpisode 4\n\nEpisode 5\n\nEpisode 6\n\nEpisode 7\n\nEpisode 8\n\nEpisode 9\n\nEpisode 10\n\nEpisode 11\n\nEpisode 12\n\nEpisode 13\n\nEpisode 14\n\nEpisode 15\n\nEpisode 16\n\nEpisode 17\n\nEpisode 18\n\nEpisode 19\n\nEpisode 20\n\nEpisode 21\n\nEpisode 22\n\nEpisode 23\n\nEpisode 24\n\nEpisode 25\n\nEpisode 26\n\nOn March 20, 2007, Shout! Factory released the complete series on a 4-DVD set.\n\n\nKevin Scott Collier. \"Milton the Monster : Horror Hill Epitaph\". CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2018. \n\n"}
{"id": "596874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596874", "title": "Mo Udall", "text": "Mo Udall\n\nMorris King Udall (June 15, 1922 – December 12, 1998) was an American Democratic politician who served as a U.S. Representative from Arizona from May 2, 1961 to May 4, 1991, and was a leading contender for the 1976 Democratic Presidential Nomination. He was noted by many for his independent and liberal views.\n\nIn 1961, Udall won a special election to succeed his brother, Stewart Udall, as the congressman for Arizona's 2nd congressional district. In Congress, the younger Udall became a prominent and popular figure for his independent ways, his leading role in the conservation and environmental protection movements, his key role in reforming Congress and political campaigns, and his pioneering role in opposing the Vietnam War.\n\nUdall sought the Democratic nomination in the 1976 presidential election, but was defeated by Jimmy Carter. He supported Ted Kennedy's strong challenge to Carter in the 1980 Democratic primaries, and Udall delivered the keynote address at the 1980 Democratic National Convention.\n\nHe served as Chairman of the House Interior Committee from 1977 to 1991. Diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1980, Udall resigned from Congress in 1991 as the effects of the disease worsened. He died in 1998. His son, Mark Udall, represented Colorado in the United States Senate from 2009 to 2015, and his nephew Tom Udall is currently the senior United States Senator from New Mexico.\n\nUdall was born and schooled in St. Johns, Arizona—one of six children (\"New York Times\" says three sons, two daughters) of Louisa (née Lee) and Levi Stewart Udall, a lawyer who served as Chief Justice of the Arizona Supreme Court from 1946 to 1960. His mother was a writer keenly interseted in Indian life and culture. His father preached the importance of responsible people entering public service.\n\nHe lost his right eye to a friend's pocket knife at the age of six, while the two were attempting to cut some string, and adequate treatment was delayed because of his family's lack of money at the time, ultimately resulting in the loss of the eye. Udall wore a glass eye for the rest of his life. The loss would later influence his personality and politics.\n\nHe described his early rural/small-town life in the desert as harsh and primitive, in a town where \"everybody worked.\" Noting they had \"no tractors\" he added \"we had horses and plows.\"\n\nUdall attempted to enlist in the United States Army during World War II, and almost succeeded, by covering his glass eye each time he was told to alternate during the eye exam. After he was medically cleared, another potential enlistee complained that he had been medically rejected for flat feet, while Udall had passed with one eye. The examiners retested Udall under closer scrutiny, and he was rejected. Later, medical standards changed and Udall served in the Army, in a non-combat role in the U.S., until the end of the war.\n\nAn official biography at the University of Arizona—his alma mater, where his personal papers are archived—says that \"He entered the United States Army-Air Force as a private in 1942 and was discharged as a captain in 1946, having served in the Pacific Theater.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\" reports that he commanded an all-black squadron for two years, in Louisiana. Udall later claimed \"That really shaped my life,\" claiming that he had \"I fought their fights with them... over local discrimination.\" The \"Times\" adds that he served in the South Pacific and achieved the rank of Captain in the Army Air Corps.\n\nWhile in high school, despite the lost eye, Udall was a star athlete in basketball, and in football as quarterback leading an undefeated team. He also marched in the school band, wrote a political column for the school paper, and took the lead in the school play.\n\nLater, Udall attended the University of Arizona, where he was a star basketball player (team co-captain), President of the Associated Student Government, and a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity.\n\nFor one year following graduation, Udall played professional basketball with the Denver Nuggets during the 1948–49 National Basketball League season. However, neither Udall nor his team performed notably.\n\nAt the same time, he attended the University of Denver school of law, and then returned to the University of Arizona for law school, where he graduated in 1949 with a Juris Doctor (J.D.) law degree.\n\nUdall was a tall (6'5\"), Lincolnesque figure with a self-deprecating wit and easy manner. Because of his wit, columnist James J. Kilpatrick deemed him \"too funny to be president\", which also ended up being the title of his autobiography in the 1980s.\n\nHe once said that his physical stature and one eye kept him from ever having a date in high school, and led to his use of self-deprecating humor to survive.\n\nKnown for his humor, his irreverent and casual style (particularly his colorful western wear and cowboy boots), and his ethics, Udall was summarized by leading political journalist James M. Perry as \"funny, smart, down-to-earth, honest, sassy, patient.\"\n\nRaised Mormon, his spiritual views began to change. He ceased being active in church by the time he returned from military service. While in college, as he read philosophy and history, his discarded his Mormon faith. In particular, he rejected the Mormon teachings of the time (since repealed) that black people were \"cursed.\".\n\nIn 1949 Udall, with his brother, Stewart, started the law firm of Udall & Udall in Tucson, Arizona, practicing law in Tucson until 1961.\n\nUdall also was elected as the Pima County chief deputy attorney (1950-1952) and county attorney (1953-1954). In 1954, though, he failed in a bid to be nominated for a Superior Court judgeship.\n\nHe taught labor law at the University of Arizona law school (1955, 1956), and in 1961, became vice-president of the Arizona Bar Association. Udall co-founded the Bank of Tucson, and the Catalina Savings and Loan Association, and in 1960 became president of Tucson's YMCA.\n\nThroughout his early life, Udall dreamed of public office, but—under pressure from his wife—deferred a Congressional race opportunity to his older brother, Stewart Udall, who won the seat in 1954. His hopes for a seat on the Arizona Supreme Court (where his father had served) were dashed when the seat went to his ultra-conservative uncle, instead.\n\nIn 1961, his brother Stewart Udall, the congressman for , was appointed Secretary of the Interior in the Kennedy administration. Mo Udall won a special election for his brother's vacant seat by only 2,000 votes—with 51% of the vote. He won the seat in his own right in 1962, and was reelected 13 more times. He only faced one other close race, in 1978, when he received 52 percent of the vote. He held the post until his resignation May 4, 1991.\n\nFor his first term, he represented the entire state outside of Maricopa County. After the 1960s round of redistricting, his district was cut back to the southern portion of the state, centered on Tucson. After a mid-decade redistricting ordered as a result of Wesberry v. Sanders, his district absorbed some outer portions of the Phoenix area.\n\nFrom 1977 until his retirement in 1991, Udall chaired the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs (one which he'd served since 1963). He also served as ranking member of the Committee of the Post Office and Civil Service, chairman of the Office of Technology Assessment and was a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs\n\nUdall first gained national political notoriety for a speech October 23, 1967, in Tucson at a major regional civic meeting, with an audience of 2,800—largely civic leaders, mostly supportive of President Johnson's policy on the Vietnam War. Despite their leanings, Udall gave a firm and direct speech calling the nation's involvement in Vietnam \"a mistaken and dangerous road.\" He called for reversing American escalation of the war, and eventual U.S. withdrawal—the first major figure in the U.S. Democratic Party to openly oppose the Democratic President on the war. The speech drew a standing ovation, and reverberated nationwide, drawing national media and political attention, and initiating the Democratic Party's gradual split over the war.\n\nOn labor legislation, however, Udall was less liberal. Though he opposed right-to-work laws that undermined labor unions, his constituents very strongly supported it, so Udall did, too—particularly in a 1965 Congressional vote that labor leaders held against him for years.\n\nOn conservation and environmental protection, Udall's record was mixed—and extreme in both directions—though he is largely credited with being generally a defender of those causes (he first joined the House Interior committee in 1961), particularly as chairman of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs. He fought for environmental protection, and expansion of the National Park System, ushered legislation through Congress absorbing 8 million acres into the federal wilderness system across 20 states, and attempted to restructure the energy industry.\n\nAn important exception was his defense of planned dam-and-reservoir projects in Arizona that threatened to inundate key wilderness areas, including a hydroelectric dam that threatened to flood some of the Grand Canyon. Hostile campaigning by the nation's leading conservation organization, the Sierra Club, led to Udall's bitter fight with them, and the eventual loss of their tax-exempt status, which some have blamed on Udall's complaints about them to the Internal Revenue Service. The projects were eventually abandoned, replaced with coal-fired powerplants that Udall thought more polluting than the dams would have been.\n\nHowever, in the opposite extreme, Udall's \"proudest achievement\" was passage of an Alaska lands bill, permanently preserving 104.3 million acres of extraordinarly scenic wilderness, over the furious opposition of many in Alaska and in the natural resource industries.\n\nIn 1973, Udall was named \"Legislator of the Year\" by the National Wildlife Federation.\n\nHowever, in 1974, his Land Use Bill was defeated—some environmentalists blaming Udall's inability to work the bill effectively on the floor of the House.\n\nFrom the beginning of his work on the Interior committee in 1961, Udall had been interested in limiting the controversial practice of strip mining, blamed for massive destruction of wilderness and extensive environmental damage, particularly across the American West. However, it took several years of wrangling with industry, Congress and administrations (Republican President Gerald R. Ford vetoed the legislation twice), before he was able to pass a limited bill, into law (signed by Democratic President Jimmy Carter), which constrained the strip-mining of coal, and forced the reclamation of millions of acres of strip-mined areas.\n\nUdall helped helped write and pass the Alaska Lands Act of 1980, and landmark 1982 legislation addressing nuclear waste management.\n\nUdall challenged the arcane and Byzantine rules and protocols of the House of Representatives, demanding a reduction in the ability of powerful leaders to covertly control legislation and dominate committees. Udall's efforts eventually led to substantial reform of Congressional rules and operations.\n\nUdall gained early national political notoriety for being the first Congressman in the 20th Century to challenge a sitting Speaker of the House for his seat—going up against Rep. John McCormack, in 1968. Though defeated, Udall tried again two years later, against the House Majority Leader, Hale Boggs—again losing, but shaking the foundations of the House seniority system, which eventually was reformed—largely as a result of the revolt begun by Udall.\n\nLike any freshman Congressman, Udall struggled to adapt to the office during his first term; but in his second term, he responded to the experience by organizing a school for other incoming freshmen Congressman, to teach them the complex and subtle ways of the House of Representatives, and the how to navigate the Washington bureaucracy. To aid this effort, Udall wrote a 1966 guidebook, \"The Job of a Congressman.\"\n\nUdall co-sponsored the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 and was a key factor in its success—the first major campaign-finance reform legislation since 1925—requiring campaign finance reports from candidates. (It later ensnared President Richard Nixon in the Watergate scandal). He also co-sponsored the 1974 Campaign Reform Act, signed by President Ford. He fought for financial disclosure legislation, and disclosed his own finances and tax returns.\n\nReforming Civil service and the U.S. Post Office were a major focus of Udall's efforts in Congress. On the Committee of the Post Office and Civil Service since 1961, he eventually became the ranking member. He attempted to revise pay scales for federal employees and establish merit pay.\n\nUltimately, Udall was one of the principal leaders effecting the first substantial reform of the U.S. civil service system since the 1883 creation of that merit-based government-employment system. The bill created performance incentives for workers in the bureaucracy, and made firing federal workers easier. Though it wasn't his idea (rather a favorite project of President Carter, whom Udall disliked), Udall pushed the bill through Congress, against numerous roadblocks thrown up by federal employees (and by Congressmen representing districts that employed many of them). Udall compromised until getting a consensus bill before the whole House, fighting through additional opposition to success.\n\nUdall sought to change the Post Office Department from a purely governmental agency into a semiprivate organization (today, it is: the U.S. Postal Service), and was a key force in passage of the Postal Regulation Act. (This is probably a misnomer; more likely it was the Postal Reorganization Act of 1970.)\n\nHis childhood eye loss, attributed to poor medical care owing to inadequate family finances, left him with the belief that people should have access to competent medical care regardless of financial condition.\n\nIn 1963, Udall attempted to get cigarettes (and other tobacco) regulated by the Food and Drug Administation (FDA).\n\nOn the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Udall opposed Reagan administration policies towards Central America.\n\nIn 1976, Udall ran for the Democratic nomination for President as a liberal alternative to Jimmy Carter, the former Governor of Georgia. Carter had gone from obscure maverick to front runner after a string of early caucus and primary victories, beginning in Iowa and New Hampshire. At the time of the Wisconsin primary in April, most of the original 10 candidates had dropped out, leaving Udall, Senator Henry \"Scoop\" Jackson of Washington, Governor George Wallace of Alabama, and Carter. Udall looked set to win the primary and as the returns ticked in, it looked like he would win it. This might have slowed down the Carter momentum. Udall was projected the winner, exclaiming \"Oh, how sweet it is\". But as the election night progressed, Carter began chipping away at Udall's lead, eventually going into the lead.\nSome newspapers actually proclaimed Udall the winner because of his lead the night before, not unlike the famous incident in the 1948 presidential election, in which the headlines of the \"Chicago Tribune\" erroneously proclaimed \"Dewey Defeats Truman.\"\n\nCarter's win was by 1%, which was no more than 7,500 votes. He won 37% to Udall's 36%, gaining one more convention delegate than Udall. Despite the small margins, Carter got the headlines and a further boost to his momentum, pulling away from Udall and the other candidates. In the end, Udall finished second in the New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Wisconsin, New York, Michigan, South Dakota, and Ohio primaries, and won the caucuses in his home state of Arizona, while running even with Carter in the New Mexico caucuses. Udall finished a distant second place to Carter at the Democratic National Convention, where his name was placed in nomination by Archibald Cox, and Udall's speech received great applause from his supporters.\n\nDuring the Michigan primary, the Carter campaign had Coleman Young, the mayor of Detroit, accuse Udall of racism for belonging to the LDS church, which at the time, did not allow blacks to serve in the church's priesthood (since changed in 1978 by LDS Church President, Spencer W. Kimball). Udall had been a longtime critic of that church policy, and had ceased being an active member because of it. Carter's subsequent sweeping of the black vote in the Michigan primary was key to his crucial and narrow victory in Michigan.\n\nUdall supported Senator Edward Kennedy's challenge to President Carter in 1980, and Kennedy won the Arizona caucuses, one of only three wins for Kennedy in the west. Udall delivered the keynote speech at the 1980 Democratic convention, which was a typically witty Udall speech. Udall considered running for president again in 1984, but he had been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1980 and his illness kept him on the sidelines. At the convention that summer, Udall introduced his old foe, President Carter.\n\nIn 1992, the US Congress founded the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation. It is an agency of the executive branch of the federal government, and among other functions, gives scholarships to students of environmental policy. In 2009, Congress added Mo's brother, Stewart Udall, into the foundation by renaming it the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation.\n\nFederal funds for Parkinson's research are designated through the Morris K. Udall Parkinson's Disease Research Act of 1997. The legislation funded a national network of \"Centers of Excellence\" to diagnose and treat Parkinson disease patients and to refer patients into research protocols.\n\nIn 1996 Morris received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Clinton.\n\nUdall was married three times. He married Patricia Emery in 1949, with whom he had six children. Udall's first wife, who hated politics, suffered from arthritis and spent much time on a wheelchair. She and Udall rarely saw each other due to his hectic political schedule. By Mo Udall's own account, Pat had become unsatisfied with her life caused by her disinterest in politics and illnesses. Pat was also a high-spirited person who had a tendency to frequently start arguments. Pat Udall suffered emotionally due to the strain of raising six children while struggling with arthritis, and unwilling to undergo psychological counselling due to social stigma, she finally acquiesced and filed for divorce in 1966. Mo Udall, who was opposed to the divorce, did not object to the dissolution of the marriage mainly because he was more focused on politics than his family. She went on to marry and divorce three more times in the seven years following her split from Udall, all of which were brief marriages which she later regretted. Her divorce from Udall did not affect the children much, since they had anyways rarely seen their busy politician father. Both the Udalls later regretted the divorce, explaining that the marriage ended because she failed to get counseling or help and simply acquiesced to pressure and made a poor impulse decision. Pat Udall herself stated that she was \"ashamed\" by her decision to end the marriage. Two years later he married Ella Lee Royston, a marriage that would last until Royston's suicide in 1988. In 1989, he married his third wife, Norma Gilbert, who has two grown daughters and one grown son, and they remained together until his death in 1998. Udall and his first wife, who were not on the best terms after the divorce especially due to the stress caused by her illnesses, eventually reconciled after she recovered and remained close friends for the rest of his life.\n\nUdall's relationship with his children was distant for most of his life. A workaholic, he rarely spent time with his children when they were growing up. His years in retirement were plagued by Parkinson's disease.\n\nMorris Udall's son Mark Udall was elected to the U.S. Congress from Colorado's 2nd district in 1998 and to the U.S. Senate in 2008. His nephew Tom Udall of New Mexico was also elected to the U.S. Senate in 2008, while second cousin Senator Gordon Smith of Oregon was defeated for re-election the same year.\n\nIn Tucson, Arizona, the main post office and a city park are named in his honor.\n\nPoint Udall on Guam, considered the westernmost point of the United States, was named for him in 1987. The easternmost spot, Point Udall, U.S. Virgin Islands, was named for his brother Stewart in 1968. This means that \"America's day ... begin(s) and end(s) at a Point Udall.\"\n\nWith the exception of Udall's first book, his books have been described as \"humorous and informative works.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4131001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4131001", "title": "Pacrat", "text": "Pacrat\n\nPacrat is the name of a software agent designed to simulate basic mammalian responses to the environment, as proposed by M. Johnson and R. Scanlon in a 1987 paper titled \"Experiences with a Feeling-Thinking Machine\". (Proceedings of the IEEE First International Conference on Neural Networks, San Diego, 71-77.)\n\nAccording to Myles Brandon Bogner: \"Pacrat’s actions are driven by eight\nbrain centers: amygdala, cingulate gyrus, hippocampus, hypothalamus, isocortex, medial forebrain bundle, reticular ascending substance, and the thalamus. These brain centers model the functional relationships between mammalian centers\".\n\nThe architecture is intended to simulate a number of emotional and physical states, including fear, anger/frustration, happiness, curiosity, and hunger. The behavior of the agent is dependent on the interplay of these states.\n\nPacrat is discussed in the book Artificial Minds by Stan Franklin, where he states that the designers believe it \"both thinks and feels\". It is compared to Animat, a simpler agent of the same type that is discussed in greater detail.\n\nArtificial Life\n"}
{"id": "58712705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58712705", "title": "Polyandrion", "text": "Polyandrion\n\nThe Polyandrion is the archaeological term for the communal tomb in ancient Greece, where more than one body, usually warriors, are buried. The polyhedron is also called \"δημόσιον σήμα\" (public signal).\n\nFor the marking of polyandrons during the 7th c. BCE, in addition to the form of the toumba in Northern Greece, or the Kouros in ancient times, a large stone or marble tombstone was used, like that of the ancient cemetery of Paros, where for at least two centuries there were hero-cult with offerings and sacrifices to the dead, male warriors.\n\nPolyandria of the 5th c. are known in Attica, Central and Northern Greece, but are scarcely associated with extreme historical conditions. An impressive polyandrion is that of ancient Athens, associated with the early years of the Peloponnesian War and the sudden plague that broke out in the city-state.\n\nThe sequence of the typology of the monuments ended around 317 BCE following the legislation of Demetrios of Phaleron, who banned the rich sculpture demonstration. Athenian citizens were mentioned either with a monument called a \"trapeza\" or with a small pillar. These monuments generally refer to the name of the deceased, the name of his father and the municipality in which the citizen was registered. The simple style of the newer monuments was considered to be an extreme expression of the ideology of isonomia, the fundamental equality of all citizens.\n"}
{"id": "13262417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13262417", "title": "Polyembryony", "text": "Polyembryony\n\nPolyembryony is the phenomenon of two or more embryos developing from a single fertilized egg. Due to the embryos resulting from the same egg, the embryos are identical to one another, but are genetically diverse from the parents. The genetic difference between the offspring and the parents, but the similarity among siblings, are significant distinctions between polyembryony and the process of budding and typical sexual reproduction. Polyembryony can occur in humans, resulting in identical twins, though the process is random and at a low frequency. Polyembryony occurs regularly in many species of vertebrates, invertebrates, and plants.\n\nArmadillos are the most well studied vertebrate that undergoes polyembryony, with six species of armadillo in the genus \"Dasypus\" that are always polyembryonic. The nine banded armadillo, for instance, always gives birth to four identical young. There are two conditions that are expected to promote the evolution of polyembryony: the mother does not know the environmental conditions of her offspring as in the case of parasitoids, or a constraint on reproduction. It is thought that nine banded armadillos evolved to be polyembryonic because of the latter.\n\nA more striking example of the use of polyembryony as a competitive reproductive tool is found in the parasitoid Hymenoptera, family Encyrtidae. The progeny of the splitting embryo develop into at least two forms, those that will develop into adults and those that become a type of soldier, called precocious larvae. These latter larvae patrol the host and kill any other parasitoids they find with the exception of their siblings, usually sisters.\n\nObligately polyembryonic insects fall in two classes: Hymenoptera (certain wasps), and Strepsiptera. From one egg, these insects can produce over thousands of offspring. Polyembryonic wasps from the Hymenoptera group can be further subdivided into four families including Braconidae (\"Macrocentrus\"), Platygasteridae (\"Platygaster\"), Encyrtidae (\"Copidosoma\"), and Dryinidae.\n\nPolyembryony also occurs in Bryozoa. Through recent genotype analysis and molecular data, it has been suggested that polyembryony happens in the entire order Cyclostomata.\n\nThe term is also used in botany to describe the phenomenon of seedlings emerging from one embryo. Around 20 genera of gymnospores undergo polyembryony, termed \"cleavage polyembryony,\" where the original zygote splits into many identical embryos. In some plant taxa, the many embryos of polyembryony eventually gives rise to only a single offspring. The mechanism underlying the phenomenon of a resulting single (or in some cases a few) offspring is described in \"Pinus sylvestris\" to be programmed cell death (PCD), which removes all but one embryo. Originally, all embryos have equal opportunity to develop into full seeds, but during the early stages of development, one embryo becomes dominant through competition, and therefore the now dormant seed, while the other embryos are destroyed through PCD.\n\nThe genus \"Citrus\" has a number of species that undergo polyembryony, where multiple nucellar-cell-derived embryos exist alongside sexually-derived embryos. Antonie van Leeuwenhoek first described polyembryony in 1719 when the seed in \"Citrus\" was observed to have two germinating embryos. In \"Citrus\", polyembryony is genetically controlled by a shared polyembryony locus among the species, determined by single-nucleotide polymorphism in the genotypes sequenced. The variation within the species of citrus is based on the amount of embryos that develop, the impact of the environment, and gene expression. As with other species, due to the many embryos developing in close proximity, competition occurs, which can cause variation in seed success or vigor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2344339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2344339", "title": "Princess Alexandra of Greece and Denmark", "text": "Princess Alexandra of Greece and Denmark\n\nGrand Duchess Alexandra Georgievna of Russia (; \"née\" Princess Alexandra of Greece and Denmark (); 30 August 1870 – 24 September 1891) was the third child and firstborn daughter of King George I and Queen Olga of Greece, who herself was a daughter of a Russian grand duke, and was also a grandchild of Denmark's King Christian IX and Queen Louise. She was a sister to Constantine I of Greece, and thus aunt of three kings and two queens, Constantine's three sons, who all became kings of Greece, and two of his daughters, who were queens, in name, of Romania and Croatia, respectively. She was also first cousin of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia, King George V of the United Kingdom, and both King Haakon VII and Queen Maud of Norway, as well as a paternal aunt of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.\n\nPrincess Alexandra of Greece and Denmark was born on at Mon Repos, the summer residence of the Greek royal family on the island of Corfu. She was the third child and eldest daughter of King George I of Greece and his wife, Grand Duchess Olga Constantinovna of Russia. Alexandra's father was not a native Greek, but he had been born a Danish prince named Christian Wilhelm of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg, a son of Christian IX, King of Denmark, and he had been elected to the Greek throne at the age of seventeen. Thus, the Greek royal family was part of the Danish and it was in a close personal relationship with the British and Russian dynasties since King George's sisters, Alexandra and Dagmar, married the heirs to thrones of England and Russia.\nKing George I of Greece and Queen Olga had eight children. One daughter also named Olga died in childhood, but five sons (Constantine, George, Nicholas, Andrew, Christopher) and two daughters (Alexandra and Maria) reached adulthood.\n\nThe Greek royal family was not wealthy by royal standards and they lived with simplicity. King George was a taciturn man, but contrary to the general approach of the time, he believed in happy rambunctious children. The long corridors of the royal place in Athens were used by Alexandra and her siblings for biking, rollerblading, skateboarding, and sometimes a \"bike ride\" led by the King himself. Raised by British nannies, English was the children's first language, but they spoke Greek between themselves. They also learned German and French.\n\nAlexandra, nickname \"Aline\" within her family, or Greek Alix, to distinguish her from her aunt and godmother, Alexandra, Princess of Wales, had a sunny disposition and was much loved by her family. \"She had one of those sweet and lovable natures that endeared her to everybody who came in touch with her,\" recalled her brother Prince Nicholas of Greece. \"She looked young and beautiful, and ever since she was a child, life looked as it had nothing but joy and happiness in store for her.\"\n\nAlexandra's playmates were her brother Nicholas and her sister Maria, who followed her in age. Alexandra spent many holidays in Denmark visiting her paternal grandparents. In Denmark, Alexandra and her siblings met their Russian and British cousins in large family gatherings.\n\nWhen she was eighteen years old, she was married to Grand Duke Paul Alexandrovich of Russia, her maternal first cousin once removed and the youngest child and sixth son of Emperor Alexander II and his first wife, Princess Marie of Hesse and by Rhine. They had become close when Grand Duke Paul spent winters in Greece due to his frequent respiratory illnesses. The Greek royal family also frequently spent holidays with the Romanov family on visits to Russia or Denmark. Their engagement was announced on 10 November 1888. The wedding took place on in St. Petersburg, at the chapel of the Winter Palace.\n\nThey had two children:\n\n\nSeven months into her second pregnancy, Alexandra took a walk with her friends on the bank of the Moskva River and jumped directly into a boat that was permanently moored there, but fell as she got in. The next day, she collapsed in the middle of a ball from violent labour pains. She gave birth to her son, Dimitri, lapsed into a fatal coma, and she died six days later in the Romanovs' estate Ilyinskoe near Moscow. The Grand Duchess was buried in the Peter and Paul Cathedral, St. Petersburg. Her grieving husband had to be restrained from throwing himself into the grave with her.\n\nHer husband later morganatically remarried Olga Karnovich, and her son would be involved in the murder of Grigori Rasputin, a favorite of Tsarina Alexandra Feodorvna, in 1916.\n\nIn 1939 when Alexandra's nephew George II of Greece was reigning, the Greek government obtained a permission from the Soviet government under Joseph Stalin to rebury Princess Alexandra in Greece. Her body was removed from the vault in Leningrad and transferred by a Greek ship to Athens. It was finally laid to rest near the Tatoi Palace. Alexandra's marble tombstone over an empty tomb is still in its place in the Peter and Paul Cathedral.\n\nThe \"\"Alexandra Maternity Hospital\" (now \"Alexandra General Hospital\"\") in Athens was later named in her memory by another nephew, King Paul; it was affiliated with the University of Athens with a special remit to research and combat postpartum maternal mortality. Alexandras Avenue in Athens was also named after her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25465863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25465863", "title": "Reliance Institute of Life Sciences", "text": "Reliance Institute of Life Sciences\n\nReliance Institute of Life Sciences (RILS), established by Dhirubhai Ambani Foundation, is an institution of higher education in various fields of life sciences and related technologies.\n\nThe Reliance Institute of Life Sciences (RILS) is an educational institution offering higher learning in various domains of life sciences and related technologies. Established by the Dhirubhai Ambani Foundation, it is said to be India’s pioneer institute in offering graduate, post-graduate, doctoral, research and continuing education programs in several emerging areas of science and technology.\n\nThe institute offers training in specific areas of fundamental and applied research, including basic and applied sciences, agriculture and environment sciences, process development and manufacturing sciences, clinical research and science and engineering courses in the computer, biomedical and pharmaceutical fields.\n\nThe institute is headed by its Chairman, business magnate, Mukesh Ambani. Vice-chairman K. V. Subramaniam, Director Dr. Arnab Kapat and executive members Prof. Arvind Kudchadker, Dilip Kumar Ghosh and Vinay Ranade make up the rest of the power-packed team.\n\nThe permanent teaching faculty comprises a pool of eminent scientists working for Reliance Life Sciences. Visiting faculty includes professors from other reputed academic institutions and veterans from the life sciences industry.\n\nRILS has state-of-the-art lecture halls and a fully equipped library complete with a reference section, a regular text section and a computing facility with Internet access.\n\nAs the name suggests, RILS’s 'Competency Development Program' focuses on training aspirants in the domain of life sciences by developing their competencies in life sciences and allied areas. A three-month classroom training stint is followed by nine months of on-field training in which candidates are thoroughly assessed for their learning and performance abilities.\n\nThe Young Professionals’ Program consists of a range of courses, each especially designed to hone its students’ skills in a highly specialized area. Some of these courses are listed below:\nOther programs include Young Manufacturing Professionals' Program (YMPP), Young Medico-Marketing Professionals' Program (YMMPP), Young Agri-Professionals Program (YAPP) and Young Laboratory Technicians Program (YLTP).\n\nRILS offers advanced diploma programs in bio-therapeutics and clinical research.\n\nUnder this program, students are trained on modules covering topics like:\n\nThe program stretches across three months of classroom training followed by a nine-month project studying areas like:\n\nIt focuses on conducting clinical trials for bioavailability/bio-equivalence studies of drug molecules and is designed to meet the needs of Contract Research Organizations. A few of the modules offered by the program are:\n\n\nIn collaboration with Reliance Life Sciences, RILS conducts regular international symposia with the aim of creating a knowledge-sharing platform for the entire scientific fraternity of the world. It has conducted three international symposia till date.\n\nThe symposium conducted in 2006 focused on Preventive and Predictive Molecular Diagnostics and Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine and, in 2007, on Evidence-Based Practices in Reproductive and Fetal Medicine.\n\nRILS also conducts specialized workshops to impart training on the various aspects of genetically inherited diseases, testing and methodology and the psychological and social aspects of counseling.\n"}
{"id": "36925917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36925917", "title": "Riley Bloom series", "text": "Riley Bloom series\n\nThe \"Riley Bloom\" series is the spin-off of the fantasy series \"The Immortals\" by Alyson Noel first published in 2010 in the United States about the afterlife of Riley Bloom, the sister of Ever Bloom (lead character of The Immortals).\n\nRiley Bloom is a twelve-year-old girl who was about to become a teenager before she died in a car accident. She didn't cross over to heaven after the death of her and her family as she wanted to stay with her big sister - Ever Bloom - who was neither dead or alive after the accident as she had become immortal. Later, due to the force of her sister, she walks over the bridge to heaven. There she meets her Mom, Dad and her pet dog Buttercup. And it's from here the journey starts.\n\nThe Riley Bloom Series consists of:\n\n\nThis book follows Riley Bloom. Riley and her family died in a car accident, though her sister became immortal. Her mom and dad and her dog Buttercup were crossing the bridge but she didn't because a part of her longed to stay with her surviving sister. When Ever learned that her little sister was stuck between two worlds, Riley crossed the bridge and entered the Here & Now after Ever told her to move on.\n\nRiley Bloom left her sister, Ever, in the world of the living and crossed the bridge into the afterlife - a place called Here, where time is always Now. Riley and her dog, Buttercup, have been reunited with her parents and just settled into a nice, relaxing death when she's summoned before The Council. They let her in on one condition - the afterlife isn't just an eternity of leisure; Riley has to work. She's been assigned a job, Soul Catcher, and a teacher, Bodhi, a curious boy whom she can't quite figure out.\n\nRiley, Bodhi, and Buttercup return to earth for her first assignment, a Radiant Boy who's been haunting a castle in England for centuries. Many Soul Catchers have tried to get him to cross the bridge and failed.\n\nHaving solved the matter of the Radiant Boy, Riley, Buttercup, and Bodhi are enjoying a well deserved vacation. When Riley comes across a young ghost named Rebecca, Riley soon learns Rebecca's not at all what she sees. As the daughter of a former plantation owner, she is furious about being murdered during a slave revolt in 1733. Mired in her own anger, Rebecca is keeping the ghosts who died along with her trapped in their worst memories.\n\nRiley's finding that the afterlife can be a lonely place when all you do is focus on work. So.. she goes to the place where dreams happen, hoping to find a way to contact her sister, Ever. She meets the director, who tells her about the two ways to send dreams. As a Dream Jumper, a person can jump into a dreamer's dream, share a message, and participate. As a Dreamweaver, an entire dream can be created in a studio and sent to the dreamer. But dreamweaving was outlawed decades ago, and the studio was boarded up. Thinking that it's her only way to reach out to her sister, Riley goes in search of the old studio. There she finds a ghost boy, who's been creating and sending nightmares to people for years. In order to stop him and reach out to Ever, Riley is going to have to confront and overcome her own fears.\n\nThis would be the most challenging Soul Catch for Riley as she has to catch the soul of a Roman Gladiator who's called the Pillar of Doom. For this Riley has to go through a makeover which would make her a teenager she has always wished for. Riley meets Messalina who introduces her to a cute boy named Dacian.\n"}
{"id": "3994039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3994039", "title": "S. Jay Olshansky", "text": "S. Jay Olshansky\n\nStuart Jay Olshansky (born February 22, 1954) is a professor in the School of Public Health at the University of Illinois at Chicago concentrating on biodemography and gerontology and is co-founder and Chief Scientist at Lapetus Solutions, Inc.\n\nHe is also a research associate at the Center on Aging (University of Chicago) and at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Olshansky is an associate editor of the \"Journal of Gerontology: Biological Sciences and Biogerontology\" and is a member of the editorial boards of several other scientific journals. Olshansky has been working with colleagues in the biological sciences to develop the modern \"biodemographic paradigm\" of mortality – an effort to understand the biological nature of the survival and dying out processes of living organisms. The focus of his research has been on estimates of the upper limits to human longevity, exploring the health and public policy implications associated with individual and population aging, forecasts of the size, survival, and age structure of the population, pursuit of the scientific means to slow aging in people (The Longevity Dividend), and global implications of the re-emergence of infectious and parasitic diseases, and insurance linked securities.\n\nOlshansky was born on February 22, 1954. He attended Michigan State University and was awarded a B.S. in 1975. He then attended the University of Chicago and was awarded a M.S. in 1982. He received his Ph.D. in sociology at the University of Chicago in 1984.\n\nHis work on biodemography has been funded by a Special Emphasis Research Career Award and an Independent Scientist Award from the National Institute on Aging and a research grant from the U.S. Social Security Administration starting in 1991.\n\nIn 2011 he published an article on the longevity of United States presidents in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\".\n\nOlshansky was the recipient of a 2005/2006 Senior Fulbright Award to lecture in France. In 2010 he was made fellow of the Gerontological Society of America; and in 2016 he received the Irving S. Wright Award from the American Federation for Aging Research and the Kent Award from the Gerontological Society of America.\n\nOlshansky has been a vocal supporter of scientific attempts increase the human healthspan. He is an advocate for prolonging the \"healthy\" life-span compared to increasing the \"overall\" length of life as such. In an interview he advocated for further study of calorie restriction, genetic study of humans centenarians, and for further study on life extension and senescence. He is co-author with Bruce A Carnes of \"The Quest for Immortality: Science at the Frontiers of Aging\" (Norton, 2001) and with Jim Kirkland and George Martin he co-edited \"Aging: The Longevity Dividend\", published in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "43639098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43639098", "title": "Shep (Thanhouser Collie)", "text": "Shep (Thanhouser Collie)\n\nShep, or The Thanhouser Dog or Shep the Dog (died November 1914), was a male collie dog who starred in a number of silent films made by the Thanhouser Company.\n\nShep was a collie owned by Jack Harvey, a film director.\nWhen Harvey was working for Vitagraph Studios, Shep appeared in a number of films, but was not given much publicity.\nIn September 1914 \"Motion Picture Magazine\" said that Shep was owned by Arthur Ashley while he was with Vitagraph. In \"A Dog's Love\", an 11 minute short released in October 1914, Shep plays a dog who grieves after his human playmate (Helen Badgley) has died. Other successful films in which Shep appeared were \"Shep's Race with Death\" and \"A Dog's Good Deed\".\n\nIn November 1914 \"Reel Life\" said, \"In \"The Barrier of Flames\", a forthcoming Thanhouser release, Shep, the beautiful collie, who daily reports for work at the New Rochelle studio, performed another daring rescue, distinguishing himself by a feat of human heroism and sagacity by climbing a ladder and rescuing Helen Badgley from the top story of a burning house.\" The same month, \"The Moving Picture World\" wrote \"Shep, Thanhouser's collie, has recently been acclaimed by critics as a great dog actor. His work in motion pictures is a study in itself. The dog rehearses his parts and goes through them just like a regular actor and never grumbles or tries to sass back.\"\n\nIn a feature on Shep \"The Chicago News\" of 23 December 1914 said \nShep died after a short illness in November 1914. The \"New York Star\" reported the death, and said, \"There was much sorrow expressed last week at the death of Shep, the Thanhouser dog, who had created a unique part for himself in moving picture work. For Shep was a dramatic actor and could register sorrow or joy with the ease of a great artist. He was known to thousands for his work upon the screen, and though he had many imitators few were even in his class.\"\n\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "48978626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48978626", "title": "Sian Blake", "text": "Sian Blake\n\nSian Samantha Blake (September 1972 – 14 or 15 December 2015), also known by her stage name Syan Blake, was a British actress, best known for playing Frankie Pierre on the British television show \"EastEnders\", appearing in 56 episodes in 1996–97. She later had minor roles in other television shows, before retiring to become a sign language teacher and interpreter.\n\nBlake and her two children were reported missing on 16 December 2015; three weeks later their bodies were found at Blake's home in Erith, London. Her partner, Arthur Simpson-Kent, pleaded guilty to the murders and was given a whole life sentence in October 2016.\n\nBlake was born in Walthamstow, London, in 1972, and attended the Guildford School of Acting. The youngest of three children, her father was Jamaican. Her parents divorced when she was six, and her father died from a heart attack when she was eighteen. Adopting the stage name Syan Blake, she landed her first acting role in 1994, playing a bulimia patient in that year's Christmas episode of \"Casualty\".\n\nAfter working as a telephone receptionist at a doctor's surgery, Blake landed her most notable role: soul singer Frankie Pierre, a character who appeared in \"EastEnders\" during 1996 and 1997. She initially auditioned for the minor part of a nurse, but was encouraged to audition for the more long-term role of Frankie after impressing producers. She was initially signed on a six-month contract, but subsequently had her contract extended. One of the character's central storylines involved an affair with a regular male character which ended his on-screen marriage. Blake subsequently said that she left the series after receiving hate mail from viewers who found it difficult to separate fact from fiction.\n\nBlake went on to have roles in \"Doctors\", \"The Bill\" and \"Skins\", as well as a second appearance in \"Casualty\", before retiring from acting. She went on to become a sign-language teacher, and interpreter.\n\nAs well as television and film, Blake also appeared in and directed several theatre productions. Her acting credits include \"Joe Guy\", \"Love's Labour's Lost\", and \"Twelfth Night\", while directing credits include \"Oxford Street\" at the Soho Theatre and \"The Burial\" at the Almeida Theatre.\n\nBlake lived in Erith, London, with her partner, Arthur Simpson-Kent, and their two sons, Zachary and Amon, who were aged eight and four. Blake was diagnosed with terminal motor neurone disease on 11 December 2015 after first showing neurological symptoms in September 2013.\n\nBlake and her two sons went missing on 13 December 2015. On 16 December, a family member reported her missing to the Metropolitan Police. Police interviewed her partner, Arthur Simpson-Kent, the same day, and he went missing three days later. Her sister said that Blake had wanted to end her relationship with Simpson-Kent \"a long time ago\".\n\nBlake's car was discovered on 3 January 2016 in Bethnal Green. On 5 January 2016, police searched Blake's home and found three bodies in the garden. They started a murder investigation. On 7 January investigators confirmed that the bodies had been identified as Blake and her two children, and said that they had each died from head and neck injuries.\n\nPolice said that Simpson-Kent was being sought in relation to the deaths; the BBC reported that he was believed to have travelled to Ghana in December. On 9 January a Scotland Yard spokesman said that police in Ghana had arrested Simpson-Kent, having travelled there on 19 December; he was remanded for two weeks. Simpson-Kent's lawyer, Justice Srem-Sai, claimed that he should be released from prison until official extradition proceedings were underway. Of the legal process, Srem-Sai said that a \"person must be released until you have the legal right to detain them. He was not given his full rights, including access to legal counsel. His right to a fair trial is being denied and is still being denied.\"\n\nOn 26 January, Simpson-Kent appeared at an extradition hearing in Accra, where he told the court that he would voluntarily return to the UK. Simpson-Kent did return to the UK on 12 February 2016 and was arrested at Heathrow Airport, following which, he was charged with the murder of Blake and their two children. On 10 June, Simpson-Kent appeared at the Old Bailey where he formally entered guilty pleas to the murders of Blake and their two sons. On 5 October 2016, Mr Justice Singh sentenced Simpson-Kent to life imprisonment with a whole life order, meaning he will not become eligible for parole and is unlikely to ever be released from prison.\n\nOn 6 January 2016, the Metropolitan Police referred itself to the Independent Police Complaints Commission over its handling of the inquiry. Of the referral, the Metropolitan Police said \"The Metropolitan Police has today, Wednesday 6 January, made a voluntary referral to the Independent Police Complaints Commission in relation to the Sian Blake missing person investigation. An initial review has highlighted some potential issues regarding the handling and grading of the missing persons investigation. The Directorate of Professional Standards was informed on Monday, 4 January, and is working with the investigation team to fully understand the timeline of police interaction with the family.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46223", "title": "Sowing", "text": "Sowing\n\nSowing is the process of planting. An area or object that has had seeds planted in it will be described as being sowed.\n\nAmong the major field crops, oats, wheat, and rye are sown, grasses and legumes are seeded and maize and soybeans are planted. In planting, wider rows (generally 75  cm (30  in) or more) are used, and the intent is to have precise; even spacing between individual seeds in the row, various mechanisms have been devised to count out individual seeds at exact intervals.\n\nIn sowing, little if any soil is placed over the seeds, as seeds can be generally sown into the soil by maintaining a planting depth of about 2-3 times the size of the seed.\n\nFor hand sowing, several sowing types exist; these include:\n\nSeveral patterns for sowing may be used together with these types; these include:\n\nHand sowing or (planting) is the process of casting handfuls of seed over prepared ground, or broadcasting (from which the technological term is derived). Usually, a drag or harrow is employed to incorporate the seed into the soil. Though labor-intensive for any but small areas, this method is still used in some situations. Practice is required to sow evenly and at the desired rate. A hand seeder can be used for sowing, though it is less of a help than it is for the smaller seeds of grasses and legumes.\nHand sowing may be combined with pre-sowing in seed trays. This allows the plants to come to strength indoors during cold periods (e.g. spring in temperate countries).\n\nIn agriculture, most seed is now sown using a seed drill, which offers greater precision; seed is sown evenly and at the desired rate. The drill also places the seed at a measured distance below the soil, so that less seed is required. The standard design uses a fluted feed metering system, which is volumetric in nature; individual seeds are not counted. Rows are typically about 10–30 cm apart, depending on the crop species and growing conditions. Several row opener types are used depending on soil type and local tradition. Grain drills are most often drawn by tractors, but can also be pulled by horses. Pickup trucks are sometimes used, since little draft is required.\n\nA seed rate of about 100 kg of seed per hectare (2 bushels per acre) is typical, though rates vary considerably depending on crop species, soil conditions, and farmer's preference. Excessive rates can cause the crop to lodge, while too thin a rate will result in poor utilisation of the land, competition with weeds and a reduction in the yield.\n\nOpen-field planting refers to the form of sowing used historically in the agricultural context whereby fields are prepared generically and left open, as the name suggests, before being sown directly with seed. The seed is frequently left uncovered at the surface of the soil before germinating and therefore exposed to the prevailing climate and conditions like storms etc. This is in contrast to the seedbed method used more commonly in domestic gardening or more specific (modern) agricultural scenarios where the seed is applied beneath the soil surface and monitored and manually tended frequently to ensure more successful growth rates and better yields.\n\nBefore sowing, certain seeds first require a treatment prior to the sowing process.\nThis treatment may be seed scarification, stratification, seed soaking or seed cleaning with cold (or medium hot) water.\n\nSeed soaking is generally done by placing seeds in medium hot water for at least 24 to up to 48 hours\nSeed cleaning is done especially with fruit, as the flesh of the fruit around the seed can quickly become prone to attack from insects or plagues. Seed washing is generally done by submerging cleansed seeds 20 minutes in 50 degree Celsius water. This (rather hot than moderately hot) water kills any organisms that may have survived on the skin of a seed. Especially with easily infected tropical fruit such as lychees and rambutans, seed washing with high-temperature water is vital.\n\nIn addition to the mentioned seed pretreatments, seed germination is also assisted when a disease-free soil is used. Especially when trying to germinate difficult seed (e.g. certain tropical fruit), prior treatment of the soil (along with the usage of the most suitable soil; e.g. potting soil, prepared soil or other substrates) is vital. The two most used soil treatments are pasteurisation and sterilisation. Depending on the necessity, pasteurisation is to be preferred as this does not kill all organisms. Sterilisation can be done when trying to grow truly difficult crops. To pasteurise the soil, the soil is heated for 15 minutes in an oven of 120 °C.\n\n"}
{"id": "3735736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3735736", "title": "The Thing!", "text": "The Thing!\n\nThe Thing! is an American horror comic book published by Charlton Comics that ran 17 issues from 1952 to 1954. Its tagline was \"Weird tales of suspense and horror!\" After the 17th issue, it was cancelled and the series' numbering continued as \"Blue Beetle\" vol. 2.\n\nArtist Steve Ditko provided the covers for #12-15 and 17. He also illustrated stories in issues #12-15. The cover of #12 marks this industry notable's first comic-book cover art.\n\nIn 2006, Pure Imagination released the trade paperback \"Steve Ditko's The Thing!\" that reprinted all of Ditko's stories from this title, and used the cover of #15 for its cover. The back cover shows the covers from \"The Thing!\" #12, 13 and 14 and \"Strange Suspense Stories\" #22. It also included Ditko stories from Charlton's \"Mysteries of Unexplored Worlds\" #5 and #11, \"Do You Believe In Nightmares\" #1, \"Strange Suspense Stories\" #36, and \"Unusual Tales\" #25.\n\nIn 2014, the UK publisher PS Artbooks reprinted the entire series in a two-volume hardcover edition.\n"}
{"id": "1539649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1539649", "title": "Tomb of the Matriarchs", "text": "Tomb of the Matriarchs\n\nThe Tomb of the Matriarchs, (Hebrew: קבר האמהות, \"Kever ha'Imahot\"), in Tiberias, Israel, is the traditional burial place of several biblical women:\n\n\nThe marble structure beside a modern apartment building block is surrounded by a stone wall.\n\n"}
{"id": "1287317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1287317", "title": "Tu'i Malila", "text": "Tu'i Malila\n\nTu'i Malila (1777 – 19 May 1965) was a tortoise that Captain James Cook was traditionally said to have given to the royal family of Tonga. She was a female radiated tortoise (\"Geochelone radiata\") from Madagascar and is the longest-lived tortoise whose age has been verified.\n\nThe name means \"king Malila\" in the Tongan language. Tu'i Malila was hatched around 1777 and then given by Captain Cook to the Tongan royal family upon his visit to Tonga in July 1777. According to other sources, George Tupou I obtained her from a vessel which called in Haapai in the first half of the 19th century.\n\nTu'i Malila remained in their care until death on 19 May 1965 due to natural causes. The tortoise was estimated to be 188 years old at this time. During Queen Elizabeth II's Royal Tour of Tonga in 1953, Tu'i Malila was one of the first animals shown to the monarch on her official visit to the island nation.\n\nThe body of the tortoise is kept at the Royal Palace of Tonga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15202823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15202823", "title": "William Bradley (Royal Navy officer)", "text": "William Bradley (Royal Navy officer)\n\nWilliam Bradley (1758–13 March 1833) was a British naval officer and cartographer who was one of the officers who participated in the First Fleet to Australia. During this expedition, Bradley undertook extensive surveys and became one of the first of the settlers to establish relations with the aborigines, with whom he struck up a dialogue and whose customs and nature he studied extensively. He later however fell out with his aboriginal contacts and instead undertook a mission to gather food which ended with an eleven-month stay on Norfolk Island after a shipwreck.\n\nBradley's later career was overshadowed by his steadily deteriorating mental state. Although a successful small ship commander, Bradley became increasingly erratic and was eventually retired as a result. A few years later, suffering serious mental problems, Bradley committed a highly unusual case of postal fraud and was ultimately exiled. He never returned to Britain but lived in quiet disgrace in France.\n\nBradley was born on 14 November 1758 in Portsmouth, a great nephew of the Astronomer Royal James Bradley. His family was closely associated with the Royal Naval Academy and both his younger brother James and his father John Bradley served on the faculty. Bradley entered the Royal Navy in 1772, and served on a rapid succession of ships before becoming lieutenant in 1778. He continued in service aboard , , , , , and until 1786, when he joined . His service during the American Revolutionary War was not significant, but Bradley was attached on the \"Sirius\" to the First Fleet destined to colonise Australia.\n\n]During 1788, Bradley did not involve himself directly in colonial affairs, but instead joined John Hunter in extensive operations along the Sydney Harbour coastline. The two men were often away from the colony for extended periods, conducting surveys of the coastline and the lands around.\n\nA keen note-taker and sketcher, Bradley compiled a journal which begins in 1786 with the organisation of the fleet from Deptford and records the voyage to Australia. It describes ports, ships passed, the weather, as well as difficulties on board. Bradley also recounts his impressions of the colony as well as his interest in Aboriginal people and natural history. He was an early champion of the original inhabitants, but several experiences later changed his view to one substantially more negative.\n\nIn October 1788, Bradley joined a six-month circumnavigation of the globe to collect supplies for the colony from the Cape of Good Hope. Returning in March 1789, Bradley worked on the repair of \"Sirius\", combined with further survey and more observations of the aborigines. During this time, Bradley developed a strong antipathy for the aborigines due to unknown reasons and was involved in the November 1789 raid which captured Colbee and Bennelong, a job he found extremely unpleasant.\n\nIn 1790, \"Sirius\" and were dispatched to Norfolk Island in search of better food supplies. At Norfolk Island, the Sirius was caught in a storm and wrecked. Marooned on the island, Bradley his crew conducted extensive surveys of the land during the eleven months spent there. In 1791, Bradley and others returned to Port Jackson and from there took a ship to the Philippines and then to Britain. The ships arrived in 1792 and the crews were court-martialled for the loss of \"Sirius\", but honourably acquitted.\n\nBradley was promoted to master and commander in 1791, and in 1793 was given the fire ship as part of the Channel Fleet under Lord Howe. In May 1794, a year after the outbreak of the French Revolutionary Wars, Howe's fleet began the Atlantic campaign of May 1794, chasing a French grain convoy deep into the Atlantic. The campaign concluded with the battle of the Glorious First of June, where Howe's fleet defeated an equally sized French force but failed to stop the convoy. Bradley acted as a signal repeater during the campaign, relaying Howe's signals to the large fleet. He performed so well at this duty that he was promoted to post-captain in the aftermath of the campaign.\n\nBradley soon took command of the frigate and served in her on the Halifax station for the next eight years. He returned to Britain in 1802 on the Peace of Amiens and in 1805 took command of the ship of the line . In neither of Bradley's commands did he perform any significant or notable service, remaining on convoy and blockade duties. In 1809 however, Bradley suffered the first of his increasingly severe mental disturbances.\n\nRemoved from service by his illness, Bradley later joined the impress unit at Cowes, but in 1812 again suffered a mental breakdown, and was retired as a rear-admiral. Two years later, Bradley suffered personal disaster when he was caught involved in a minor attempt to defraud the postal authorities. Arrested and brought before the Winchester Assizes, his conduct was noted as being highly unusual, but this was not taken into account initially and he was stripped of his rank and pension and sentenced to death. Appeals from his family later brought about a reduction of sentence, firstly to transportation and subsequently exile.\n\nRetiring to Le Havre, France in 1816, Bradley devoted the sane hours of his life to a series of inventions designed to easily calculate longitude. He hoped that by inventing such a device, the Admiralty might be persuaded to reverse his sentence and permit him to return to Britain. This never occurred, and attempts by his family to get the sentence repealed on the grounds of his insanity were equally fruitless. Bradley finally gave up these efforts after years of failure and died in France, a recluse, in March 1833.\n\nBradley left three daughters and a son. His wife described him as 'a kind husband and affectionate father', but fellow officers often considered him disagreeable and aloof. He left behind a large body of work on the coasts and aborigines of the Sydney area which is still available in the State Library of New South Wales. This work includes, surveys, charts, personal observations and sketches.\n\nHis name is commemorated in the name of Bradleys Head.\n\n\nHis descendants live in the UK, in Berkshire, Devon and Essex and in Sydney Australia. One ancestor even share his date of birth - Joseph William Bradley 14 November 1917.\n"}
{"id": "296919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296919", "title": "Xindi (Star Trek)", "text": "Xindi (Star Trek)\n\nThe Xindi is the collective term for six fictional races in the science fiction television series \"\". The entire , broadcast in 2003 to 2004, centered on this group of previously unknown aliens. They are native to the planet Xindus in a region of space known as the Delphic Expanse. They consist of five species resembling familiar Earth animals (a rarity for alien races in \"Star Trek\") and a sixth resembling humans. At first they appeared as violent enemies wanting no interaction with humanity, but common ground gradually emerged as the crew of the \"Enterprise\" discovered that the Xindi were being manipulated into this enmity by their Guardians. Some Xindi became important recurring characters as the 24-episode story arc unfolded.\n\nDuring the thirteenth live-action film in the series, \"Star Trek Beyond\", the Xindi were mentioned along with the Romulans as aliens that humanity fought wars against in the years leading up to the formation of the Federation. Their defeat and eventual alliance was the cause behind Edison's mutiny against the Federation, leading him to become the villain Krall.\n\nThe Xindi's presence was established in the second-season finale of \"Star Trek: Enterprise\", \"The Expanse\", in which the Xindi launched a probe that attacked Earth in April, 2153, killing seven million people in a strip of destruction stretching from Florida to Venezuela. They appeared again in the third-season premiere, \"The Xindi\", to play a major role in the primary story arc of season three.\n\nThe Xindi are a collective of six different intelligent species which evolved simultaneously on the same planet (Xindus). Despite the radically different appearance of all six species, they all share identical ridges on their cheekbones, and have very similar DNA. All six of these species were involved in a war lasting about 100 years and ending in the 2030s. Alliances among the Xindi species were forged and changed continuously throughout the war, so much that 50–60 years into the war, most Xindi forgot what started it. However, everyone remembered how it ended. In an act of desperation, the Insectoids and Reptilians detonated several charges beneath the eight largest seismic fissures of the geologically-unstable planet Xindus, leading to its destruction and ultimately the extinction of the Avian race.\n\nAfter the war, the Xindi scattered throughout the Expanse into several colonies. As a whole, they have a passionate desire to establish a new homeworld and unify all Xindi, but differ greatly on how to accomplish this and on who should hold the ultimate reins of power. The Xindi then spent the early part of 2153 deciding how to confront the threat of humanity and planned a biological weapon based on the human genetic profile. This was ultimately rejected by the Xindi Council (the Reptilians went along with the bio weapon but were eventually foiled) and so they worked on a weapon to blow up Earth. (They technically succeeded, however that timeline was undone.)\n\nThe Xindi were actually pawns in the Temporal Cold War, as interference in their history began shortly after the ending of their civil war, with the appearance of a trans-dimensional alien race, who guided them to new homelands and resources. The Xindi came to revere these \"Guardians\", whom they later understood to be the same species as the \"Sphere Builders\". These aliens were also similarly revered by the Triannon, who believed that deities, who they called \"The Makers,\" constructed the spheres to transform the expanse into a paradise. This led to a devastating religious civil war, as seen in the episode \"Chosen Realm\".\n\nThe Xindi were also informed by the Guardians, at least as early as 2152, that they would be victims of a genocidal attack from humans in the 26th century. Following their guidance, the Xindi launched a pre-emptive test strike on Earth as a precursor to a devastating second attack. In ' timeline, Xindi crewmen serve in the Federation in the 26th century, in a battle with humans and Xindi against the Sphere Builders. With the help of Captain Archer's evidence of the future cooperation, the Xindi Council began to split over the issue of whether the Guardians were the real enemy or not. The split widened when Reptilian Council Member killed Primate Council Member .\n\nWith the help of the Guardians, the Reptilians and Insectoids then took control of the finished Xindi weapon and set on a course for Earth, thus triggering a new civil war. A combined fleet of Arboreals, Primates and Aquatics pursued the weapon. En route to Earth, a rift appeared in the Reptilian-Insectoid alliance when the Insectoids proposed delaying the destruction of Earth in light of Archer's revelation about the true nature of the Sphere Builders. The Reptilians, determined to see the task completed, eliminated the accompanying Insectoid vessel. Arriving near Earth, an Andorian vessel, commanded by , suddenly destroyed the Reptilian vessel, allowing humans to board the Xindi weapon and destroy it. At the same time, \"Enterprise\" was able to destroy the entire sphere network, stopping the spatial anomalies. With the Sphere Builder threat ended, the Xindi Council reconvened (the Reptilians were eventually convinced to return), and the Xindi abandoned their belief in the Guardians, and their hostile intent toward humans.\n\nXindi-Aquatics resemble Earth sirenians, swimming underwater and speaking through echolocation. Aquatics have a reputation for taking a very long time to make a decision, but are more readily convinced by visual evidence. The Xindi have a saying, \"It's easier to count the stars than it is for an Aquatic to reach a decision.\" The appearance of the Aquatics in the series was inspired by the Mosasaurus.\n\nEven though the Aquatics are peaceful, they have a strong military. Their warships resemble large Earth manta rays and are filled with water. However, there is at least one section of the ship that is sealed and filled with air for land-based races. This room also has a window so the visitors can communicate with the Aquatic crew. Aquatic vessels can emit a field that disrupts targeting scanners. This can also be applied to protect other ships. However, their ships are very slow and cannot travel much faster than Warp 2. Aquatic ships also carry extremely powerful weapons and are more than a match for Insectoid and Reptilian ships. Aquatic warships are huge and one of them was depicted carrying the \"Enterprise NX-01\" to Earth inside a chamber within the vessel after the Xindi weapon was destroyed.\n\nXindi-Arboreals are covered with hair, and resemble Earth sloths. They run kemocite-production facilities throughout the Delphic Expanse. Gralik, a Xindi-Arboreal, gave a shipment of impure kemocite, to sabotage production of the Council's weapon prototype. They have shown the least interest in destroying humanity. Arboreals are also afraid of the water. They are well known as scientists. Jannar was a friend of Degra and an ally of Captain Archer.\nXindi-Avians were birdlike Xindi with the ability to fly, although all that is ever seen of this species is a single skull, identical to that of a giraffe. They once darkened the skies of Xindus, the Xindi homeworld. They are thought to be extinct since the Reptilians and Insectoids planted explosives that destroyed the Xindi homeworld after the Hundred-Year War. The Avians, having primitive technology, could not leave the planet and were wiped out. Because of this, the Reptilians say that their lair, in which the Xindi Council now convenes, has a \"stench of failure.\"\n\nXindi-Insectoids resemble a cross between six-foot Earth praying mantids, flies and ants. Insectoids have an average life span of 10–12 years. They reproduce asexually by laying eggs, which take about a week to mature. Egg sacs are suspended from ceilings, and tubules connected to them spray chemicals that cause passers-by to reverse-imprint on the hatchlings, protecting them as a parent would. Hatchlings are so important to Insectoids that hatcheries aboard starships are heavily shielded. As seen in episode \"\", the Insectoid crew will sacrifice themselves to preserve their unborn offspring.\n\nThey speak a clicking language, of which there are 67 known dialects. Insectoid iconography is radically different from that of other Xindi. Insectoid personal names get longer with age. Insectoids have a reputation for rushing into decisions. Insectoid starships are designed differently from other vessels. They don't have one area designated for bridge duties; command functions are distributed throughout the ship. Insectoid chairs and assault vehicles are designed for Insectoid anatomy and not humanoids. They have a long-standing alliance with the Reptilians and together they destroyed the Xindi homeworld after the Hundred-Year War.\n\nXindi-Primates resemble Earth humans and have a similar brain structure to the Xindi-Reptilians. They were one of the first Xindi species (including the Reptilians) to be informed of the \"threat\" posed by humanity. Degra, a Xindi-Primate, was assigned to develop the weapon which was to destroy Earth. In late 2153, the crew of the \"Enterprise\" boarded and studied a Primate's vessel and interrogated the crew. In the episode \"\", Archer learned from Degra that a colony of Primates resides on Azati Prime, where the weapon was being constructed. Like humans, Xindi-Primates have differences in skin tone. The chairman of the Xindi council was a Xindi-Primate.\nXindi-Reptilians resemble a cross between several Earth lizards. This species is responsible for a preemptive attack on Earth in 2153. Aided by trans-dimensional beings, the Reptilians also traveled to 2004 to collect blood samples for their bio-weapon in the future but were foiled by Jonathan Archer and T'Pol. Reptilians prefer to be low to the ground, as opposed to high-rise buildings. They use weapons with regenerative biometric power cells that overload if another species tries to use them. They use thermal chambers on board their ships to keep their energy. They are the most aggressive race of Xindi and seem to be more interested than the other races in destroying Earth. The military leadership of the Reptilians appear to be obsessed with eugenics. The Xindi-Insectoids are the race that the Reptilians are closest to. Along with the Insectoids, they are responsible for the destruction of the Xindi homeworld. The attack squadrons seen at Azati Prime consisted of two Reptilian ships and two Insectoid ships. Commander Dolim was the Xindi-Reptilian representative on the Council.\n\nThe Xindi Council is the joint governmental body of the Xindi races, as seen Season three of \"Star Trek: Enterprise\". The Council was formed after the destruction of the Xindi homeworld Xindus in the 2030s. It consists of two representatives of each of the Xindi species, and was formed to find a new homeworld for all the Xindi races. However, although they found a few suitable planets, they could never agree on a final choice. The Council chamber is located on a planet 15.6 light-years from Azati Prime. The land-based races sit at a large round table in the center of the room, while the Aquatics look on from a large tank adjoining the chamber by a window. The chamber has built-in equipment for holographics and a viewscreen for telemetry. The chamber itself was actually a stronghold built by the Xindi-Avians before they were wiped out.\n\nCirca 2152, the council discovered that humans were going to destroy them in four hundred years. In a panic, they assigned the Primate scientist, Degra, to construct a weapon to destroy Earth. After a number of disagreements, the Council was dissolved. In order to do the Sphere Builders' bidding, the Reptilians and Insectoids broke away from the Primates, Arboreals, and eventually the Aquatics. Civil war ultimately broke out when Commander Dolim killed Degra. After Dolim was killed, the Sphere Builders were discredited, the super-weapon destroyed, and the Council reconvened. The names of council representatives as revealed in \"\" were:\n\n\n"}
