{"id": "33950392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33950392", "title": "2011 South Korean university tuition crisis", "text": "2011 South Korean university tuition crisis\n\nThe 2011 South Korean University Tuition Crisis is a socio-political dispute among the conservative Grand National Party, the liberal Democratic Party, and various citizen groups on reduced university tuition fees for South Korean university students. The reduced tuition is one of the main commitments during the start of the GNP-led Lee Myung-bak government in 2008. This commitment made by the GNP has not been manifested, or potentially ignored, as of 2011. This could be due to the government's big business-oriented policies overshadowed the education-related domestic issues. This resulted in several university student protests across South Korea in 2011.\n\nThe Lee Myung-bak government's policy of easing the expensive tuition fees is proposing the deferred payment system. But some university organizations openly oppose this as it could \"silence the main commitment of the government\" since 2009, a year after the Lee Myung-bak government.\n"}
{"id": "30950374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30950374", "title": "4-H Shooting Sports Programs", "text": "4-H Shooting Sports Programs\n\n4-H Shooting Sports Programs are part of 4-H in the United States, a youth organization administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), with the mission of \"engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development.\" The name represents four personal development areas of focus for the organization: head, heart, hands, and health.\n\nThe 4-H organization has over 6.5 million members in the United States, from ages eight to eighteen, in approximately 90,000 clubs. \n\nThe goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship, leadership, and life skills of youth through mostly experiential learning programs. Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history, 4-H today focuses on citizenship, healthy living, science, engineering, and technology programs.\n\nToday, 4-H and related programs exist in over 80 countries around the world. Each of these programs operates independently, but cooperatively through international exchanges, global education programs, and communications. Clubs and related organizations now exist in many other countries as well; the organization and administration varies from country to country.\n\nThe 4-H motto is \"To make the best better\", while its slogan is \"Learn by doing\" (sometimes written as \"Learn to do by doing\").\n\nThe focus of all 4-H programs is the development of youth as individuals and as responsible and productive citizens. \n\nThe National 4-H Shooting Sports Program helps Youths learn marksmanship, the safe and responsible use of firearms, the principles of hunting and archery, and much more. The activities of the program and the support of caring adult leaders provide young people with opportunities to develop life skills, self-worth, and conservation ethics.\n\n4-H shooting sports programs are run by trained and certified volunteers. Any adult over the age of 18 may become a certified volunteer to run or assist in a shooting sports program. Youth over the age of 16 may be certified to participate as a Youth Leader.\n\nTo begin a 4-H shooting sports program, an adult contacts their cooperative extension service to locate a training program in their area to get certified. Training programs are often weekend events staffed by unpaid volunteers. Room and board are often provided and included in the cost for the training which is nominal. The weekend program is divided into multiple segments. The core of the program is youth development. The first part of the program, a volunteer must demonstrate proficiency to his or her instructor within the chosen discipline. This is followed by training in youth development. Students then divide up and demonstrate their training skills by training other students and receive their certificates. To run a program all volunteers must register and participate in orientation with their Extension Educator.\n\nStudents from 8 to 18 are welcome to participate. Age is less important than maturity, the ability to follow rules, and the motor skills to handle a firearm or bow safely.\n\nThe 4-H slogan is \"Learn by doing\". Students are given a period of classroom training followed by hands on training. As students develop skills they are encouraged to assist younger students as coaches. This allows students to develop skills and confidence leading to true self-esteem. Not all students will excel academically nor will they excel athletically, shooting sports is one area where size, physical strength and memorization skills are not necessary to achieve excellence.\n\nWhile 4-H provides the education, training, and support to start a program, many programs are run and financed through local gun clubs. Gun clubs often provide ranges, rifles, bows, targets, arrows and ammunition for the program. Many clubs are looking for qualified people to run a youth shooting sports program.\n\nSafe handling of bows and firearms is a primary concern of 4-H shooting sports. Students are drilled in safe handling procedures and are encouraged to develop at their own pace.\n\n4-H shooting sports programs are among the safest programs run by 4-H. Insurance costs for shooting sports are among the lowest of all 4-H programs. The only other program with insurance costs as low as shooting sports is sewing. \n"}
{"id": "17754418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17754418", "title": "Academic grading in the Czech Republic", "text": "Academic grading in the Czech Republic\n\nIn the Czech Republic, primary and secondary schools use a 5-point grade system, with 1 as the best and 5 as the worst. They correspond to the following ratings: 1 = výborně (excellent), 2 = chvalitebně (commendable), 3 = dobře (good), 4 = dostatečně (sufficient), and 5 = nedostatečně (insufficient). Only whole numbers appear on report cards, but tests or oral exams are often marked with additional distinctive signs: 3+ is \"slightly better than 3\", 2− is \"slightly lower than 2\", 1-2 or 1/2 means \"halfway between 1 and 2\", and 1* means \"exceptionally excellent\".\n\nSome universities use a 4-point grade system, in which 1 is the highest and 4 indicates failing.\nThey might also use the textual form of the grades in addition to the numerical form: \n1 = výborně (excellent),\n2 = velmi dobře (very good),\n3 = dobře (good),\n4 = neprospěl (fail).\nIn recent years, many universities adopted another system, with the grades A to F. It maps to the previous classification in the following way:\n\nSome Czech universities, such as University of Economics, Prague, map points acquired throughout the course (out of 100 acquirable) using a different ratio:\n\n4+, or 50 - 59 points, may enable the students retake an exam to try to get above the 60 points cutoff. If the student fails to do so, it gets changed to 4 (fail) automatically at the end of the semester. First day of the next semester the grades from each subject (where points were inserted into the system) also get converted to the ECTS scale for international use like this:\n\nPrivate high schools or Gymnasiums may use different academic grading. A 10-point grading scale consisting of 1 (A), 2 (A-), 3 (B+) ... 10 (D) has been used in some private schools in the Czech Republic.\n"}
{"id": "1778340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1778340", "title": "Academic year", "text": "Academic year\n\nAn academic year or school year is a period of time which schools, colleges and universities use to measure a quantity of study.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand, academic years for primary and secondary institutions are divided into two semesters, with each semester being further divided into two terms (thus totaling four terms per year). Although historically the year was divided into three terms with an extended Easter break interrupting the first term, the year has been divided into four terms since the late 1980s (with the exception of the Australian state of Tasmania which did not change until 2013).\n\nFollowing southern hemisphere seasons, the main summer holiday between academic years encompasses most of December, all of January and sometimes a few days at the beginning of February, and always encompasses Christmas and New Year as well as Australia Day on 26 January. In year 12, however, the term ends in November; for those who go on to university, the term starts in March. New Zealand celebrates Waitangi Day on 6 February; the summer holidays in New Zealand may or may not extend as far as that day, depending on the year. There is typically a break of two weeks mid-semester (i.e. after Term 1 and after Term 3) and a break of three weeks in the middle of the year, although this can vary between jurisdictions. In the year 2000, due to the 2000 Olympic Games in Sydney, the state of New South Wales extended the break after Term 3 to three weeks, compensating by reducing the break in the middle of the year to two weeks.\n\nHistorically, the Term 1 holiday have been scheduled around Easter, reflecting the three-term system's notion of an extended Easter break within Term 1; although since the mid-1990s this has gradually changed, and now only Queensland and Victoria tie the school holidays closely to Easter; the remainder of Australia and all of New Zealand now have a fixed length to Term 1 which leads to the Easter period falling within Term 1 in some years with an early Easter, such as 2016.\n\nTypically, the Term 1 holidays will run for two weeks within April; the mid-year holidays encompass the last week of June and the first two weeks of July; and the Term 3 holidays encompass the last week of September and the first week of October. This varies between jurisdictions, and exact dates depend on what day of the week these respective months begin, as (with the exception of the beginning and end of the academic year), terms tend to begin and end with full weeks.\n\nIn Britain, an academic year usually runs from September of one year through to late July of the following year, with the time split up into three terms. Each of these is usually divided into halves with a week-long 'half-term' break between. Primary (1-11) and secondary (11-16) schools usually follow a 39-week academic year, while further (16+) and higher (18+) educational establishments often have 36 or 33-week terms, generally with no half-term break. Oxford and Cambridge have shorter terms still, usually 8 weeks each term. \n\nFor English state schools, the year commences in the first week of September with a half-term break (1 week) at the end of October, and the term ends shortly before Christmas. After a two-week holiday encompassing New Year, the second term stretches to Easter and is of variable length to allow for that movable feast. It has a half-term break around mid-February. There are two weeks of Easter holiday, then the final term starts and lasts until the third week of July. The half-term break is at the end of May and students with exams will often finish their studies at that break and take exams during June and July.\n\nThe summer break lasts for approx 6 weeks and was designed originally to allow children to help with the harvest. In Scotland, the summer break is earlier because of the different day lengths and agricultural practices.\n\nPrivate (public) schools may follow different terms, and some self-governing academies follow different termly structures.\n\nIt is often believed that when the United States was a primarily agrarian society, children were needed during the Northern Hemisphere summer months for farm labor. \n\nHowever, there is little evidence supporting this, with 19th-century rural schools more typically favoring a summer academic term and more vacation time during spring and autumn. \n\nSummer is still a popular time for family vacations, and most have a 2 or 3-month summer vacation. The academic year typically runs from late August or early September until May or June, depending on the length of the year and number of the holiday, vacation, and snow days occurring during the year. The year is divided into two semesters, three trimester or four quarters, typically with a report card issued to students' parents at the end of each.\n\nAn academic year typically includes a fall and spring semester, with a shorter optional summer session. Many also have a short optional winter session. Some operate on a trimester calendar.\n\nContinuing education classes (often available at community colleges and private \"boot camp\" style schools) are often shorter and start throughout the year with no particular seasonality.\n\nPublic elementary and secondary schools averaged (at the state level) between 170 and 180 school days in the 2007-08 academic year. Different states have different legal minimum requirements for instructional days and hours per year.\n\n"}
{"id": "478167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=478167", "title": "Avalon Project", "text": "Avalon Project\n\nThe Avalon Project is a digital library of documents relating to law, history and diplomacy. The project is part of the Yale Law School Lillian Goldman Law Library.\n\nThe project contains online electronic copies of documents dating back to the beginning of history, making it possible to study the original text of not only very famous documents such as the Magna Carta, the English Bill of Rights, and the United States Bill of Rights, but also the text of less well known but significant documents which mark turning points in the history of law and rights.\n\nThe site has full search facilities and a facility to electronically compare the text of two documents. It also hosts \"Project Diana: An Online Human Rights Archive\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4776318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4776318", "title": "Baku Slavic University", "text": "Baku Slavic University\n\nBaku Slavic University (BSU) (), sometimes referred to as Baku Slav University, is a public university located in Baku, Azerbaijan.\n\n1946 the Council of People's Commissars of the USSR in the Order No. 1313 dated February 2 and May 15, the decision of the Council of Ministers of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic on the basis of a two-year Akhundov Azerbaijan State Institute of Teachers has been established. Associate professor ASLoginov was appointed head of the institute. The first academic year, 108 people were accepted to the institute. There were 28 employees of the institute.\n\n30 July1948 in the profession of a teacher of Russian language and literature in secondary schools of Azerbaijan holds first graduation of the specialists was held.\n\n1952 in the preparation of teachers of Russian language Akhundov Teachers' Institute was transformed into the Pedagogical Institute of the four-year academic term. The largest educational and scientific center of the rusistika later became a center of higher education – the preparation of teachers of Russian language and literature for secondary schools, specialized high schools, was created.\n\n1952 300 people were in the plan. 1952–1953 of the academic year, 40 teachers working at the institute, of which 12 people with a master's degree, associate professor, 3 of them in science class teacher, head teacher, not the degree of 10 people, 15 people were teachers.\n\n1956–1957 in the academic year, the institute was held at five-year education system. The initial phase of its rich history (1952–1959) Akhundov Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature of the Russian language and literature teachers for secondary schools developed into the largest specialized institution. During this period, the institute developed a teacher of Russian language and literature up to 4000.\n\n14 April 1959 in the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Azerbaijan and the Azerbaijan SSR Council of Ministers \"of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic on development of higher pedagogical schools,\" the decision was adopted. According to an official document of the MF and the Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature databases on the basis of the Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Foreign Languages named after MF Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Languages was created.\n\n1959 in the composition of APDI Akhundov 15 departments with 188 professors and teachers were operating. During this period, 3700 students studied at the institute. 1966–1967 in the academic year, departments were reorganized, new faculties were created. Faculty of Russian language and literature in two directions – the direction of the Russian language and language functioning in Azerbaijan, was established here in the department of Spanish.\n\n1972 In the first secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Azerbaijan Heydar Aliyev and the government's initiative of 2 November 1972 on the basis of the decision No. 362 dated the Azerbaijan Pedagogical University named after MF Languages of Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature Institute of the base of the same name was restored. All the training and education and scientific research institute of the department implemented 18. At that time, the education center, 280 teachers, including 6 doctors, professors and 84 candidates of sciences, senior lecturer working.\n\n1974 in two of the faculty at the institute - # 1 for students graduating from secondary school in the Russian language, Russian language and literature, for students graduating from the Azeri language in # 2, a decision was made on the establishment of Russian language and literature departments. Scientific-research and educational institute meets goals and objectives, purposeful character and Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences of the Coordination Council of the plan was carried out. During the period of operation of the teaching staff of the institute, the All-Union and international scale scientific-methodical conferences, seminars, and symposium probably took an active part.\n\n1994 in accordance with international standards of the new four-year curriculum for undergraduate training has taken place.\n\n1997 in the master's department was created APRDƏI Akhundov.\n\nPresident of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Heydar Aliyev, 13 June 2000 in the MF in the decree on the basis of the Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature is a unique educational institution in its own direction and the entire eastern region known as the rare specialties training of professional staff in carrying out the high school – was established in Baku Slavic University.\n\nWell-known scholar, doctor of philological sciences, professor, honored scientist Nurlana Aliyev by the decree of the President of the republic, was appointed the rector of BSU. Developed and implemented a broad program of reforms under his leadership, the university's teaching, education, material-technical base of the completely updated, BSU has become one of the most advanced educational institutions.\n\nWith the countries of the world community of independent Azerbaijan, as well as constantly expanding relations with Eastern European states of these countries is not only the language and literature, as well as economy, geography, socio-political system and culture that are deeply conditioned the need for the preparation of highly qualified personnel. The purpose of this task with a high level of implementation of the re-organization of the necessity of having high school emerged. In fact, higher status and ability of students to new educational center providing a wide ixtisaslasmasını created.\n\nBSU in a short period of time, highly qualified, professional staff, educational and scientific potential, with modern infrastructure has become a comprehensive educational institution. This is a unique educational and cultural center of Baku Slavic University as the Slavic peoples of the region and promotes the study of moral values. The Russian, Slavic languages and literature is carried out serious research, not only for our republic, but also highly qualified human resources for a number of Eastern countries. Structural changes which have occurred in the university covers all of its areas of activity.\n\nQuarry in the regular education during the last two years BSU has become a center of scientific slavistika and Slavic culture. Today at Baku Slavic University has 26 departments. University professors and teaching staff of 38 doctors, professors, 184 candidates of sciences, senior lecturer and senior lecturer and teacher, includes more than 200.\n\n2000 at BSU since there are 5 faculties:\n\nBSU in the \"Dictionary Center\", \"Turkish-Slavic Relations\", \"Translation Problems\", \"International Relations\" scientific-research laboratories, \"The problems of Azerbaijan\" was established in scientific and educational center.\n\nBachelor's and Master's training of highly qualified university faculty and departments to implement, as well as the general and educational leksikoqrafiyasının, psixolinqvistika and bilinqvizmin, Turkic-Slavic literary and moral relations, scientific-research laboratory, who studied azərbaycansunaslıgın actual problems, the Foreign Relations Department, teaching general education and humanitarian programs lyceum, Ukraine, Sunday school, a publishing-printing center, student theater, \"Mr. hours\" club, Correspondence Department of Education, Master's office, post-graduate and doctoral work.\n\nUniversity \"of scientific works of BSU\", \"the Russian language and literature\" scientific methodical journal, scientists and teachers, graduate students and magistrantların məcmuələri scientific articles are published, \"Student World\" newspaper is published.\n\n2002, since the candidate and doctoral dissertation research at BSU Council on the protection of the specialized functions. BSU for university students in the new textbooks and teaching resources that meet the requirements of science and culture, vocabulary and literature, educational programs and special attention is paid to the development of methodical recommendations.\n\nDevelopment of new educational programs in all specialties, the history of Russian literature, literary theory, practical Russian language, pedagogy, Russian linguistics and other fields of science textbooks for high school students, teaching aids have been prepared for print publication, as well as the dordcildli \"Azerbaijan-Russian Dictionary\" see the best examples in the book.\n\n2000 in the Baku Slavic University, \"honorary doctor\" s name has been established. The strengthening of friendship and cooperation between the countries and peoples, science, education and culture in the work performed great services for the development of a number of prominent state and public and political figure in the decision of the Scientific Council of BSU was awarded the honorary title. Today, the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia II Aleksiy, the Ukrainian Rada Speaker VPlyusc, chairman of the Federation Council of Russia Sergei Mironov, the Presidents of Bulgaria Jelyu Zhelev (1990–1997) and Georqi Parvanov, the president of Greece KStefanopulos, Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko and the Polish President Lech Kaczynski Honorary Doctors of Baku Slavic University .\n\nBSU multilateral relations with many foreign countries has established high schools. The University External Relations Russia, France, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Poland, Greece and other countries, the prestigious higher educational institutions, signed contracts and agreements shall be governed by the scientific and public organizations. Named after AS Pushkin State Russian Language Institute of Baku Slavic University (Moscow, Russia), regional Academy of Personnel Management (Ukraine, Kiev), Slavic University (Ukraine, Kiev), \"Ovidius\" University (Greece, constant), University of Shumen (Bulgaria, Shumen ), named after BXmelnitski Cerkask State University (Ukraine, Cerkassk), Moscow State International Relations Institute (Moscow, Russia), Institute of INALKO Eastern languages and cultures (France, Paris) has signed contracts with.\n\nRepresentatives of foreign states, public and political circles, well-known science, education and culture are closely cooperating with the university staff. During the last two years, a number of public figures, politicians and scientists – the chairman of the Russian Federal Council SMMironov, the speaker of the Russian Duma QNSeleznyov, first vice-mayor of Moscow LSvetsova, Minister of Education of the Russian Federation VFilippov, writer and critic, LYLavrova, French \"INALKO\" KAliber vice-president of the University of Oriental languages, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria (1990–1997) JJelev, senior dean of the faculty of the University of Shumen EDobreva, a number of foreign countries, representatives of press agencies, and prominent cultural figures have been the guest of the university. University students and magistrantlarının Russia, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Poland and other well-known high schools in foreign countries to be involved in the practice of scientific research, professional education courses, this was the case in traditional educational institutions and teacher-student exchange.\n\nRecently, a number of Baku Slavic University was an important republican scientific-practical conferences.\n\n2002–2003 BSU in the Ministry of Education and the Russian Federation Embassy of the republican scientific-practical conference with the actual problems of teaching Russian language and literature in secondary schools have been removed from the agenda, the ways to solve these problems are investigated and the resolution was adopted.\n\nEducational-Cultural Center of the University of Ukraine, Russia, Educational and Cultural Center (\"the Moscow audience\"), Turkish Studies Center, Center for Modern Greek language and mədniyyəti, Bulgarian and Polish language and culture center of the active center and mədniyyəti function.\n\nThe university is a member of the Caucasus University Association.\n\nThe library has been established at the university since its foundation, 1946. Most changes at university affected the structure of the library as well as its operation. The President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Ilham Aliyev signed a decree for the restoration of Baku Slavic University in 2008. The major part of the funding was spent on the removal of library to the new area.\n\nBSU has been repaired at a higher level assembly hall, conference hall, library and sports hall used by the students. Students from various amateur associations, scientific organizations, SHK-or, were involved in the sports sections. Athletes, students, especially volleyball, handball and basketball teams are among the winners of the Spartakiadası and Universiadasının. Ozunuidarəsinin model student groups have been created.\n\nStudents are involved in university management, are interested in the proposals. In this regard, at the initiative of the rector of the \"One-day caliph\" particularly important and memorable event. On 13 December every year since 2002 the rector, prorektorlar, deans and department responsibilities mudirlərinin magistrantlar of students and university life, and thus canlandırmıslar new ideas. Student self-government as a result of the day, students and students with the proposal of the Parliament of magistrantların more actively involved in the creation and university students it was decided to self-government bodies.\n\nStudent and magistrantlar Translation Center, Analytical-Information Center, takes an active part in the work of the Student Scientific Society, a charity marathons carry.\n\nThe students of the Baku Slavic University are engaged in the sport sections on football, basketball, volleyball, handball, tennis, badminton, field athletics, chess and others. They actively participate in the Republic and the International competitions demonstrating excellent results. The students of the university have been honoured with cups,trophies and medals in recognition of their sport skills.\n\nBSU students’ teams on football, basketball and volleyball took active part and have won cups and medals in Commonwealth Games among the pedagogical Universities of the CIS countries held in Moscow, Kiev and Minsk.\n\nThe university museum was established in 2000. The museum is equipped with modern technical facilities. Besides, the handworks of students such as paintings, waving artworks and other works are presented in museum. There is also a board of martyrs who lost their lives for their homeland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5996375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5996375", "title": "Bernard Lown", "text": "Bernard Lown\n\nBernard Lown (born June 7, 1921) is the original developer of the direct current defibrillator and the cardioverter. Lown developed the direct current defibrillator for cardiac resuscitation and the cardioverter for correcting rapid disordered heart rhythms, and introduced a new use for the drug lidocaine to control heartbeat disturbances.\n\nThroughout his medical career, Lown focused on two major medical challenges: the problem of sudden cardiac death and the role of psychological stress on the cardiovascular system. His investigations led to many medical break-throughs. Among these were the coronary care unit. His work made possible and safe much of modern cardiac surgery, as well as a host of other innovations. In 1985, Lown accepted the Nobel Peace Prize on behalf of the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, an organization he co-founded with Soviet cardiologist Yevgeny Chazov, who later was Minister Of Health of the USSR.\n\nLown is currently Professor of Cardiology Emeritus at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, and Senior Physician Emeritus at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts. He is the founder of the Lown Cardiovascular Center and Lown Cardiovascular Research Foundation. He recently founded the Lown Institute, which aims to reform both the health care system and society.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family in Lithuania, the son of a rabbi. Bernard Lown emigrated to the United States at the age of 14.\n\nLown graduated summa cum laude from the University of Maine and received an M.D. from Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in 1945. His medical training included Yale-New Haven Hospital (Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut); Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY; and a cardiology fellowship at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital (now Brigham and Women’s Hospital, in Boston). His mentor in cardiology was the renowned clinical cardiologist, Samuel A. Levine.\n\nLown helped raise international medical awareness of sudden cardiac death as a leading cause of mortality in the developed world. Based on patient observations, Lown concluded that sudden cardiac death was reversible and survivable, and that people who were successfully resuscitated could have a near normal life expectancy.\n\nWorking with his mentor Samuel A. Levine, Lown realized that the high mortality of a heart attack, then 35 percent, was most likely due to rigorous bed rest. Patients remained completely recumbent for six or more weeks. A major complication of bed rest was pulmonary embolism, which accounted for a significant part of the mortality. Although Lown encountered enormous opposition and hostility among doctors to the so-called \"chair treatment,\" in 81 patients so treated, mortality was reduced by two thirds. Once the work was published, the chair treatment was rapidly adopted and hospitalizations were reduced to several days. Untold lives were saved by getting patients out of bed.\n\nUntil the 1950s, ventricular fibrillation of the heart could only be treated with drug therapy. In 1956 American cardiologist Paul Zoll described resuscitations during open-heart surgery and later after sudden cardiac death by means of an alternating current (AC) electric shock, derived from a wall socket. AC current was untested as to its safety and efficacy and could cause death. In 1959, Lown demonstrated that AC was injurious to the heart and could be lethal. These investigations were conducted in the Department of Nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health. The work was supported by Professor Frederick Stare, chairman of the Department of Nutrition.\n\nTo find a safer method of cardiac resuscitation, Lown enlisted the help of Baruch Berkowitz, an electrical engineer employed by American Optical Company (AO). In their experimental work, Lown focused on two objectives: safety and efficacy. Alternating current caused burns in skeletal and heart muscle also inducing atrial as well as ventricular fibrillation in a large majority of the animal experiments.\n\nDuring a year of intense experimentation, in 1961 Lown and coworkers proved that a specific direct current (DC) waveform consistently reversed ventricular fibrillation, restoring a normal heart beat without injuring heart or skeletal muscle. This became widely known as the \"Lown waveform.\" It facilitated the worldwide acceptance of the defibrillator and cardioverter and improved survival of patients with coronary heart disease.\n\nThe DC defibrillator provided a new approach for resuscitating patients. It also paved the way for new possibilities in cardiac surgery. The Lown clinical group were the first to use the defibrillator and cardioverter at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. Donald B. Effler, was the first cardiac surgeon to use the DC defibrillator in 1962 at the Cleveland Clinic. According to Effler, this advance made possible modern cardiac surgery. Indeed, in 1967, Rene Favoloro performed what is regarded as the first coronary artery bypass operation in Effler’s surgical department at Cleveland Clinic. DC defibrillation provided a safe way to restore a normal heart rhythm during the surgical bypass of obstructed coronary arteries.\n\nLown went on to investigate the possibilities of the defibrillator to treat non-life-threatening tachycardias. He discovered that timing the electrical discharge outside the heart’s brief vulnerable period of 0.03 seconds in duration prevented ventricular fibrillation or sudden cardiac death. He called this method of timed DC discharge \"Cardioversion.\" The cardioverter and DC defibrillator were especially valuable in coronary care units, when patients are hospitalized when most susceptible to sudden cardiac death and other potentially malignant arrhythmias.\n\nIn addition to advancing medical technology, Lown discovered new applications for two drugs that were widely used for cardiac problems: digitalis and lidocaine. Until the 1950s, digitalis poisoning was a major cause of fatality among patients with congestive heart failure. During a medical residency at the Montefiore Hospital in New York City, Lown demonstrated the critical role of potassium in determining the safe use of digitalis. His discovery led to abandonment of long acting digitalis drugs like digitoxin. Instead, the short acting digitalis glycoside gained universal acceptance. It also focused medical attention on potassium loss with the use of various diuretics.\n\nIn 1964, Lown introduced a new use for the drug lidocaine to control ventricular disordered heart rhythms. Lidocaine was also used in coronary units to prevent the need for resuscitation. Previously, lidocaine was used almost exclusively by dentists as an anesthetic agent.\n\nIn 1957, Lown was concerned with how to visualize an atherosclerotic aortic plaque, which occurs in the big coronary vessels that supply nutrients to the heart muscle. This would, he hoped, lead to discovering how to treat and prevent heart attack and sudden cardiac death. A discussion with a close friend, Elias Snitzer, a physicist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology led to an introduction to Michael Polanyi, a physicist with American Optical Company. At the time, Polanyi was working on fiber optics. Lown received a grant from the Hartford Foundation to pursue fiber optics. However, optical technology, at the time, was inadequate. This line of research was discontinued. Lown’s work did show that, with fiber optics, it was possible to measure oxygen saturation in dogs, and determine the cardiac output in humans.\n\nParadoxically, when Lown submitted two abstracts to the World Cardiology Conference in Mexico in 1964, one on the defibrillator and cardioversion, and one dealing with fiber optics, the former was rejected and the latter accepted.\n\nIn early 1961, Lown called together a group of physicians from Boston’s teaching hospitals to address the mounting threat of nuclear war between the USSR and the USA. This political subject had not been addressed previously by physicians in the United States. The new organization called itself Physicians for Social Responsibility (PSR).\n\nAmong the activist participants were Jack Geiger and Victor W. Sidel. By the end of 1961, the group had drafted five research articles about the medical consequences of a ten megaton nuclear attack on the city of Boston, a magnitude considered both possible and likely by the U.S. military. The series, \"The Medical Consequences of Thermonuclear War\", was published as a symposium in the New England Journal of Medicine in May 1962.\n\nThese articles encouraged anti-nuclear medical movements worldwide. Additionally, they helped pass the Limited Test Ban Treaty in the US Senate.\n\nLown was also involved in organizing COR, Committee of Responsibility to Save War Burned and War Injured Children. of which he was a leading member. This organization aimed to bring injured and burned Vietnamese children for treatment in the United States, in order “to bring the war home.”\n\nCOR was headed by Herbert Needelman. It arranged for several American hospitals to treat injured Vietnamese children for free. John Constable III, from the Shriner Burn Center of the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, was among the first physicians to participate. He and other physicians traveled numerous times to Vietnam to choose children with injuries that could be helped.\n\nThis mission could not be accomplished without ambulance planes ferrying the very sick children. Lown led a delegation to Washington for a meeting with William F. Bundy, then Assistant Secretary of State. He was persuaded to support the objective of COR. In 1967 the Pentago began to transport Vietnamese children to the USA.\n\nIn 1980, Lown called on a small number of doctors to organize against the mounting nuclear threat that followed USSR's invasion of Afghanistan and the election of the Reagan administration. This small group of physicians, with the help largely of first year Harvard medical students, formed the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War (IPPNW).\n\nThis IPPNW could not have been founded without the intimate friendship between Eugene Chazov and Lown. Both cardiologists, they had collaborated in researching the issue of sudden cardiac death, sponsored by the National Heart and Lung Institute.\n\nLown headed the American Sudden Death Task Force, while Chazov headed the Soviet group of cardiologists. Frequent visits to the USSR with American cardiological colleagues promoted dialogue and understanding between physicians of the two hostile countries. It laid the groundwork and made the IPPNW possible. These events are described in Lown's memoir, \"Prescription for Survival: A Doctor's Journey to End Nuclear Madness.\"\n\nThe first IPPNW annual World Congress was held at Arlie House, Virginia, in 1981. Eighty medical leaders from twelve countries attended.\n\nIn 1982, the 2nd IPPNW Congress took place in Cambridge, England with over 400 participants. Among the American participants were astrophysicist and science populizer, Carl Sagan; Admiral Noel Gayler, formerly head of the American Pacific Fleet, Director of the National Security Agency, and in charge of targeting nuclear weapons against he USSR; Howard Hiatt, Dean of the Harvard School of Public Health; and Herbert Abrams, head of Radiology at the Harvard Medical School. Equally distinguished participants attended from the UK, Germany, and Scandinavian countries.\n\nA major breakthrough for IPPNW was arranged by Eugene Chazov in 1982 when three Soviet physicians and three American physicians appeared on a nationwide Soviet television network. The Soviet participants were Chazov, Michael Kuzin, and Leonid Ilyin; while the Americans were Lown, James Muller, and John Pastore. During this unprecedented telecast an audience of 100 million Soviet viewers for the first time heard an unedited discussion of the consequences of nuclear war. The program was later broadcast in the US.\n\nBy 1985, IPPNW represented 135,000 physicians in 60 countries.\n\nIn December of that year, Lown and Chazov accepted the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize on behalf of IPPNW. Shortly thereafter, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev invited IPPNW Co-Presidents Lown and Chazov for a meeting in the Kremlin. The lengthy discussion covered a host of issues. Discussed was Gorbachev's unilateral moratorium on nuclear weapons testing, the arrest and detention of Nobel Laureate physicist Andrei Sakharov in the city of Gorki, the North-South divide, and other important subjects.\n\nTwo organizations founded by Lown, SatelLife (1988) and ProCor (1997) were designed to aid physicians in developing countries by connecting them to relevant information on cardiovascular disease and its prevention. Their focus was on global inequities in healthcare and leveraging technology to promote health equality.\n\nSatelLife employed low earth-orbit satellites that circumnavigated the poles and were capable of reaching every point on earth four times daily. They provided access to medical literature to health professionals in developing countries.\n\nProCor created an internet network of health workers in developing countries around the world. This internet-based community enabled physicians and health workers to access relevant and reliable medical information about cardiovascular disease. The focus was on disease prevention. It also offered an email-based forum for discussion.\n\nProCor’s global outreach included The Ashanti-ProCor Project, launched in 2006, which was designed to assess cardiovascular disease knowledge and practice among health workers in the Ashanti Region of Ghana, identify those who can play a key role in prevention, and explore their information needs as a way to better address the needs of physicians in the developing world.\n\nIn 1996, Lown, with Stephanie Woolhandler and David Himmelstein of the Cambridge City Hospital; Jerry Avorn, head of Pharmacoepidemiology at the Harvard Medical School; and Susan Bennett, a primary care physician at Massachusetts General Hospital formed the Ad Hoc Committee to Defend Healthcare. Many health workers joined the Ad Hoc Committee, the objective of which was to promote a single-payer healthcare system in Massachusetts \n\nIn 1997, a letter signed by over 2000 Massachusetts physicians outlined the need for single-payer healthcare. The letter was published in The Journal of the American Medical Association. The Ad Hoc Committee canvassed people through the state of Massachusetts to gain the 100,000 names necessary to put the issue on the ballot.\n\nThe issue was put to referendum in Massachusetts in 2000. In spite of opposition, the referendum showed 45% of voters in favor of single-payer healthcare.\n\nIn 2012, Lown and colleagues founded the Lown Institute. The Lown Institute addresses the growing crisis in healthcare in the USA, marked by overtreatment, undertreatment, and mistreatment through research, clinical programs, and convenings. The Institute holds an annual conference, where the newest research on overuse and underuse is presented, and where like-minded clinicians and patient advocates can share ideas. They also sponsor clinical programs to address overuse such as the Right Care Educators program, Right Care Rounds, and the Right Care Vignette Competition. The Lown Institute is currently conducting research on risk adjustment methods for evaluating patient outcomes.\n\nAmong participants in the leadership of the Lown Institute are Nassib Chamoun, Vikas Saini, Shannon Brownlee, Thomas Graboys, Professor Joseph Brain, Patricia Gabow, Elizabeth Gilbertson, James Joslin, Aretha Davis, David Bor, Michael Fine, Breck Eagle, and others.\n\nThe Right Care Alliance (RCA) is the sister organization of the Lown Institute and the advocacy wing. The Right Care Alliance brings together clinicians, patients, and community members into a grassroots movement advocating for a universally accessible, affordable, safe, and effective health care system. The RCA is organized into specialty councils and regional chapters that organize on topics specific to their specialty or region. The RCA holds a week of action every year, in which members organize activities that demonstrate compassionate, patient-centered care, such as engaging the broader community in listening and storytelling.\n\nThe Steering Committee of the RCA is chaired by Vikas Saini and Shannon Brownlee, and members include Poppy Arford, Maia Dorsett, Casey Wilson, Selwyn Rogers, Jonathan Jimenez, Jane Muir, Theresa Ojala, Stuart Fisk, Marlene Beggelman, Kim DiGioia, and Surafel Tsega.\n\nLown is married; he and his wife, Louise, have three children.\n\nLown has received numerous awards including the Golden Door Award from the International Institute of Boston; the Dr. Paul Dudley White Award from the American Heart Association; the Distinguished Emeritus Professor from Harvard School of Public Health; the Distinguished Medical Alumnus Award by Johns Hopkins School of Medicine; and the highest honor from the country of Lithuania: the Cross of Commander of the Order of the Lithuanian Grand Duke Gediminas, the Gandhi Peace Award, and the first Cardinal Medeiros Peace Award, as well as 21 honorary degrees from universities both in the United States and abroad. In 1993, he delivered the Indira Gandhi Memorial Lecture in New Delhi.\n\nThe bridge that connects the cities of Lewiston and Auburn in Maine was renamed The Bernard Lown Peace Bridge upon an act by the state legislature that was signed into law by Governor John Baldacci in 2008.\n\nThe Brigham and Women's Hospital in 2009 established the Bernard Lown Educational award. The recipient is selected by staff and students.\n\nThe Lown Scholars Program at the Harvard School of Public Health aims to assist promising health professionals who live and work in low- and middle-income countries. \"[The program] is designed to create an international cadre of talented health professionals [...] who will use public health tools and strategies to prevent cardiovascular disease and promote cardiac health.\" \n\nIn 2012, a visiting Professorship was established whose function is to coordinate the courses afforded to the Lown Scholars as well as help promote cardiovascular preventative programs in low- and middle-income countries.\n\n\nLown is also the author or co-author of 52 chapters. He is the author or co-author of 447 publications in scientifically-refereed journals.\n\n"}
{"id": "36475843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36475843", "title": "Code Club", "text": "Code Club\n\nCode Club is a voluntary initiative, founded in 2012, which aims to provide opportunities for children aged 9 to 13 to developing coding skills through free after-school clubs. As of November 2015, over 3,800 schools and other public venues had established a Code Club, regularly attended by an estimated 44,000 young people across the United Kingdom. The organisation has also expanded internationally, and there are now over 6,000 Code Club operating worldwide. Volunteer programmers and software developers give their time to run Code Club sessions, passing on their programming skills and mentoring the young students. Children create their own computer games, animations and websites, learning how to use technology creatively.\n\nIt has Scratch, HTML & CSS, Python and a variety of other coding languages. \n\nCode club also provide free BBC Micro:bits to children above the age of 9. \n\nCode Club is the brain child of Clare Sutcliffe MBE and Linda Sandvik, \nA viral video featuring Prince Andrew, Martha Lane Fox, Chad Hurley, Niklas Zennström, Brent Hoberman and Tim Berners-Lee was released to promote awareness of the project.\n\nOn 3 November 2015, it was announced that Code Club had become \"a wholly owned subsidiary of the Raspberry Pi Foundation.\"\n\nThe curriculum teaches children Scratch, HTML & CSS and Python.\n\n"}
{"id": "42877518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42877518", "title": "Colegio Alemán Cuauhtémoc Hank", "text": "Colegio Alemán Cuauhtémoc Hank\n\nColegio Alemán Cuauhtémoc Hank, A.C. (CACH) is a German international school in Colonia Hipódromo, Tijuana. It serves levels maternal/preschool to high school (\"preparatoria\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3304375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3304375", "title": "Concerned Alumni of Princeton", "text": "Concerned Alumni of Princeton\n\nThe Concerned Alumni of Princeton (CAP) was a group of politically conservative former Princeton University students that existed between 1972 and 1986. CAP was born in 1972 from the ashes of the Alumni Committee to Involve Itself Now (ACTION), which was founded in opposition to the college becoming coeducational in 1969. Some claim that CAP was founded to bring the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) back to the Princeton campus after the ROTC building was burned down by anti-war activists and the Princeton administration refused to rebuild it. However, the ROTC had returned to campus by the time CAP was founded. The primary motivation behind CAP was to limit the number of women admitted to the university. CAP also opposed affirmative action designed to increase minority attendance at the Ivy League institution. CAP also exhibited strong support for Princeton's eating clubs, which were male-only at the time.\n\nThe existence of the organization attracted wide notice in January 2006 during the nomination of Samuel Alito, who was a former CAP member, to the Supreme Court of the United States, as Alito included his membership in the organization on a job application to work in the Reagan administration in 1985. No mention of Alito has been found in CAP files, apart from his own written 1985 statement of membership. Fox News legal analyst Andrew Napolitano was a founding member. Former Senator Bill Bradley, a liberal Democrat, was a member until 1973, when he resigned because of the tone of the organization's magazine, \"Prospect\". Former Republican Senator Bill Frist, at the time a recent Princeton alumnus, having graduated in 1974, contributed to a report that labeled the organization as far-right and extremist.\n\nIn 1974, \"The New York Times\" reported on CAP's support for quotas guaranteeing that male students would receive most of the available admissions slots, and its earlier and continuing opposition to Princeton allowing women to attend at all. In the following excerpt, \"Mr. Bushnell\" refers to CAP co-chairman Asa S. Bushnell, and \"Mr. Jones\" refers to T. Harding Jones, CAP's executive director.\n\nWhether or not the administration satisfies CAP on the faculty issue, the recent decision by the university's Board of Trustees to eliminate sex-based admissions quotas jolted these conservative alumni, many of whom wanted Princeton to remain an all-male institution in the first place.\n\nWhen the trustees approved co-education in 1969, there was a widespread understanding that the male enrollment would be maintained at 800 per entering class. The subsequent adoption of an equal-access admissions policy last Jan. 19, along with the decision to retain undergraduate population at current levels, are expected to result in a decrease in the number of males matriculating each year.\n\n\"Many Princeton graduates are unhappy over the fact that the administration has seen fit to abrogate the virtual guarantee that 800 would continue to be the number of males in the graduating class,\" Mr. Bushnell said.\n\n\"Co-education has ruined the mystique and the camaraderies that used to exist,\" Mr. Jones added. \"Princeton has now given into the fad of the moment, and I think it's going to prove to be a very unfortunate thing.\"\n\nAlumni response to the equal-access decision may offer a reliable gauge of CAP's influence among the university's graduates. The changing composition of the undergraduate population concerns many Princeton alumni, especially those who cherish memories of a relatively homogenous student body. Both supporters and critics of the new policy have initiated extensive campaigns to publicize their arguments.\n\nCAP leaders trace this year's 10 per cent decline in gift-giving to alumni disaffection that emerged during an era of liberalization, an era that reached its culmination in the equal-access decision.\n\n\"Annual giving has been hurt very substantially by the equal-access vote,\" Mr. Jones said. \"And it will be hurt more next year as more people find out about it. For many alumni, it was the last straw.\"\n\n– \"The New York Times\", March 3, 1974.\n\nDuring Alito's Senate confirmation hearings following his nomination to the Supreme Court, CAP attracted attention because of its public stance against affirmative action and co-education at Princeton. Members of the Senate Judiciary Committee who were questioning Alito suggested that his involvement in this group could shed some light on his stance on minority and women's rights issues which might come before him if he were to be confirmed as an Associate Justice on the Supreme Court of the United States, which he subsequently was.\n\nThe result of an extensive search of CAP documentation demanded by Ted Kennedy on January 11, 2006 was that no mention of or connection to Sam Alito was found.\n\nCAP supported quotas preserving admission spots for males.\n\nCAP appears to have been treated as a nuisance or danger by some of the Princeton community contemporaneous to its most active period. Faculty members were wary of participating in a CAP-sponsored political survey. CAP was mocked by the school's band, and the university's chaplain in 1973 defended himself against charges of radicalism for his involvement in supporting draft dodging.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28142029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28142029", "title": "Conférence des Présidents d'Université", "text": "Conférence des Présidents d'Université\n\nThe Conférence des Présidents d'Université (CPU) is an organization of university presidents in France.\n\nThe \"Conférence des Présidents d'Université\" was created in 1971. Its meetings are not open to the public. Its current president is Louis Vogel, former President of Panthéon-Assas University.\n"}
{"id": "34301846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34301846", "title": "Distance Education Learning Environments Survey", "text": "Distance Education Learning Environments Survey\n\nThe Distance Education Learning Environments Survey (DELES) is a psychosocial learning environment survey designed specifically to measure college and university distance education learning environments. The DELES was developed in 2003.\n\nThe DELES was designed to measure students' perceptions of their distance education social environment through six scales: \n\nAn additional eight-item scale of student affect (psychology), designated the Enjoyment scale, was included in the original DELES. An example item in this seventh scale reads, \"I enjoy studying by distance education.\"\n\nThe 42 DELES items have response value options of: \"Never, Seldom, Sometimes, Often\", and \"Always\".\n\nThe DELES focuses on students' perceptions of the learning environment to the exclusion of technical factors such as Internet connectivity or learning platform as found in other distance education learning environment instruments.\n\nThe DELES has been utilized in the United States to compare social work students' perceptions of their learning environments in a face-to-face class, a blended learning (hybrid) class, and an asynchronous learning distance education version of the same class. It has also been translated into Chinese and used to identify motivation of Taiwanese adult distance education learners. The DELES has been translated into Arabic and used to determine undergraduate students' perceptions of blended learning in the Arab Open University-Bahrain Branch. The DELES has also been translated into Turkish and used to study Turkish online learning environments—this version is referred to as the Turkish DELES (TR-DELES). A Spanish version, referred to as the Spanish DELES (Sp-DELES) has been validated and utilized with Spanish students. A Portuguese version of the DELES was developed and administered in 2009.\n\nThe DELES is significant in the realm of post-secondary distance education because it was the first instrument available to seek associations between the psychosocial learning environment and student satisfaction with their distance education class.\n\nBy statistically measuring associations between the six DELES scales and the scale of “Enjoyment,” researchers have been able to determine that \"Personal Relevance\" is the strongest positive and statistically significant contributor to student satisfaction in distance education in one setting. The Turkish DELES (TR-DELES) researchers discovered that, with their population, student satisfaction was more closely aligned statistically with \"Instructor Support\". Conversely, the Spanish determined, with the Spanish DELES (Sp-DELES), that \"Active Learning\" and \"Autonomy\" are most influential on distance education student satisfaction. With the Portuguese version of the DELES it was determined that \"Student Interaction and Collaboration\" was most closely aligned with student satisfaction in Education courses.\n\nThe DELES has consistently held up well in terms of validity and reliability in 27 independent studies, including studies where the DELES has been translated into Mandarin, Turkish, Arabic and Spanish. It has been modified for use in Malaysia and Palestine.\n\nIn addition to aiding researchers in associating psychosocial aspects with student satisfaction, the DELES has three forms. The same scales are used and the items are parallel; however, the wording is slightly different:\n\nResults can be studied in various ways to gain an in-depth picture of the psychosocial nature of a given distance education learning environment. For instance, the instructor's perspective can be compared to those of the students to see how closely they are aligned or not aligned. Or, the Preferred form can be administered as a pre-test and the Actual form as a post-test and the results analysed for differences and changes.\n\n"}
{"id": "18092621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18092621", "title": "Education in the Cayman Islands", "text": "Education in the Cayman Islands\n\nEducation in the Cayman Islands is compulsory to the age of 16 and is free to all Caymanian children. The literacy rate for residents over age 15 is 98%. Public schools follow a British-style educational system. The Cayman Islands Education Department operates 10 primary, one special education, and 3 high schools. In addition, there is a university and a law school. There are also numerous private schools.\n\nThechnical issues\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38306797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38306797", "title": "English Phonotypic Alphabet", "text": "English Phonotypic Alphabet\n\nThe English Phonotypic Alphabet is a phonetic alphabet developed by Sir Isaac Pitman and Alexander John Ellis originally as an English language spelling reform. Although never gaining wide acceptance, elements of it were incorporated into the modern International Phonetic Alphabet.\n\nIt was originally published in June 1845. Subsequently, adaptations were published which extended the alphabet to the German, Arabic, Spanish, Tuscan, French, Welsh, Italian, Dutch, Polish, Portuguese and Sanskrit languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2538735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2538735", "title": "Environmental education", "text": "Environmental education\n\nEnvironmental education (EE) refers to organized efforts to teach how natural environments function, and particularly, how human beings can manage behavior and ecosystems to live sustainably. It is a multi-disciplinary field integrating disciplines such as biology, chemistry, physics, ecology, earth science, atmospheric science, mathematics, and geography. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) states that EE is vital in imparting an inherent respect for nature amongst society and in enhancing public environmental awareness. UNESCO emphasises the role of EE in safeguarding future global developments of societal quality of life (QOL), through the protection of the environment, eradication of poverty, minimization of inequalities and insurance of sustainable development (UNESCO, 2014a). The term often implies education within the school system, from primary to post-secondary. However, it sometimes includes all efforts to educate the public and other audiences, including print materials, websites, media campaigns, etc.. There are also ways that environmental education is taught outside the traditional classroom. Aquariums, zoos, parks, and nature centers all have ways of teaching the public about the environment.\n\nEnvironmental education focuses on:\n\n1. Engaging with citizens of all demographics to;\n\n2. Think critically, ethically, and creatively when evaluating environmental issues;\n\n3. Make educated judgments about those environmental issues;\n\n4. Develop skills and a commitment to act independently and collectively to sustain and enhance the environment; and,\n\n5. To enhance their appreciation of the environment; resulting in positive environmental behavioural change (Bamberg & Moeser, 2007; Wals et al., 2014).\n\nThere are a few central qualities involved in environmental education that are useful contributions to the individual. \n\nEnvironmental education:\n\n\nThere are various different career paths one could delve into within environmental education. Many of these careers require discovering and planning how to resolve environmental issues occurring in today’s world. The location of someone with these careers has an impact on the clear responsibilities each must obtain depending on what environmental issue is most prevalent in the area. A general outlook of some careers in this field are:\n\nFederal Government Park Ranger- Responsible for protecting the national parks, historical sites, and national seashores across the United States including the wildlife and ecosystems within them. There are many qualifications in order for one to become a park ranger and some include: obtaining a bachelor’s degree and a passing grade in the PEB. Some focuses within this field include: enforcing park rules, giving tours to groups for educational purposes, and protecting parks from forest fires. \n\nOutdoor Education Teacher- Teach students by using outdoor field and classroom work. Some invite guest speakers who are experts in their field to help teach how the basic principles of science are implemented in the real world. Some requirements for this career include becoming CPR certified and having a bachelor's degree in either environmental science or a field related to it. It can be a problematic field as there is no concurrence on the central concepts that are taught as well as teachers do not agree on what constitutes an important environmental issue. \n\nEnvironmental Scientist- Use of field work to research contamination in nature when writing plans in creating projects for environmental research. Topics such as air pollution, water quality, as well as wildlife and how humans affect it are researched. Some requirements for this career are a bachelor’s degree with a double major in environmental science and either biology, physics or chemistry. \n\nEnvironmental Engineer- Involves the combination of biology/chemistry with engineering to generate ways to ensure the health of the planet. Scientific research is analyzed and projects are designed as a result of that research in order to come up with solutions to issues of the environment like air pollution. A bachelor’s degree in civil engineering or general engineering is required as well as some experience in this field.\n\nEnvironmental education has crossover with multiple other disciplines. These fields of education complement environmental education yet have unique philosophies.\n\n\nWhile each of these educational fields has their own objectives, there are points where they overlap with the intentions and philosophy of environmental education.\n\nThe roots of environmental education can be traced back as early as the 18th century when Jean-Jacques Rousseau stressed the importance of an education that focuses on the environment in \"\". Several decades later, Louis Agassiz, a Swiss-born naturalist, echoed Rousseau’s philosophy as he encouraged students to “Study nature, not books.” These two influential scholars helped lay the foundation for a concrete environmental education program, known as nature study, which took place in the late 19th and early 20th century.\n\nThe nature study movement used fables and moral lessons to help students develop an appreciation of nature and embrace the natural world. Anna Botsford Comstock, the head of the Department of Nature Study at Cornell University, was a prominent figure in the nature study movement. She wrote the Handbook for Nature Study in 1911 which used nature to educate children on cultural values. Comstock and the other leaders of the movement, such as Liberty Hyde Bailey, helped Nature Study garner tremendous amounts of support from community leaders, teachers, and scientists to change the science curriculum for children across the United States.\n\nA new type of environmental education, Conservation Education, emerged as a result of the Great Depression and Dust Bowl during the 1920s and 1930s. Conservation Education dealt with the natural world in a drastically different way from Nature Study because it focused on rigorous scientific training rather than natural history. Conservation Education was a major scientific management and planning tool that helped solve social, economic, and environmental problems during this time period.\n\nThe modern environmental education movement, which gained significant momentum in the late 1960s and early 1970s, stems from Nature Study and Conservation Education. During this time period, many events – such as Civil Rights, the Vietnam War, and the Cold War – placed Americans at odds with one another and the U.S. government. However, as more people began to fear the fallout from radiation, the chemical pesticides mentioned in Rachel Carson’s Silent Spring, and the significant amounts of air pollution and waste, the public’s concern for their health and the health of their natural environment led to a unifying phenomenon known as environmentalism. Environmental education was born of the realization that solving complex local and global problems cannot be accomplished by politicians and experts alone, but requires \"the support and active participation of an informed public in their various roles as consumers, voters, employers, and business and community leaders.\" \n\nOne of the first articles about environmental education as a new movement appeared in the \"Phi Delta Kappan\" in 1969, authored by James A. Swan. A definition of \"Environmental Education\" first appeared in \"The Journal of Environmental Education\" in 1969, written by William B. Stapp. Stapp later went on to become the first Director of Environmental Education for UNESCO, and then the Global Rivers International Network.\n\nUltimately, the first Earth Day on April 22, 1970 – a national teach-in about environmental problems – paved the way for the modern environmental education movement. Later that same year, President Nixon passed the National Environmental Education Act, which was intended to incorporate environmental education into K-12 schools. Then, in 1971, the National Association for Environmental Education (now known as the North American Association for Environmental Education) was created to improve environmental literacy by providing resources to teachers and promoting environmental education programs.\n\nInternationally, environmental education gained recognition when the UN Conference on the Human Environment held in Stockholm, Sweden, in 1972, declared environmental education must be used as a tool to address global environmental problems. The United Nations Education Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) created three major declarations that have guided the course of environmental education.\n\nIn 2002, the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development 2005-2014 (UNDESD) was formed as a way to reconsider, excite, and change approaches to acting positively on global challenges. The Commission on Education and Communication (CEC) helped support the work of the UNDESD by composing a backbone structure for education for sustainability, which contained five major components. The components are \"Imagining a better future\", \"Critical thinking and reflection\", \"Participation in decision making\" and \"Partnerships, and Systemic thinking\".\n\nOn June 9-14 2013, the seventh World Environmental Education Congress was held in Marrakesh, Morocco. The overall theme of the conference was \"Environmental education and issues in cities and rural areas: seeking greater harmony”, and incorporated 11 different areas of concern. The World Environmental Education Congress had 2,400 members, representing over 150 countries. This meeting was the first time ever that it had been held in an Arab country, and was put together by two different organizations, the Mohamed VI Foundation for Environmental Protection and the World Environmental Education Congress Permanent Secretariat in Italy. Topics addressed at the congress include stressing the importance of environmental education and its role to empower, establishing partnerships to promote environmental education, how to mainstream environmental and sustainability, and even how to make universities \"greener\".\n\nJune 5–16, 1972 - The Declaration of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment. The document was made up of 7 proclamations and 26 principles \"to inspire and guide the peoples of the world in the preservation and enhancement of the human environment.\"\n\nOctober 13–22, 1975 - The Belgrade Charter was the outcome of the International Workshop on Environmental Education held in Belgrade, Jugoslavia (now Serbia). The Belgrade Charter was built upon the Stockholm Declaration and adds goals, objectives, and guiding principles of environmental education programs. It defines an audience for environmental education, which includes the general public.\n\nOctober 14–26, 1977 - The Tbilisi Declaration \"noted the unanimous accord in the important role of environmental education in the preservation and improvement of the world's environment, as well as in the sound and balanced development of the world's communities.\" The Tbilisi Declaration updated and clarified The Stockholm Declaration and The Belgrade Charter by including new goals, objectives, characteristics, and guiding principles of environmental education.\n\nLater that decade, in 1977, the Intergovernmental Conference on Environmental Education in Tbilisi, Georgia emphasized the role of Environmental Education in preserving and improving the global environment and sought to provide the framework and guidelines for environmental education. The Conference laid out the role, objectives, and characteristics of environmental education, and provided several goals and principles for environmental education.\n\nEnvironmental education has been considered an additional or elective subject in much of traditional K-12 curriculum. At the elementary school level, environmental education can take the form of science enrichment curriculum, natural history field trips, community service projects, and participation in outdoor science schools. EE policies assist schools and organizations in developing and improving environmental education programs that provide citizens with an in-depth understanding of the environment. School related EE policies focus on three main components: curricula, green facilities, and training.\n\nSchools can integrate environmental education into their curricula with sufficient funding from EE policies. This approach – known as using the “environment as an integrating context” for learning – uses the local environment as a framework for teaching state and district education standards. In addition to funding environmental curricula in the classroom, environmental education policies allot the financial resources for hands-on, outdoor learning. These activities and lessons help address and mitigate \"nature deficit disorder\", as well as encourage healthier lifestyles.\n\nGreen schools, or green facility promotion, are another main component of environmental education policies. Greening school facilities cost, on average, a little less than 2 percent more than creating a traditional school, but payback from these energy efficient buildings occur within only a few years. Environmental education policies help reduce the relatively small burden of the initial start-up costs for green schools. Green school policies also provide grants for modernization, renovation, or repair of older school facilities. Additionally, healthy food options are also a central aspect of green schools. These policies specifically focus on bringing freshly prepared food, made from high-quality, locally grown ingredients into schools.\n\nIn secondary school, environmental curriculum can be a focused subject within the sciences or is a part of student interest groups or clubs. At the undergraduate and graduate level, it can be considered its own field within education, environmental studies, environmental science and policy, ecology, or human/cultural ecology programs.\n\nEnvironmental education is not restricted to in-class lesson plans. Children can learn about the environment in many ways. Experiential lessons in the school yard, field trips to national parks, after-school green clubs, and school-wide sustainability projects help make the environment an easily accessible topic. Furthermore, celebration of Earth Day or participation in EE week (run through the National Environmental Education Foundation) can help further environmental education. Effective programs promote a holistic approach and lead by example, using sustainable practices in the school to encourage students and parents to bring environmental education into their home.\n\nThe final aspect of environmental education policies involves training individuals to thrive in a sustainable society. In addition to building a strong relationship with nature, citizens must have the skills and knowledge to succeed in a 21st-century workforce. Thus, environmental education policies fund both teacher training and worker training initiatives. Teachers train to effectively teach and incorporate environmental studies. On the other hand, the current workforce must be trained or re-trained so they can adapt to the new green economy. Environmental education policies that fund training programs are critical to educating citizens to prosper in a sustainable society.\n\nFollowing the 1970s, non-governmental organizations that focused on environmental education continued to form and grow, the number of teachers implementing environmental education in their classrooms increased, and the movement gained stronger political backing. A critical move forward came when the United States Congress passed the National Environmental Education Act of 1990, which placed the Office of Environmental Education in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and allowed the EPA to create environmental education initiatives at the federal level.\n\nThe EPA has their own definition of what environmental education should be and it is as follows. \"Environmental education is a process that allows individuals to explore environmental issues, engage in problem solving, and take action to improve the environment. As a result, individuals develop a deeper understanding of environmental issues and have the skills to make informed and responsible decisions.\" The EPA also has a list of the components of what should be gained from EE.\n\n\nThrough the EPA Environmental Education (EE) Grant Program, public schools, communities agencies, and NGO’s are eligible to receive federal funding for local educational projects that reflect the EPA’s priorities: air quality, water quality, chemical safety, and public participation among the communities.\n\nIn the United States some of the antecedents of environmental education were the Nature Study movement, conservation education and school camping. Nature studies integrated academic approach with outdoor exploration (Roth, 1978). Conservation education raised awareness about the misuse of natural resources and the need for their preservation. George Perkins Marsh discoursed on humanity’s integral part of the natural world. Governmental agencies such as the U.S. Forest Service and the EPA supported conservation efforts. Conservation ideals still guide environmental education today. School camping was exposure to the environment and use of resources outside of the classroom for educational purposes. The legacies of these antecedents are still present in the evolving arena of environmental education.\n\nA study of Ontario teachers explored obstacles to environmental education. Through an internet-based survey questionnaire, 300 K-12 teachers from Ontario, Canada responded. Based on the results of the survey, the most significant challenges identified by the sample of Ontario teachers include over-crowded curriculum, lack of resources, low priority of environmental education in schools, limited access to the outdoors, student apathy to environmental issues, and the controversial nature of sociopolitical action.\n\nAn influential article by Stevenson (2007) outlines conflicting goals of environmental education and traditional schooling. According to Stevenson (2007), the recent critical and action orientation of environmental education creates a challenging task for schools. Contemporary environmental education strives to transform values that underlie decision making from ones that aid environmental (and human) degradation to those that support a sustainable planet. This contrasts with the traditional purpose of schools of conserving the existing social order by reproducing the norms and values that currently dominate environmental decision making. Confronting this contradiction is a major challenge to environmental education teachers.\n\nAdditionally, the dominant narrative that all environmental educators have an agenda can present difficulties in expanding reach. It is said that an environmental educator is one \"who uses information and educational processes to help people analyze the merits of the many and varied points of view usually present on a given environmental issues.\" Greater efforts must be taken to train educators on the importance of staying within the profession's substantive structure, and in informing the general public on the profession's intention to empower fully informed decision making.\n\nAnother obstacle facing the implementation of environmental education lies the quality of education itself. Charles Sayan, the executive director of the Ocean Conservation Society, represents alternate views and critiques on environmental education in his new book \"The Failure of Environmental Education (And How We Can Fix It).\" In a \"Yale Environment 360\" interview, Sayan discusses his book and outlines several flaws within environmental education, particularly its failed efforts to “reach its potential in fighting climate change, biodiversity loss, and environmental degradation”. He believes that environmental education is not “keeping pace with environmental degradation” and encourages structural reform by increasing student engagement as well as improving relevance of information. These same critiques are discussed in Stewart Hudson’s BioScience paper, “Challenges for Environmental Education: Issues and Ideas for the 21st Century”.\n\nA movement that has progressed since the relatively recent founding (1960s) of environmental education in industrial societies has transported the participant from nature appreciation and awareness to education for an ecologically sustainable future. This trend may be viewed as a microcosm of how many environmental education programs seek to first engage participants through developing a sense of nature appreciation which then translates into actions that affect conservation and sustainability.\n\nPrograms range from New York to California, including Life Lab at University of California, Santa Cruz, as well as Cornell University in Ithaca. \n\nEnvironmentalism has also began to make waves in the development of the global South, as the “First World” takes on the responsibility of helping developing countries to combat environmental issues produced and prolonged by conditions of poverty. Unique to environmental education in the Global South is its particular focus on sustainable development. This goal has been a part of international agenda since the 1900’s, with the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organizations (UNESCO) and the Earth Council Alliance (ECA) at the forefront of pursuing sustainable development in the south.\n\nThe 1977 Tbilisi intergovernmental conference played a key role in the development of outcome of the conference was the Tbilisi Declaration, a unanimous accord which “constitutes the framework, principles, and guidelines for environmental education at all levels—local, national, regional, and international—and for all age groups both inside and outside the formal school system” recommended as a criteria for implementing environmental education. The Declaration was established with the intention of increasing environmental stewardship, awareness and behavior, which paved the way for the rise of modern environmental education.\n\nAfter the 1992 Rio Earth Summit, over 80 National Councils for Sustainable Development in developing countries were created between 1992-1998 to aid in compliance of international sustainability goals and encourage “creative solutions”.\n\nIn 1993, the Earth Council Alliance released the \"Treaty on environmental education for sustainable societies and global responsibility\", sparking discourse on environmental education. The Treaty, in 65 statements, outlines the role of environmental education in facilitating sustainable development through all aspects of democratized participation and provides a methodology for the Treaty’s signatories. It has been instrumentally utilized in expanding the field towards the global South, wherein the discourse of “environmental education for sustainable development” recognizes a need to include human population dynamics in EE and emphasizes “aspects related to contemporary economic realities and by placing greater emphasis on concerns for planetary solidarity”. Even as a necessary tool for the proliferation of environmental stewardship, environmental education implemented in the South varies and addresses environmental issues in relation to their impact different communities and specific community needs. Whereas in the developed global North where the environmentalist sentiments are centered around conservation without taking into consideration “the needs of people living within communities”, the global South must push forth a conservation agenda that parallels with social, economic, and political development. The role of environmental education in the South is centered around potential economic growth in development projects, as explicitly stated by the UNESCO, to apply environmental education for sustainable development through a \"creative and effective use of human potential and all forms of capital to ensure rapid and more equitable economic growth, with minimal impact on the environment\".\n\nMoving into the 21st century, EE was furthered by United Nations as a part of the 2000 Millennium Development Goals to improve the planet by 2015. The MDGs included global efforts to end extreme poverty, work towards gender equality, access to education, and sustainable development to name a few. Although the MDGs produced great outcomes, its objectives were not met, and MDGs were soon were soon replaced by Sustainable Development Goals. A “universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity”, SDGs became the new face of global priorities. These new goals incorporated objectives from MDGs yet incorporated a necessary environmental framework to “address key systemic barriers to sustainable development such as inequality, unsustainable consumption patterns, weak institutional capacity and environmental degradation that the MDGs neglected”.\n\nOne of the current trends within environmental education seeks to move from an approach of ideology and activism to one that allows students to make informed decisions and take action based on experience as well as data. Within this process, environmental curricula have progressively been integrated into governmental education standards. Some environmental educators find this movement distressing and move away from the original political and activist approach to environmental education while others find this approach more valid and accessible. Regardless, many educational institutions are encouraging students to take an active role in environmental education and stewardship at their institutions. They know that \"to be successful, greening initiatives require both grassroots support from the student body and top down support from high-level campus administrators.\"\n\nEnvironmental Education is also being funded through the Every Student Succeeds Act. Under Title IV, Part A of ESSA, it states that Environmental Education is an enrichment activity for students which is eligible for funding under a new grants program. The program gives a “well-rounded” education as well as access to student health and safety programs. Under Title Iv, Part B, it states that environmental literacy programs are also eligible for funding through the 21st Century Community Learning Centers Program. The funds that are available for both parts are block granted to the states using the Title I formula. In the FY2018 budget, Titles IVA and IVB were both given $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion. For title IVA, this is a $700 million raise from the 2017 budget which makes the 2018-2019 school year the most availability to environmental education ever.\n\nRenewable energy education (REE) is a relatively new field of education. The overall objectives of REE pertain to giving a working knowledge and understanding of concepts, facts, principles and technologies for gathering the renewable sources of energy. Based on these objectives, the role of a renewable energy education programs should be informative, investigative, educative, and imaginative. REE should be taught with the world's population in mind as the world will run out of non-renewable resources within the next century. Renewable energy education is also being brought to political leaders as a means of getting more sustainable development to occur around the globe. This is happening in the hopes that it will uproot millions of people out of poverty and into a better quality of life in many countries .Renewable energy education is also about bringing awareness of climate change to the general public as well as an understanding of the current renewable energy technologies. An understanding of the new technologies is imperative to get them stream-lined and accepted by the vast majority of the public. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "253492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253492", "title": "Factor analysis", "text": "Factor analysis\n\nFactor analysis is a statistical method used to describe variability among observed, correlated variables in terms of a potentially lower number of unobserved variables called factors. For example, it is possible that variations in six observed variables mainly reflect the variations in two unobserved (underlying) variables. Factor analysis searches for such joint variations in response to unobserved latent variables. The observed variables are modelled as linear combinations of the potential factors, plus \"error\" terms. Factor analysis aims to find independent latent variables. The theory behind factor analytic methods is that the information gained about the interdependencies between observed variables can be used later to reduce the set of variables in a dataset. Factor analysis is commonly used in biology, psychometrics, personality theories, marketing, product management, operations research, and finance. Proponents of factor analysis believe that it helps to deal with data sets where there are large numbers of observed variables that are thought to reflect a smaller number of underlying/latent variables. It is one of the most commonly used inter-dependency techniques and is used when the relevant set of variables shows a systematic inter-dependence and the objective is to find out the latent factors that create a commonality.\n\nFactor analysis is related to principal component analysis (PCA), but the two are not identical. There has been significant controversy in the field over differences between the two techniques (see section on exploratory factor analysis versus principal components analysis below). PCA can be considered as a more basic version of exploratory factor analysis (EFA) that was developed in the early days prior to the advent of high-speed computers. Both PCA and factor analysis aim to reduce the dimensionality of a set of data, but the approaches taken to do so are different for the two techniques. Factor analysis is clearly designed with the objective to identify certain unobservable factors from the observed variables, whereas PCA does not directly address this objective; at best, PCA provides an approximation to the required factors. From the point of view of exploratory analysis, the eigenvalues of PCA are inflated component loadings, i.e., contaminated with error variance.\n\nSuppose we have a set of formula_1 observable random variables, formula_2 with means formula_3.\n\nSuppose for some unknown constants formula_4 and formula_5 unobserved random variables formula_6 (called \"common factors,\" because they influence all the observed random variables), where formula_7 and formula_8 where formula_9\n\nHere, the formula_10 are unobserved stochastic error terms with zero mean and finite variance, which may not be the same for all formula_11.\n\nIn matrix terms, we have\n\nIf we have formula_13 observations, then we will have the dimensions formula_14, formula_15, and formula_16. Each column of formula_17 and formula_18 denotes values for one particular observation, and matrix formula_19 does not vary across observations.\n\nAlso we will impose the following assumptions on formula_18:\n\n\nAny solution of the above set of equations following the constraints for formula_18 is defined as the \"factors\", and formula_19 as the loading matrix.\n\nSuppose formula_27. Then note that from the conditions just imposed on formula_18, we have\n\nor\n\nor\n\nNote that for any orthogonal matrix formula_32, if we set formula_33 and formula_34, the criteria for being factors and factor loadings still hold. Hence a set of factors and factor loadings is unique only up to an orthogonal transformation.\n\nSuppose a psychologist has the hypothesis that there are two kinds of intelligence, \"verbal intelligence\" and \"mathematical intelligence\", neither of which is directly observed. Evidence for the hypothesis is sought in the examination scores from each of 10 different academic fields of 1000 students. If each student is chosen randomly from a large population, then each student's 10 scores are random variables. The psychologist's hypothesis may say that for each of the 10 academic fields, the score averaged over the group of all students who share some common pair of values for verbal and mathematical \"intelligences\" is some constant times their level of verbal intelligence plus another constant times their level of mathematical intelligence, i.e., it is a combination of those two \"factors\". The numbers for a particular subject, by which the two kinds of intelligence are multiplied to obtain the expected score, are posited by the hypothesis to be the same for all intelligence level pairs, and are called \"factor loading\" for this subject. For example, the hypothesis may hold that the average student's aptitude in the field of astronomy is\n\nThe numbers 10 and 6 are the factor loadings associated with astronomy. Other academic subjects may have different factor loadings.\n\nTwo students assumed to have identical degrees of the latent, unmeasured traits of verbal and mathematical intelligence may have different measured aptitudes in astronomy because individual aptitudes differ from average aptitudes and because of measurement error itself. Such differences make up what is collectively called the \"error\" — a statistical term that means the amount by which an individual, as measured, differs from what is average for or predicted by his or her levels of intelligence (see errors and residuals in statistics).\n\nThe observable data that go into factor analysis would be 10 scores of each of the 1000 students, a total of 10,000 numbers. The factor loadings and levels of the two kinds of intelligence of each student must be inferred from the data.\n\nIn the following, matrices will be indicated by indexed variables. \"Subject\" indices will be indicated using letters a,b and c, with values running from 1 to formula_35 which is equal to 10 in the above example. \"Factor\" indices will be indicated using letters p, q and r, with values running from 1 to formula_36 which is equal to 2 in the above example. \"Instance\" or \"sample\" indices will be indicated using letters i,j and k, with values running from 1 to formula_37. In the example above, if a sample of formula_38 students responded to the formula_39 questions, the \"i\"th student's score for the \"a\"th question are given by formula_40. The purpose of factor analysis is to characterize the correlations between the variables formula_41 of which the formula_40 are a particular instance, or set of observations. In order for the variables to be on equal footing, they are normalized:\nwhere the sample mean is:\nand the sample variance is given by:\nThe factor analysis model for this particular sample is then:\n\nor, more succinctly:\n\nwhere\n\nIn matrix notation, we have\nObserve that by doubling the scale on which \"verbal intelligence\"—the first component in each column of \"F\"—is measured, and simultaneously halving the factor loadings for verbal intelligence makes no difference to the model. Thus, no generality is lost by assuming that the standard deviation of the factors for verbal intelligence is 1. Likewise for mathematical intelligence. Moreover, for similar reasons, no generality is lost by assuming the two factors are uncorrelated with each other. In other words:\nwhere formula_53 is the Kronecker delta (0 when formula_54 and 1 when formula_55).The errors are assumed to be independent of the factors:\nNote that, since any rotation of a solution is also a solution, this makes interpreting the factors difficult. See disadvantages below. In this particular example, if we do not know beforehand that the two types of intelligence are uncorrelated, then we cannot interpret the two factors as the two different types of intelligence. Even if they are uncorrelated, we cannot tell which factor corresponds to verbal intelligence and which corresponds to mathematical intelligence without an outside argument.\n\nThe values of the loadings \"L\", the averages μ, and the variances of the \"errors\" ε must be estimated given the observed data \"X\" and \"F\" (the assumption about the levels of the factors is fixed for a given \"F\"). \nThe \"fundamental theorem\" may be derived from the above conditions:\nThe term on the left is the (a,b) term of the correlation matrix (an formula_58 matrix) of the observed data, and its formula_35 diagonal elements will be 1's. The last term on the right will be a diagonal matrix with terms less than unity. The first term on the right is the \"reduced correlation matrix\" and will be equal to the correlation matrix except for its diagonal values which will be less than unity. These diagonal elements of the reduced correlation matrix are called \"communalities\" (which represent the fraction of the variance in the observed variable that is accounted for by the factors):\nThe sample data formula_61 will not, of course, exactly obey the fundamental equation given above due to sampling errors, inadequacy of the model, etc. The goal of any analysis of the above model is to find the factors formula_62 and loadings formula_50 which, in some sense, give a \"best fit\" to the data. In factor analysis, the best fit is defined as the minimum of the mean square error in the off-diagonal residuals of the correlation matrix:\n\nThis is equivalent to minimizing the off-diagonal components of the error covariance which, in the model equations have expected values of zero. This is to be contrasted with principal component analysis which seeks to minimize the mean square error of all residuals. Before the advent of high speed computers, considerable effort was devoted to finding approximate solutions to the problem, particularly in estimating the communalities by other means, which then simplifies the problem considerably by yielding a known reduced correlation matrix. This was then used to estimate the factors and the loadings. With the advent of high-speed computers, the minimization problem can be solved iteratively with adequate speed, and the communalities are calculated in the process, rather than being needed beforehand. The MinRes algorithm is particularly suited to this problem, but is hardly the only iterative means of finding a solution.\n\nIf the solution factors are allowed to be correlated (as in oblimin rotation, for example), then the corresponding mathematical model uses skew coordinates rather than orthogonal coordinates.\n\nThe parameters and variables of factor analysis can be given a geometrical interpretation. The data (formula_61), the factors (formula_62) and the errors (formula_67) can be viewed as vectors in an formula_37-dimensional Euclidean space (sample space), represented as formula_69, formula_70 and formula_71 respectively. Since the data are standardized, the data vectors are of unit length (formula_72). The factor vectors define an formula_36-dimensional linear subspace (i.e. a hyperplane) in this space, upon which the data vectors are projected orthogonally. This follows from the model equation \nand the independence of the factors and the errors: formula_75. In the above example, the hyperplane is just a 2-dimensional plane defined by the two factor vectors. The projection of the data vectors onto the hyperplane is given by \nand the errors are vectors from that projected point to the data point and are perpendicular to the hyperplane. The goal of factor analysis is to find a hyperplane which is a \"best fit\" to the data in some sense, so it doesn't matter how the factor vectors which define this hyperplane are chosen, as long as they are independent and lie in the hyperplane. We are free to specify them as both orthogonal and normal (formula_77) with no loss of generality. After a suitable set of factors are found, they may also be arbitrarily rotated within the hyperplane, so that any rotation of the factor vectors will define the same hyperplane, and also be a solution. As a result, in the above example, in which the fitting hyperplane is two dimensional, if we do not know beforehand that the two types of intelligence are uncorrelated, then we cannot interpret the two factors as the two different types of intelligence. Even if they are uncorrelated, we cannot tell which factor corresponds to verbal intelligence and which corresponds to mathematical intelligence, or whether the factors are linear combinations of both, without an outside argument.\n\nThe data vectors formula_69 have unit length. The correlation matrix for the data is given by formula_79. The correlation matrix can be geometrically interpreted as the cosine of the angle between the two data vectors formula_69 and formula_81. The diagonal elements will clearly be 1's and the off diagonal elements will have absolute values less than or equal to unity. The \"reduced correlation matrix\" is defined as \n\nThe goal of factor analysis is to choose the fitting hyperplane such that the reduced correlation matrix reproduces the correlation matrix as nearly as possible, except for the diagonal elements of the correlation matrix which are known to have unit value. In other words, the goal is to reproduce as accurately as possible the cross-correlations in the data. Specifically, for the fitting hyperplane, the mean square error in the off-diagonal components \n\nis to be minimized, and this is accomplished by minimizing it with respect to a set of orthonormal factor vectors. It can be seen that \n\nThe term on the right is just the covariance of the errors. In the model, the error covariance is stated to be a diagonal matrix and so the above minimization problem will in fact yield a \"best fit\" to the model: It will yield a sample estimate of the error covariance which has its off-diagonal components minimized in the mean square sense. It can be seen that since the formula_85 are orthogonal projections of the data vectors, their length will be less than or equal to the length of the projected data vector, which is unity. The square of these lengths are just the diagonal elements of the reduced correlation matrix. These diagonal elements of the reduced correlation matrix are known as \"communalities\":\n\nLarge values of the communalities will indicate that the fitting hyperplane is rather accurately reproducing the correlation matrix. It should be noted that the mean values of the factors must also be constrained to be zero, from which it follows that the mean values of the errors will also be zero.\n\nExploratory factor analysis (EFA) is used to identify complex interrelationships among items and group items that are part of unified concepts. The researcher makes no \"a priori\" assumptions about relationships among factors.\n\nConfirmatory factor analysis (CFA) is a more complex approach that tests the hypothesis that the items are associated with specific factors. CFA uses structural equation modeling to test a measurement model whereby loading on the factors allows for evaluation of relationships between observed variables and unobserved variables. Structural equation modeling approaches can accommodate measurement error, and are less restrictive than least-squares estimation. Hypothesized models are tested against actual data, and the analysis would demonstrate loadings of observed variables on the latent variables (factors), as well as the correlation between the latent variables.\n\nPrincipal component analysis (PCA) is a widely used method for factor extraction, which is the first phase of EFA. Factor weights are computed to extract the maximum possible variance, with successive factoring continuing until there is no further meaningful variance left. The factor model must then be rotated for analysis.\n\nCanonical factor analysis, also called Rao's canonical factoring, is a different method of computing the same model as PCA, which uses the principal axis method. Canonical factor analysis seeks factors which have the highest canonical correlation with the observed variables. Canonical factor analysis is unaffected by arbitrary rescaling of the data.\n\nCommon factor analysis, also called principal factor analysis (PFA) or principal axis factoring (PAF), seeks the least number of factors which can account for the common variance (correlation) of a set of variables.\n\nImage factoring is based on the correlation matrix of predicted variables rather than actual variables, where each variable is predicted from the others using multiple regression.\n\nAlpha factoring is based on maximizing the reliability of factors, assuming variables are randomly sampled from a universe of variables. All other methods assume cases to be sampled and variables fixed.\n\nFactor regression model is a combinatorial model of factor model and regression model; or alternatively, it can be viewed as the hybrid factor model, whose factors are partially known.\n\nFactor loadings: Commonality is the square of standardized outer loading of an item. Analogous to Pearson's r, the squared factor loading is the percent of variance in that indicator variable explained by the factor. To get the percent of variance in all the variables accounted for by each factor, add the sum of the squared factor loadings for that factor (column) and divide by the number of variables. (Note the number of variables equals the sum of their variances as the variance of a standardized variable is 1.) This is the same as dividing the factor's eigenvalue by the number of variables.\n\nInterpreting factor loadings: By one rule of thumb in confirmatory factor analysis, loadings should be .7 or higher to confirm that independent variables identified a priori are represented by a particular factor, on the rationale that the .7 level corresponds to about half of the variance in the indicator being explained by the factor. However, the .7 standard is a high one and real-life data may well not meet this criterion, which is why some researchers, particularly for exploratory purposes, will use a lower level such as .4 for the central factor and .25 for other factors. In any event, factor loadings must be interpreted in the light of theory, not by arbitrary cutoff levels.\n\nIn oblique rotation, one may examine both a pattern matrix and a structure matrix. The structure matrix is simply the factor loading matrix as in orthogonal rotation, representing the variance in a measured variable explained by a factor on both a unique and common contributions basis. The pattern matrix, in contrast, contains coefficients which just represent unique contributions. The more factors, the lower the pattern coefficients as a rule since there will be more common contributions to variance explained. For oblique rotation, the researcher looks at both the structure and pattern coefficients when attributing a label to a factor. Principles of oblique rotation can be derived from both cross entropy and its dual entropy.\n\nCommunality: The sum of the squared factor loadings for all factors for a given variable (row) is the variance in that variable accounted for by all the factors, and this is called the communality. The communality measures the percent of variance in a given variable explained by all the factors jointly and may be interpreted as the reliability of the indicator in the context of the factors being posited.\n\nSpurious solutions: If the communality exceeds 1.0, there is a spurious solution, which may reflect too small a sample or the choice to extract too many or too few factors.\n\nUniqueness of a variable: The variability of a variable minus its communality.\n\nEigenvalues/characteristic roots: Eigenvalues measure the amount of variation in the total sample accounted for by each factor. The ratio of eigenvalues is the ratio of explanatory importance of the factors with respect to the variables. If a factor has a low eigenvalue, then it is contributing little to the explanation of variances in the variables and may be ignored as less important than the factors with higher eigenvalues. \n\nExtraction sums of squared loadings: Initial eigenvalues and eigenvalues after extraction (listed by SPSS as \"Extraction Sums of Squared Loadings\") are the same for PCA extraction, but for other extraction methods, eigenvalues after extraction will be lower than their initial counterparts. SPSS also prints \"Rotation Sums of Squared Loadings\" and even for PCA, these eigenvalues will differ from initial and extraction eigenvalues, though their total will be the same.\n\nFactor scores (also called component scores in PCA): are the scores of each case (row) on each factor (column). To compute the factor score for a given case for a given factor, one takes the case's standardized score on each variable, multiplies by the corresponding loadings of the variable for the given factor, and sums these products. Computing factor scores allows one to look for factor outliers. Also, factor scores may be used as variables in subsequent modeling. (Explained from PCA not from Factor Analysis perspective).\n\nResearchers wish to avoid such subjective or arbitrary criteria for factor retention as \"it made sense to me\". A number of objective methods have been developed to solve this problem, allowing users to determine an appropriate range of solutions to investigate. Methods may not agree. For instance, the parallel analysis may suggest 5 factors while Velicer's MAP suggests 6, so the researcher may request both 5 and 6-factor solutions and discuss each in terms of their relation to external data and theory.\n\nHorn's parallel analysis (PA): A Monte-Carlo based simulation method that compares the observed eigenvalues with those obtained from uncorrelated normal variables. A factor or component is retained if the associated eigenvalue is bigger than the 95th percentile of the distribution of eigenvalues derived from the random data. PA is one of the most recommended rules for determining the number of components to retain, but many programs fail to include this option (a notable exception being R ). However, Formann provided both theoretical and empirical evidence that its application might not be appropriate in many cases since its performance is considerably influenced by sample size, item discrimination, and type of correlation coefficient.\n\nVelicer's (1976) MAP test “involves a complete principal components analysis followed by the examination of a series of matrices of partial correlations” (p. 397). The squared correlation for Step “0” (see Figure 4) is the average squared off-diagonal correlation for the unpartialed correlation matrix. On Step 1, the first principal component and its associated items are partialed out. Thereafter, the average squared off-diagonal correlation for the subsequent correlation matrix is then computed for Step 1. On Step 2, the first two principal components are partialed out and the resultant average squared off-diagonal correlation is again computed. The computations are carried out for k minus one step (k representing the total number of variables in the matrix). Thereafter, all of the average squared correlations for each step are lined up and the step number in the analyses that resulted in the lowest average squared partial correlation determines the number of components or factors to retain. By this method, components are maintained as long as the variance in the correlation matrix represents systematic variance, as opposed to residual or error variance. Although methodologically akin to principal components analysis, the MAP technique has been shown to perform quite well in determining the number of factors to retain in multiple simulation studies. This procedure is made available through SPSS's user interface. See Courtney (2013) for guidance.\n\nKaiser criterion: The Kaiser rule is to drop all components with eigenvalues under 1.0 – this being the eigenvalue equal to the information accounted for by an average single item. The Kaiser criterion is the default in SPSS and most statistical software but is not recommended when used as the sole cut-off criterion for estimating the number of factors as it tends to over-extract factors. A variation of this method has been created where a researcher calculates confidence intervals for each eigenvalue and retains only factors which have the entire confidence interval greater than 1.0.\n\nScree plot:\nThe Cattell scree test plots the components as the X axis and the corresponding eigenvalues as the Y-axis. As one moves to the right, toward later components, the eigenvalues drop. When the drop ceases and the curve makes an elbow toward less steep decline, Cattell's scree test says to drop all further components after the one starting the elbow. This rule is sometimes criticised for being amenable to researcher-controlled \"\". That is, as picking the \"elbow\" can be subjective because the curve has multiple elbows or is a smooth curve, the researcher may be tempted to set the cut-off at the number of factors desired by their research agenda.\n\nVariance explained criteria: Some researchers simply use the rule of keeping enough factors to account for 90% (sometimes 80%) of the variation. Where the researcher's goal emphasizes parsimony (explaining variance with as few factors as possible), the criterion could be as low as 50%.\n\nThe unrotated output maximizes variance accounted for by the first and subsequent factors, and forces the factors to be orthogonal. This data-compression comes at the cost of having most items load on the early factors, and usually, of having many items load substantially on more than one factor. Rotation serves to make the output more understandable, by seeking so-called \"Simple Structure\": A pattern of loadings where each item loads strongly on only one of the factors, and much more weakly on the other factors. Rotations can be orthogonal or oblique (allowing the factors to correlate).\n\nVarimax rotation is an orthogonal rotation of the factor axes to maximize the variance of the squared loadings of a factor (column) on all the variables (rows) in a factor matrix, which has the effect of differentiating the original variables by extracted factor. Each factor will tend to have either large or small loadings of any particular variable. A varimax solution yields results which make it as easy as possible to identify each variable with a single factor. This is the most common rotation option. However, the orthogonality (i.e., independence) of factors is often an unrealistic assumption. Oblique rotations are inclusive of orthogonal rotation, and for that reason, oblique rotations are a preferred method. Allowing for factors that are correlated with one another is especially applicable in psychometric research, since attitudes, opinions, and intellectual abilities tend to be correlated, and since it would be unrealistic in many situations to assume otherwise.\n\nQuartimax rotation is an orthogonal alternative which minimizes the number of factors needed to explain each variable. This type of rotation often generates a general factor on which most variables are loaded to a high or medium degree. Such a factor structure is usually not helpful to the research purpose.\n\nEquimax rotation is a compromise between varimax and quartimax criteria.\n\nDirect oblimin rotation is the standard method when one wishes a non-orthogonal (oblique) solution – that is, one in which the factors are allowed to be correlated. This will result in higher eigenvalues but diminished interpretability of the factors. See below.\n\nPromax rotation is an alternative non-orthogonal (oblique) rotation method which is computationally faster than the direct oblimin method and therefore is sometimes used for very large datasets.\n\nCharles Spearman pioneered the use of factor analysis in the field of psychology and is sometimes credited with the invention of factor analysis. He discovered that school children's scores on a wide variety of seemingly unrelated subjects were positively correlated, which led him to postulate that a general mental ability, or \"g\", underlies and shapes human cognitive performance. His postulate now enjoys broad support in the field of intelligence research, where it is known as the \"g\" theory.\n\nRaymond Cattell expanded on Spearman's idea of a two-factor theory of intelligence after performing his own tests and factor analysis. He used a multi-factor theory to explain intelligence. Cattell's theory addressed alternative factors in intellectual development, including motivation and psychology. Cattell also developed several mathematical methods for adjusting psychometric graphs, such as his \"scree\" test and similarity coefficients. His research led to the development of his theory of fluid and crystallized intelligence, as well as his 16 Personality Factors theory of personality. Cattell was a strong advocate of factor analysis and psychometrics. He believed that all theory should be derived from research, which supports the continued use of empirical observation and objective testing to study human intelligence.\n\nFactor analysis is used to identify \"factors\" that explain a variety of results on different tests. For example, intelligence research found that people who get a high score on a test of verbal ability are also good on other tests that require verbal abilities. Researchers explained this by using factor analysis to isolate one factor, often called crystallized intelligence or verbal intelligence, which represents the degree to which someone is able to solve problems involving verbal skills.\n\nFactor analysis in psychology is most often associated with intelligence research. However, it also has been used to find factors in a broad range of domains such as personality, attitudes, beliefs, etc. It is linked to psychometrics, as it can assess the validity of an instrument by finding if the instrument indeed measures the postulated factors.\n\n\n\nWhile exploratory factor analysis and principal component analysis are treated as synonymous techniques in some fields of statistics, this has been criticised (e.g. Fabrigar et al., 1999; Suhr, 2009). In factor analysis, the researcher makes the assumption that an underlying causal model exists, whereas PCA is simply a variable reduction technique. Researchers have argued that the distinctions between the two techniques may mean that there are objective benefits for preferring one over the other based on the analytic goal. If the factor model is incorrectly formulated or the assumptions are not met, then factor analysis will give erroneous results. Factor analysis has been used successfully where adequate understanding of the system permits good initial model formulations. Principal component analysis employs a mathematical transformation to the original data with no assumptions about the form of the covariance matrix. The aim of PCA is to determine a few linear combinations of the original variables that can be used to summarize the data set without losing much information.\n\nFabrigar et al. (1999) address a number of reasons used to suggest that principal components analysis is not equivalent to factor analysis:\n\n\nFactor analysis takes into account the random error that is inherent in measurement, whereas PCA fails to do so. This point is exemplified by Brown (2009), who indicated that, in respect to the correlation matrices involved in the calculations:\n\nFor this reason, Brown (2009) recommends using factor analysis when theoretical ideas about relationships between variables exist, whereas PCA should be used if the goal of the researcher is to explore patterns in their data.\n\nThe differences between principal components analysis and factor analysis are further illustrated by Suhr (2009):\n\nThe basic steps are:\n\nThe data collection stage is usually done by marketing research professionals. Survey questions ask the respondent to rate a product sample or descriptions of product concepts on a range of attributes. Anywhere from five to twenty attributes are chosen. They could include things like: ease of use, weight, accuracy, durability, colourfulness, price, or size. The attributes chosen will vary depending on the product being studied. The same question is asked about all the products in the study. The data for multiple products is coded and input into a statistical program such as R, SPSS, SAS, Stata, STATISTICA, JMP, and SYSTAT.\n\nThe analysis will isolate the underlying factors that explain the data using a matrix of associations. Factor analysis is an interdependence technique. The complete set of interdependent relationships is examined. There is no specification of dependent variables, independent variables, or causality. Factor analysis assumes that all the rating data on different attributes can be reduced down to a few important dimensions. This reduction is possible because some attributes may be related to each other. The rating given to any one attribute is partially the result of the influence of other attributes. The statistical algorithm deconstructs the rating (called a raw score) into its various components, and reconstructs the partial scores into underlying factor scores. The degree of correlation between the initial raw score and the final factor score is called a \"factor loading\".\n\n\n\nFactor analysis has also been widely used in physical sciences such as geochemistry, hydrochemistry, astrophysics and cosmology, as well as biological sciences, such as ecology, molecular biology and biochemistry.\n\nIn groundwater quality management, it is important to relate the spatial distribution of different chemical\nparameters to different possible sources, which have different chemical signatures. For example, a sulfide mine is likely to be associated with high levels of acidity, dissolved sulfates and transition metals. These signatures can be identified as factors through R-mode factor analysis, and the location of possible sources can be suggested by contouring the factor scores.\n\nIn geochemistry, different factors can correspond to different mineral associations, and thus to mineralisation.\n\nFactor analysis can be used for summarizing high-density oligonucleotide DNA microarrays data at probe level for Affymetrix GeneChips. In this case, the latent variable corresponds to the RNA concentration in a sample.\n\nFactor analysis has been implemented in several statistical analysis programs since the 1980s:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10569035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10569035", "title": "G. W. Pierce", "text": "G. W. Pierce\n\nGeorge Washington Pierce (January 11, 1872 – August 25, 1956) was an American physicist. He was a professor of physics at Harvard University and inventor in the development of electronic telecommunications.\n\nThe son of a Texas cattle rancher, he distinguished himself in school at Taylor and in the University of Texas before beginning his enduring relationship with Harvard in 1898. He wrote three innovative texts, many learned papers, and was assigned 53 patents. The most notable is the single-stage crystal oscillator circuit, which became the touchstone of the electronics communication art. Süsskind says that he was \"an exceedingly warm and droll individual, much revered by his students.\"\n\nG. W. Pierce was born January 11, 1872, in Webberville, Texas. He frequently recalled in later life “drawing water with leaky buckets from deep wells for thirsty mules” as a prod that motivated his intensity in study. At the University of Texas he had Alexander Macfarlane as teacher and mentor: they co-authored a paper for the first volume of the \"Physical Review\". He taught at Dallas High School (1896-7) and worked in the clerk’s office of the Bastrop County Court before winning his 1898 scholarship to Harvard. With a thesis on measurement of wavelength of shortwaves he gained the Ph.D. in 1900. After a European study-tour that included some exposure to Ludwig Boltzmann, he was invited to begin instructing at Harvard. He was instrumental in forming the Wicht Club (1903–1911), a peer-group dedicated to continuing their learning even though teaching.\n\nG. W. Pierce was the middle son of three. He shared his name with his father, but there seems to have been no use of the traditional Sr. and Jr. appendages. In 1904 he married Florence Goodwin of Saxonville, Massachusetts. Though they produced no offspring, they enjoyed some family life with Cornelia and Walter Cannon, a Harvard Medical School physiologist, who drew the Pierces to Franklin, New Hampshire. For example, Cornelia introduced George to portrait, landscape, and abstract painting. This medium became a strong method of expression for him. After Florence died in 1945, Pierce found a second companionship with Helen Russell of Sanbornton, New Hampshire. His first sign of faltering health came with a minor stroke in 1945, but he carried on until a series of major strokes killed him about a decade later. He died on August 25, 1956.\n\nPierce apparently was not related to the award-winning electronics engineer John R. Pierce.\n\nG. W. Pierce had an eye for finding the main sticking point in physical processes. For electronics he saw that resonance was a key phenomenon. His five-part series \"Experiments on resonance in wireless telegraph circuits in Physical Review (1904-7) are evidence of his leadership. By 1910 his first textbook \"Principles of Wireless Telegraphy\" was published. It is in this text, and others by John Ambrose Fleming, that the term modulation is first used to describe imprinting an audio wave onto a high-frequency carrier wave by variation of amplitude of the carrier. In 1912 he worked with A. E. Kennelly on motional impedance (see below). In 1914 he was assigned the directorship of the Cruft Physics Laboratory at Harvard. Then in 1917 he gained the rank of professor.\n\nThe year 1920 saw two important developments: his second text \"Electric Oscillations and Electric Waves\" was published. And most significantly, he followed up on an innovation of Walter Guyton Cady of Wesleyan University, using quartz crystal to stabilise frequency of electrical oscillation. In early attempts, radio communication was severely handicapped by the lack of reliable fixed-frequency operation, and Pierce saw the potential for the quartz-governed circuit. Cady’s circuit used multiple triode vacuum tubes, and Pierce was able to reduce this to a single tube. Insights such as this one resulted in patent assignments, for which Pierce then sold license to use, yielding him the capital to purchase vacation homes in Franklin, New Hampshire, and St. Petersburg, Florida.\n\nIn their laboratory, Pierce and A. E. Kennelly undertook an experiment measuring the change in impedance of telephone receivers over a range of audio frequencies when the diaphragm was clamped by finger or quill insert. At each frequency the receiver resistance and reactance were measured and impedance computed, then the difference of free versus clamped impedance plotted as a complex number, or point in the impedance plane. For every receiver, the range of frequencies yields a series of con-cyclic points. The phenomenon was called \"motional impedance\" and the circle a \"motional impedance circle\". This example of circular phenomena in device-impedance became so familiar, eventually, that the Smith Chart was introduced to provide a bounded universe (or chart) for such circles.\n\nIn 1921 he was made Rumford Professor of Physics; in 1929 he was awarded the Medal of Honor of the Institute of Radio Engineers (I.R.E.). He continued to file patents, and he reported on crystal oscillators in the \"Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences\" in 1923 and 1925. He retired in 1940, publishing his text \"Song of Insects\" in 1943. It made an analysis of the cricket \"songs\". In same year the Franklin Institute awarded him its Franklin Medal.\n\nFor a list of publications and patents see Saunders and Hunt (1959).\n\n"}
{"id": "58277716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58277716", "title": "Ghana Institute of Architects", "text": "Ghana Institute of Architects\n\nThe Ghana Institute of Architects (GIA) is a professional society for architects located in Accra, Ghana. The first professional body in independent Ghana, it was registered in 1962 and inaugurated in December 1964 as a self-governing and fully indigenous institution to advance the architectural practice, education and accreditation in the country. The Institute is the successor to the pre-independence \"Gold Coast Society of Architects\", a colonial social club for Gold Coast-based architects founded in August 1954. The first president of the Ghana Institute of Architects was Theodore Shealtiel Clerk, the first formally trained, professionally certified Ghanaian architect and an award-winning urban planner who designed, planned and developed the harbour city of Tema.\nIn 1963, approximately fifteen pioneer Ghanaian architects who had trained in the United Kingdom and the United States met to officially plan and formalise the architectural practice, education and accreditation through a professional institution, the Ghana Institute of Architects (GIA) as the successor to Gold Coast Society of Architects (GCSA), a social club for Gold Coast-based architects founded between July and August 1954 during the British colonial era. These architects included T. S. Clerk, D.K. Dawson, J.S.K. Frimpong, P.N.K., Turkson, J. Owusu-Addo, O.T. Agyeman, A. K. Amartey, E.K. Asuako, W.S. Asamoah, M. Adu-Donkor, K.G. Kyei, C. Togobo, V. Adegbite, M. Adu Bedu and E. Kingsley Osei. T.S Clerk was appointed the sole architect at that meeting to draft the first constitution of the Institute. He subsequently submitted his proposals and the constitutional draft and its by-laws he authored were discussed, approved and adopted. \n\nThe founding members of the erstwhile GCSA were mostly British expatriate architects who were employees of the colonial civil service and attached to the Public Works Department (P.W.D.). This group consisted of G.S Knight (President), Arthur Lindsay (Honorary Secretary), B.A.W Trevallion, (Honorary Treasurer), Kenneth M. Scott (Hon. Public Relations Officer), E.W Williamson, A. Williamson, Max Garlach, G.C Harris, A.K Sulton, M.R. Griffiths, K. Wood, H. J. Pine, G.P Smith and L.P Williams. The GCSA meetings were held at the International Club located on the Knutsford Avenue in Accra. Concurrently, a pre-independence indigenous architectural association, the \"Space Club\" was set up by other Western-trained Ghanaian professionals. This crop of early Ghanaian architects also doubled as external examiners at the Department of Architecture at the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST) in Kumasi.\nThe Institute’s official inaugural ceremony was on Friday 11 December 1964 at 20:30 GMT at the Commonwealth Hall of the University of Ghana, Legon. The first executives were inducted during the event with Theodore S. Clerk being elected the first president Ghana Institute of Architects, after which he gave his acceptance speech. Earlier, T. S. Clerk had been the president of the Gold Coast Society of Architects. Other first officers of the Institute elected include P.N.K. Turkson, (Vice-President), Victor Adegbite (Honorary Treasurer), O.T. Agyeman (Honorary Secretary), J.S.K Frimpong, John Owusu-Addo, W.S. Asamoah, E.K. Asuako, A.K. Amartey and M. Adu-Donkor as Members. E.K. Bensah, the then Minister of Works and Housing was the Chairman of the inaugural event, assited by Nana Kobina Nketia IV, Director, Institute of Art and Culture, R.P. Baffour, Vice-Chancellor, KNUST and G.Y. Odoi, Managing Director, Ghana National Construction Corporation. The first Fellowships of the GIA were conferred on E.K. Bensah, R.P Baffour, L. K. Apaloo and G.Y. Odoi. The Ghana Police Band provided music for the occasion.\n\nThe GIA has the backing of the Government of Ghana, through the edict, \"Architects Decree, NLCD 357, of 1969\". The Ghana Institute of Architects is a member of the African Union of Architects, Commonwealth Association of Architects and the International Union of Architects. The Institute holds Annual General Meetings (AGM) to elect its executives. The Ghana Institute of Architects Membership Charter states:\n\n\"No person shall practice in Ghana as an architect unless he is properly registered with the Ghana Institute of Architects to practice as such.\"\n\n\nCORPORATE\n\n\nNON – CORPORATE\n\n\"Qualification of Members:\"\nFellows:\n\n\n\nAssociates:\n\n\n\nFirms:\n\n\nHonorary Fellow:\n\"The Council may, subject to the approve of the Institute, elect from time to time as Hon. Fellows persons eminent in public life of this Country or elsewhere, not professionally engaged in the Practice of Architecture, who have shown exceptional interest matters relating to Architecture and Planning. The number of honorary fellows shall not at any one time exceed 5% of the corporate members of this class.\"\n\"Every Honorary Fellow shall be entitled to use after his or her name the initials Hon. F.G.I.A. i.e. Honorary Fellow of the Ghana Institute of Architects.'\n\n\"Honorary Associates:\"'\nThe Council may, subject to the approval of the Institute, elect from time to time as Honorary Associates persons who have not professionally engaged in the practice of Architecture but have distinguished themselves in other professions or other fields of learning or have shown exceptional interest in matters relating to Architecture and Town Planning or have rendered commendable service to the Institute.\"\n\"The number of Honorary Associates shall not at any time exceed 5% of the number of the corporate members of this class.\"\n\"Every Honorary Associate shall be entitled to use after his or her name the initials Hon. A.G.I.A i.e. Honorary Associate of the Institute of Architects.\"\n\n\"Probationers:\" \n\"Probationers shall be persons who have passed the appropriate qualifying examinations but who have not completed their practical training or passed the Professional Practice Examination of the Institute.\"\n\nStudents:\n\n\nRetired Members:\n\n\nDiploma of Membership \n\"Every Fellow and Associate shall upon registration be entitled to obtain\"\n\n\n\nThe founding of the colonial architectural society, the Gold Coast Society of Architects had ties to the establishment of the School of Architecture, Building Technology and Planning at the KNUST in 1952 when a feasibility team made up of British, German and American architects and academics arrived in the country. The committee included Britons, Charles Hobbis, Tafi Evans and Miles Danby; German professor, Lutz Christians who lived and lectured at the KNUST until 1970s, and American Labelle Prussin who wrote the first book on architecture in Ghana \"“Architecture of Northern Ghana”\" and was among a group that designed the housing units for displaced communities arising from the construction of the Akosombo Dam project on the Volta Lake. Prussin then worked with the Housing and Planning Department of the Faculty of Architecture at KNUST and later became a professor of architecture at an American university.\n\nUnder British rule, public building projects in the Gold Coast colony were designed by British architects. These projects include the design of the University of Ghana’s classical Mediterranean buildings led by a Cyprus-based British architectural firm; Supreme Court of Ghana buildings, the Old Parliament House and the General Post Office in Accra. The now demolished Ambassador Hotel, present site of the Movenpick Hotel in Accra and the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital in Kumasi were both designed by Paton, a licentiate of the Royal Institute of British Architects. During the colonial period, Gold-Coast-based British architectural firms included Kenneth Scott and Partners; Nickson and Boris as well as James Cubitt, Scott and Partners that designed the Mechanical Engineering Workshop building of the KNUST. Other British architects who were practitioners of the then nascent academic field of “tropical architecture” were Jane Drew and Max Fry who designed the buildings of Bechem Teacher Training College in the Tano South District of the Brong Ahafo Region in addition to those at the Prempeh College and the Opoku Ware School, both in Kumasi.\n\nDuring the Kwame Nkrumah administration in the 1950s, several architectural engineers were sent to the newly independent Ghana by Yugoslavia’s Josip Broz Tito as a sign of friendship between the two nations. These architects from the former Eastern Bloc designed buildings using an international modernist approach which was considered globally trendy in that period. Such building designs included the Vice Chancellor's Lodge and the Senior Staff Club at the KNUST as well as various  halls of residence at the KNUST such as Unity Hall, the eight-storey annex blocks of the Independence, Republic, Queen's and University (Katanga) Halls.\n\nIn 1960, Kwame Nkrumah appointed Theodore Clerk, the GIA’s first president as the Chief Architect of the then newly created Tema Development Corporation (TDC) to develop the satellite city of Tema.  When Clerk was elevated to the position of the chief executive officer of the corporation, another Ghanaian pioneer architect and GIA co-founder, Victor Adegbite became the chief architect of the TDC. The American architect, Max Bond who returned to his homeland after the 1966 coup d’état, designed Bolgatanga Regional Library. Bond later taught and worked in architecture schools in New York and was instrumental in the design of the Martin Luther King Centre in Atlanta, Georgia and the new African-American Museum in Washington, D.C. John Owusu Addo, a professor at the Department of Architecture at the KNUST and also the first Ghanaian native to head the department.  For about twenty years, Anthony D. C. Hyland and William “Bill” Hill also taught in the same department. The German architect, Hannah Schreckenback worked at the Public Works Department (PWD) and the AESC before joining the faculty at the Department of Architecture at the KNUST in the 1970s. Schreckenback wrote a construction design textbook still used by students of architecture. In 1977, the GIA took part in the general strike and withdrawal of services by the Professional Bodies Association of Ghana, of which the GIA was a member.\n\nYaw Asante, the only non-architect to become architecture department chair at the KNUST supervised the expansion of department’s infrastructure using the then novel idea of “internally generated funds”. The building designed under his tenure is currently used as the sixth-year architectural design studio for the M. Arch II programme which has replaced the former postgraduate diploma. In 2012, under the auspices of the KNUST, ArchiAfrika, a network connecting architectural scholars and professionals in the built environment, launched the ArchiAfrika Educational Network, a partnership of architecture schools across the African continent.\n\nThe development of Accra was spearheaded by an early Ghanaian architect of the Ghana Institute of Architects, David Wilberforce Kwame Dawson. Born on 6 February 2009. he was one of four architects at independence in 1957. Initially trained as a sanitary health inspector, he joined the Sekondi-Takoradi Municipal Council. Gifted in technical drawing, his superiors transferred him to the Drawing Office of the Railway and Harbour Administration as a draughtsman. He studied by correspondence at Bennet College in England before winning a colonial scholarship in 1944 to Leeds University where he graduated in architecture in 1946. He became an Associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects later that year. He returned to Accra in 1948 and became an Assistant Town Planning Officer at the Public Works Department, where he designed the Roof Loan Scheme. Dawson became the Director of Rural Housing in 1956 and working in tandem with Ghana’s first leader, Kwame Nkrumah, R. P. Baffour, the first Vice Chancellor of the KNUST, engineer, J. S. Annan and others he contributed to rural development, architecture and town planning.\n\nThe following individuals have served as President of the Ghana Institute of Architects (GIA):\n\n"}
{"id": "25388574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25388574", "title": "Global Learning Opportunities in Business Education", "text": "Global Learning Opportunities in Business Education\n\nThe Global Learning Opportunities in Business Education (GLOBE) program is an undergraduate business program that sends 54 elite students to study at Copenhagen Business School (CBS) in Copenhagen, Denmark, the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) in Hong Kong, and the Kenan–Flagler Business School, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC) in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States. \n\nAt each respective university, eighteen students are selected based on their academic achievements, personalities, and previous life experiences. After being selected, the students spend a year and a half traveling the world, networking internationally, and gaining a new perspective on the business world. During the first year of the program, students study at CBS in the fall and CUHK in the spring. Following the semester in Hong Kong, students generally pursue competitive internships with companies throughout the world. The final semester is then spent at the University of North Carolina. Following completion of the program, students return to their respective universities, where they spend one final semester completing their degree.\n\nAs of September 2017, 10 batches of GLOBE students have graduated the program. Batch 11 is in the midst of its third and final semester while batch 12 is in its first.\n\nThe GLOBE program combines international business studies with real-life international experience, giving GLOBE Scholars unique perspectives in their future business endeavors. At CBS, only students majoring in International Business are eligible for program admission. At UNC, sophomores apply for the GLOBE program when applying to the Kenan-Flagler Business School. At CUHK, only students majoring in Global Business Studies, one of the most competitive undergraduate programs in Hong Kong, are eligible to apply. At each university, the GLOBE administration team selects students through a rigorous application and extensive interview process to maximize student and program compatibility.\n\nThe three universities at which GLOBE students study all receive top rankings on their respective continents. In 2012, CUHK was ranked fifth in Asia, CBS was ranked as the third-best international business school in the world after Harvard and London Business School, and the Kenan-Flagler Business School at UNC was ranked sixth-best business school in the USA.\n\nDuring the course of the program all the GLOBE students live and study together. Students also take the opportunity to travel extensively throughout Europe, Asia, and the United States.\n\nThe third batch (graduated December 9, 2009) visited Brussels, Berlin, Shanghai, Tokyo, the Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, and New York City on its study trips. The students visited companies such as Deutsche Bahn in Berlin, Toyota City in Japan, and Standard & Poor's in New York City.\nBatch eight (graduating December 14, 2014) has visited Brussels and Berlin, and 10 days are going to be spent in Indonesia visiting and solving local company issues. In the US, there will be a study trip to Research Triangle Park and a more extensive one in the late fall.\n\nAlthough still a young program, the GLOBE program has been featured in numerous major business publications around the world. The program was referenced in an article about students' perceptions of companies in the \"Financial Times\" and \"BusinessWeek\". The program has also been the focus of articles in business media such as the Danish newspaper \"Børsen\".\nBerlingske Business (Danish newspaper) ran a series of articles about the program in the fall, 2013. \n"}
{"id": "9612321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9612321", "title": "Harcourt Assessment", "text": "Harcourt Assessment\n\nHarcourt Assessment was a company that published and distributed educational and psychological assessment tools and therapy resources and provided educational assessment and data management services for national, state, district and local assessments. On January 30, 2008, Harcourt Assessment was merged into Pearson's Assessment & Information group after being acquired from Reed Elsevier for $950 million.\n\nHarcourt Assessment's history dates to the early part of the 20th century. Although the company name derives from Harcourt Brace & Company, which was established in 1919, the corporate heritage goes back to 1905 and the founding of World Book Company. Many of the educational products produced by Harcourt Assessment originated at World Book. The psychological assessments originated at The Psychological Corporation, which was founded in 1921.\n\nAlfred Harcourt and Donald Brace were friends at Columbia University in New York, and both worked for Henry Holt & Company before founding their own publishing company in 1919. Harcourt Brace & Company published the works of a number of world-renowned writers, including Sinclair Lewis, Virginia Woolf, T. S. Eliot, James Thurber, George Orwell and Robert Penn Warren.\n\nBy 1960, Harcourt Brace led the market in high school textbook publishing, but had little presence in the elementary school market. That year, William Jovanovich, who had become president of the company in 1954, took the company public and merged Harcourt Brace & Company with World Book Company to create Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc. This was a strategic move that had a long-term impact on the company because World Book was an established elementary textbook publisher and a test publisher.\n\nIn 1970, the company became known as Harcourt Brace Jovanovich (HBJ), with William Jovanovich as chairman. That same year, the company acquired The Psychological Corporation. Under Jovanovich’s leadership, the company diversified into non-publishing businesses such as insurance and business consulting. It also bought several theme parks—including SeaWorld, which it acquired in 1976 for $46 million. The company divested its theme park division in 1989 for $1.1 billion.\n\nWorld Book Company opened its first office in Manila in 1905 and published English-language educational materials for schools in the Philippines. The company later moved to New York City, where it became a test publisher. Much of the company’s success was based on the work of Arthur S. Otis, who was best known for the intelligence tests he developed for the U.S. Army. Millions of World War I draftees took Otis’ tests.\n\nWorld Book Company became the first publisher of group-administered tests measuring mental ability when it published Otis’ Group Intelligence Scale in 1918. Otis joined World Book in 1921. By the time World Book merged with Harcourt Brace in 1960, it had a portfolio of educational tests, including the Stanford Achievement Test (1923), the Metropolitan Achievement Test (1932) and the Otis Mental Ability Test (1936).\n\nWorld Book Company was not related to World Book, Inc., the Chicago-based publisher of encyclopedias and other reference books.\n\nPsychologist James McKeen Cattell founded The Psychological Corporation in New York in 1921. Cattell was a leading figure in psychology and was the president of the American Psychological Association, as well as founder and editor of Scientific Monthly and head of Columbia University’s psychology department. At age 60, when Columbia dismissed him because of his public opposition to the draft in World War I, Cattell decided to pursue his interest in publishing. He joined forces with two former graduate students, Robert Sessions Woodworth and Edward Lee Thorndike.\n\nBoth were eminent psychologists, and Thorndike was regarded as the foremost authority on the analysis and measurement of learning. The three men started a business to market psychological tests and related materials to educational, corporate and government clients. In 1939, the company published the Wechsler-Bellevue Intelligence Scales. David Wechsler was a former student of Woodworth at Columbia University.\nIn 1970, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich acquired The Psychological Corporation and, in 1976, merged its educational testing department, acquired from World Book Company in 1960, into The Psychological Corporation.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, The Psychological Corporation (TPC) expanded through a number of acquisitions. In 1986, the company acquired Merrill Publishing’s test division with its portfolio of tests for language, speech and hearing. In 1993, it acquired Cognitronics Corporation. In 1994, the company acquired Communication Skill Builders/Therapy Skill Builders and its therapy products for speech-language pathologists, occupational therapists and physical therapists.\n\nIn 1983, The Psychological Corporation moved from New York to Cleveland. When the company moved to San Antonio, Texas, in 1985, it established its own operational services, including customer service, warehouse, distribution, information technology, scoring and reporting services.\n\nIn order to establish a stronger identity for its educational assessment products, and to link them more closely to the Harcourt name, The Psychological Corporation’s education testing unit was branded as Harcourt Brace Educational Measurement in 1995. The name was shortened in 1999 to Harcourt Educational Measurement.\n\nIn 1991, General Cinema Corporation, a diversified company that operated retailers such as Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman, as well as a national chain of movie theaters, acquired Harcourt Brace Jovanovich for more than $1.5 billion. In 1993, General Cinema Corporation renamed itself Harcourt General and restored the publishing division’s name to the historic Harcourt Brace & Company. At the end of the year, Harcourt General divested its cinema division.\n\nIn 1999, Harcourt General divested its retail division and shortened the publishing division’s name to Harcourt, Inc. That same year, Harcourt, Inc. adopted the brand name Harcourt Assessment for its testing businesses. At the time, Harcourt Assessment comprised The Psychological Corporation, which was known as the clinical division, and Harcourt Educational Measurement, which was known as the education division.\n\nIn late 2003, the testing business legally changed its name to Harcourt Assessment, Inc., and unified its two divisions into one operating company. The company retired the two division names – Harcourt Educational Measurement and The Psychological Corporation – although it retained “PsychCorp” as a brand imprint for select products.\n\nIn 2001, the Anglo-Dutch publishing company Reed Elsevier acquired Harcourt General and Harcourt, Inc., including the business then known as Harcourt Assessment, Inc. Harcourt Assessment encountered two straight years with mass layoffs as a result of poor management and a failed strategy to expand into the state assessment market. In January 2006, more than 70 workers were laid off. Shortly after the layoffs, division president Jeff Galt left the company, and was replaced by Michael E. Hansen, who moved from Bertelsmann. Then again in January 2007, 122 workers lost their jobs. On February 15, 2007, Reed Elsevier announced its intention to sell its education arm, Harcourt Education, of which Harcourt Assessment is a part. According to Reed Chief Executive Crispin Davis, \"This is essentially a strategic decision that we want to focus more sharply on our three existing businesses ... with better growth rates\".\n\nOn May 4, 2007, Pearson, the international education and information company, announced that it had agreed to acquire Harcourt Assessment and Harcourt Education International from Reed Elsevier for $950m in cash. The sale of the two units left Reed Elsevier with most of Harcourt Education still to sell, comprising its large U.S. textbook business and a number of supplemental publishing businesses. Pearson already held a market-leading position in the U.S. textbook market and would not be interested in the main Harcourt business on account of regulatory concerns. Reed stated that it expected to complete the sale in the second half of the year and would use the funds raised to return cash to shareholders.\n\nOn January 30, 2008, Pearson completed the acquisition of Harcourt Assessment, Inc., having obtained all necessary regulatory approvals. Doug Kubach, president of Pearson's Assessment & Information group, led the integration of Harcourt Assessment into Pearson.\n\n"}
{"id": "48161225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48161225", "title": "Harriet Edquist", "text": "Harriet Edquist\n\nHarriet Edquist is an Australian curator, and Professor of Architectural History in the School of Architecture and Design at RMIT University in Melbourne. Born and educated in Melbourne, she has both published widely on and created numerous exhibitions in the field of Australian (in particular, Victorian) architecture, art and design history. She also contributes to the production of Australian architectural knowledge as a director of the RMIT Design Archives and is a member of the Design Research Institute at RMIT University.\n\nEdquist graduated from St Catherine's School, Toorak in 1965. She then studied for a Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts in Classics from Monash University, and completed a PhD in Architectural History at RMIT University.\n\nEdquist began her teaching career as a lecturer in the Department of Fine Arts, University of Melbourne, and specialised in Renaissance and modern art history.\n\nIn 1987, she joined RMIT University as editor (with Karen Burns) of \"Transition: Discourse on Architecture\"; a quarterly magazine produced by the Department of Architecture from 1979 until 2000 and dedicated to discourse on contemporary architectural practice and theory. Serving from 1987 to 1991, the partnership of Edquist and Karen Burns stretched the critical range of this publication, arguing - as they wrote in their editorial for \"Transition 38 -\" that architectural discourse could extend \"the boundaries of discussion to include all the arts and observations on the society\". They were both subsequently replaced as editors of \"Transition\" following a controversial 're-setting' of the publication's agenda, which was played out publicly through editorials and letters.\n\nIn 1988, Edquist was appointed lecturer in Architectural History by RMIT University and from 2001 to 2007 served as Head of the School of Architecture and Design. She now holds the positions of Professor of Architectural History at RMIT University, and director of the RMIT Design Archives.\n\nShe is currently a member (and was the past President from 2003 to 2005) of SAHANZ, the Society of Architectural Historians Australia and New Zealand. Professor Edquist is also a member of Docomomo Australia.\n\nIn June 2015, she became the Foundation President of Automotive Historians Australia. This new organisation focusses on Australian automative history and was launched alongside Shifting Gear: Design, Innovation and the Australian car, an exhibition curated by Edquist in conjunction with David Hurlston.\n\n\n\nIn 1992, Edquist was awarded the Bates Smart National Award for Architecture in the Media, for her work editing \"Transition: Discourse on Architecture\". Edquist also shared this role with fellow architecture academic Karen Burns.\n\nIn 2004, she was also awarded a Bates Smart National Award for Architecture in the Media, for her work writing the book \"Harold Desbrowe-Annear: A Life in Architecture\".\n\nEdquist was awarded an Honorary Fellow at the Australian Institute of Architects in 2006, for services to architectural education and history. She is also an Honours Committee chair of the Victorian Chapter of the Australian Institute of Architects.\n\nShe is a member of the International Confederation of Architectural Museums, and a founding member of its Australian counterpart, icam Australia.\n\nIn 2016 Edquist was elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities (FAHA).\n"}
{"id": "6255722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6255722", "title": "Henri Szeps", "text": "Henri Szeps\n\nHenri Szeps OAM (born 2 October 1943) is an Australian character actor of stage and television, and has also featured in films.\nSzeps was born in Lausanne, Switzerland, he is probably best known for his role in the classic Australian comedy series \"Mother and Son\" as Dentist Robert Beare with Garry McDonald, the late Ruth Cracknell and Judy Morris. Another prominent role was in \"Palace of Dreams\" for which he received a Penguin Award. He also played the role of Saul, central character Frank's doctor in \"Travelling North\" a part played by Leo McKern. He has played numerous roles throughout career which spans over 4 decades.\n\nSzeps studied acting at Ensemble Theatre on weekends, while gaining Science & Electrical Engineering degrees at Sydney University. \nIn 1963, while sitting for the B.Sc. in maths & physics during the day he was appearing every night at the Ensemble Theatre in his first play there, called?\nThe Physicists. It played for six months. \nHe met his wife of 47 years, New Zealand Australian actress Mary Ann Severne, during the Sydney season of The Boys In The Band, and they were married soon after. They have two grown up sons. \nHenri played the Doctor in the world première of David Williamson's play, TRAVELLING NORTH, and was asked to repeat the performance in the film with Leo McKern & Graham Kennedy.\nHenri is best known for his character of Robert Beare, the selfish brother in the TV comedy series Mother and Son with Ruth Cracknell & Garry McDonald. Six seasons were produced by the ABC from 1983 to 1993\nHenri won the Penguin Award for best actor for ABC's 10 part series Palace of Dreams.\nHe has written a book on acting: ALL IN GOOD TIMING - 1996. Used by drama schools. \nHas Performed In 5 one-man shows, produced by Ensemble Theatre, the last three self-penned: The DOUBLE BASS - 1990; SKY - 1992 (written for Henri by John Misto); I'M \nNOT A DENTIST - 1997; WHY KIDS - 2003; WISH I'D SAID THAT - 2010).\n\nPENGUIN AWARD, Best Actor in a mini-series - PALACE OF DREAMS \n1985 Norman Kessell Award (Outstanding Performance) for I'M NOT A DENTIST\n1998 OAM for Service to Arts and Community\n2001 HELPMANN AWARD for CABARET, 2003. \nThe HENRI SZEPS GREEN ROOM - declared at Ensemble Theatre in 2014 \nLIFE ACHIEVEMENT AWARD - Glugs, 2015\n\n"}
{"id": "17062357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17062357", "title": "Henriette Nissen-Saloman", "text": "Henriette Nissen-Saloman\n\nHenriette Nissen-Saloman (18 January 1819 – 27 August 1879), was a Swedish opera singer (mezzo-soprano) and singing teacher.\n\nHenriette was born in Gothenburg, where she was a student of organist Georg Günther. In 1838, she traveled to Paris in 1838, where she took singing lessons from Manuel Garcia and piano lessons from Frédéric Chopin. She debuted as Elvira in \"Don Juan\" at the \"Comédie-Italienne\" in Paris in 1842. She toured Europe from 1844 to 1855 before she was employed at the Italian Opera at Saint Petersburg in Russia in 1859, where she was an instructor at the conservatory until 1873. She was elected to the Royal Swedish Academy of Music in 1870, and awarded the Litteris et Artibus in 1871. She married the Danish composer Siegfried Saloman in 1850.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50309622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50309622", "title": "Institut National des Arts de Bamako", "text": "Institut National des Arts de Bamako\n\nThe Institut National des Arts de Bamako (INA), is a national school for the arts in Bamako, Mali. It was the only school of its kind in Mali until 2004. Originally set up to train Sudanese artisans, it now offers courses in jewellery making and design, illustration, painting, sculpture, photography, music, and theatre. It has produced many of Mali’s most well-known artists and has hosted numerous exhibitions, workshops, and performances.\n\nOver the history of its existence, many changes have affected the institute, including course offerings, faculty, and its name. Since its inception it has been known by many previous names including:\n\nNotably, any reference to Sudan was removed from its name, reflecting the changing politics and identity of the country, as the former Sudanese Republic became the Republic of Mali in 1960.\n\nIn 2013, a large fire destroyed many of the craftsmen's shops and wares in the surrounding area.\n\nBy 2015, it was run by a management committee, elected for three years and contained 89 souks and workshops for many crafts.\n\nCommonly tourist guides will recommend a visit to the area to view the craftsmen working and to buy crafts from the market. Accordingly, it receives more than sixty thousand (60,000) tourists annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "7208965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7208965", "title": "International Young Physicists' Tournament", "text": "International Young Physicists' Tournament\n\nThe International Young Physicists’ Tournament, IYPT, is one of the World's most respected and prestigious annual physics competitions centered on 17 non-examination research problems that are published yearly in late July. During the tournament, discussion-based sessions called \"Physics Fights\" are conducted and the performances of the teams are judged by expert physicists.\n\nThe IYPT is a week-long event in which currently around 150 international pre-university contestants participate. The participants present and discuss their research projects at the events that share common features with thesis defense or scientific conferences. The teams switch roles and take floor as Reporters, Opponents and Reviewers, thus learning about peer review early on in their school years.\n\nThe concept was conceived in 1979 by Evgeny Yunosov and was run as the Russian Young Physicists' Tournament, an event localised to Russia. He went on to initiate the first IYPT in 1988.\n\n(*) the number of Nations can be disputed as some countries were midway towards a recognized independence\n\nThe following table that shows what National teams have taken part in IYPTs in different years. \"H\" means that the country hosted the respective tournament. \"0\", \"1\", \"2\", \"3\" correspond to the number of teams that represented the respective country. The data that needs verification is marked with interrogatory signs (?).\n\n"}
{"id": "53803439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53803439", "title": "James Putnam (curator)", "text": "James Putnam (curator)\n\nJames Putnam is an independent curator and writer best known for his creative, innovative approach to curating and juxtaposing contemporary art with historic museum collections.\n\nJames Putnam was born in Walthamstow, London. He attended the City of London School and went on to study History of Art at the University of London. Putnam became a curator in the Egyptian Antiquities Department of the British Museum, and in 1994, he initiated and organized the ‘Time Machine’ exhibition juxtaposing the work of contemporary artists with ancient sculptures. He subsequently curated a new version of the exhibition at the Museo Egizio, Turin, and many other museum interventions at the British Museum with works by Henry Moore, Richard Wentworth and Fred Wilson. His uses of ‘museum intervention’, ‘museum effect’ and ‘the museum as medium’ in the writings and curatorial statements have sparked research interests in museology and had profound impact on curatorial literature.\n\nOther activities in the early 1990s included a stint as a visual artist and a musician when he formed the experimental rock band GOD together with Phil Gray & Richard Dyer to tour UK extensively before disbanding. The band reformed in 2015 to play a gig at the Red Gallery during the Frieze Art Fair.\n\nBetween 1999 and 2003, he founded and directed the British Museum’s Contemporary Arts & Cultures Programme, which staged performances and talks by Tracey Emin, Vivienne Westwood, Cai Guo-Qiang, Antony Gormley, Grayson Perry, Sarah Lucas, Gavin Turk, Jake & Dinos Chapman and Michael Craig Martin.\n\nAfter leaving the British Museum, he became a visiting scholar in Museology Programme at New York University and curated numerous international exhibitions including Arte All’Arte 9, Tuscany (2004). He was also a guest curator for Echigo-Tsumari Art Triennial, Japan (2005-6) and the Busan Biennial in South Korea (2010). In the summer of 2016, he co-curated ‘Daydreaming with Stanley Kubrick’ at Somerset House with musician and DJ James Lavelle; the exhibition comprised immersive multi-media installations by 45 contemporary artists and musicians inspired by Kubrick’s films.\n\nHe is currently Senior Research Fellow Exhibitions at the University of the Arts, London. His ongoing curating projects include large-scale collateral projects for the prestigious Venice Biennales from 2007-2017 (52nd~57th Edition), and a series of critically acclaimed exhibitions that he collaborates with Sophie Calle, Sarah Lucas, Andy Hope 1930, Ellen Gallagher, Mat Collishaw, Noble & Webster, Miroslaw Balka and Gavin Turk in the Freud Museum, London.\n\nPutnam has published several books on ancient Egypt including \"An Introduction to Egyptology\", \"Amazing Facts about Ancient Egypt\" and contributed essays to numerous artist catalogues. His best known work, \"Art and Artifact\" (Thames & Hudson, 2000 & 2010), received widespread critical acclaims.\n\n"}
{"id": "54446940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54446940", "title": "Jeanne Chasles", "text": "Jeanne Chasles\n\nJeanne Chasles (4 September 1869-20 March 1939) was a French dancer in the Belle Époque period who later became a noted choreographer for the Opéra Comique and dance instructor at the National Conservatoire. Interested in collecting memorabilia on the history of dance, her collection became an important part of the archives of the National Library of France. In 1931, she was honored as a knight in the Legion of Honour.\nJeanne Marguerite Chasles was born on 4 September 1869 in Paris to Emilie Elisabeth (née Dornbret) and Auguste Alfred Chasles. She studied dance with Madame Mariquita and in 1888 made her debut at the Opéra-Comique as a \"petit sujet\" (minor soloist). She also danced at Dancer at the Gaîté Lyrique and at the Odéon-Théâtre de l'Europe. By 1898, Chasles had become head of employment for the Opéra-Comique and the following year, she became one of their principal dancers, soloing until 1910. Some of the other dancers she worked with included , , Luz Chavita, Cléo de Mérode and Stacia Napierkowska. While still working as the employment manager at Opéra-Comique, she temporarily worked in the same capacity at the Gaîté Lyrique and then in 1909 began serving as the Director of Dance at the Comédie-Française. From 1916, she taught dance at the Conservatoire de Paris. In 1920, she replaced Madame Mariquita as the ballet mistress of the Opéra-Comique.\n\nIn 1910, Chasles arranged some of the dances for the production of \"Quo Vadis?\", based on the novel of the same name at the Gaîté Lyrique. Three years later, she choreographed the opera \"Pénélope\" by Gabriel Fauré for the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées and later in 1913 she worked on a ballet based on Molière's \"Le Sicilien\" for Jacques Rouché at the Théâtre des Arts. Chasles’ choreography was unique in that it incorporated historical materials on dance from her private collection of dance-related engravings and documents. In 1923, she arranged a production for charity event based on a Renaissance entertainment featuring music created in the fifteenth century by Charles Lévadé. She prepared a revival of \"Les Indes galantes\" by Jean-Philippe Rameau in 1925 for the Opéra-Comique, her last year of choreographing for the Opéra-Comique.\n\nIn 1931, she was awarded the rank of knight in the National Order of the Legion of Honour.\n\nChasles died on 20 March 1939 in Paris. After her death, the collection of historic engravings and materials on the history of dance which Chasles had amassed were donated to the National Library of France.\n\n"}
{"id": "34023732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34023732", "title": "John Rassias", "text": "John Rassias\n\nJohn Arthur Rassias (August 20, 1925 – December 2, 2015) was an American professor who developed a method for the teaching of foreign languages, the Rassias Method, also known as the Dartmouth Intensive Language Model. John Rassias founded the Rassias Center for World Languages and Cultures, a department of Dartmouth College situated in the Office of the Provost that works with language learners and professionals from around the world.\n\nJohn A. Rassias was born on August 20, 1925 to Athanathios and Eleni (Leonardakis) Rassias, immigrants from Georgitsi, Greece. A WWII veteran, Rassias enlisted in the Marines and fought on Okinawa. Rassias later referred to his experience in the war as important to his understanding of how cultural and linguistic understanding connects people of varying backgrounds and experiences. As Rassias states in his upcoming book \"To Be Human, the Unzipped Mind:\" \"I am born in Manchester, New Hampshire, to a Greek father and Greek mother. Then some buddies and I invade Okinawa. Then I become a teacher...The war has ended... As the Occupation wears on I come into contact with more and more Japanese. Suspicion and distrust give way gradually to the need to communicate and work with them. I roam over the destroyed city (Sasebo)…The desire to understand the Japanese eventually overcomes the hate we’ve absorbed in our training and in combat, it is displaced by the simple human response of sympathy for the afflicted. For the second time in my life, language becomes the arbiter between me and others. Emotion. Learning takes place there, for nothing is real unless it touches me and I embrace it.\"\n\nRassias graduated summa cum laude from the University of Bridgeport, and later obtained a doctorat d’Etat at the University of Dijon, Dijon, France. He continued with further research at the Sorbonne and also studied at and performed with the Cours Réné Simon in Paris in the 1950s. Rassias also received a certificate from the Institut de Phonétique in Paris and completed additional study at Laval University in Québec.\n\nIn 1964 John Rassias became a consultant for Peace Corps language education programs throughout the world. He also served as Director of the first pilot program of languages for the Peace Corps in Africa and as Director of Language Programs at Dartmouth. This work initiated his development of the Rassias teaching method.\n\nFrom 1965 to 2015 Rassias was William R. Kenan Professor of French and Italian at Dartmouth College, where the Rassias Center uses his method. At Dartmouth, he was the founder and director of Dartmouth’s Language Study Abroad (LSA) program, through which Dartmouth students may complete their language requirement in a foreign country.\n\nRassias \"put the teacher in the role of the performer, acting out words and expressions in imaginary real-life settings and inculcating vocabulary and grammar through rapid-fire drills that gave students no time to think in English.\" He believed that every class was to be treated like the first class, and for this reason gained appreciation from his students.\n\nIn 1978 Rassias was appointed to President Jimmy Carter's Commission on Foreign Language and International Studies. In 1994, Rassias was appointed to the Commission of the Modern Language Association of America on the study of service in the profession. He was also elected to the Division of the Teaching of Literature of the Modern Language Association in 1995, which he chaired in 1998. In addition, Rassias served as a member of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Languages to the Connecticut State Board of Education.\n\nIn 1998, Rassias was appointed as head of a commission focused on preserving the Greek language among Americans of Greek heritage by the Archbishop of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America.\n\nIn 2006, Rassias participated of the creation of a March 2007 pilot program for Intensive English (IE) education outside of Mexico City. This pilot program became called the Inter-American Partnership for Education, which remains active today.\n\nThe method aims to \"make the participant feel comfortable and natural with the language in a short period of time\" and involves \"teaching procedures and dramatic techniques which seek to eliminate inhibitions and create an atmosphere of free expression from the very first day of class\".\n\nThe emphasis of the Rassias Method is spoken language. Drill techniques are quick-paced and stress theatrical elements as well as immediate positive reinforcement and error correction.\n\nRassias was married to Mary Ann Evanstock (1928-2012) from 1954 to 2012 and had three children, nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild.\n\nJohn Rassias received many awards for his work in language education, including the following:\nRassias received eight honorary degrees from the following:\n\nRassias died in Norwich, Vermont on December 2, 2015 at the age of 90. The Rassias Center, run by Rassias’ daughter, Helene Rassias-Miles, continues to provide language education to Dartmouth community members and learners all over the world. Dartmouth undergraduates continue to receive language instruction through the Rassias Method.\n\nThroughout his career Rassias reached a large number of students and educators around the world. Archives suggest that to date, his work has affected more than 200,000 Peace Corps volunteers since 1964 and continues to be fundamental in that organization’s language instruction approach. An innovative language curriculum designer, Rassias started, in the early 1980s, immersion language programs for continuing education purposes. These highly efficient 10-day summer programs have enabled adult language learners to make significant gains in their command of the oral and written foreign language in a short period of time. Some rank beginners have even been able to reach the Intermediate-Low level (ACTFL scale) during the program, an achievement which usually requires three to four semesters in college curricula. At Dartmouth and other U.S. post-secondary institutions, the Rassias Method has been used to teach more than 25,000 students in language acquisition courses. Through the Inter-American Partnership for Education (IAPE) over 1.5 million students of all ages in Mexico have been impacted by faculty trained in the Rassias Method. Finally, language learners worldwide continue to receive instruction in the method through workshops and classes offered through the Rassias Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "34228740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34228740", "title": "Julien Guadet", "text": "Julien Guadet\n\nJulien Guadet (1834–1908) was a French architect, theoretician and professor at the École des Beaux-Arts, Paris.\n"}
{"id": "6898026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6898026", "title": "Julius Reisinger", "text": "Julius Reisinger\n\nVaclav (Wentsel), or Jules or Julius Wentsel Reisinger (1828 – 1892) is paradoxical figure in the history of ballet. This prolific choreographer, an author of more than twenty works on various European stages, directed the Moscow company of the Bolshoi Theatre. He is linked with two memorable events: the first stage production of Tchaikovsky's ballet \"Swan Lake\" and the production of the first ballet performance for the opening of the Prague National Theatre in 1884. His work on \"Swan Lake\" was considered unsuccessful by the critics of the day but not necessarily unsuccessful by the theatre-going public—after all, Reisinger's original production of \"Swan Lake\" was kept in the active repertoire of the Bolshoi Theatre for seven years and was performed over thirty times during a period when other ballets could not sustain even twenty performances. In fact, the production was not pulled until the scenery and costumes were worn and threadbare. Much of its popularity was assumably due to its beautiful musical score which was critically acclaimed even though the choreography was not.\n\nReisinger was born in February 1828 in Prague of a native Czech family. He began his professional life as a dancer in the corps de ballet, rising to the position of leading soloist. In 1850, he was the Czech partner of the famous dancer Lucille Grahn in \"La Esmeralda\" (as Phoebus) and \"Giselle\" (as Hilarion). He also had success in the part of Diavolino in Jules Perrot's ballet \"Catarina, ou La Fille du Bandit\". In short, the young dancer mastered the romantic repertoire and was familiar with the new ballet productions, one more fact in favour of Reisinger's erudition.\n\nIn 1852, he succeeded in securing an eight-year engagement on the German and Austrian stages. In 1860 he returned to his native Prague to the Nove Mesto Theatre, already in the position of the choreographer. This was the first time a Czech theatre was actually headed by a Czech choreographer.\n\nIt is commonly thought that none of Reisinger's ballets was successful but facts contradict this. An example of this would be \"Swan Lake\". a Classical Ballet that is still being performed today. Why then was such a choreographer invited to brilliant Leipzig where he directed the ballet company from 1864 to 1872? Large-scale works were presented there, such as \"Saltarello\" and \"Interrupted Solitude\" to the music of the Leipzig kapellmeister, Muhldorfer. And from Leipzig, Reisinger was invited to Russia.\n\nIndications of Reisinger's Moscow endeavors are readily found in the writings of several Russian historians, the first one being a staging of the five-act ballet \"The Crystal Slipper\" (1871, a ballet of the \"Cinderella\" story) to Muhldorfer's music, which Yuri Bakhrushin referring to original sources, notes as quite successful. In 1873, finding himself in the post of Director of the Moscow Ballet, he created successive multiple-act productions such as \"Kastchei\", where, as confirmed again by Yuri Bakhrushin, the choreographer successfully developed the Russian theme. He also produced \"Stella\" and \"Ariadne\" (in tandem with Imperial Balletmaster Marius Petipa). All ballets (except \"Kastchei\", which he staged with the two composers Muhldorfer and Gerber) used the music of Gerber. At the same time, in the last two (\"Stella\" and \"Ariadne\"), Reisinger reworked elements of ancient art according to the dictates of Biedermeier. Added to that, in the production of \"Ariadne\", the Theatre Directorate allotted what was (for that time), the very large sum of 40,000 roubles. This not only suggests the confidence they had invested in Reisinger, but also confirms that in his first two years in Russia he had clearly won the authority of the Imperial Theatre Directorate. It was with this artistic background that the choreographer approached the first production of \"Swan Lake\".\n\nThough today Reisinger is considered the father of Czech professional ballet, criticisms regarding his choreography (such as \"mediocre,\" \"ordinary,\" and \"untalented\") have followed him, even after his death. His critics did not endow him with the usual praise in his own country or in Russia, but this did not prevent him from having a very long balletic career. With this in mind, one must ask oneself: was this choreographer truly untalented? Is it possible that in Prague, Moscow, Leipzig and Berlin his ascent to the top was merely the result of a long-patient public and theatre administration? Though good timing undoubtedly played some part in his career, it is possibly unrealistic to form the conclusion that this was the only factor in his solid rise to the forefront of the most respected theatres of the time.\n"}
{"id": "54889586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54889586", "title": "Kaila Mullady", "text": "Kaila Mullady\n\nKaila Mullady is an American Beatboxer, Beatrhymer, Musician, Actress, and the 2015 female beatbox world champion. She is a former member of the Beatbox House collective.\n\nMullady has a variety of musical acts as a solo artist. She has a distinct style of beatboxing, which consists of polyrhythms, avant garde style compositions, incorporation of theatrical performance, the Mouth trumpet technique and extensive beatrhyming. She is also noted for her one woman band performances, which incorporate singing, beatboxing, guitar, rapping, and live looping.\n\nMullady's interest in music and beatboxing began at a young age. She took up guitar at age ten and began beatboxing for parties when she got older. She originally planned on pursuing a career as a teacher, but over time became disinterested in teaching. In 2012 she met award-winning beatboxer J-Flo, and was introduced to the modern beatbox community. After an accident resulting in a broken back, which prevented her from performing, during her recovery, she met beatbox pioneer Kid Lucky. He introduced her to the art of beatrhyming which ultimately changed and defined the course of her artistry. He befriended Mullady and became her mentor and extensive collaborator.\n\nMullady is an active beatbox battler, whose championship titles include 2015 world female beatbox champion, as well as three-time beatrhyming champion, three-time American loopstation champion and 2014 vice american champion. She performs extensively as a member of groups like the american beatbox collective Beatbox House and the improv comedy, hip hop fusion troupe \"North coast\". She is head director of BEAT Global's Beat Rocker program,\nwhere she conceptualized a method of speech therapy which involves teaching beatboxing and beatrhyming as a method of developing speech articulation. In this program she actively teaches beatboxing to blind and mentally handicapped youth. She collaborates extensively with her mentor Kid Lucky as \"The Adventures of Kaila and the Kid\". They perform and teach workshops in the arts of beatrhyming and beatboxing nationwide. She also collaborates extensively with her boyfriend, beatboxer, vocalist, musician and actor Mark Martin. They compete in beatbox tag team battles under the name \"Power couple\", and perform as a musical duo under the name \"Lightship\". She has showcased her beatboxing and singing abilities in commercials for product brands such as Clinique and Spoonflower.\n"}
{"id": "1207049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1207049", "title": "Kim Il-sung University", "text": "Kim Il-sung University\n\nKim Il-sung University, founded on 1 October 1946, is the first university built in North Korea. It is located on a 15-hectare campus in Pyongyang, the nation's capital. Along with the main academic buildings, the campus contains 10 separate offices, 50 laboratories, libraries, museums, a printing press, an R&D centre, dormitories and a hospital. There is a sizeable computer lab, but it has only limited internet access. The university is named in honour of Kim Il-sung, the founder and first leader of North Korea. Courses in both the department of social sciences and the department of natural sciences take five years to complete.\n\nOn 25 May 1946 the Preparatory Committee was composed by the founding universities. In July 1946, the interim People's Committee of North Korea decided to establish a University (ordinance No. 40). Kim Il-sung proclaimed on 1 October 1946 the founding.\n\nIn 1948, four university faculties (Faculty of Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Faculty of Agriculture, Faculty of Medicine) were separated from Kim Il-sung University, to form the origin of Pyongyang University of Technology (currently Kim Chaek Industrial University), Sariwon Agricultural University and Pyongyang University School of Medicine.\n\nDuring the Korean War, the university was located at Baeksong-ri under Mt. Jamo in Suncheon-gun, which was far from the centre of the city. By late 1955, the reconstruction of the main building on the Pyongyang campus was in progress and soon the university moved back to the centre of Pyongyang.\n\nAfter the war, Kim Il-Sung University became known as a hotbed of intellectual dissent. Academics supported more intellectual freedoms than Kim loyalists, and disadvantageous factions within the Workers' Party of Korea were over-represented in university staff. Following the Revolutions of 1956 in Hungary and in Poland, North Korean exchange students were quickly repatriated from the affected countries. The students started asking \"improper\" questions on campus, causing alarm. After that, up to one hundred students and several prominent staff members were purged. The purging of the university gave further impetus to purges against functionalists all over the country.\n\nBy the end of 1970s more than 50,000 students graduated annually from the university. In addition, the university was an important asset of for the Korean People's Army to train its personnel. Since the 1970s, English courses have been taught at the university.\n\nUntil 2004, Pak Kwan-o, an authority on nuclear physics and current Chairman of the People's Committee of Pyongyang (De facto Mayor), had been serving as the president for 17 years. Since 2009, the its president was Song Ja-reeb. The current president since 2014 is Thae Hyong-chol.\n\nAccording to Korean Central Television, North Korean students can take classes at and download lectures from Kim Il-sung University via the Mirae public WiFi network, beginning in 2018.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24067440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24067440", "title": "Lincolndale Agricultural School", "text": "Lincolndale Agricultural School\n\nLincolndale Agricultural School for Boys was a Catholic charity run by Barnabas McDonald in Lincolndale, New York. It opened in 1912 for orphans to be trained for agricultural and industrial work.\n\nIn \"Brother Barnabas\" by W.J. Battersby PhD, it states BB became director in January 1909 of the school renaming it the next month for Abraham Lincoln. He was there until 1914. This seems more likely than 1912 since he was appointed to serve on a White House Child Welfare committee in 1909.\n"}
{"id": "875340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875340", "title": "Linguistic Imperialism", "text": "Linguistic Imperialism\n\nLinguistic Imperialism is a book written by Robert Phillipson, research professor at Copenhagen Business School's Department of English, published in 1992 by Oxford University Press.\n\nIn \"Linguistic Imperialism\", Phillipson argues that Western countries have used English as a tool of imperialism to dominate colonies and former colonies. He further explores the ideologies transmitted through the English language.\n\nThe book was followed by \"Linguistic Imperialism Continued\", first published by Routledge in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2670485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2670485", "title": "Matthias Felleisen", "text": "Matthias Felleisen\n\nMatthias Felleisen is a German-American computer science professor and author. He grew up in Germany and immigrated to the US when he was 21 years old.\n\nFelleisen is currently a Trustee Professor in the College of Computer and Information Science at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts. In the past he has taught at Rice University after receiving his PhD from Indiana University under the direction of Daniel P. Friedman.\n\nFelleisen's interests include programming languages, including software tools, program design, the Design Recipe, software contracts, and many more. In the 1990s, Felleisen launched PLT and TeachScheme! (now ProgramByDesign) with the goal of teaching program-design principles to beginners and to explore the use of Scheme to produce large systems. As part of this effort, he authored \"How to Design Programs\" (MIT Press, 2001) with Findler, Flatt, and Krishnamurthi.\n\nControl delimiters, the basis of delimited continuations, were introduced by Felleisen in 1988. They have since been used in a large number of domains, particularly in defining new control operators; see Queinnec for a survey.\n\nA-normal form (ANF), an intermediate representation of programs in functional compilers were introduced by Sabry and Felleisen in 1992 as a simpler alternative to continuation-passing style (CPS).\n\nFelleisen gave the keynote addresses at the 2011 Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education, 2010 International Conference on Functional Programming, 2004 European Conference on Object-Oriented Programming and the 2001 Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages, and several other conferences and workshops on computer science.\n\nIn 2006, he was inducted as a fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery. In 2009, he received the Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award from the ACM. In 2010, he received the SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education from the ACM. In 2012, he received the ACM SIGPLAN Programming Languages Achievement Award for \"significant and lasting contribution to the field of programming languages\" including small-step operational semantics for control and state, mixin classes and mixin modules, a fully abstract semantics for Sequential PCF, web programming techniques, higher-order contracts with blame, and static typing for dynamic languages.\n\nFelleisen is co-author of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16740757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16740757", "title": "National Framework of Qualifications", "text": "National Framework of Qualifications\n\nThe National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ) is a system used to describe levels of educational qualifications in Ireland. Responsibility for maintaining and developing the framework lies with Quality and Qualifications Ireland (QQI).\n\nLaunched in 2003, the NFQ was developed by the National Qualifications Authority of Ireland as a means of comparing training and qualifications between institutions of education at all levels. It encompasses learning at primary and second level, as well as acting as a benchmark for required standards for graduates of courses offered by QQI, Dublin Institute of Technology and universities. The framework consists of 10 \"Levels\", ranging from Certificates at Level 1 which signify initial learning to degrees at doctoral level. A 'fan diagram' is used to illustrate the progression of the levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24764632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24764632", "title": "Offline mobile learning", "text": "Offline mobile learning\n\nOffline mobile learning is the ability to access learning materials on a mobile device without requiring an Internet connection.\n\nGenerally, web-based applications functionalities are dependent on ability to access to the Web. While there are many practical reasons for an application to access data on a server, not every feature of an application may necessarily need to have such access. Offline access to such features may enhance the user experience and wider applicability of an application \n\n\"Tasks that require a single service request are well suited to offline scenarios. Such tasks follow a \"compose and forward\" model, where the user specifies all of the required data for the service request, which is then forwarded to the actual service when the client reconnects. Examples of this type of task are: composing an e-mail, composing a meeting request, and entering order information. All of these tasks are discrete items that the user can complete offline and that result in a single service request.\"\n\nThe developed world’s emphasis on highly sophisticated technological devices is a futuristic dream for most developing countries. Nevertheless, these countries realise that M-Learning is more than just using a mobile device for E-Learning, and that it requires an entirely different approach. In order to utilize M-Learning efficiently in these developing countries, there is a need to understand this approach, as technology becomes available.\n\nThese mobile technologies have successfully enabled learning opportunities and support to those learners in developing countries who are situated far distances away from educational facilities, and do not have the infrastructure to support access.\"\n\nUsers in developing countries have the same need for M-Learning to be mobile, accessible and affordable, as those in developed countries do. The very significance of M-Learning is its ability to make learning mobile, away from the classroom or workplace. These Wireless and mobile technologies enable learning opportunities to learners who do not have direct access to learning in these places. Many learners in developing countries have trouble accessing the internet, or experience difficulty in affording technology that enables learning in an E-Learning environment. Mobile devices are a cheaper alternative compared to traditional E-Learning equipment such as PC’s and Laptops.\"\n\nHowever, to fully utilize this potential it is imperative to explore the factors that determine mobile telecommunications development in the developing world. Delivering mobile services on open hardware and open software not just practically makes sense but can also lower the cost and thus increase the possibility of offering sustainable services in the future.\" While the benefits of open-source software are proven, it is important to conduct a broader study to investigate the potential role of relatively new copyleft approach for custom hardware, as supporting mobile learners in their own socio-cultural contexts of developing countries is a significant challenge.\"\n\nA range of devices exist from mobile phones to single-purpose devices such as E-book readers. Current web technologies provide limited support for offline access to content and therefore web applications are generally designed for online interactions with server and require Internet connection to work. But mobile device is often disconnected by nature and wireless network connection is not available all the time. Device needs to store data locally in a fully searchable database and application should allow continuous interaction regardless of availability of Internet. Application should also be device and platform independent.\n\nSome modern mobile devices have the capability to store thousands of documents and therefore have the potential to be used as powerful offline learning tools.\n\nTypically, the optimal solution is to use the local store as much as possible, since it is usually faster than a remote connection. However, the more work an application does locally, the more code you need to write to implement the feature locally and to synchronize the corresponding data. There is a cost/benefit tradeoff to consider, and some features may not be worthwhile to support locally.\n\n"}
{"id": "48618444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48618444", "title": "Philosothon", "text": "Philosothon\n\nA Philosothon is an annual competition wherein students explore philosophical and ethical issues. Philosothons are held in all Australian states, New Zealand, and the UK.\n\nAt a Philosothon school aged students are assessed by university based professional philosophers and score highly where they demonstrate rigour and clarity of thought. An essential component of a Philosothon is the pedagogical model for teaching Philosophy to young people called Community of inquiry. The event has grown alongside and within the Philosophy for Children movement. The first Australasian Philosothon was held at Cranbrook School, Sydney in 2011 and the first UK Philosothon was held in 2012 at King's College, Taunton.\n\nIn 2007, Hale School in Perth Western Australia initiated a project to promote higher order thinking among secondary school students. At the first Philosothon nine local high school teams, each including five students came together for an evening of philosophical investigation. The word 'Philosothon' was created in the first few years of the event by Matthew Wills and Leanne Rucks.\n\nFollowing the first Philosothon it was decided to promote the event more broadly to other schools around the country and later in the UK. Philosothons now take place annually in each Australian capital city and in regional locations around the country. They also take place in the UK \nRecently Primary school Philosothons have been conducted in various Art Galleries in some Australian states and in the UK. \n\nIn 2017 The Templeton Religion Trust awarded $281,656 AUD to the Philosothon project in order to \"grow existing Philosothons and support the establishment of new ones, particularly in remote schools and at schools catering for students from low socio-economic backgrounds\" in Australasia.\nThe rationale for the Philosothon methodology is based on empirical evidence that teaching children reasoning skills early in life greatly improves other cognitive and academic skills and greatly assists learning in general. Students are given the topic questions in advance and some stimulus reading materials.\n\nExamples of topic questions from recent Philosothons are these:\n\n\nStudents, teachers and parents gather on a particular evening each year for the event. The students participate in a series of Communities of Inquiry which are facilitated by teachers or Phd. philosophy students from the local universities. While participating in this process students are scored by Philosophy lecturers also from local universities. The scores are then collated, ranked and later in the evening awards are given to students at each age level and encouragement awards to the most promising male and female philosopher. Also a trophy is awarded to the winning school.\n\nSome might argue that Philosophy cannot be undertaken in the context of a competition. They believe that by ranking individuals the process of developing a Community of Philosophical Inquiry is fundamentally compromised. However, others have responded that many students forget they are involved in a competition and engage in the exact sort of investigation and collaboration we would hope to see in Philosophy. Others have suggested that the same process is undertaken in any academic institution, tertiary or secondary where students are ranked against criteria. The only difference is that one of the more important criteria in a COI is collaboration.\nIn July 2011 the Federation of Australasian Philosophy in Schools Associations (FAPSA) decided to host the first National Philosothon at Cranbrook School. Each Australian state sent three teams (those schools that won the 2010 Philosothon in each state) and so twelve schools in total arrived in Sydney to participate in the inaugural event.\n\nPhilosothons have been run in the UK since 2013. Revd. Mark Smith & Julie Arliss from the Philosophy of Religion and Ethics Department at King's College, Taunton, UK, have spearheaded the Philosothon movement in the United Kingdom in collaboration with Dr Michael Lacewing from Heythrop College and Lizzy Lewis from Sapere. Wells Cathedral College won the first event. Since then Philosothons have been run annually around the UK including many Primary School Philosothons hosted by the Philosophy Foundation. Other Philosothons have been held around the UK.\n\nIn 2012 an inaugural Primary School Philosothon was held at the National Gallery of Victoria (NGV). \n\n"}
{"id": "45659541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45659541", "title": "Quanguo Waiyu Shuiping Kaoshi", "text": "Quanguo Waiyu Shuiping Kaoshi\n\nQuanguo Waiyu Shuiping Kaoshi (\"National Foreign Language Proficiency Test,\" WSK) is a series of foreign language tests administered in Mainland China for educators who did not major in foreign languages. The National Education Examinations Authority (NEEA) of China developed these tests. Performance on the WSK determines whether one is permitted to take training, studies, or additional studies within one's major in institutions outside of China.\n\nSome universities make successful completion of the WSK as a requirement for promotion in one's academic title.\n\nThe Public English Test System (PETS) is the test for the English language, available in five levels: PETS-1 through PETS-5. The other versions are TNF for the French language, NTD for the German language, NNS (日本語能力試験 \"Nihongo Nōryoku Shiken\"; ) for the Japanese language, and ТПРЯ ( \"Russian Language Proficiency Test\"; ) for the Russian language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307073", "title": "R v Headteacher and Governors of Denbigh High School, ex p Begum", "text": "R v Headteacher and Governors of Denbigh High School, ex p Begum\n\nR (Begum) v Governors of Denbigh High School [2006] is a House of Lords case on the legal regulation of religious symbols and dress under the Human Rights Act 1998.\n\nThe case involved Shabina Begum, a Muslim pupil at Denbigh High School in Luton, UK, who sued her school. Begum opposed the schools requirement that she wear the shalwar kameez Denbigh school uniform instead of a longer, looser Muslim gown (a jilbāb), on the grounds that the uniform was not compliant with Sharia law. Begum lost her case in the High Court, won on appeal to the Court of Appeal, but then lost in March 2006 when the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords unanimously overturned the first appeal.\n\nShabina Begum (; born in the UK, aged 16 at the time and of Bangladeshi origin), was a pupil at Denbigh High School in Luton, Bedfordshire. Four out of the six parent governors were Muslims, the Chair of the Luton Council of Mosques was a community governor and three of the LEA governors were also Muslims. However the school also contained a significant number of pupils of other faiths and the school wished to be inclusive in serving the needs of this diverse community and regarded the school uniform as promoting a sense of communal identity. In addition to uniforms incorporating trousers or skirts, female pupils are also offered a uniform based on the Pakistani or Punjabi shalwar kameez with optional khimar. The school uniform was decided upon in consultation with local mosques, religious organisations and parents. The School considered the shalwar kameez ideal as it was worn by several faith groups and, accordingly, helped to minimise the differences between them.\n\nFor two years, Ms. Begum attended the school without complaint, wearing the shalwar kameez, but in September 2002, Ms. Begum, accompanied by her brother and another young male, went to the school and asked that she be allowed to wear the long coat-like garment known as the jilbāb. In the opinion of Begum and her supporters, the particular form of shalwar kameez offered by the school was relatively close-fitting with short sleeves, and was therefore not compliant with the requirements of Islamic dress as they are stated in Sharia law. Shabina refused to attend for three years unless she was allowed to wear the jilbab to school. She said she believed that this was required by her Muslim faith, but also in contravention of the school uniform policy. In addition, the jilbab was, in the opinion of Begum and her supporters, a more culturally-neutral form of Islamic attire.\n\nThe school's supporters claimed that after Begum's parents had died, she had come under the undue influence of her brother Shuweb Rahman. They also argued that if Begum was allowed to attend classes wearing jilbab, other pupils would feel under pressure to adopt stricter forms of Islamic dress.\n\nBegum, with her brother, issued a claim for judicial review of the school's decision not to allow her to wear the jilbab at school. The claim was made on the grounds that the school had interfered with her right to manifest her religion (Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights) and her right to education (Article 2(1) of the first protocol).\n\nBegum lost the case in the High Court, but later won on appeal to the Court of Appeal. The school appealed against this decision, and the case was heard by the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords. The Department for Education and Skills was allowed to make submissions in the hearing in the House of Lords. The House of Lords ruled in favour of the school. Begum was represented in the Court of Appeal and the House of Lords by the former Prime Minister's wife Cherie Blair QC.\n\nLord Bingham of Cornhill stressed at the outset of his judgment that,\n\nThe Law Lords took the view that a person's right to hold a particular religious belief was absolute (i.e. could not be interfered with), but that a person's right to manifest a particular religious belief was qualified (i.e. it could be interfered with if there was a justification).\n\nThree of the five Law Lords held that Begum's rights had not been interfered with (Lord Bingham, Lord Scott of Foscote and Lord Hoffmann), and two held that they had (Lord Nicholls of Birkenhead and Baroness Hale of Richmond).\n\nAll five agreed, however, that in this particular case there were justifiable grounds for interference, one of the grounds being to protect the rights of other female students at the school who would not wish to be pressured into adopting a more extreme form of dress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22057117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22057117", "title": "Smart.fm", "text": "Smart.fm\n\nSmart.fm (formerly \"iKnow!\") was a social learning- and community website created by Cerego Japan, Inc. The website used spaced repetition algorithms (SRS) to assist users in committing facts to long term memory and increasing learning speed. Users could create, manage and share lists of facts to memorize; as well as learn a number of languages. Progress could be monitored with tests. The data was used to automatically plan a curriculum and learning strategy for the users.\nIn addition to the website base, Smart.fm also had a Facebook application.\n\nSmart.fm was created by Japan-based company Cerego Japan, Inc., initially featuring language-learning and branded under the name iKnow! (iKnow.co.jp). The original platform focused on English learners in Japan and attracted roughly 300,000 users in its first year. On November 24, 2008 the platform turned to world-wide audience when it added another 188 languages. The upgrade also included tools for users to create learning content; sample sentences and timed tests. Cerego had raised US$20 million in funding at the time and was staffed by 22 employees.\n\nThe site's name was changed to Smart.fm on March 5, 2009 when the platform introduced an upgrade which enabled users to add learning content of any kind. The re-branding was sudden, and users complained about the new interface and new name. About the new name, Cerego's \"Russell Moench\" explained in an official announcement: \"\"we see ourselves more like your personal learning station than an online classroom or teacher or textbook\".\"\n\nCerego's Smart.fm used spaced repetition techniques to assist users in organizing learning content, increase learning speed and improve recollection. The system was based on established methods of learning derived from cognitive- and neuroscience research; continuously analyzing performance, on a long- and short-term basis, making dynamic adjustments to learning exercises. The data was used to automatically plan a curriculum and learning strategy for the users.\n\nOn January 27, 2011, Cerego Japan, Inc. announced the planned closure of the Smart.fm free service for March 31, 2011. The Smart.fm service has since been replaced with Cerego's paid subscription-based language learning site, iKnow!\n"}
{"id": "26877546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26877546", "title": "Social and behavior change communication", "text": "Social and behavior change communication\n\nSocial and behavior change communication (SBCC), often also only \"BCC\" or \"Communication for Development (C4D)\" is an interactive process of any intervention with individuals, communities and/or societies (as integrated with an overall program) to develop communication strategies to promote positive behaviors which are appropriate to their settings and there by solve world's most pressing health problems. This in turn provides a supportive environment which will enable people to initiate, sustain and maintain positive and desirable behavior outcomes.\n\nSBCC is the strategic use of communication to promote positive health outcomes, based on proven theories and models of behavior change. SBCC employs a systematic process beginning with formative research and behavior analysis, followed by communication planning, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation. Audiences are carefully segmented, messages and materials are pre-tested, and mass media (which include radio, television, billboards, print material, internet), interpersonal channels (such as client-provider interaction, group presentations) and community mobilisation are used to achieve defined behavioral objectives.\n\nBCC should not be confused with behavior modification, a term with specific meaning in a clinical psychiatry setting.\n\nProviding people with information and teaching them how they should behave does not lead to desirable change in their response/behavior. However, when there is a supportive environment with information and communication (teaching) then there is a desirable change in the behavior of the target group. Thus, SBCC is proved to be an instructional intervention which has a close interface with education and communication. It is a strategic and group oriented form of communication to perceive a desired change in behavior of target group.\n\nHowever, it is not as easy as it sounds, as there is no one-size-fits all strategy for any intervention. Interventions are context specific. Therefore, there is a need for proper information management and sharing. It is advised to document and report the interventions that worked somewhere, for example, the kind of messages, the medium and the audience.\n\nSBCC is the comprehensive process in which one passes through the stages:\n\nUnaware\n> Aware\n> Concerned\n> Knowledgeable\n> Motivated to change\n> Practicing trial behavior change\n> Sustained behavior change\n\nIt involves the following steps:\n\nBehavior change is influenced by motivation from others (external influence) as well as from within oneself (internal influence). Internal influence plays a significant role in creating more enjoyment of a behavior change, instilling a sense of ownership of the new behavior, which in turn instills a sense of ownership of the changed behavior. When designing SBCC strategies, enabling factors that affect the outcome must be considered. The following are some of the factors:\n\nSBCC has several levels at which it can be implemented. Each level includes several theories. Each level (and each theory) employs specific communication channels.\n\n\n\n\n\nSBCC is different from the ordinary instructional method of communication and is target specific. A society consists of many sub-groups. The strategy for SBCC will vary from group to group. The following points are important while considering the SBCC strategy.\n\nThere can be several more points in this list. A successful SBCC requires lots of research and meticulous planning about the knowledge content of the subject and behavior/attitude pattern of the target group.\n\nSocial marketing has been described as a tool for sustainable behaviour change.\n\nSBCC has proven effective in several health areas, such as increasing the use of family planning methods,reducing the spread of malaria and other infectious diseases, and improving newborn and maternal health.\n\nSBCC is an effective tool for dealing with many community and group related problems. BCC has been adapted as an effective strategy for community mobilization, health and environment education and various public outreach programs.\nEnhanced knowledge about the behavior change process has facilitated the design of communications programs to reduce the risk of HIV transmission and AIDS. A wide variety of health promotion strategies use communication as either an educational or norm-forming strategy. In addition, specific strategies must be designed for high-risk groups such as women, young people, injecting drug abusers, homosexuals and HIV positive groups.\n\nSBCC constitutes of effective communication which is central to the success of interventions to reduce the risk of HIV infection. It plays a role to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3052969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3052969", "title": "The Educated Mind", "text": "The Educated Mind\n\nThe Educated Mind: How Cognitive Tools Shape Our Understanding is a 1997 book on educational theory by Kieran Egan.\n\nEgan argues that much of educational theorizing pivots around three basic ideas of what the aim of education should be:\n\n\nEgan argues in Chapter One that \"these three ideas are mutually incompatible, and this is the primary cause of our long-continuing educational crisis\"; the present educational program in much of the West attempts to integrate all three of these incompatible ideas, resulting in a failure to effectively achieve any of the three.\n\nEgan's proposed solution to the education problem which he identifies is to show how knowledge and understanding develop in the mind as we pick up sets of cognitive tools in our negotiations with those around us and with the natural world itself. This individual process, he argues, mirrors, as a result of logical and psychological pressures, a related process in human cultural development. Thus, he describes his theory as a \"cultural recapitulation\" theory, taking care to differentiate it from the conceptions of recapitulation common in the late 19th century and early 20th century. According to Egan, individuals can pick up sets of cognitive tools that will coalesce into five distinctive kinds of understanding:\n\n\"Drawing from an extensive study of cultural history and evolutionary history and the field of cognitive psychology and anthropology, Egan gives a detailed account of how these various forms of understanding have been created and distinguished in our cultural history\".\n\nEach stage includes a set of \"cognitive tools\", as Egan calls them, that enrich our understanding of reality. Egan suggests that recapitulating these stages is an alternative to the contradictions between the Platonic, Rousseauian and socialising goals of education.\n\nEgan resists the suggestion that religious understanding could be a further last stage, arguing instead that religious explanations are examples of ironic understanding preserving a richly developed somatic understanding.\n\nEgan's main influence comes from the Russian psychologist Lev Vygotsky. The idea of applying theory of recapitulation to education came from 19th century philosopher Herbert Spencer, although Egan uses it in a very different way. Egan also uses educational ideas from William Wordsworth and expresses regret that Wordworth's ideas, because they were expressed in poetry, are rarely considered today.\n\nThe same year the essay was published (1997), Italian comedian-satirist Daniele Luttazzi used Egan's ideas for his character \"Prof. Fontecedro\" in the popular TV show \"Mai dire gol\", aired on Italia 1. Fontecedro was satirizing the inadequacies of the Italian school system, and the reforms proposed by Luigi Berlinguer, 1996-2000 Ministry of Education of Italy. Fontecedro's sketches brought Egan's theory to extreme levels with surreal humor. The jokes were later published in the book \"Cosmico!\" (1998, Mondadori, ), where the five stages of mind development are also cited at pp. 45–47.\n\n\nprevious works on ironic knowledge:\n\n\nReviews\n"}
{"id": "35139541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35139541", "title": "Two-body problem (career)", "text": "Two-body problem (career)\n\nThe two-body problem is a dilemma for life partners (for e.g. spouses or any other couple) in academia, relating to the difficulty of both spouses obtaining jobs at the same university or within a reasonable commuting distance from each other. The central dilemma is thus a no-win situation in which if the couple wishes to stay together one of them may be forced to abandon an academic career, or if both wish to pursue academic careers the relationship may falter due to the spouses being constantly separated. Compromises the couple makes while trying to negotiate the two-body problem have implications for gender inequality. The term \"two-body problem\" has been used in the context of working couples since at least the mid-1990s. It alludes to the insolvable three-body problem in classical mechanics.\n\nMore than 70 percent of academic faculty have a working partner, while more than a third of faculty have an academic partner.\n\nTypical solutions include:\n\nAlthough it is not an ideal solution, a possible outcome is a break-up of the relationship. Long distance commuting certainly places a strain on relationships, especially when maintained over long periods (years or even decades). Many academic institutes recognize the two-body problem is a challenging issue when they hire a new faculty member, and prepare policies to help dual-career academic couples to settle down at their institutions. An institution in a small, rural state such as Wyoming may be under increased pressure to hire a spouse than in a large metropolitan area with many colleges and universities such as Boston.\n\nMore proactive institutions may establish funds and procedures to assist with this situation. Frequently a university will seek to hire one person in a couple, thereby making the other the \"trailing spouse.\" One approach is for a tenure-track position to be funded for the trailing spouse be a combination of funds from both academic departments involved with additional funds from the dean and/or provost. Substantial resources must be offered external to the department that would accept the trailing spouse, as this department would not typically be in the position to hire said person nor would that particular person necessarily rank highly if a search were to be conducted. For this reason, it is not unusual for departments to reject the trailing spouse even if substantial external funds are made available. This makes the problem particularly intractable, as qualified persons may remain unemployed simply because they are not an ideal fit for the trailing department. More commonly, institutions do not have such proactive programs in place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185979", "title": "West Virginia University", "text": "West Virginia University\n\nWest Virginia University (WVU) is a public, land-grant, space-grant, research-intensive university in Morgantown, West Virginia, United States. Its other campuses include the West Virginia University Institute of Technology in Beckley and Potomac State College of West Virginia University in Keyser; and a second clinical campus for the University's medical and dental schools at Charleston Area Medical Center in Charleston. WVU Extension Service provides outreach with offices in all of West Virginia's 55 counties. Since 2001, WVU has been governed by the West Virginia University Board of Governors.\n\nEnrollment for the Fall 2015 semester was 28,776 for the main campus, while enrollment across all campuses was 32,348. WVU offers 191 bachelor's, master's, doctoral, and professional degree programs in 15 colleges.\n\nWVU has produced 24 Rhodes Scholars, including former WVU president David C. Hardesty, Jr. The University has also produced 36 Goldwater Scholars, 22 Truman Scholars, and five members of \"USA Today\" \"All‑USA College Academic First Team.\"\n\nUnder the terms of the 1862 Morrill Land-Grant Colleges Act, the West Virginia Legislature created the Agricultural College of West Virginia on February 7, 1867, and the school officially opened on September 2 of the same year. On December 4, 1868, lawmakers renamed the college West Virginia University to represent a broader range of higher education. It built on the grounds of three former academies, the Monongalia Academy of 1814, the Morgantown Female Academy of 1831, and Woodburn Female Seminary of 1858. Upon its founding, the local newspaper claimed that \"a place more eligible for the quiet and successful pursuit of science and literature is nowhere to be found\".\n\nThe first campus building was constructed in 1870 as University Hall, and was renamed Martin Hall in 1889 in honor of West Virginia University's first president, the Rev. Alexander Martin of Scotland. After a fire destroyed the Woodburn Seminary building in 1873, the centerpiece of what is now Woodburn Hall was completed in 1876, under the name New Hall. The name was changed to University Building in 1878, when the College of Law was founded as the first professional school in the state of West Virginia. The precursor to Woodburn Circle was finished in 1893 when Chitwood Hall (then Science Hall) was constructed on the bluff's north side. In 1909 a north wing was added to University Building, and the facility was renamed Woodburn Hall. Throughout the next decade, Woodburn Hall underwent several renovations and additions, including the construction of the south wing and east tower (in 1930) housing the Seth Thomas clock. The three Woodburn Circle buildings were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1974. In 1899, the Vance Farm was acquired for the West Virginia University Experiment Station.\n\nWVU was required to have a Cadet Corps under the terms of the Morrill Act of 1862, which allowed for the creation of land-grant colleges. The United States Department of War—a predecessor of the U.S. Department of Defense—offered military equipment to the university at no charge, forming the basis of the school's Military Tactics department. The heavy military influence led to opposition of female enrollment that lasted through the first decade of the university. The trend changed in 1889, when ten women were allowed to enroll and seek degrees at the university. In June 1891, Harriet Lyon became the first woman to receive a degree from West Virginia University, finishing first in the class ahead of all male students. Lyon's academic success supported the acceptance of women in the university as students and educators.\n\nDuring the University's early years, daily chapel services and roll call for all students were mandatory, limiting time for student recreation. Following the removal of these obligations, students became active in extracurricular activities and established many of the school's first athletic and student organizations. The first edition of the student newspaper known as the \"Athenaeum\", now \"The Daily Athenaeum\", was published in 1887, and the \"West Virginia Law Review\" became the fourth-oldest law review in the United States when it was founded in 1894. Phi Kappa Psi was the first fraternity on campus, founded May 23, 1890, while Kappa Delta, the first sorority at WVU, was established in 1899. The first football team was formed in 1891, and the first basketball team appeared in 1903.\n\nThe University's outlook at the turn of the 20th century was optimistic, as the school constructed the first library in present-day Stewart Hall in 1902.\nThe campus welcomed U.S. President William Howard Taft to campus for WVU President Thomas Hodges's inauguration in 1911. On November 2, 1911, President Taft delivered the address \"World Wide Speech\", from the front porch of Purinton House. However, the University's efforts to attract more qualified educators, increase enrollment, and expand the campus was hindered during a period that saw two World Wars and the Great Depression. With a heavy military influence in the University, many students left college to join the army during World War I, and the local ROTC was organized in 1916. Women's involvement in the war efforts at home led to the creation of Women's Hall dormitory, now Stalnaker Hall, in 1918.\n\nDespite its wartime struggles, the University established the disciplines of biology, medicine, journalism, pharmacy, and the first mining program in the nation. In 1918, Oglebay Hall was built to house the expanded agriculture and forestry programs. Additionally, the first dedicated sports facilities were constructed including \"The Ark\" for basketball in 1918, and the original Mountaineer Field in 1925. Stansbury Hall was built in 1928 and included a new basketball arena named \"The Fieldhouse\" that held 6,000 spectators. Elizabeth Moore Hall, the woman's physical education building, was also completed in 1928. Men's Hall, the first dormitory built for men on campus, was built in 1935, and was funded in part by the Works Progress Administration.\nThe Mountaineer mascot was adopted during the late 1920s, with an unofficial process to select the Mountaineer through 1936. An official selection process began naming the mascot annually in 1937, with Boyd \"Slim\" Arnold becoming the first Mountaineer to wear the buckskin uniform.\n\nAs male students left for World War II in 1939, women became more prominent in the University and surpassed the number of males on campus for the first time in 1943. Soldiers returning from the war qualified for the G.I. Bill and helped increase enrollment to over 8,000 students for the first time, but the University's facilities were becoming inadequate to accommodate the surging student population.\n\nPreparation for the baby boomer generation and plans for curriculum expansion led to the purchase of land for the Evansdale and Medical campuses. The growth of downtown Morgantown limited the space available on the original campus; therefore, the new site was nearly two miles north on what had been farmland. Beginning in the late 1950s the University experienced the most rapid period of growth in its history. In 1957, WVU opened a Medical Center on the new campus and founded the first school of dentistry in West Virginia. The basketball program reached a new level of success when the University admitted future 14‑time NBA All-Star and Hall of Fame player Jerry West, who led the team to the national championship game in 1959. As enrollment approached 14,000 in the 1960s, the University continued expansion plans by building the Evansdale Residential Complex to house\napproximately 1,800 students, the Mountainlair student union, and several engineering and creative arts facilities on the Evansdale campus. In 1970 the WVU Coliseum, a basketball facility with a capacity of 14,000, opened near the new campus. As the facilities expanded, the University researched ways to move its growing student population across the split campuses and to solve its worsening traffic congestion. The resulting Personal Rapid Transit system opened\nin 1973 as the world's first automated rapid transit system.\n\nThe student population continued to grow in the late 1970s, reaching 22,000. With no room for growth on the downtown campus, the football stadium was closed, and the new Mountaineer Field was opened near the Medical campus on September 6, 1980. Mountaineer Field would later be named Mountaineer Field at Milan Puskar Stadium. After an $8 million donation to the University, Ruby Memorial Hospital opened on the Medical campus in 1988,\nproviding the state's first level-one trauma center. Early the next year, the undefeated Mountaineer football team, led by Major Harris, made it to the national championship game\nbefore losing to Notre Dame in the Fiesta Bowl.\n\nDuring the 1990s the University developed several recreational activities for students, including FallFest and WVU \"Up All Night\". While the programs were created to provide safe entertainment for students and to combat WVU's inclusion as the nation's top party schools, they also garnered national attention as solutions for reducing alcohol consumption and partying on college campuses across the country. In 2001 a 34 million-dollar, recreation facility opened on\nthe Evansdale campus, providing students with exercise facilities, recreational activities, and personal training programs.\n\nWVU reached a new level of athletic success to start the new millennium. The football team featured a 3‑0 BCS bowl record, ten consecutive bowl game appearances, a #1 ranking in the \"USA Today\" Coaches' Poll, three consecutive 11‑win seasons amassing a 33–5 record, 41 consecutive weeks in the top 25, and 6 conference championships. The men's basketball team won the 2007 NIT Championship and the 2010 Big East championship, while appearing four times in the sweet sixteen, twice in the elite-eight, and once in the final-four of the NCAA tournament. The athletic successes brought the University a new level of national exposure, and enrollment has since increased to nearly 30,000 students.\n\nOn April 24, 2008, the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" reported the university had improperly granted an MBA degree to Heather Bresch, the daughter of the state's governor Joe Manchin and an employee of Mylan, a pharmaceutical company whose then-chairman Milan Puskar was one of the University's largest donors. In the aftermath, the University determined Bresch's degree had been awarded without having the prerequisite requirements met and rescinded it, leading to the resignation of president Michael Garrison, provost Gerald Lang, and business school dean Steve Sears. Garrison had been profiled as a trend toward non-traditional university presidents by the \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" and \"Inside Higher Ed\", but the Faculty Senate approved a vote of no confidence in the search that selected him. C. Peter McGrath was named interim president in August 2008. James P. Clements became WVU's 23rd president on June 30, 2009. He had previously served as provost at Towson University. On September 16, 2009, Michele G. Wheatly was named Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs. On November 11, 2013 James P. Clements was selected to be Clemson University's 15th president. On December 10, 2013 it was announced that E. Gordon Gee would serve as interim president effective January 6, 2014. This is Dr. Gee's second time in this role having first served as president of WVU in 1981.\n\nWVU is designated as an \"R1\" Research University (Very High Research Activity) by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Funding from external sources for total sponsored programs is $174 million. WVU is affiliated with the Rockefeller Neurosciences Institute, dedicated to the study of Alzheimer's and other diseases that affect the brain. WVU is also a leader in biometric technology research and the Federal Bureau of Investigation's lead academic partner in biometrics research.\n\nWest Virginia University is organized into 15 degree-granting colleges or schools and also offers an Honors College.\n\nThe Eberly College of Arts & Sciences was officially established in 1895. It is home to many academic disciplines including: social and behavioral sciences, literature and the humanities, as well as mathematics and natural resources. It is the largest and most diverse college at WVU.\n\nWVU has two divisional campuses:\n\nWest Virginia University at Parkersburg, a primarily 2-year school, was a regional campus of WVU but has been independent since 2009.\n\nForensics and Investigative Science is a nationally recognized program at WVU, originally created through a partnership with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The program is accredited by the American Academy of Forensic Sciences and is the official library holdings repository for the International Association for Identification. The program includes three main areas of emphasis, including the examiner track, which specializes in crime scene investigation and comparison sciences, the biology track, which specializes in body fluids and DNA analysis, and the chemistry track, when specializes in the chemical identification of seized drugs, fire debris, trace evidence and explosives. Facilities include four \"crime-scene\" houses, a vehicle processing garage, a ballistics laboratory and numerous traditional laboratories and classrooms in Ming Hsieh Hall and Oglebay Hall. A separate Criminology & Investigative Sciences major was later added to the Eberly College of Arts and Sciences. The College of Business and Economics also provides a certificate in forensic accounting and fraud examination.\nWVU robotics teams have won several international competitions such as the NASA Robotic Mining Competition and the NASA/NIA RASC-AL Exploration Robot-OPS Challenge. In 2016, a WVU team led by Dr. Yu Gu won the final NASA Sample Return Robot Centennial Challenge with a $750,000 prize.\n\nBiometrics is an engineering-centric field of study offered at WVU, the first institution in the world to establish a bachelor of science degree in Biometric Systems. In 2003 the University also founded the initial chapter of the Student Society for the Advancement of Biometrics (SSAB). The program, in the Lane Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering (LCSEE), provides a firm understanding of the underlying electrical engineering and computer engineering disciplines that support biometric applications. On February 6, 2008, WVU became the national academic leader for the FBI's biometric research. WVU is also the founding site for the Center for Identification Technology Research (CITeR), focusing on biometrics and identification technology. CITeR maintains and develops collaborative relationships with other academic institutions to meet research needs.\n\nThe Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center is on West Virginia University's Evansdale Campus and houses the Schools of Dentistry, Medicine, Nursing, and Pharmacy. These schools grant doctoral and professional degrees in 16 different fields, as well as a variety of other Master's and Bachelor's degrees. For 2012 \"U.S. News and World Report\" ranked WVU's Medical School ninth in the United States for rural medicine.\n\nAlso on the Health Sciences Campus is WVU's local teaching hospital, Ruby Memorial Hospital, which is one of only two designated Trauma I hospitals in the state and has also been designated a magnet hospital for its ability to attract and retain high quality nursing staff.\n\nThe Morgantown campus comprises three sub-campuses. The original main campus, typically called the Downtown Campus, is in the Monongahela River valley on the fringes of Morgantown. This part of campus includes eight academic buildings on the National Register of Historic Places. The Downtown Campus comprises several architectural styles predominantly featuring red brick including Victorian Second Empire, Federal, Neoclassical, and Collegiate Gothic among others. The Evansdale Campus, a mile and a half north-northwest, on a rise above the flood plain of the Monongahela River, was developed in the 1950s and 1960s to accommodate a growing student population, since space for expansion was limited at the Downtown Campus. The Health Sciences Campus, in the same outlying area (but on the other side of a ridge), includes the Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center, the Erma Byrd Biomedical Research Facility, Ruby Memorial Hospital, Chestnut Ridge Hospital, Mary Babb Randolph Cancer Center, WVU Healthcare Physicians Office Center, Blanchette Rockefeller Neurosciences Institute, WVU Eye Institute, and the WVU Children's Hospital.\n\nThe Health Sciences Campus is near Mountaineer Field, over a ridge from the Evansdale Campus.\n\nDue to the distance between WVU's three campuses, the university built the innovative Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) system to link the campuses (Downtown, Evansdale, and Health Sciences) and reduce student traffic on local highways. Boeing began construction on the Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) system in 1972. The unique aspect that makes the system \"personal\" is that a rider specifies their destination when entering the system and, depending on system load, the PRT can dispatch a car that will travel directly to that station.\n\nWVU students, faculty and staff ride for free; they swipe their magnetically encoded ID cards through the turnstiles when entering the stations. Others pay a cash fare of $0.50. The PRT began operation in 1973, with U.S. President Richard Nixon's daughter, Tricia, aboard one of five prototype cars for a demonstration ride. The PRT handles 16,000 riders per day () and uses approximately 70 cars.\n\nThe system has of guideway track and five stations: Walnut, Beechurst, Engineering, Towers, and Medical/Health Sciences. The vehicles are rubber-tired, but the cars have constant contact with a separate electrified rail. Steam heating keeps the elevated guideway free of snow and ice. Although most students use the PRT, this technology has not been replicated at other sites for various reasons, including the high cost of maintaining the heated track system in winter.\n\nThe PRT cars are painted in the school colors (blue with gold trim) and feature the University name and logo on the front. Inside, the seats are light beige fiberglass and the carpeting is blue. Each car has eight seats with an overall capacity of 20 people, including standing room.\n\nThe National Society of Professional Engineers named the WVU PRT one of the top 10 engineering achievements of 1972, and in 1997 \"The New Electric Railway Journal\" picked the WVU PRT as the best people mover in North America (for 1996).\n\nIn 2006 the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency dubbed WVU one of the best workplaces for commuters.\n\nEach autumn, during Mountaineer Week celebrations, a special PRT car is placed in front of the Mountainlair student union where groups of students participate in the \"PRT Cram\" with the objective of squeezing in as many people as possible. A record of 97 was set in 2000.\n\nBuses and shuttles operated by the university can be used (during limited hours) in addition to the community's Mountain Line, which operates every day into the early morning. Students can use their Mountaineer Card to ride the Mountain Line bus for free. The Health Science Center also operates a shuttle service to help students, visitors and patients to get to and from the Health Science Center campus. Many non-University, private student housing communities in the area also operate a shuttle to campus/town and back to the housing community.\n\nThe West Virginia University Libraries encompass eight libraries and the WVU Press, including the Downtown Campus Library, Evansdale Library, Health Sciences Library (Morgantown), Law Library, Health Sciences Library (Charleston), the Mary F. Shipper Library at Potomac State College in Keyser, the Vining Library at the WVU Institute of Technology in Montgomery, and the West Virginia and Regional History Center (the world's largest collection of West Virginia-related research material), is in the Wise Library on the Downtown Campus. Collections include the Appalachian Collection, Digital Collections, Government Documents, Map Collection, Myers Collection, Patent and Trademarks, Rare Books Collections, and Theses and Dissertations. West Virginia University libraries contain nearly 1.5 million printed volumes, 2.3 million microforms, more than 10,000 electronic journals, and computers with high speed Internet access.\n\nThe Evansdale Library supports the academic programs and research centered on the Evansdale Campus. The library holds materials in the disciplines of agriculture, art, computer science, education, engineering, forestry, landscape architecture, mineral resources, music, physical education, and theater. In addition to the collections, Evansdale Library is home to da Vinci's Cafe, an Information Technology Services Big Prints! poster printing lab, and the Academic Innovation Teaching and Learning Commons Sandbox.\n\nThe university co-publishes the \"Labor Studies Journal\" with the United Association for Labor Education.\n\nThe Core Arboretum is a 91-acre (37 ha) arboretum owned by West Virginia University and on Monongahela Boulevard in Morgantown, West Virginia. It is open to the public daily without charge.\n\nThe Arboretum's history began in 1948 when the university acquired its site. Professor Earl Lemley Core (1902-1984), chairman of the Biology Department, then convinced President Irvin Stewart to set the property aside for the study of biology and botany. In 1975 the Arboretum was named in Core's honor.\n\nThe Arboretum is now managed by the WVU Department of Biology, and consists of mostly old-growth forest on steep hillside and Monongahela River flood plain. It includes densely wooded areas with 3.5 miles (5.6 km) of walking trails, as well as 3 acres (12,000 m) of lawn planted with specimen trees.\n\nThe Arboretum has a variety of natural habitats in which several hundred species of native WV trees, shrubs, and herbaceous plants may be found. Some of the large trees are likely over 200 years old.\n\nThe Arboretum is well known as a superb site to see spring ephemeral wildflowers from late March to early May. Varied habitats and riverside location also make the area an excellent site to observe birds and animals.\n\nWVU's campus has been ranked one of the safest in the country by Reader's Digest. The study was largely based on the safety of dorm facilities, emergency preparedness, and security/police staff. The university created WVU Alert, a text-based alert system for quickly disseminating emergency situations to faculty, staff and students. WVU also uses LiveSafe, a smart phone application which enables users to anonymously report crimes or safety concerns, or to use the walk safe feature which allows the user to invite a friend to monitor their location while they walk. Additionally, there are 37, easily accessible, blue-lit towers housing emergency phones across the WVU campuses that automatically dial 911 in the event of an emergency.\n\nThe West Virginia University Police Department (UPD) is the largest campus police department in the state and the only campus law enforcement agency in the state, and one of a few in the region, to be awarded accreditation by The International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators. Additionally, the department has also been ranked in Security Magazine's Top 500 picks in the security industry, placing 17th among higher education institutions in the rankings.\n\nThe UPD has a sworn officer operations division, a central communication unit, a student cadet unit, investigations, K-9 teams and other support services. Officers have the same authority and powers as the city and county police officers.\n\nFallFest welcomes students to the university by providing an evening of entertainment and musical performances traditionally held during the first week of the fall semester and traditionally at the Mountainlair Student Union. The event began in 1995 as a safe alternative to partying and has become one of the largest University-sponsored events, typically drawing crowds of 15,000 or more. The celebration has been highlighted by a series of evening concerts by renowned artists. A dance party, film festival, comedy show, and several indoor musical performances are also featured.\n\nMountaineer Week is a celebration of WVU tradition and Appalachian heritage that began in 1947. Festivities have expanded to include competitions among WVU students, designed to honor school and state pride. A beard-growing competition introduced in 1949 has continued throughout the event's history. Participants must shave before the panel of judges that also chooses the winner at the end of the competition. The Mr. and Ms. Mountaineer competition has been included in Mountaineer Week since 1962,\nhonoring one male and one female student who show outstanding school spirit, academic excellence, and extracurricular involvement. The annual PRT Cram features the unique PRT system, where students compete to fit the maximum number of riders on a special-model PRT car with the windows removed. The record was set in 2000, when 97 students fit inside one PRT car. Mountaineer Idol, a University version of the hit show American Idol, is a relatively new event that begins during Mountaineer Week in September and extends through November. Any WVU student is eligible to enter the competition, which is scored by a panel of guest judges throughout the fall semester.\n\nThe Lighting of Woodburn Hall is an annual University ceremony held in early December to light historic Woodburn Hall for the holiday season. The event began in 1987 and is open to the public. Christmas carols are typically sung, and donations are taken at the event to support community organizations. Patients from WVU's Children's hospital are often selected to light the Hall.\n\nFall Family Weekend is an opportunity for students' family members to experience WVU campus life by attending classes, athletic events, college presentations, and student events such as WVU \"Up All Night\". Tours of the campus facilities are offered by individual colleges and organizations,\nincluding tours of the PRT.\n\nHomecoming weekend activities include the Alumni Band-led homecoming parade through downtown Morgantown, crowning of the royalty, and a football game with a performance by the WVU Alumni band. Student organizations participate in the parade by designing floats. Receptions are held by colleges, student groups, and the alumni center.\n\nGreek Week is held during the spring semester, providing a venue for competition between Greek organizations. Highlights include airband events, where organizations compete in cheerleading and dance routines, and sports competitions on the Mountainlair recreational field. The competitions strive to highlight WVU's student spirit and present a positive image of the fraternities and sororities.\n\nThe Mountainlair Student Union, commonly called \"the Lair\" by students, is the three-floor student union building at WVU. The building dates to 1968 and replaced an earlier structure built in 1948. The student union offers many recreational opportunities to students including a movie theater, bowling alley, pool hall, ballrooms, video game arcade, a cafeteria style restaurant, and a collection of fast food restaurants.\n\nWVU \"Up All Night\" is a program designed to provide a safe environment for WVU students to socialize during weekends. The Mountainlair has hosted \"Up All Night\" every Thursday through Saturday during the fall and spring semesters since 1998. The university provides free food and beverages, and entertainment such as movie screenings at the Gluck Theater, laser tag, game shows, astro bowling, comedy caravans, and casino night. The program has garnered attention from other universities, and WVU administration have been asked to speak about its success at national conferences. Administrators estimate the program's cost at $350,000 annually.\n\nThe Student Recreation Center is a recreation facility that opened before the 2001 academic year with an initial construction cost of $34 million. The facility offers a six-lane swimming pool, 20‑seat Jacuzzi, of cardio and free-weight equipment, an elevated running track, basketball courts,\nvolleyball and badminton courts, glass squash and racquetball courts, and a climbing wall. The center also offers a variety of wellness programs, personal training, child care services, exercise classes, and intramural activities.\n\nThe Mountaineer Adventure Program (MAP) offers several activities including Adventure WV, Challenge Course,\nand International Trips. Adventure WV is focused on providing guidance to freshmen and sophomores through various outdoor orientation expeditions.\nThe Challenge Course program uses a recreational facility designed to teach teamwork and problem solving skills through physical interaction.\nInternational Trips offers worldwide recreational opportunities to places like Fiji and Peru, as well as study abroad credit courses. Several of the MAP programs provide University-accepted credit hours.\n\nThe Outdoor Recreation Center, a division of the Student Recreation Center, helps students find recreational activities locally\nand in other parts of West Virginia. The center sponsors some trips, including whitewater rafting on the Cheat River and hiking in the Monongahela National Forest. Students can take advantage of West Virginia's natural wilderness by renting outdoor recreational equipment for hiking, camping, climbing, fishing, biking, skiing, and whitewater rafting, all of which is available with minimal travel time. WVU's main campus is next to the Monongahela River along which runs the Caperton Trail, also known as the \"Rail Trail\", a paved path for walking, running, or biking. Other connecting trails total in additional length, extending from the Pennsylvania border to Prickett's Fort State Park. Many student groups take day trips to the nearby Coopers Rock State Forest, which is less than from WVU's campus.\n\nWest Virginia University offers more than 400 student-run organizations and clubs. Many of the organizations are associated with academia, religion, culture, military service, politics, recreation, or sports. New student groups may be formed by submitting a constitution and petition to become recognized as a student organization.\n\nThe Student Government Association (SGA) serves as representatives for the student body and as a liaison to the university administration and officials. SGA members represent student interests in university affairs, enacting resolutions and policies related to student and campus life at WVU. The organization leadership is composed of the President and Vice President acting as an executive body. The President of the Student Body also serves as a full voting member of the university's Board of Governors. For the 2017-2018 academic year, the Student Body President and Vice President are Blake Humphrey and Shannon Smith, respectively. Other positions include the Attorney General, Treasurer, Communications Director, and Elections Chair.\n\nThe 35-member Student Assembly has at-large Student Senators and College Representatives which comprise the legislative branch of SGA. All leadership positions are selected from an open, campus-wide election every spring semester. SGA holds weekly meetings during the Fall and Spring semesters which are open to the public.\n\nWVU Greek fraternities are Alpha Epsilon Pi, Alpha Gamma Rho, Kappa Alpha Order, Lambda Chi Alpha, Phi Delta Theta, Phi Kappa Psi, Pi Kappa Phi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu, Sigma Phi Epsilon and Theta Chi. Greek sororities are Alpha Omicron Pi, Alpha Phi, Alpha Xi Delta, Chi Omega, Delta Gamma, Kappa Kappa Gamma,\nPi Beta Phi, and Sigma KappaPhi Beta Sigma, Zeta Phi Beta.\n\nThe Daily Athenaeum, nicknamed \"the DA\", is the 9th-largest newspaper in West\nVirginia. Offered free on campus, it generates income through advertisements and student fees. The paper began in 1887 as a weekly literary magazine, with writing, editing and production taken over by the newly formed School of Journalism in the 1920s. In 1970, the paper split from the School of Journalism and became an independent campus entity\ngoverned by the Student Publications Board. \"The DA\" was voted as the \"Princeton Review\"'s 10th-best college newspaper in the United States in 2005, 15th in 2006, and 8th in 2007.\n\nWWVU-FM, called U92 or The Moose, plays new music, talk shows, and newscasts.\nOn the air since 1982, U92 can be heard in the Morgantown area at 91.7 FM and also streams live on the internet. In 2007 the station was one of four college radio stations nominated for College Music Journal's Station of the Year Award. In 2015 CMJ awarded the station with three awards including Station of the Year.\n\n\"The Mountaineer Jeffersonian\" was a news, economic, and political journal founded by WVU students. The publication was founded in 2008 and ceased publication in 2011.\n\nThe Student Center of Health, also known under the label \"WELLWVU\", provides services related to student health, disease prevention, and awareness.\nThe Carruth Center for Psychological and Psychiatric Services offers therapy to any WVU student. The Robert C. Byrd Health Science Center and the associated West Virginia University Hospitals, on the Health Science Campus, serve as West Virginia's largest healthcare institution. The hospitals provide a comprehensive set of healthcare needs for local and regional patients. WVU students have full access to the healthcare resources, which are accessible from the PRT towers station.\n\nStarting with the Fall 2014 semester WVU implemented a mandatory with an opt-out student health insurance policy, all domestic students at West Virginia University and WVU Tech, enrolled in 6 or more credit hours and international students enrolled in 1 or more credit hours will be required to carry health insurance coverage.\n\nWith the opening of the new Student Health and Wellness building on the Evansdale Campus, WVU Medical Corporation now operates the medical services of Student Health. This is a WVU Urgent Care Clinic office and is the primary care provider to students who use WVU's Aetna Health Insurance policy. The Clinic is open 7 days a week.\n\nWVU Arts&Entertainment (A&E) sponsors entertainment events for students throughout the academic year. The department organizes the annual FallFest event, which features popular\nmusicians, comedians, and other performers. WVU A&E annually hosts several concerts at the WVU Coliseum and Creative Arts Center, with past performances by Akon, The All-American Rejects, The Fray, Kelly Clarkson, Ludacris, Maroon 5, Reba McEntire, Willie Nelson, and 50 Cent among others.\n\nThe West Virginia Public Theater (WVPT) is one of two professional musical theaters in West Virginia. The group is near WVU's campus and performs several Broadway numbers yearly.\n\nThe Art Museum of West Virginia University features touring exhibitions and displays a collection including over 2,500 works of art from the Appalachian region, Asia, and Africa.\n\nThe Royce J. and Caroline B. Watts Museum, on the Evansdale campus, features tools, equipment, artifacts, photos and other items related to West Virginia's coal and petroleum industries.\n\nThe school's sports teams are called the Mountaineers and compete in the NCAA's Division I. The school has teams in 17 college sports and has won several national championships, including 19 NCAA Rifle Championships . Formerly a full member of the Big East Conference in all sports, on October 28, 2011, the school accepted an invitation to join the Big 12 Conference and became a member on July 1, 2012.\n\nNotable athletes from West Virginia University include Jerry West, Jim Braxton, Marc Bulger, Avon Cobourne, Mike Compton, Noel Devine, Cecil Doggette, Mike Gansey, Marc “Major” O. Harris, Chris Henry, Joe Herber, Jeff Hostetler, Chuck Howley, Sam Huff, Darryl Talley, \"Hot Rod\" Hundley, Adam \"Pacman\" Jones, Joe Stydahar, Dan Mozes, Kevin Pittsnogle, Jerry Porter, Todd Sauerbrun, Steve Slaton, Ray Gaddis, Rod Thorn, Oliver Luck, Mike Vanderjagt, Pat White, Quincy Wilson, Amos Zereoué, Greg Jones, Joe Alexander, Owen Schmitt, Georgann Wells, Geno Smith, Tavon Austin and Jedd Gyorko.\n\nWith a 719–477–45 record, West Virginia is the most winning Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) team to have never won a national championship. WVU has had two undefeated regular seasons; they went 11–0 in 1988 and 1993. However, West Virginia lost both bowl games, 34‑21 to Notre Dame in the National Championship, and 41–7 to Florida. The 2005 season and the 2006 season produced the first consecutive 11-win seasons in school history. In the 2007 season, the Mountaineers started the season as the #3-ranked team, the highest preseason ranking in school history. That team eventually was ranked #1 in the Coaches Poll, and finished the season with a third consecutive 11-win season after their Fiesta Bowl victory.\n\nWest Virginia men's basketball has competed in three basketball championship final matches: the 1959 NCAA final, the 1942 NIT final (at that time, the NIT was considered more prestigious than the NCAA), and the 2007 NIT Championship. They lost to California in the 1959 NCAA finals, while the Mountaineers won the 1942 NIT Championship over Western Kentucky, and the 2007 NIT contest over Clemson. In 1949 future Mountaineers head coach, Fred Schaus, became the first player in NCAA history to record 1,000 points.\n\nRecently, West Virginia reached the Final Four of the 2010 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament, led by West Virginia coach and former WVU player Bob Huggins. The Mountaineers won the 2010 Big East Men's Basketball Tournament and received a #2 seed in the East Region of the 2010 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament.\n\nIn 2015, West Virginia reached the Sweet Sixteen of the 2015 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. They were eliminated from the tournament after losing to Kentucky. In 2018, West Virginia again reached the Sweet Sixteen of the 2018 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. They were eliminated from the tournament after losing in the fourth round to #1 seed and eventual champion Villanova.\n\nSince joining the Big 12 Conference ahead of the 2012 season, West Virginia women's soccer has posted a 27-1-3 record in regular-season league games. In 2016, the Mountaineers claimed their fifth consecutive outright regular-season league championship, becoming the first team in Big 12 history to accomplish that feat. West Virginia also won back-to-back Big 12 tournament championships in 2013 and 2014, as well as two additional Big 12 tournament championships in 2016 and 2018. The Mountaineers are coached by Nikki Izzo-Brown, the program's only head coach.\n\nWest Virginia men's soccer competes in the Mid-American Conference.\n\nWith a total of 26 individual NCAA National Champions and 19 team NCAA National Championship titles, the West Virginia University's rifle team is the most successful rifle program in the history of the NCAA. Their most recent National Championship as a team was won in 2017. The Mountaineers compete in the Great America Rifle Conference where they have won 11 regular season conference championships. The team's home matches take place at the WVU Rifle Range which opened in 2010.\n\nThe West Virginia University Mountaineer Marching Band is nicknamed \"The Pride of West Virginia.\" The 380-member band performs at every home football game and makes several local and national appearances throughout the year. The band was the recipient of the prestigious Sudler Trophy in 1997.\n\nIn a state that lacks professional sports franchises, West Virginians passionately support West Virginia University and its athletics teams. Men's basketball head coach Bob Huggins, a former Mountaineer basketball player who was born in Morgantown, stated that the \"strong bond between the university and the people of West Virginia\" is a relationship that is difficult for non-natives to understand.\n\nSome WVU fans, primarily in the student sections, have developed a reputation for unruly behavior, being compared to \"soccer hooligans\"\nby \"GQ\" magazine. At some events, there have been cases of objects thrown onto the field or at opposing teams. There were also issues with small-scale fires, most notably of couches, being set after games; over 1,100 intentionally ignited street fires were reported from 1997 to 2003.\n\nMembers of the Morgantown-area community volunteered as Goodwill City Ambassadors for the first time in the fall of 2012 to welcome visiting fans to the football games. The Goodwill City initiative is a collaborative effort of the City of Morgantown, WVU, Morgantown \"Dominion Post\", and community residents.\n\nThe Mountaineer was adopted in 1890 as the official school mascot and unofficially began appearing at sporting events in 1936. A new Mountaineer is selected each year during the final two men's home basketball games, with the formal title \"The Mountaineer of West Virginia University\". The new Mountaineer receives a scholarship, a tailor-made buckskin suit with coonskin hat, and a period rifle and powder horn for discharging when appropriate and safe. The mascot travels with most sports teams throughout the academic year. While not required, male mascots traditionally grow a beard.\n\nThe \"Flying WV\" is the most widely used logo in West Virginia athletics. It debuted in 1980 as a part of a football uniform redesign by Coach Don Nehlen, and was adopted as the official logo for the university in 1983.\nWhile the \"Flying WV\" represents all university entities, unique logos are occasionally used for individual departments. Some examples include the script West Virginia logo for the WVU Department of Intercollegiate Athletics, and the interlocking WV logo used in baseball.\n\nFight songs of West Virginia University include \"Hail, West Virginia\" and \"Fight Mountaineers\". The West Virginia University Alma Mater was composed in 1937, and is sung before every home football game. The crowd sings along as the WVU Marching Band stands playing it on the field, as part of the pregame show.\n\n\"Old gold and blue\", the official University colors, were selected by the upperclassmen of 1890 from the West Virginia state seal. While the official school colors are old gold and blue, a brighter gold is used in official university logos and merchandise. This change in color scheme is often cited for the lack of a universal standard for colors during the 19th century when the university's colors were selected. Additionally, the brighter gold is argued to create a more intimidating environment for sporting events. The university accepts \"gold and blue\" for the color scheme, but states clearly that the colors are not \"blue and gold\", to distinguish West Virginia from its rival, the University of Pittsburgh.\n\n\"Country Roads\" has become the unofficial song of the university and, , one of the official songs of the State of West Virginia. In 1980 John Denver performed his hit song \"Take Me Home, Country Roads\" at the dedication of Mountaineer Field, and it has since become tradition for fans to remain in the stands following every Mountaineer victory and sing the song with the players. Although the tradition originated during football games, it is now recognized throughout the university, with the song performed at various athletic events and ceremonies. \"Sports Illustrated\" named the singing of \"Country Roads\" as one of the must-see college traditions.\n\nThe Pride of West Virginia is the official marching band of the university. The band's football pre-game show includes traditions such as the Drumline's \"Tunnel\" and \"Boogie\" cadences, the 220‑beat per minute run-on cadence to start the performance, marching the \"WV\" logo down field to the university fight song, \"Fight Mountaineers\", expanding circles during \"Simple Gifts\", and the formation of the state's outline during \"Hail, West Virginia\".\n\nThe Firing of the Rifle is a tradition carried out by the Mountaineer Mascot to open several athletic events. The Mountaineer points the gun into the air with one arm and fires a blank shot from a custom rifle, a signal to the crowd to begin cheering at home football and basketball games. The Mountaineer also fires the rifle every time the team scores during football games.\n\nThe Carpet Roll is a WVU Men's Basketball tradition. In 1955 Fred Schaus and Alex Mumford devised the idea of rolling out an elaborate gold and blue carpet for Mountaineer basketball players to use when taking the court for pre-game warm-ups. In addition, Mountaineer players warmed up with a special gold and blue basketball. The university continued this tradition until the late 1960s when it died out, but former Mountaineer player Gale Catlett reintroduced the carpet when he returned to West Virginia University in 1978 as head coach of the men's basketball team.\n\nNotable alumni of West Virginia University include television star Don Knotts; Terry Bowden and Tommy Bowden; Ken Kendrick, owner of the Arizona Diamondbacks; Jerry West, former NBA basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers, silhouette of the NBA logo, and Hall of Famer; Billy Mays, former television direct-response advertisement salesperson; Michael Ammar, magician; Pat McAfee, former Indianapolis Colts punter and founder of Barstool Indy; Jon McBride, NASA astronaut; Katherine G. Johnson, NASA mathematician and physicist who was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2015; corporate executive John Chambers; and several governors of the state of West Virginia, including U.S. Senator Joe Manchin.\n"}
{"id": "4761632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4761632", "title": "Western Caspian University", "text": "Western Caspian University\n\nWestern Caspian University () is a private university in Baku, Azerbaijan. Founded in 1991 by Husein Baghirov, it has six schools, 25 majors, 180 faculty and approximately 1500 students. The university took its name because it is modeled after Western universities in style of instruction and values, the latter in response to some of the corrupt practices under the Soviet system. Much of the instruction is conducted in English.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the school partnered with American universities, such as Indiana University, to help set up its programs in business and law. Many of its partnerships were formed through the now defunct United States Information Agency. Currently, the school has ties with Indiana University, University of Kansas, Mississippi Valley State University, University of North Alabama and Delta State University.\n\nFounded in 1991, Western Caspian University is one of the first private higher education institutions established in Azerbaijan. \nThe University became a member of several significant institutions, including the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – UNESCO (1992); the European Development Fund (EDF) (the European Centre for Development Policy Management - ECDPM) (1996); The Black Sea Universities Network (BSUN, 1999); The International Institute of Administrative Sciences (IIAS, 2000), and The European Association for Tourism and Leisure Education (ATLAS). Western Caspian University maintains close co-operation with many authoritative international educational institutions.\n\nFounding of this institution was influenced by the socio-political and economic processes passing in Eastern Europe and the CIS area after the collapse of the USSR in 1991.\n\nWestern Caspian University offers broad programs at bachelor, master and PhD levels.\n\n\nThe School of High Technologies and Innovative Engineering was founded in 1991, entitled \"The School of Mathematics and Computer Technologies.”\n\nDuring its activity, the school trained specialists in Information Science and Computer Engineering, IT and Systems Engineering, as well as Computer Engineering and Information Technology specialists. In 2017, the department was renamed as The School of High Technologies and Innovative Engineering. Presently, the following specialisations are available at the school:\n\n\n\n\nThe School of Architecture and Design was established in 2017 at Western University. This school was founded under the auspices of the Design Department that had functioned since 1996.\n\nThe following specialisations are available at the school for Bachelor, Master, PhD and doctoral studies:\n\n\n\n\nActivities in this field have been conducted since the first day of Western Caspian University. Various specialisations are available at the school - such as “Economy”, “Finance and Accounting”, “Management” and “Consumer Goods and Expertise in Marketing”. \nThe school provides specialisation in the following subject areas:\n\n\n\n\nThe Business School provides training in the following specialisations:\n\n\n\n\nThis Department has been entitled as the Department of Western Languages since 1996. Students are trained in Philology (English Language and Philology) and Translation (English, German, French). Since 2017, the Department has continued its activity as the School of Philology and Translation.\n\nThe main direction of the Department is training philologists, including translators of Business, Management, Political Studies, Sociology and Law.\n\nIn general, nine languages are taught at school: Azerbaijani, English, German, French, Russian, Latin, Chinese, Spanish and Finnish. Foreign specialists - native speakers - are available to improve students’ language skills.\n\nCurrently, tuition is provided in the following disciplines at the Faculty:\n\n\nThe Department of Political Sciences had been the training, science and administrative division at Western University since day one. It led training at bachelor and master degree levels in the fields of Political Studies, Psychology, Regional Studies, International Journalism, International Relations and so on.\n\nAlong with local specialists, the University regularly invites specialists from the USA, the United Kingdom, Canada, Netherland and other countries, to deliver training and lectures.\n\nShort and long term education projects internationally create opportunities for participation in education programs abroad. Presently, within the Erasmus+ and Movlana Exchange projects, students of the University study at the leading universities of the Czech Republic, Poland, Latvia, Romania, Turkey and Ireland. Western University realizes double diploma projects jointly with Coventry University, Great Britain and London School of Business & Finance in Singapore and the University of Business and International Studies (UBIS) in Switzerland.\n\nToday, Western University’s international network embraces more than 200 world authoritative education institutions. International cooperative and bilateral activities include bachelor and master courses, articulation and development agreements, the Erasmus+ and Movlana Exchange projects and others.\n\nThe University regularly encourages scientific research. Two research institutes under the University – Continuous Human Development Institute, and Landscape Research Institute carry out scientific researches.\n\nWestern Caspian University is provided with modern, progressive laboratories and research centres.\n\nPhysics and Electronics Laboratory – creates an opportunity for students to carry out fundamental scientific calculations, extend and enhance their knowledge and application of the fundamentals of electronics and the laws of physics. \nThe main aim of laboratory research is to facilitate understanding of the importance of knowledge in physics through real experiments carried out by appropriate instruments and equipment, as well as to make students aware of the necessary methods and means to carry out research in physics.\n\nThe Geomathic Centre is a unique centre at the University. Establishment of the centre aims to provide students with necessary software and technical skills for gathering information on Geoscience. Such laboratories were initially created at the end of the XX century, as there was a great demand for geoinformation. Meeting increasing demands for geographic information was possible only through integration of new technological opportunities for conducting traditional field-research activities. Geomathic centres ensure such kind of integration; they play a key role in conducting scientific-research activities in geographic information systems, distance space-air research, geodesy and mapping, photogrammetry, environment protection.\n\nThe University’s Centre of Information Technologies is provided with equipment and computers. There’s a 3D printer at the Centre. Students are able to print items prepared in various formats. \n\nThe Science and Innovation Centre successfully implemented several projects in application of scientific and educational innovations.\n\nThe mission of the Confucius Centre at Western Caspian University is the promotion of Chinese language and Culture, as well as the development of cultural relations between China and Azerbaijan.\n\nThe Language Centre created at Western Caspian University aims to introduce fundamental changes in the teaching and learning process of foreign languages. Conceptually, it has the following format: \n\nThe library at Western Caspian University is the richest library in the country. It has more than 60 000 books, more than 500 microforms and other sources of information. More than 16 000 books is available in English.\n\nThis library is the first and only library in the Republic to work in correlation with the UN Library.\n\nThe UN Library, established in 2016, continues the process of enriching the library fund with various publications of international institutions. The Depositary Library of the UN World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) was established at the University. And Western Caspian University was the first Azerbaijani University whose name was included in the library program.\n\nThe UN Convention to Combat Desertification, the UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), Secretary of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – joint international body of the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and UN Environment Programme (UNEP) adopted a decision to present their publications to the Western Caspian University Library. The publications of these international organizations are regularly received by the library. \n\nAt the same time, Western Caspian University joined the Depository Library of The World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Within this program, the WIPO sends publications to University twice a year.\n\nThe centre has been officially opened during the Thor Heyerdahl Film Festival week, on May 12-20, 2014. It is dedicated to the commemoration of his 100 anniversary.\n\nMuseum which is permanently located on the second floor of the main building of Western Caspian Iniversity, contains archive materials related to his activity. It includes documentary films, articles, books about his expeditions, memoirs, handwritten postcards and images from his great journeys, including photos from his visit to Azerbaijan.\n\nThe following books about Thor Heyerdal have been translated into the Azerbaijani language by Western Caspian University:\n\nStudent Youth Organization (SYO) confirmed its efficiency as a democratic student self-governing body system and creator of close relationships between the University administration and students. The SYO acts within the following responsibilities: \n\nThe Career and Graduate Coordination Centre offers services on providing practice and career opportunities, ensuring smooth the student-University relationship, hiring a big number of specialists to conduct practical and individual sessions for students and organizing trainings on priority topics.\n\nWestern Caspian University welcomes close cooperation with numerous organizations for further internship and employment of students. The key mission of the Students Service Centre is to implement projects with a view to provide intellectual and cultural development, student’s capacity building, maintain continuous communication with University alumni.\nThe Centre assists graduates to find job in their specific fields. Information for all students at the University is kept in a database which is updated annually. The Centre often initiates meetings with representatives of foreign companies and organizations operating in Azerbaijan. Since its launch, the Centre has assisted hundreds of graduates and students to find respective jobs.\nWestern Caspian University cooperates with major government institutions (Parliament, Ministries and Committees, institutes under Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences) and banking sector for successful internship activities. Big number of students was later hired by this organizations.\n\nMany young Azerbaijanis that have achieved success in their careers are alumni of Western Caspian University:\n\nWestern Caspian University High School established in 2003 applies the up-to-date methods and curriculum standards.\n\nIn addition to the complete secondary education tailored to the high international standards, special emphasis is given to foreign languages - English, French and German. Tuition process applies a variety of interactive and technologically advanced learning tools. Conversation classes with foreign experts create favorable conditions for advanced language learning.\n\nThe school is equipped with ICTs, modern laboratories, MimioStudio software and smart boards. The library comprises wide range of science fiction and other related literature.\n\nThe High School students and their team leaders are able to participate in summer exchange programs at the Katherine and Kings College of London and English Language School in Beckenham, England.\n\nThanks to the high-quality training, High School seniors have succeeded in entry examinations (100 percent) over the last 10 years. Some of them were awarded with presidential scholarship for excellent results achieved at the admission exams.\n\nGraduates from the Western University High School achieve the highest scores every year and enter the most prestigious universities not only in Azerbaijan, but also in many countries around the world, such as the University of Texas and James Madison University (USA), Czech Technical University in Prague, Istanbul Bilgi University (Turkey), St. Petersburg State University of Industrial Technologies and Design (Russia), Cyprus International University in Northern Cyprus and International University “MITSO”, etc.\n\nThe Western Knowledge Training Centre at Western Caspian University runs academic preparatory classes that are conducted by highly qualified specialists and include:\n"}
{"id": "53255136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53255136", "title": "William Frederick Mellor", "text": "William Frederick Mellor\n\nWilliam Frederick Mellor was an English missionary who spent considerable time of his missionary endeavour in Ijebu-Remo. He embraced some of the culture of Remo and ended up being conferred a chieftaincy title by the Akarigbo. Upon his retirement, he left Nigeria in 1957 but returned in 1966 to work with Tai Solarin at Mayflower School, Ikenne.\n\nMellor was born in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, a city heavily influenced by the pottery industry, he came from a generation of potters, his great grandfather and grandfather worked for Mintons while his father worked for the Wedgwood company. Mellor's father died when he was a child and at the age of 14, Mellor embraced his family's career path and apprenticed at the ceramic firm of George Woolliscroft to earn some income and support the family. For a year, he worked on making lead free ceramic glazed tiles. In 1907, he changed firms and began a seven year apprenticeship with a pottery decoration company working on a variety of products produced by the city's potters. He attended Cauldon School and on Sundays, he usually attended the St Jude's Anglican Church but an encounter with a local Methodist preacher who was a bench mate at work prodded him to join the Wesleyan Church. He gradually became involved in the activities of the church becoming a Sunday school teacher at the local Methodist church and lay preacher within the Staffordshire area. While preparing to be a priest, Mellor began to develop little interest in various Methodist meetings and decided a life of missionary will be a better fit for him, originally having in mind working in India. Mellor wanted to study medicine and theology and before completing his apprenticeship, he took classes under the tutelage of the Workers' Educational Association. Between June and July, 1914, he started college education at Balliol College, Oxford working with R. H. Tawney on economic history but his education was interrupted by War. Mellor continued ministerial education in Staffordshire for a year before enlisting in the Royal Navy. He joined Devonport Depot and initially posted on HMS Eclipse, when a search was done for recruits with medical degrees or had past shown interest in medicine, his name caught the attention of the navy and he was posted to the navy hospital in Gibraltar. Towards the latter part of the War, he toured Freetown and Lagos with HMS Africa protecting convoy of cargo ships, it was at one of the stops at Freetown, he decided a change of missionary service from India to West Africa. In 1916, his junior brother who was with the HMS Indefatigable during the Battle of Jutland died. In 1919, Mellor was demobilized and he was able to return to studies. He attended Handsworth College, Birmingham University and completed his education in 1921 with a degree in theology.\nIn 1921, Mellor sailed for Lagos to start a career as a Methodist missionary. Prior to his start, pioneer Wesleyan missionaries had earlier arrived in Ijebu in 1893, shortly after the Ijebu Expedition resulted in British occupation of Ijebu Ode and ended the kingdom's blockade of trade going to the coast. Shortly thereafter, Olumuyiwa Haastrup who was an adviser to the Akarigbo, wrote to the Wesleyan Church in London for a proposed mission house, while at the meantime, a Catechist can be provided and expense will be paid until the church finds it suitable to maintain a mission in Remo. In 1893, the Wesleyan Church sent a priest, H.J. Ellis and three un-ordained missionaries to Remo. The three missionaries built a mission house at Iperu from where they moved to other towns.\n\nWhen Mellor arrived in Nigeria, he spent some weeks with Wesleyan priests who were already living in the country. In March 1922, he was posted to Sagamu to replace the outgoing priest as superintendent of Ijebu division. Sagamu was founded to replicate the structure of Abeokuta, a town consisting of villages and lineages converged together for defense purposes. In Ijebu and Ijebu-Remo, the Methodist Church was already established in the district with about 22 mission stations, close to 2,000 converts and 12 chapels. Mellor's efforts consolidated the presence of the Church and increased participation of community members in the activities of the Church. He developed cordial relationship with the local residents and was sometimes called upon to mediate conflicts between the residents and their Obas or British colonists. To seek new converts, the Methodists employed monthly open air church services as part of their evangelical mission and was a significant way it garnered more converts within the community. At the Ijebu-Remo mission, he was assisted by a group of women including Mrs Kuti, Janet Adegunle and Julie Sokoya with the proselytizing of the mission.\n\nMellors missionary activities within Remo also had its challenges, the church grew in Ijebu-Ode with the effort of J.A. Adegboyega and Pa Oworu and in Sagamu, Oba Adedoyin was a regular Sunday service attendee and the Oluwole family helped establish the church in Sagamu. But many of these elites who helped develop the mission were polygamists who had great influence behind the scenes but were ineligible for official leadership positions or full membership. The official position was for the men to reduce the surplus wives in order to attain full position with the church. Mellor opposed this attitude, he discouraged the men to do this or had to find ways to create a suitable just and careful arrangement for women if the men decide to live a monogamous life.\n\nMellor's success was visible in education, he started classes for catechists and another for new converts as preparation for induction to the Methodist Church. His job as superintendent also involved managing the church's primary schools within the circuit. There was a lack of secondary education facilities in the area for boys and girls, only one secondary school in the region, Ijebu Ode Grammar School then headed by Rev Ransome Kuti and girl's education was not fully supported with a proportion of 1 girl to 8 boys. Mellor developed craft training sessions for woman. He also encouraged girls education and cooperated with the local Anglican mission and Muslim community to establish Remo Secondary School, the first co-education secondary school in the country and Girls Secondary School, Shagamu. The girls secondary school developed a training class for teachers so as to increase the numbers of female teachers in the district. His interest in education led to his appointment as the representative of the Methodist order on the regional board of education where he was able to influence acceptance of co-education within the region. He also introduced the Boys and Girls' Brigade movement to Ijebu and Remo and was an influential leader who contributed to sustain the Boys Brigade during the colonial period.\n\nMellor also cultivated friendship with Akarigbo William Adedoyin and used his relationship and citizenship with colonists to help actualise Adedoyin's desire for an independent Remo division. In 1950, he was posted to Badagry and in 1957, he retired from missionary work.\n\nWhile working in Remo, Mellor met a young Tai Solarin who was a looking for someone to recommend him for service with the Royal Air force. Both individuals later developed a relationship and Mellor came to represent the Methodist mission in Nigeria during its independence in 1960, Solarin asked him to come back to Ikenne and be a part of his new school. In 1966, Mellor finally returned to Remo and acted as an adviser to Solarin and managed the school's husbandry, at the school, he was popularly referred to as Baba.\n\nMellor influenced Solarin, an atheist to allow the creation of a chapel on school grounds.\n\nMellor was married to Cecilia who followed him to Remo. In 1930, she was wounded during a riot in Opobo. Mellor loved geography and travelling visiting most African countries with the exception of two.\n\n"}
{"id": "54756669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54756669", "title": "WorldQuant University", "text": "WorldQuant University\n\nWorldQuant University (WQU) is an American online university. It has 14 courses, attended by 890 students from 75 countries. It is non-profit tuition-free unaccredited. It is licensed by the Board of Regents of the State of Louisiana.\n\nWQU was established by Igor Tulchinsky in 2015 and is funded by the WorldQuant Foundation. In 2015, when the WorldQuant Foundation launched WorldQuant University, it enrolled several hundred students in a free online master's degree program in financial engineering. Sarah McCue, PhD, conceptualized, led the launch of and served as the first President of WorldQuant University. Daphne Kis was hired as CEO of theWorldQuant University program, and the first class was announced to have a 2018 graduation date. In late 2016, the university was awarded the 2016 Dive Award: Startup of the Year by the publication \"Education Dive\". It had enrolled 700 students from 40 countries by June 2017, and was licensed by the Louisiana Board of Regents and seeking recognition from the U.S. Department of Education.\n\nThe university's stated mission is to advance global education through a tuition-free Master’s degree program in Financial Engineering. Although the university does not charge tuition, students are advised to buy course materials for around US $1000.00 over two years, and small fees for two required proctored exams in the Master of Science in Financial Engineering program.\n\nWorldQuant University has not been accredited by any recognized accrediting body in United States. Being a new University, it is likely going to seek accreditation from Distance Education Accrediting Commission or Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. WorldQuant is approved to operate by the Board of Regents of the State of Louisiana which makes it a state-approved university.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40790237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40790237", "title": "York Museums Trust", "text": "York Museums Trust\n\nYork Museums Trust (YMT) is the charity responsible for operating some key museums and galleries in York, England. The trust was founded in 2002 to run York's museums on behalf of York City Council. It has seen an increase in annual footfall of 254,000 to the venues since its foundation. Over 500,000 people visited its museums and galleries in 2016.\n\nThe trust runs four cultural venues and a garden.\n\nThis is the historic county museum displaying collections inherited from the Yorkshire Philosophical Society and acting as a regional collecting museum.\n\nThe Museum Gardens are a botanical garden containing the Yorkshire Museum and St Mary's Abbey.\n\nThe Castle Museum is a social history museum housed in two former prison buildings.\n\nYork's Art Gallery has a large collection of paintings and an internationally important collection of studio ceramics. In 2012 the trust obtained £7 million of funding for major refurbishment of the gallery.\n\nYork St Mary's is a contemporary art space in the deconsecrated church of St Mary's, Castlegate.\nThe first use of the space was a joint exhibition by a number of artists, but since 2005 St Mary's has hosted installations by individuals, which are changed on a regular basis. The first of these commissions, inspired by the medieval building itself, was a textile work by Caroline Broadhead called \"Breathing Spaces\". This was followed by \"Echo\", a work by Susie MacMurray.\nIn 2012, Laura Belem created \"The Temple of a Thousand Bells\", which used individually-made clear glass bells in a composition combining bell chimes with a narrative describing how a temple sinks into the sea, silencing the music of a thousand bells.\n\nThe Trust is primarily funded through the City of York Council and the Arts Council. The Trust also derives substantial revenue from admission charges and other income sources. Total funding and income for 2013/14 is expected to be £5.85 Million.\n\nOver 1000 nationally important paintings held by the Trust have been made available online as part of a cooperative project with the BBC and the Public Catalogue Foundation.\nA number of objects with a Yorkshire connection and held by the Trust were included in the BBC History of the World project, including the Middleham Jewel, the York helmet, and a tin of Rowntree's cocoa from Ernest Shackleton’s unsuccessful Nimrod expedition to the South Pole.\n\n\n"}
