{"id": "1100734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1100734", "title": "Absolute idealism", "text": "Absolute idealism\n\nAbsolute idealism is an ontologically monistic philosophy \"chiefly associated with Friedrich Schelling and G. W. F. Hegel, both German idealist philosophers of the 19th century, Josiah Royce, an American philosopher, and others, but, in its essentials, the product of Hegel\". It is Hegel's account of how being is ultimately comprehensible as an all-inclusive whole (\"das Absolute\"). Hegel asserted that in order for the thinking subject (human reason or consciousness) to be able to know its object (the world) at all, there must be in some sense an identity of thought and being. Otherwise, the subject would never have access to the object and we would have no certainty about any of our knowledge of the world. To account for the differences between thought and being, however, as well as the richness and diversity of each, the unity of thought and being cannot be expressed as the abstract identity \"A=A\". Absolute idealism is the attempt to demonstrate this unity using a new \"speculative\" philosophical method, which requires new concepts and rules of logic. According to Hegel, the absolute ground of being is essentially a dynamic, historical process of necessity that unfolds by itself in the form of increasingly complex forms of being and of consciousness, ultimately giving rise to all the diversity in the world and in the concepts with which we think and make sense of the world.\n\nThe absolute idealist position dominated philosophy in nineteenth-century England and Germany, while exerting significantly less influence in the United States. The absolute idealist position should be distinguished from the subjective idealism of Berkeley, the transcendental idealism of Kant, or the post-Kantian transcendental idealism (also known as critical idealism) of Fichte and of the early Schelling.\n\nFor Hegel, the interaction of opposites generates in dialectical fashion all concepts we use in order to understand the world. Moreover, this development occurs not only in the individual mind, but also through history. In \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\", for example, Hegel presents a history of human consciousness as a journey through stages of explanations of the world. Each successive explanation created problems and oppositions within itself, leading to tensions which could only be overcome by adopting a view that could accommodate these oppositions in a higher unity. At the base of spirit lies a rational development. This means that the absolute itself is exactly that rational development. The assertion that \"All reality is spirit\" means that all of reality rationally orders itself and while doing so creates the oppositions we find in it. Even nature is not different from the spirit since it itself is ordered by the determinations given to us by spirit. Nature, as that which is not spirit is so determined by spirit, therefore it follows that nature is not absolutely other, but understood as other and therefore not essentially alien. \n\nThe aim of Hegel was to show that we do not relate to the world as if it is other from us, but that we continue to find ourselves back into that world. With the realisation that both the mind and the world are ordered according to the same rational principles, our access to the world has been made secure, a security which was lost after Kant proclaimed the 'Ding an sich' to be ultimately inaccessible.\n\nNeo-Hegelianism is a school (or schools) of thought associated and inspired by the works of Hegel.\n\nIt refers mainly to the doctrines of an idealist school of philosophers that were prominent in Great Britain and in the United States between 1870 and 1920. The name is also sometimes applied to cover other philosophies of the period that were Hegelian in inspiration—for instance, those of Benedetto Croce and of Giovanni Gentile.\n\nAlthough Hegel died in 1831, his philosophy lived on. In politics, there was a developing schism, even before his death, between right Hegelians and left Hegelians.\n\nIn the philosophy of religion, Hegel's influence soon became very powerful in the English-speaking world. The British school, called British idealism and partly Hegelian in inspiration, included Thomas Hill Green, Bernard Bosanquet, F.H. Bradley, William Wallace, and Edward Caird. It was importantly directed towards political philosophy and political and social policy, but also towards metaphysics and logic, as well as aesthetics.\n\nAmerica saw the development of a school of Hegelian thought move toward pragmatism.\n\nIn Germany there was a neo-Hegelianism (\"Neuhegelianismus\") of the early twentieth century, partly developing out of the Neo-Kantians. Richard Kroner wrote one of its leading works, a history of German idealism from a Hegelian point of view.\n\n\nExponents of analytic philosophy, which has been the dominant form of Anglo-American philosophy for most of the last century, have criticised Hegel's work as hopelessly obscure. Existentialists also criticise Hegel for ultimately choosing an essentialistic whole over the particularity of existence. Epistemologically, one of the main problems plaguing Hegel's system is how these thought determinations have bearing on reality as such. A perennial problem of his metaphysics seems to be the question of how spirit externalises itself and how the concepts it generates can say anything true about nature. At the same time, they will have to, because otherwise Hegel's system concepts would say nothing about something that is not itself a concept and the system would come down to being only an intricate game involving vacuous concepts.\n\nSchopenhauer noted that Hegel created his absolute idealism after Kant had discredited all proofs of God's existence. The Absolute is a non-personal substitute for the concept of God. It is the one subject that perceives the universe as one object. Individuals share in parts of this perception. Since the universe exists as an idea in the mind of the Absolute, absolute idealism copies Spinoza's pantheism in which everything is in God or Nature.\n\nFamously, G. E. Moore’s rebellion against absolutism found expression in his defense of common sense against the radically counter-intuitive conclusions of absolutism (e.g. time is unreal, change is unreal, separateness is unreal, imperfection is unreal, etc.). G. E. Moore also pioneered the use of logical analysis against the absolutists, which Bertrand Russell promulgated and began the entire tradition of analytic philosophy with its use against the philosophies of his direct predecessors. In recounting his own mental development Russell reports, \"For some years after throwing over [absolutism] I had an optimistic riot of opposite beliefs. I thought that whatever Hegel had denied must be true.\" (Russell in Barrett and Adkins 1962, p. 477) Also:\nParticularly the works of William James and F. C. S. Schiller, both founding members of pragmatism, made lifelong assaults on Absolute Idealism. James was particularly concerned with the monism that Absolute Idealism engenders, and the consequences this has for the problem of evil, free will, and moral action. Schiller, on the other hand, attacked Absolute Idealism for being too disconnected with our practical lives, and argued that its proponents failed to realize that thought is merely a tool for action rather than for making discoveries about an abstract world that fails to have any impact on us.\n\nAbsolute idealism has greatly altered the philosophical landscape. Paradoxically, (though, from a Hegelian point of view, maybe not paradoxically at all) this influence is mostly felt in the strong opposition it engendered. Both logical positivism and Analytic philosophy grew out of a rebellion against Hegelianism prevalent in England during the 19th century. Continental phenomenology, existentialism and post-modernism also seek to 'free themselves from Hegel's thought'. Martin Heidegger, one of the leading figures of Continental philosophy in the 20th century, sought to distance himself from Hegel's work. One of Heidegger's philosophical themes was \"overcoming metaphysics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3958324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3958324", "title": "Archetypal literary criticism", "text": "Archetypal literary criticism\n\nArchetypal literary criticism is a type of critical theory that interprets a text by focusing on recurring myths and archetypes (from the Greek \"archē\", \"beginning\", and \"typos\", \"imprint\") in the narrative, symbols, images, and character types in literary work. As a form of literary criticism, it dates back to 1934 when Maud Bodkin published \"Archetypal Patterns in Poetry\".\n\nArchetypal literary criticism's origins are rooted in two other academic disciplines, social anthropology and psychoanalysis; each contributed to literary criticism in separate ways, with the latter being a sub-branch of critical theory. Archetypal criticism was at its most popular in the 1940s and 1950s, largely due to the work of Canadian literary critic Northrop Frye. Though archetypal literary criticism is no longer widely practiced, nor have there been any major developments in the field, it still has a place in the tradition of literary studies.\n\nThe anthropological origins of archetypal criticism can pre-date its analytical psychology origins by over 30 years. \"The Golden Bough\" (1890–1915), written by the Scottish anthropologist Sir James George Frazer, was the first influential text dealing with cultural mythologies. Frazer was part of a group of comparative anthropologists working out of Cambridge University who worked extensively on the topic. \"The Golden Bough\" was widely accepted as the seminal text on myth that spawned numerous studies on the same subject. Eventually, the momentum of Frazer's work carried over into literary studies.\n\nIn \"The Golden Bough\" Frazer identifies practices and mythological beliefs shared among primitive religions and modern religions. Frazer argues that the death-rebirth myth is present in almost all cultural mythologies, and is acted out in terms of growing seasons and vegetation. The myth is symbolized by the death (i.e., final harvest) and rebirth (i.e., spring) of the god of vegetation. As an example, Frazer cites the Greek myth of Persephone, who was taken to the Underworld by Hades. Her mother Demeter, the goddess of the harvest, was so sad that she struck the world with fall and winter. While in the underworld Persephone ate six of the twelve pomegranate seeds given to her by Hades; consequently, she was forced to spend half the year, from then on, in the Underworld, representative of autumn and winter, or the death in the death-rebirth myth. The other half of the year Persephone was permitted to be with Demeter in the mortal realm, which represents spring and summer, or the rebirth in the death-rebirth myth.\n\nWhile Frazer's work deals with mythology and archetypes in material terms, the work of Carl Gustav Jung, the Swiss-born founder of analytical psychology, is, in contrast, immaterial in its focus. Jung's work theorizes about myths and archetypes in relation to the unconscious, an inaccessible part of the mind. From a Jungian perspective, myths are the \"culturally elaborated representations of the contents of the deepest recess of the human psyche: the world of the archetypes\" (Walker 4).\n\nJungian analytical psychology distinguishes between the personal and collective unconscious, the latter being particularly relevant to archetypal criticism. The collective unconscious, or the objective psyche as it is less frequently known, is a number of innate thoughts, feelings, instincts, and memories that reside in the unconsciousness of all people. Jung's definition of the term is inconsistent in his many writings. At one time he calls the collective unconscious the \"a priori, inborn forms of intuition\" (Lietch 998), while in another instance it is a series of \"experience(s) that come upon us like fate\" (998). Regardless of the many nuances between Jung's definitions, the collective unconsciousness is a shared part of the unconscious.\n\nTo Jung, an archetype in the collective unconscious, as quoted from Leitch et al., is \"irrepresentable, but has effects which make visualizations of it possible, namely, the archetypal images and ideas\" (988), due to the fact they are at an inaccessible part of the mind. The archetypes to which Jung refers are represented through primordial images, a term he coined. Primordial images originate from the initial stages of humanity and have been part of the collective unconscious ever since. It is through primordial images that universal archetypes are experienced, and more importantly, that the unconscious is revealed.\n\nWith the same death-rebirth myth that Frazer sees as being representative of the growing seasons and agriculture as a point of comparison, a Jungian analysis envisions the death-rebirth archetype as a \"symbolic expression of a process taking place not in the world but in the mind. That process is the return of the ego to the unconscious—a kind of temporary death of the ego—and its re-emergence, or rebirth, from the unconscious\" (Segal 4).\n\nBy itself, Jung's theory of the collective unconscious accounts for a considerable share of writings in archetypal literary criticism; it also pre-dates the height of archetypal literary criticism by over a decade. The Jungian archetypal approach treats literary texts as an avenue in which primordial images are represented. It would not be until the 1950s when the other branch of archetypal literary criticism developed.\n\nBodkin's \"Archetypal Patterns in Poetry\", the first work on the subject of archetypal literary criticism, applies Jung's theories about the collective unconscious, archetypes, and primordial images to literature. It was not until the work of the Canadian literary critic Northrop Frye that archetypal criticism was theorized in purely literary terms. The major work of Frye's to deal with archetypes is \"Anatomy of Criticism\"\nbut his essay \"The Archetypes of Literature\" is a precursor to the book. Frye's thesis in \"The Archetypes of Literature\" remains largely unchanged in \"Anatomy of Criticism\". Frye's work helped displace New Criticism as the major mode of analyzing literary texts, before giving way to structuralism and semiotics.\n\nFrye's work breaks from both Frazer and Jung in such a way that it is distinct from its anthropological and psychoanalytical precursors. For Frye, the death-rebirth myth, that Frazer sees manifest in agriculture and the harvest, is not ritualistic since it is involuntary, and therefore, must be done. As for Jung, Frye was uninterested about the collective unconscious on the grounds of feeling it was unnecessary: since the unconscious is unknowable it cannot be studied. How archetypes came to be was also of no concern to Frye; rather, the function and effect of archetypes is his interest. For Frye, literary archetypes \"play an essential role in refashioning the material universe into an alternative verbal universe that is humanly intelligible and viable, because it is adapted to essential human needs and concerns\" (Abrams 224-225).\n\nThere are two basic categories in Frye's framework, comedic and tragic. Each category is further subdivided into two categories: comedy and romance for the comedic; tragedy and satire (or ironic) for the tragic. Though he is dismissive of Frazer, Frye uses the seasons in his archetypal schema. Each season is aligned with a literary genre: comedy with spring, romance with summer, tragedy with autumn, and satire with winter.\n\nComedy is aligned with spring because the genre of comedy is characterized by the birth of the hero, revival and resurrection. Also, spring symbolizes the defeat of winter and darkness. Romance and summer are paired together because summer is the culmination of life in the seasonal calendar, and the romance genre culminates with some sort of triumph, usually a marriage. Autumn is the dying stage of the seasonal calendar, which parallels the tragedy genre because it is, above all, known for the \"fall\" or demise of the protagonist. Satire is metonymized with winter on the grounds that satire is a \"dark\" genre; satire is a disillusioned and mocking form of the three other genres. It is noted for its darkness, dissolution, the return of chaos, and the defeat of the heroic figure.\n\nSummer – Romance. The birth of the hero.\nAutumn – Tragedy. Movement towards the death or defeat of the hero.\nWinter – Irony/Satire. The hero is absent. \nSpring – Comedy. The rebirth of the hero.\n\nThe context of a genre determines how a symbol or image is to be interpreted. Frye outlines five different spheres in his schema: human, animal, vegetation, mineral, and water. The comedic human world is representative of wish-fulfillment and being community centred. In contrast, the tragic human world is of isolation, tyranny, and the fallen hero. Animals in the comedic genres are docile and pastoral (e.g. sheep), while animals are predatory and hunters in the tragic (e.g. wolves). For the realm of vegetation, the comedic is, again, pastoral but also represented by gardens, parks, roses and lotuses. As for the tragic, vegetation is of a wild forest, or as being barren. Cities, a temple, or precious stones represent the comedic mineral realm. The tragic mineral realm is noted for being a desert, ruins, or \"of sinister geometrical images\" (Frye 1456). Lastly, the water realm is represented by rivers in the comedic. With the tragic, the seas, and especially floods, signify the water sphere.\n\nFrye admits that his schema in \"The Archetypes of Literature\" is simplistic, but makes room for exceptions by noting that there are neutral archetypes. The example he cites are islands such as Circe's or Prospero's which cannot be categorized under the tragic or comedic.\n\nMaud Bodkin wrote \"Archetypal Patterns in Poetry\" in 1934, applying the ideas of Jung to poetry, and examining archetypes such as the ancient mariner and rebirth, heaven and hell, images of the devil, the hero and God. \nBodkin book.\n\nIn his 1949 book \"Hero with a Thousand Faces\", Joseph Campbell pioneered the idea of the ‘monomyth' (though the term was borrowed from James Joyce), a universal pattern in heroic tales across different cultures and genres. His deep examination of the eight step hero's journey (and the common variations that exist) had a huge impact on the Abstract Expressionists of the 1950s, and continues to inspire creative artists today.\n\nIt has been argued that Frye's version of archetypal criticism strictly categorizes works based on their genres, which determines how an archetype is to be interpreted in a text. According to this argument the dilemma Frye's archetypal criticism faces with more contemporary literature, and that of post-modernism in general, is that genres and categories are no longer distinctly separate and that the very concept of genres has become blurred, thus problematizing Frye's schema. For instance Beckett's \"Waiting For Godot\" is considered a tragicomedy, a play with elements of tragedy and satire, with the implication that interpreting textual elements in the play becomes difficult as the two opposing seasons and conventions that Frye associated with genres are pitted against each other. But in fact arguments about generic blends such as tragicomedy go back to the Renaissance, and Frye always conceived of genres as fluid. Frye thought literary forms were part of a great circle and were capable of shading into other generic forms. (He contemplated including a diagram of his wheel in \"Anatomy of Criticism\" but thought better of it.)Myth and archetype deals with origin of literary.\n\n\nArchetypal symbols vary more than archetype narratives or character types. The best archetypal pattern is any symbol with deep roots in a culture's mythology, such as the forbidden fruit in Genesis or even the poison apple in Snow White. These are examples of symbols that resonate with archetypal critics.\n\nArchetypes reveal shared roles among universal societies. This archetype may create a shared imaginary which is defined by many stereotypes that have not separated themselves from the traditional, biological, religious and mythical framework.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "584809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584809", "title": "Art for art's sake", "text": "Art for art's sake\n\n\"Art for art's sake\" is the usual English rendering of a French slogan from the early 19th century, \"l'art pour l'art\", and expresses a philosophy that the intrinsic value of art, and the only \"true\" art, is divorced from any didactic, moral, or utilitarian function. Such works are sometimes described as \"autotelic\", from the Greek \"autoteles\", \"complete in itself\", a concept that has been expanded to embrace \"inner-directed\" or \"self-motivated\" human beings.\n\nThe term is sometimes used commercially. A Latin version of this phrase (\"ARS GRATIA ARTIS\") is used as a motto by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and appears in the circle around the roaring head of Leo the Lion in its motion picture logo. \n\n\"L'art pour l'art\" (translated as \"art for art's sake\") is credited to Théophile Gautier (1811–1872), who was the first to adopt the phrase as a slogan in the preface to his 1835 book, \"Mademoiselle de Maupin\". Gautier was not, however, the first to write those words: they appear in the works of Victor Cousin, Benjamin Constant, and Edgar Allan Poe. For example, Poe argues in his essay \"The Poetic Principle\" (1850):\n\nWe have taken it into our heads that to write a poem simply for the poem's sake [...] and to acknowledge such to have been our design, would be to confess ourselves radically wanting in the true poetic dignity and force: – but the simple fact is that would we but permit ourselves to look into our own souls we should immediately there discover that under the sun there neither exists nor can exist any work more thoroughly dignified, more supremely noble, than this very poem, this poem per se, this poem which is a poem and nothing more, this poem written solely for the poem's sake.\n\n\"Art for art's sake\" was a bohemian creed in the nineteenth century, a slogan raised in defiance of those who – from John Ruskin to the much later Communist advocates of socialist realism – thought that the value of art was to serve some moral or didactic purpose. \"Art for art's sake\" affirmed that art was valuable \"as\" art, that artistic pursuits were their own justification and that art did not need moral justification – and indeed, was allowed to be morally neutral or subversive.\n\nIn fact, James McNeill Whistler wrote the following in which he discarded the accustomed role of art in the service of the state or official religion, which had adhered to its practice since the Counter-Reformation of the sixteenth century: \"Art should be independent of all claptrap – should stand alone [...] and appeal to the artistic sense of eye or ear, without confounding this with emotions entirely foreign to it, as devotion, pity, love, patriotism and the like.\"\n\nSuch a brusque dismissal also expressed the artist's distancing himself from sentimentalism. All that remains of Romanticism in this statement is the reliance on the artist's own eye and sensibility as the arbiter.\n\nThe explicit slogan is associated in the history of English art and letters with Walter Pater and his followers in the Aesthetic Movement, which was self-consciously in rebellion against Victorian moralism. It first appeared in English in two works published simultaneously in 1868: Pater's review of William Morris's poetry in the \"Westminster Review\" and in \"William Blake\" by Algernon Charles Swinburne. A modified form of Pater's review appeared in his \"Studies in the History of the Renaissance\" (1873), one of the most influential texts of the Aesthetic Movement.\n\nIn Germany, the poet Stefan George was one of the first artists to translate the phrase (\"Kunst für die Kunst\") and adopt it for his own literary programme which he presented in the first volume of his literary magazine \"Blätter für die Kunst\" (1892). He was inspired mainly by Charles Baudelaire and the French Symbolists whom he had met in Paris, where he was friends with Albert Saint-Paul and consorted with the circle around Stéphane Mallarmé.\n\nGeorge Sand wrote in 1872 that \"L'art pour l'art\" was an empty phrase, an idle sentence. She asserted that artists had a \"duty to find an adequate expression to convey it to as many souls as possible,\" ensuring that their works were accessible enough to be appreciated.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche claimed that there is no art for art’s sake:\n\nWhen the purpose of moral preaching and of improving man has been excluded from art, it still does not follow by any means that art is altogether purposeless, aimless, senseless — in short, \"l'art pour l'art\", a worm chewing its own tail. \"Rather no purpose at all than a moral purpose!\" — that is the talk of mere passion. A psychologist, on the other hand, asks: what does all art do? does it not praise? glorify? choose? prefer? With all this it strengthens or weakens certain valuations. Is this merely a \"moreover\"? an accident? something in which the artist's instinct had no share? Or is it not the very presupposition of the artist's ability? Does his basic instinct aim at art, or rather at the sense of art, at life? at a desirability of life? Art is the great stimulus to life: how could one understand it as purposeless, as aimless, as \"l'art pour l'art\"?\n\nContemporary postcolonial African writers such as Leopold Senghor and Chinua Achebe have criticised the slogan as being a limited and Eurocentric view on art and creation. In \"Black African Aesthetics,\" Senghor argues that \"art is functional\" and that \"in black Africa, 'art for art's sake' does not exist.\" Achebe is more scathing in his collection of essays and criticism entitled \"Morning Yet on Creation Day\", where he asserts that \"art for art's sake is just another piece of deodorised dog shit\" (sic).\n\nWalter Benjamin discusses the slogan in his seminal 1936 essay \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction.\" He first mentions it in regard to the reaction within the realm of traditional art to innovations in reproduction, in particular photography. He even terms the \"L'art pour l'art\" slogan as part of a \"theology of art\" in bracketing off social aspects. In the Epilogue to the essay Benjamin discusses the links between fascism and art. His main example is that of Futurism and the thinking of its mentor Filippo Tommaso Marinetti. One of the slogans of the Futurists was \"Fiat ars - pereat mundus\" (\"Let art be created, though the world perish\"). Provocatively, Benjamin concludes that as long as fascism expects war \"to supply the artistic gratification of a sense of perception that has been changed by technology,\" then this is the \"consummation,\" the realization, of \"L'art pour l'art.\"\n\nDiego Rivera claims that the \"art for art's sake\" theory would further divide the rich from the poor. Rivera goes on to say that since one of the characteristics of so called \"pure art\" was that it could only be appreciated by a few superior people, the art movement would strip art from its value as a social tool and ultimately make art into a currency-like item that would only be available to the rich. \n\nFormer Chinese leader Mao Zedong said: \"There is in fact no such thing as art for art's sake, art that stands above classes, art that is detached from or independent of politics. Proletarian literature and art are part of the whole proletarian revolutionary cause; they are, as Lenin said, cogs and wheels in the whole revolutionary machine.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17940038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17940038", "title": "Camunian rose", "text": "Camunian rose\n\nThe Camunian rose (or in Italian Rosa camuna) is the name given to a particular symbol represented among the rock carvings of Val Camonica (Brescia, Italy). It consists of a meandering closed line that winds around nine cup marks. It is engraved in the form symmetrical, asymmetrical or swastika.\n\nThere are many theories about its meaning, Emmanuel Anati suggests that it might symbolize a complex religious concept, perhaps a solar symbol linked to the astral movement. In Val Camonica this motif dates back to the Iron Age, particularly from the 7th to 1st centuries BC. There is only one doubtful case datable at the Final Bronze Age (1,100 BC). These figures are placed mainly in the Middle Camonica Valley (Capo di Ponte, Foppe of Nadro, Sellero, Ceto and Paspardo), but numerous cases are in the Low Valley too (Darfo Boario Terme and Esine).\nThe motif has been deeply studied by Paola Farina, who created a corpus of all the \"camunian roses\" known in Val Camonica: she counted 84 \"roses\" engraved on 27 rocks. Three basic types have been determined:\n\nRegarding the interpretation, not easy for a symbol pertaining to a lost and past culture, Paola Farina suggests that the \"Camunian rose\" had originally a solar meaning, which then developed into a wider meaning of a positive power, to bring life and good luck.\n\nThe symbol is called in Italian \"rosa camuna\" (camunian rose) because it looks like a flower, but this name is a modern invention. A stylized \"camunian rose\" has become the symbol of the Lombardy Region.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "741028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=741028", "title": "Causal theory of reference", "text": "Causal theory of reference\n\nA causal theory of reference is a theory of how terms acquire specific referents based on evidence. Such theories have been used to describe many referring terms, particularly logical terms, proper names, and natural kind terms. In the case of names, for example, a causal theory of reference typically involves the following claims:\n\n\nWeaker versions of the position (perhaps not properly called \"causal theories\"), claim merely that, in many cases, events in the causal history of a speaker's use of the term, including when the term was first acquired, must be considered to correctly assign references to the speaker's words.\n\nCausal theories of names became popular during the 1970s, under the influence of work by Saul Kripke and Keith Donnellan. Kripke and Hilary Putnam also defended an analogous causal account of natural kind terms.\n\nIn lectures later published as \"Naming and Necessity\", Kripke provided a rough outline of his causal theory of reference for names. Although he refused to explicitly endorse such a theory, he indicated that such an approach was far more promising than the then-popular descriptive theory of names introduced by Russell, according to which names are in fact disguised definite descriptions. Kripke argued that in order to use a name successfully to refer to something, you do not have to be acquainted with a uniquely identifying description of that thing. Rather, your use of the name need only be caused (in an appropriate way) by the naming of that thing.\n\nSuch a causal process might proceed as follows: the parents of a newborn baby name it, pointing to the child and saying \"we'll call her 'Jane'.\" Henceforth everyone calls her 'Jane'. With that act, the parents give the girl her name. The assembled family and friends now know that 'Jane' is a name which refers to Jane. This is referred to as Jane's dubbing, naming, or initial baptism.\n\nHowever, not everyone who knows Jane and uses the name 'Jane' to refer to her was present at this naming. So how is it that when \"they\" use the name 'Jane', they are referring to Jane? The answer provided by causal theories is that there is a causal chain that passes from the original observers of Jane's naming to everyone else who uses her name. For example, maybe Jill was not at the naming, but Jill learns about Jane, and learns that her name is 'Jane', from Jane's mother, who \"was\" there. She then uses the name 'Jane' with the intention of referring to the child Jane's mother referred to. Jill can now use the name, and her use of it can in turn transmit the ability to refer to Jane to other speakers.\n\nPhilosophers such as Gareth Evans have insisted that the theory's account of the dubbing process needs to be broadened to include what are called 'multiple groundings'. After her initial baptism, uses of 'Jane' in the presence of Jane may, under the right circumstances, be considered to further ground the name ('Jane') in its referent (Jane). That is, if I am in direct contact with Jane, the reference for my utterance of the name 'Jane' may be fixed not simply by a causal chain through people who had encountered her earlier (when she was first named); it may also be indexically fixed to Jane at the moment of my utterance. Thus our modern day use of a name such as 'Christopher Columbus' can be thought of as referring to Columbus through a causal chain that terminates not simply in one instance of his naming, but rather in a series of grounding uses of the name that occurred throughout his life. Under certain circumstances of confusion, this can lead to the alteration of a name's referent (for one example of how this might happen, see Twin Earth thought experiment).\n\nCausal theories of reference were born partially in response to the widespread acceptance of Russellian descriptive theories. Russell found that certain logical contradictions could be avoided if names were considered disguised definite descriptions (a similar view is often attributed to Gottlob Frege, mostly on the strength of a footnoted comment in \"On Sense and Reference\", although many Frege scholars consider this attribution misguided). On such an account, the name 'Aristotle' might be seen as meaning 'the student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great'. Later description theorists expanded upon this by suggesting that a name expressed not one particular description, but many (perhaps constituting all of one's essential knowledge of the individual named), or a weighted average of these descriptions.\n\nKripke found this account to be deeply flawed, for a number of reasons. Notably:\n\n\nA causal theory avoids these difficulties. A name refers rigidly to the bearer to which it is causally connected, regardless of any particular facts about the bearer, and in all possible worlds.\n\nThe same motivations apply to causal theories in regard to other sorts of terms. Putnam, for instance, attempted to establish that 'water' refers rigidly to the stuff that we do in fact call 'water', to the exclusion of any possible identical water-like substance for which we have no causal connection. These considerations motivate semantic externalism. Because speakers interact with a natural kind such as water regularly, and because there is generally no naming ceremony through which their names are formalized, the multiple groundings described above are even more essential to a causal account of such terms. A speaker whose environment changes may thus observe that the referents of his terms shift, as described in the Twin Earth and Swamp man thought experiments.\n\nVariations of the causal theory include:\n\nGareth Evans argued that the causal theory, or at least certain common and over-simple variants of it, have the consequence that, however remote or obscure the causal connection between someone's use of a proper name and the object it originally referred to, they still refer to that object when they use the name. (Imagine a name briefly overheard in a train or café.) The theory effectively ignores context and makes reference into a magic trick. Evans describes it as a \"photograph\" theory of reference.\n\nThe links between different users of the name are particularly obscure. Each user must somehow pass the name on to the next, and must somehow \"mean\" the right individual as they do so (suppose \"Socrates\" is the name of a pet aardvark). Kripke himself notes the difficulty, John Searle makes much of it.\n\nMark Sainsbury argued for a causal theory similar to Kripke's, except that the baptised object is eliminated. A \"baptism\" may be a baptism of nothing, he argues: a name can be intelligibly introduced even if it names nothing. The causal chain we associate with the use of proper names may begin merely with a \"journalistic\" source.\n\nThe causal theory has a difficult time explaining the phenomenon of reference change. Gareth Evans cites the example of when Marco Polo unknowingly referred to the African Island as \"Madagascar\" when the natives actually used the term to refer to a part of the mainland. Evans claims that Polo clearly intended to use the term as the natives do, but somehow changed the meaning of the term \"Madagascar\" to refer to the island as it is known today. Michael Devitt claims that repeated groundings in an object can account for reference change. However, such a response leaves open the problem of cognitive significance that originally intrigued Russell and Frege.\n\nEast Asians are more likely than Americans to have intuitions about reference in line with descriptivist theories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "694155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=694155", "title": "Character assassination", "text": "Character assassination\n\nCharacter assassination is a deliberate and sustained process that destroys the credibility and reputation of a person, institution, organization, social group, or nation. Agents of character assassinations employ a mix of open and covert methods to achieve their goals, such as raising false accusations, planting and fostering rumours, and manipulating information.\n\nCharacter assassination is an attempt to tarnish a person's reputation. It may involve exaggeration, misleading half-truths, or manipulation of facts to present an untrue picture of the targeted person. It is a form of defamation and can be a form of \"ad hominem\" argument.\n\nFor living individuals targeted by character assassination attempts, this may result in being rejected by their community, family, or members of their living or work environment. Such acts are often difficult to reverse or rectify, and the process is likened to a literal assassination of a human life. The damage sustained can last a lifetime or, for historical figures, for many centuries after their death.\n\nThe phrase \"character assassination\" became popular from around 1930. One of the first mentions of the phrasing in literature is dated 1950 in the collection of essays by Jerome Davis.\n\nIn practice, character assassination may involve doublespeak, spreading of rumours, innuendo or deliberate misinformation on topics relating to the subject's morals, integrity, and reputation. It may involve spinning information that is technically true, but that is presented in a misleading manner or is presented without the necessary context. For example, it might be said that a person refused to pay any income tax during a specific year, without saying that no tax was actually owed due to the person having no income that year, or that a person was sacked from a firm, even though he may have been made redundant through no fault of his own, rather than being terminated for cause.\n\nOthers define character assassination as the deliberate destruction of an individual's reputation, which does not include social groups or institutions. It is important to distinguish between character attacks and character assassination. Character attacks are assaults aimed at a particular individual—as opposed to attacks aimed at certain groups, movements, or nationalities, such as happen in the construction of enemy images.\nIf they succeed in destroying their victim's reputation, we speak of successful attacks and character assassination. However, attacks can also fail.\n\nThree features of character attacks are important to understand. First, their intention: character attacks are by definition deliberate. Second, the public nature of the attacks: private insults do not lead to reputation damage. And third, the importance of the public perception of the attacks, which means that the truth of allegations is irrelevant.\n\nAccording to Thomas, character assassination is an intentional attempt, usually by a narcissist and/or his or her codependents, to influence the portrayal or reputation of someone in such a way as to cause others to develop an extremely negative or unappealing perception of him or her. It typically involves deliberate exaggeration or manipulation of facts, the spreading of rumours and deliberate misinformation to present an untrue picture of the targeted person, and unwarranted and excessive criticism.\n\nThe authors of the book \"\" describe a five phase model of how a typical workplace psychopath climbs to and maintains power. In phase four (confrontation), the psychopath will use techniques of character assassination to maintain their agenda.\n\nIn politics, character assassination is a form of negative campaigning. Opposition research is the practice of collecting information on someone that can be used to discredit them. A smear campaign is the use of falsehoods or distortions. Scandalmongering can be used to associate a person with a negative event in a false or exaggerated way.\n\nPerhaps the most common form of character assassination is the spread of allegations that a candidate is a liar. Other common themes may include allegations that the candidate is a bad or unpopular member of his family, has a bad relationship with his spouse or children or is not respected by his colleagues. Another theme claims that the person routinely engages in disturbing, socially unacceptable behavior, such as sexual deviancy. The person may also be portrayed as holding beliefs widely considered despicable within society, such as supporting racism or other forms of bigotry.\n\nCharging an opponent with character assassination may have political benefits. In the hearings for Clarence Thomas' nomination to the Supreme Court of the United States, supporters claimed that both Clarence Thomas and Anita Hill were victims of character assassination.\n\nThe International Society for the Study of Character Assassination (ISSCA) specialises in the academic study and research of how character attacks and assassinations have been executed in both history and during contemporary times.\n\nCharacter attacks come in three categories. The first is attacks between equals. These often happen in democracies, especially during elections. The second is top-down attacks, or authoritarian regimes cracking down on individuals. Examples include:\n\n\nThe third is bottom-up attacks, or individuals attacking authoritarian leaders. Examples include:\n\n\nThe effect of a character assassination driven by an individual is not equal to that of a state-driven campaign.\nThe state-sponsored destruction of reputations, fostered by political propaganda and cultural mechanisms, can have more far-reaching consequences. One of the earliest signs of a society's compliance to loosening the reins on the perpetration of crimes (and even massacres) with total impunity is when a government favors or directly encourages a campaign aimed at destroying the dignity and reputation of its adversaries, and the public accepts its allegations without question. The mobilisation toward ruining the reputation of adversaries is the prelude to the mobilisation of violence in order to annihilate them. Generally, official dehumanisation has preceded the physical assault of the victims.\n\nIn July 2011, scholars from nine countries gathered at the University of Heidelberg, Germany, to debate \"the art of smear and defamation in history and today\". They formed a group to study character assassination throughout the ages. The group included historians, political scientists, and political psychologists.\n"}
{"id": "37073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37073", "title": "Civil disobedience", "text": "Civil disobedience\n\nCivil disobedience is the active, professed refusal of a citizen to obey certain laws, demands, orders or commands of a government or occupying international power. Civil disobedience is sometimes defined as having to be nonviolent to be called civil disobedience. Civil disobedience is sometimes, therefore, equated with nonviolent resistance.\nAlthough civil disobedience is considered to be an expression of contempt for law, Martin Luther King Jr. regarded civil disobedience to be a display and practice of reverence for law; for as \"Any man who breaks a law that conscience tells him is unjust and willingly accepts the penalty by staying in jail in order to arouse the conscience of the community on the injustice of the law is at that moment expressing the very highest respect for law.\"\n\nIts earliest successful implementation was brought about during the lead up to the nonviolent Glorious Revolution in Britain, when the 1689 Bill of Rights was documented, the last Catholic monarch was deposed, and male and female joint-co-monarchs were elevated. The English Midland Enlightenment had developed a manner of voicing objection to a law viewed as illegitimate and then taking the consequences of the law. This was focused on the illegitimacy of laws claimed to be \"divine\" in origin, including the \"divine rights of Kings\" and the \"divine rights of man\", and the legitimacy of laws acknowledged to be made by human beings.\n\nIt later became an effective tool by various peoples who objected to British occupation, such as in the 1919 Revolution, however, this was never used with native laws that were more oppressive than the British occupation, leading to problems for these countries today.\nZaghloul Pasha, considered the mastermind behind this massive civil disobedience, was a native middle-class, Azhar graduate, political activist, judge, parliamentary and ex-cabinet minister whose leadership brought Christian and Muslim communities together as well as women into the massive protests. Along with his companions of Wafd Party, who started campaigning in 1914, they have achieved independence of Egypt and a first constitution in 1923.\n\nCivil disobedience is one of the many ways people have rebelled against what they deem to be unfair laws. It has been used in many nonviolent resistance movements in India (Mahatma Gandhi's campaigns for independence from the British Empire), in Czechoslovakia's Velvet Revolution, in early stages of Bangladesh independence movement against Pakistani repression and in East Germany to oust their communist governments. In South Africa in the fight against apartheid, in the American civil rights movement, in the Singing Revolution to bring independence to the Baltic countries from the Soviet Union, recently with the 2003 Rose Revolution in Georgia and the 2004 Orange Revolution in Ukraine, among other various movements worldwide.\n\nOne of the oldest depictions of civil disobedience is in Sophocles' play \"Antigone\", in which Antigone, one of the daughters of former King of Thebes, Oedipus, defies Creon, the current King of Thebes, who is trying to stop her from giving her brother Polynices a proper burial. She gives a stirring speech in which she tells him that she must obey her conscience rather than human law. She is not at all afraid of the death he threatens her with (and eventually carries out), but she is afraid of how her conscience will smite her if she does not do this.\n\nFollowing the Peterloo massacre of 1819, the poet Percy Shelley wrote the political poem \"The Mask of Anarchy\" later that year, that begins with the images of what he thought to be the unjust forms of authority of his time—and then imagines the stirrings of a new form of social action. According to Ashton Nichols, it is perhaps the first modern statement of the principle of nonviolent protest. A version was taken up by the author Henry David Thoreau in his essay \"Civil Disobedience\", and later by Gandhi in his doctrine of \"Satyagraha\". Gandhi's Satyagraha was partially influenced and inspired by Shelley's nonviolence in protest and political action. In particular, it is known that Gandhi would often quote Shelley's \"Masque of Anarchy\" to vast audiences during the campaign for a free India.\n\nThoreau's 1849 essay \"Civil Disobedience\", originally titled \"Resistance to Civil Government\", has had a wide influence on many later practitioners of civil disobedience. The driving idea behind the essay is that citizens are morally responsible for their support of aggressors, even when such support is required by law. In the essay, Thoreau explained his reasons for having refused to pay taxes as an act of protest against slavery and against the Mexican–American War. He writes,\n\nIf I devote myself to other pursuits and contemplations, I must first see, at least, that I do not pursue them sitting upon another man's shoulders. I must get off him first, that he may pursue his contemplations too. See what gross inconsistency is tolerated. I have heard some of my townsmen say, \"I should like to have them order me out to help put down an insurrection of the slaves, or to march to Mexico;—see if I would go;\" and yet these very men have each, directly by their allegiance, and so indirectly, at least, by their money, furnished a substitute.\n\nBy the 1850s, a range of minority groups in the United States: Blacks, Jews, Seventh Day Baptists, Catholics, anti-prohibitionists, racial egalitarians, and others—employed civil disobedience to combat a range of legal measures and public practices that to them promoted ethnic, religious, and racial discrimination. Pro Public and typically peaceful resistance to political power would remain an integral tactic in modern American minority rights politics.\n\nHenry David Thoreau's 1849 essay \"Resistance to Civil Government\" was eventually renamed \"Essay on Civil Disobedience\". After his landmark lectures were published in 1866, the term began to appear in numerous sermons and lectures relating to slavery and the war in Mexico. Thus, by the time Thoreau's lectures were first published under the title \"Civil Disobedience\", in 1866, four years after his death, the term had achieved fairly widespread usage.\n\nIt has been argued that the term \"civil disobedience\" has always suffered from ambiguity and in modern times, become utterly debased. Marshall Cohen notes, \"It has been used to describe everything from bringing a test-case in the federal courts to taking aim at a federal official. Indeed, for [US] Vice President [Spiro] Agnew it has become a code-word describing the activities of muggers, arsonists, draft evaders, campaign hecklers, campus militants, anti-war demonstrators, juvenile delinquents and political assassins.\"\n\nLeGrande writes that\n\nHe encourages a distinction between lawful protest demonstration, nonviolent civil disobedience, and violent civil disobedience.\n\nIn a letter to P. K. Rao, dated September 10, 1935, Gandhi disputes that his idea of civil disobedience was derived from the writings of Thoreau:\n\nThe statement that I had derived my idea of Civil Disobedience from the writings of Thoreau is wrong. The resistance to authority in South Africa was well advanced before I got the essay ... When I saw the title of Thoreau's great essay, I began to use his phrase to explain our struggle to the English readers. But I found that even \"Civil Disobedience\" failed to convey the full meaning of the struggle. I therefore adopted the phrase \"Civil Resistance.\"\n\nIn seeking an active form of civil disobedience, one may choose to deliberately break certain laws, such as by forming a peaceful blockade or occupying a facility illegally, though sometimes violence has been known to occur. Often there is an expectation to be attacked or even beaten by the authorities. Protesters often undergo training in advance on how to react to arrest or to attack.\n\nCivil disobedience is usually defined as pertaining to a citizen's relation to the state and its laws, as distinguished from a constitutional impasse, in which two public agencies, especially two equally sovereign branches of government, conflict. For instance, if the head of government of a country were to refuse to enforce a decision of that country's highest court, it would not be civil disobedience, since the head of government would be acting in her or his capacity as public official rather than private citizen.\n\nHowever, this definition is disputed by Thoreau's political philosophy pitching the conscience vs. the collective. The individual is the final judge of right and wrong. More than this, since only individuals act, only individuals can act unjustly. When the government knocks on the door, it is an individual in the form of a postman or tax collector whose hand hits the wood. Before Thoreau's imprisonment, when a confused taxman had wondered aloud about how to handle his refusal to pay, Thoreau had advised, \"Resign.\" If a man chose to be an agent of injustice, then Thoreau insisted on confronting him with the fact that he was making a choice. But if government is \"the voice of the people,\" as it is often called, shouldn't that voice be heeded? Thoreau admits that government may express the will of the majority but it may also express nothing more than the will of elite politicians. Even a good form of government is \"liable to be abused and perverted before the people can act through it.\" Moreover, even if a government did express the voice of the people, this fact would not compel the obedience of individuals who disagree with what is being said. The majority may be powerful but it is not necessarily right. What, then, is the proper relationship between the individual and the government?\n\nRonald Dworkin held that there are three types of civil disobedience:\n\nSome theories of civil disobedience hold that civil disobedience is only justified against governmental entities. Brownlee argues that disobedience in opposition to the decisions of non-governmental agencies such as trade unions, banks, and private universities can be justified if it reflects \"a larger challenge to the legal system that permits those decisions to be taken\". The same principle, she argues, applies to breaches of law in protest against international organizations and foreign governments.\n\nIt is usually recognized that lawbreaking, if it is not done publicly, at least must be publicly announced in order to constitute civil disobedience. But Stephen Eilmann argues that if it is necessary to disobey rules that conflict with morality, we might ask why disobedience should take the form of public civil disobedience rather than simply covert lawbreaking. If a lawyer wishes to help a client overcome legal obstacles to securing her or his natural rights, he might, for instance, find that assisting in fabricating evidence or committing perjury is more effective than open disobedience. This assumes that common morality does not have a prohibition on deceit in such situations. The Fully Informed Jury Association's publication \"A Primer for Prospective Jurors\" notes, \"Think of the dilemma faced by German citizens when Hitler's secret police demanded to know if they were hiding a Jew in their house.\" By this definition, civil disobedience could be traced back to the Book of Exodus, where Shiphrah and Puah refused a direct order of Pharaoh but misrepresented how they did it. (Exodus 1: 15-19)\n\nThere have been debates as to whether civil disobedience must necessarily be non-violent. Black's Law Dictionary includes non-violence in its definition of civil disobedience. Christian Bay's encyclopedia article states that civil disobedience requires \"carefully chosen and legitimate means,\" but holds that they do not have to be non-violent. It has been argued that, while both civil disobedience and civil rebellion are justified by appeal to constitutional defects, rebellion is much more destructive; therefore, the defects justifying rebellion must be much more serious than those justifying disobedience, and if one cannot justify civil rebellion, then one cannot justify a civil disobedients' use of force and violence and refusal to submit to arrest. Civil disobedients' refraining from violence is also said to help preserve society's tolerance of civil disobedience.\n\nThe philosopher H. J. McCloskey argues that \"if violent, intimidatory, coercive disobedience is more effective, it is, other things being equal, more justified than less effective, nonviolent disobedience.\" In his best-selling \"Disobedience and Democracy: Nine Fallacies on Law and Order\", Howard Zinn takes a similar position; Zinn states that while the goals of civil disobedience are generally non-violent,\n\nZinn rejects any \"easy and righteous dismissal of violence\", noting that Thoreau, the popularizer of the term civil disobedience, approved of the armed insurrection of John Brown. He also notes that some major civil disobedience campaigns which have been classified as non-violent, such as the Birmingham campaign, have actually included elements of violence.\n\nNon-revolutionary civil disobedience is a simple disobedience of laws on the grounds that they are judged \"wrong\" by an individual conscience, or as part of an effort to render certain laws ineffective, to cause their repeal, or to exert pressure to get one's political wishes on some other issue. Revolutionary civil disobedience is more of an active attempt to overthrow a government (or to change cultural traditions, social customs, religious beliefs, etc...revolution doesn't have to be political, i.e. \"cultural revolution\", it simply implies sweeping and widespread change to a section of the social fabric). Gandhi's acts have been described as revolutionary civil disobedience. It has been claimed that the Hungarians under Ferenc Deák directed revolutionary civil disobedience against the Austrian government. Thoreau also wrote of civil disobedience accomplishing \"peaceable revolution.\" Howard Zinn, Harvey Wheeler, and others have identified the right espoused in the US Declaration of Independence to \"alter or abolish\" an unjust government to be a principle of civil disobedience.\n\nThe earliest recorded incidents of collective civil disobedience took place during the Roman Empire. Unarmed Jews gathered in the streets to prevent the installation of pagan images in the Temple in Jerusalem. In modern times, some activists who commit civil disobedience as a group collectively refuse to sign bail until certain demands are met, such as favourable bail conditions, or the release of all the activists. This is a form of jail solidarity. There have also been many instances of solitary civil disobedience, such as that committed by Thoreau, but these sometimes go unnoticed. Thoreau, at the time of his arrest, was not yet a well-known author, and his arrest was not covered in any newspapers in the days, weeks and months after it happened. The tax collector who arrested him rose to higher political office, and Thoreau's essay was not published until after the end of the Mexican War.\n\nCivil disobedients have chosen a variety of different illegal acts. Hugo A. Bedau writes,\n\nBedau also notes, though, that the very harmlessness of such entirely symbolic illegal protests toward public policy goals may serve a propaganda purpose. Some civil disobedients, such as the proprietors of illegal medical cannabis dispensaries and Voice in the Wilderness, which brought medicine to Iraq without the permission of the US government, directly achieve a desired social goal (such as the provision of medication to the sick) while openly breaking the law. Julia Butterfly Hill lived in Luna, a -tall, 600-year-old California Redwood tree for 738 days, successfully preventing it from being cut down.\n\nIn cases where the criminalized behaviour is pure speech, civil disobedience can consist simply of engaging in the forbidden speech. An example would be WBAI's broadcasting the track \"Filthy Words\" from a George Carlin comedy album, which eventually led to the 1978 Supreme Court case of \"FCC v. Pacifica Foundation\". Threatening government officials is another classic way of expressing defiance toward the government and unwillingness to stand for its policies. For example, Joseph Haas was arrested for allegedly sending an email to the Lebanon, New Hampshire, city councillors stating, \"Wise up or die.\"\n\nMore generally, protesters of particular victimless crimes often see fit to openly commit that crime. Laws against public nudity, for instance, have been protested by going naked in public, and laws against cannabis consumption have been protested by openly possessing it and using it at cannabis rallies.\n\nSome forms of civil disobedience, such as illegal boycotts, refusals to pay taxes, draft dodging, distributed denial-of-service attacks, and sit-ins, make it more difficult for a system to function. In this way, they might be considered coercive. Brownlee notes that \"although civil disobedients are constrained in their use of coercion by their conscientious aim to engage in moral dialogue, nevertheless they may find it necessary to employ limited coercion in order to get their issue onto the table.\" The Plowshares organization temporarily closed GCSB Waihopai by padlocking the gates and using sickles to deflate one of the large domes covering two satellite dishes.\n\nElectronic civil disobedience can include web site defacements, redirects, denial-of-service attacks, information theft and data leaks, illegal web site parodies, virtual sit-ins, and virtual sabotage. It is distinct from other kinds of hacktivism in that the perpetrator openly reveals his identity. Virtual actions rarely succeed in completely shutting down their targets, but they often generate significant media attention.\n\nDilemma actions are designed to create a \"response dilemma\" for public authorities \"by forcing them to either concede some public space to protesters or make themselves look absurd or heavy-handed by acting against the protest.\"\n\nSome disciplines of civil disobedience hold that the protestor must submit to arrest and cooperate with the authorities. Others advocate falling limp or resisting arrest, especially when it will hinder the police from effectively responding to a mass protest.\n\nMany of the same decisions and principles that apply in other criminal investigations and arrests arise also in civil disobedience cases. For example, the suspect may need to decide whether or not to grant a consent search of his property, and whether or not to talk to police officers. It is generally agreed within the legal community, and is often believed within the activist community, that a suspect's talking to criminal investigators can serve no useful purpose, and may be harmful. However, some civil disobedients have nonetheless found it hard to resist responding to investigators' questions, sometimes due to a lack of understanding of the legal ramifications, or due to a fear of seeming rude. Also, some civil disobedients seek to use the arrest as an opportunity to make an impression on the officers. Thoreau wrote,\nSome civil disobedients feel it is incumbent upon them to accept punishment because of their belief in the validity of the social contract, which is held to bind all to obey the laws that a government meeting certain standards of legitimacy has established, or else suffer the penalties set out in the law. Other civil disobedients who favour the existence of government still don't believe in the legitimacy of their particular government, or don't believe in the legitimacy of a particular law it has enacted. And still other civil disobedients, being anarchists, don't believe in the legitimacy of any government, and therefore see no need to accept punishment for a violation of criminal law that does not infringe the rights of others.\n\nAn important decision for civil disobedients is whether or not to plead guilty. There is much debate on this point, as some believe that it is a civil disobedient's duty to submit to the punishment prescribed by law, while others believe that defending oneself in court will increase the possibility of changing the unjust law. It has also been argued that either choice is compatible with the spirit of civil disobedience. ACT UP's Civil Disobedience Training handbook states that a civil disobedient who pleads guilty is essentially stating, \"Yes, I committed the act of which you accuse me. I don't deny it; in fact, I am proud of it. I feel I did the right thing by violating this particular law; I am guilty as charged,\" but that pleading not guilty sends a message of, \"Guilt implies wrong-doing. I feel I have done no wrong. I may have violated some specific laws, but I am guilty of doing no wrong. I therefore plead not guilty.\" A plea of no contest is sometimes regarded as a compromise between the two. One defendant accused of illegally protesting nuclear power, when asked to enter his plea, stated, \"I plead for the beauty that surrounds us\"; this is known as a \"creative plea,\" and will usually be interpreted as a plea of not guilty.\n\nWhen the Committee for Non-Violent Action sponsored a protest in August 1957, at the Camp Mercury nuclear test site near Las Vegas, Nevada, 13 of the protesters attempted to enter the test site knowing that they faced arrest. At a pre-arranged announced time, one at a time they stepped across the \"line\" and were immediately arrested. They were put on a bus and taken to the Nye County seat of Tonopah, Nevada, and arraigned for trial before the local Justice of the Peace, that afternoon. A well known civil rights attorney, Francis Heisler, had volunteered to defend the arrested persons, advising them to plead \"nolo contendere\", as an alternative to pleading either guilty or not-guilty. The arrested persons were found guilty nevertheless and given suspended sentences, conditional on their not reentering the test site grounds.\n\nHoward Zinn writes,\nSometimes the prosecution proposes a plea bargain to civil disobedients, as in the case of the Camden 28, in which the defendants were offered an opportunity to plead guilty to one misdemeanour count and receive no jail time. In some mass arrest situations, the activists decide to use solidarity tactics to secure the same plea bargain for everyone. But some activists have opted to enter a blind plea, pleading guilty without any plea agreement in place. Mahatma Gandhi pleaded guilty and told the court, \"I am here to ... submit cheerfully to the highest penalty that can be inflicted upon me for what in law is a deliberate crime and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen.\"\n\nSome civil disobedience defendants choose to make a defiant speech, or a speech explaining their actions, in allocution. In \"U.S. v. Burgos-Andujar\", a defendant who was involved in a movement to stop military exercises by trespassing on US Navy property argued to the court in allocution that \"the ones who are violating the greater law are the members of the Navy\". As a result, the judge increased her sentence from 40 to 60 days. This action was upheld because, according to the US Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, her statement suggested a lack of remorse, an attempt to avoid responsibility for her actions, and even a likelihood of repeating her illegal actions. Some of the other allocution speeches given by the protesters complained about mistreatment from government officials.\n\nTim DeChristopher gave an allocution statement to the court describing the US as \"a place where the rule of law was created through acts of civil disobedience\" and arguing, \"Since those bedrock acts of civil disobedience by our founding fathers, the rule of law in this country has continued to grow closer to our shared higher moral code through the civil disobedience that drew attention to legalized injustice.\"\n\nSteven Barkan writes that if defendants plead not guilty, \"they must decide whether their primary goal will be to win an acquittal and avoid imprisonment or a fine, or to use the proceedings as a forum to inform the jury and the public of the political circumstances surrounding the case and their reasons for breaking the law via civil disobedience.\" A technical defence may enhance the chances for acquittal, but increase the possibility of additional proceedings as well as reduced press coverage. During the Vietnam War era, the Chicago Eight used a political defence, while Benjamin Spock used a technical defence. In countries such as the United States, whose laws guarantee the right to a jury trial but do not excuse lawbreaking for political purposes, some civil disobedients seek jury nullification. Over the years, this has been made more difficult by court decisions such as \"Sparf v. United States\", which held that the judge need not inform jurors of their nullification prerogative, and \"United States v. Dougherty\", which held that the judge need not allow defendants to openly seek jury nullification.\n\nGovernments have generally not recognized the legitimacy of civil disobedience or viewed political objectives as an excuse for breaking the law. Specifically, the law usually distinguishes between criminal motive and criminal intent; the offender's motives or purposes may be admirable and praiseworthy, but his intent may still be criminal. Hence the saying that \"if there is any possible justification of civil disobedience it must come from outside the legal system.\"\n\nOne theory is that, while disobedience may be helpful, any great amount of it would undermine the law by encouraging general disobedience which is neither conscientious nor of social benefit. Therefore, conscientious lawbreakers must be punished. Michael Bayles argues that if a person violates a law in order to create a test case as to the constitutionality of a law, and then wins his case, then that act did not constitute civil disobedience. It has also been argued that breaking the law for self-gratification, as in the case of a homosexual or cannabis user who does not direct his act at securing the repeal of amendment of the law, is not civil disobedience. Likewise, a protestor who attempts to escape punishment by committing the crime covertly and avoiding attribution, or by denying having committed the crime, or by fleeing the jurisdiction, is generally viewed as not being a civil disobedient.\n\nCourts have distinguished between two types of civil disobedience: \"Indirect civil disobedience involves violating a law which is not, itself, the object of protest, whereas direct civil disobedience involves protesting the existence of a particular law by breaking that law.\" During the Vietnam War, courts typically refused to excuse the perpetrators of illegal protests from punishment on the basis of their challenging the legality of the Vietnam War; the courts ruled it was a political question. The necessity defence has sometimes been used as a shadow defence by civil disobedients to deny guilt without denouncing their politically motivated acts, and to present their political beliefs in the courtroom. However, court cases such as \"United States v. Schoon\" have greatly curtailed the availability of the political necessity defence. Likewise, when Carter Wentworth was charged for his role in the Clamshell Alliance's 1977 illegal occupation of the Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant, the judge instructed the jury to disregard his competing harms defence, and he was found guilty. Fully Informed Jury Association activists have sometimes handed out educational leaflets inside courthouses despite admonitions not to; according to the association, many of them have escaped prosecution because \"prosecutors have reasoned (correctly) that if they arrest fully informed jury leafleters, the leaflets will have to be given to the leafleter's own jury as evidence.\"\n\nAlong with giving the offender his \"just deserts\", achieving crime control via incapacitation and deterrence is a major goal of criminal punishment. Brownlee argues, \"Bringing in deterrence at the level of justification detracts from the law's engagement in a moral dialogue with the offender as a rational person because it focuses attention on the threat of punishment and not the moral reasons to follow this law.\" The Lord Hoffman writes, \"In deciding whether or not to impose punishment, the most important consideration would be whether it would do more harm than good. This means that the objector has no right not to be punished. It is a matter for the state (including the judges) to decide on utilitarian grounds whether to do so or not.\". Hoffman also asserted that while the \"rules of the game\" for protesters were to remain non-violent while breaking the law, the authorities must recognize that demonstrators are acting out of their conscience in pursuit of democracy. \"When it comes to punishment, the court should take into account their personal convictions\", he said.\n\nAccording to Rabbi Michael Mishkin of Temple Beth Israel in Port Washington, New York, the story of the heroic midwives, Shifra and Puah (Book of Exodus, Chapter 1, verses 15-16) (who disobeyed Pharaoh's order to kill the Israelite baby boys), is the first recorded instance in history of civil disobedience.\n\n"}
{"id": "24627166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24627166", "title": "Civil rights movement (1865–1896)", "text": "Civil rights movement (1865–1896)\n\nThe African-American civil rights movement (1865–1896) was aimed at eliminating racial discrimination against African Americans, improving educational and employment opportunities, and establishing electoral power, just after the abolition of Slavery in the United States. This period between 1865 and 1895 saw tremendous change in the fortunes of the black community following the elimination of slavery in the South.\n\nThe year 1865 held two important events in the history of African Americans: the Thirteenth Amendment, which eliminated slavery, was ratified; and Union troops arrived in June in Texas to enforce the Emancipation Proclamation, giving birth to the modern Juneteenth celebrations. Freedmen looked to start new lives as the country recovered from the devastation of the Civil War.\n\nImmediately following the Civil War, the federal government began a program known as Reconstruction aimed at rebuilding the states of the former Confederacy. The federal programs also provided aid to the former slaves and attempted to integrate them as citizens into society. During and after this period, blacks made substantial gains in their political power and many were able to move from abject poverty to land ownership. At the same time resentment by many whites toward these gains resulted in unprecedented violence led by the local chapters of the Ku Klux Klan, and later in the 1870s by such paramilitary groups as the Red Shirts and White League.\n\nIn 1896, the Supreme Court ruled in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\", a landmark upholding \"separate but equal\" racial segregation as constitutional. It was a devastating setback for civil rights, as the legal, social, and political status of the black population reached a nadir. From 1890 to 1908, beginning with Mississippi, southern states passed new constitutions and laws disenfranchising most blacks and excluding them from the political system, a status that was maintained in many cases into the 1960s.\n\nMuch of the early reform movement during this era was spearheaded by the Radical Republicans, a faction of the Republican Party. By the end of the 19th century, with disenfranchisement in progress to exclude blacks from the political system altogether, the so-called lily-white movement also worked to substantially weaken the power of remaining blacks in the party. The most important civil rights leaders of this period were Frederick Douglass (1818–1895) and Booker T. Washington (1856–1915).\n\nReconstruction lasted from Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation of January 1, 1863 to the Compromise of 1877.\n\nThe major issues faced by President Abraham Lincoln were the status of the ex-slaves (called \"Freedmen\"), the loyalty and civil rights of ex-rebels, the status of the 11 ex-Confederate states, the powers of the federal government needed to prevent a future civil war, and the question of whether Congress or the President would make the major decisions.\n\nThe severe threats of starvation and displacement of the unemployed Freedmen were met by the first major federal relief agency, the Freedmen's Bureau, operated by the Army.\n\nThree \"Reconstruction Amendments\" were passed to expand civil rights for black Americans: the Thirteenth Amendment outlawed slavery; the Fourteenth Amendment guaranteed equal rights for all and citizenship for blacks; the Fifteenth Amendment prevented race from being used to disfranchise men.\n\nOf more immediate usefulness than the constitutional amendments, were laws passed by Congress to allow the federal government, through the new Justice Department and through the federal courts to enforce the new civil rights Even if the state governments ignored the problem. These included the Enforcement Acts of 1870–71 and the Civil Rights Act of 1875.\n\nEx-Confederates remained in control of most Southern states for more than two years, but that changed when the Radical Republicans gained control of Congress in the 1866 elections. President Andrew Johnson, who sought easy terms for reunions with ex-rebels, was virtually powerless; he escaped by one vote removal through impeachment. Congress enfranchised black men and temporarily suspended many ex-Confederate leaders of the right to hold office. New Republican governments came to power based on a coalition of Freedmen together with Carpetbaggers (new arrivals from the North), and Scalawags (native white Southerners). They were backed by the US Army. Opponents said they were corrupt and violated the rights of whites. State by state they lost power to a conservative-Democratic coalition, which gained control by violence and fraud of the entire South by 1877. In response to Radical Reconstruction, the Ku Klux Klan (KKK) emerged in 1867 as a white-supremacist organization opposed to black civil rights and Republican rule. President Ulysses Grant's vigorous enforcement of the Ku Klux Klan Act of 1870 shut down the Klan, and it disbanded. But from 1868 elections in many southern states were increasingly surrounded by violence to suppress black voting. Rifle clubs had thousands of members. In 1874, paramilitary groups, such as the White League and Red Shirts emerged that worked openly to use intimidation and violence to suppress black voting and disrupt the Republican Party to regain white political power in states across the South. Rable described them as the \"military arm of the Democratic Party.\"\n\nReconstruction ended after the disputed 1876 election between Republican candidate Rutherford B. Hayes and Democratic candidate Samuel J. Tilden. With a compromise Hayes won the White House, the federal government withdrew its troops from the South, abandoning the freedmen to white conservative Democrats, who regained power in state governments.\n\nFollowing the end of Reconstruction, many blacks feared the Ku Klux Klan, the White League and the Jim Crow laws which continued to make them second-class citizens. Motivated by important figures such as Benjamin \"Pap\" Singleton, as many as forty thousand Exodusters left the South to settle in Kansas, Oklahoma and Colorado. This was the first general migration of blacks following the Civil War. In the 1880s, blacks bought more than of land in Kansas, and several of the settlements made during this time (e.g. Nicodemus, Kansas, which was founded in 1877) still exist today. Many blacks left the South with the belief that they were receiving free passage to Kansas, only to be stranded in St. Louis, Missouri. Black churches in St. Louis, together with Eastern philanthropists, formed the Colored Relief Board and the Kansas Freedmen's Aid Society to help those stranded in St. Louis to reach Kansas.\n\nOne particular group was the \"Kansas Fever Exodus\", which consisted of six thousand blacks who moved from Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas to Kansas. Many in Louisiana were inspired to leave the state when the 1879 Louisiana Constitutional Convention decided that voting rights were a matter for the state, not federal, government, thereby clearing the way for the disenfranchisement of Louisiana's black population.\n\nThe exodus was not universally praised by African Americans; indeed, Frederick Douglass was a critic. Douglass felt that the movement was ill-timed and poorly organized.\n\nBlack men across the South obtained the right to vote in 1867, and joined the Republican Party. The typical organization was through the Union League, a secret society organized locally but promoted by the national Republican Party. Eric Foner reports:\nThe Union Leagues promoted militia-like organizations in which the blacks banded together to protect themselves from being picked off one-by-one by harassers. Members were not allowed to vote the Democratic ticket. The Union Leagues and similar groups came under violent assault from the KKK after 1869, and largely collapsed. Later efforts to revive the Union League failed.\n\nBlack ministers provided much of the black political leadership, together with newcomers who had been free blacks in the North before the Civil War. Many cities had black newspapers that explained the issues and rallied the community.\n\nIn state after state across the South, a polarization emerged inside the Republican Party, with the blacks and their carpetbagger allies forming the Black-and-tan faction, which faced the all-white \"lily-white\" faction of local white scalawag Republicans. (The terms for the factions became common after 1888, a decade after the end of Reconstruction.) The blacks comprised the majority of Republican voters, but got a small slice of the patronage. They demanded more. Hahn explains the steps they took:\n\nThe black-and-tan element usually won the factional battle, but as scalawags lost intra-party battles, many started voting for the conservative or Democratic tickets. The Republican Party became \"blacker and blacker over time\", as it lost white voters. The most dramatic episode was the Brooks–Baxter War in Arkansas in 1874. Michael Les Benedict says, \"Every modern history of Reconstruction stresses its [factionalism] contribution to the collapse of southern Republicanism.\" In terms of racial issues, Sarah Woolfolk Wiggins argues:\n\nIn 1894, a wave of agrarian unrest swept through the cotton and tobacco regions of the South. The most dramatic impact came in North Carolina, where the poor white farmers who comprised the Populist party formed a working coalition with the Republican Party, then largely controlled by blacks in the low country, and poor whites in the mountain districts. They took control of the state legislature in both 1894 and 1896, and the governorship in 1896. The state legislature lowered property requirements, expanding the franchise for the white majority in the state as well as for blacks. In 1895, the Legislature rewarded its black allies with patronage, naming 300 black magistrates in eastern districts, as well as deputy sheriffs and city policemen. They also received some federal patronage from the coalition congressman, and state patronage from the governor.\n\nDetermined to regain power, white Democrats mounted a campaign based on white supremacy and fears about miscegenation. The white supremacy election campaign of 1898 was successful, and Democrats regained control of the state legislature. But Wilmington, the largest city and one with a black majority, elected a biracial Fusionist government, with a white mayor and two-thirds of the city council being whites. Democrats had already planned to overthrow the government if they lost the election here and proceeded with the Wilmington Insurrection of 1898. The Democrats ran blacks and Fusionist officials out of town, attacking the only black newspaper in the state; white mobs attacked black areas of the city, killing and injuring many, and destroying homes and businesses built up since the war. An estimated 2100 blacks left the city permanently, leaving it a white-majority city. There were no further insurgencies in any Southern states that had a successful black-Populist coalition at the state level. In 1899, the white Democratic-dominated North Carolina legislature passed a suffrage amendment disenfranchising most blacks. They would largely not recover the power to vote until after passage of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965\n\nThe great majority of blacks in this period were farmers. Among them were four main groups, three of which worked for white landowners: tenant farmers, sharecroppers, and agricultural laborers.\n\nThe fourth group were the blacks who owned their own farms, and were to some degree independent of white economic control.\n\nThe South had relatively few cities of any size in 1860, But during the war, and afterward, refugees both black and white flooded in from rural areas. The growing black population produced a leadership class of ministers, professionals, and businessmen. These leaders typically made civil rights a high priority. Of course, great majority of blacks in urban America were unskilled or low skilled blue-collar workers. Historian August Meier reports:\n\nDuring the war thousands of slaves escaped from rural plantations to Union lines, and the Army established a contraband camp next to Memphis, Tennessee. By 1865, there were 20,000 blacks in the city, a sevenfold increase from the 3,000 before the war. The presence of black Union soldiers was resented by Irish Catholics in the city, who competed with blacks for unskilled labor jobs. In 1866, there was a major riot with whites attacking blacks. Forty-five blacks were killed, and nearly twice as many wounded; much of their makeshift housing was destroyed. By 1870, the black population was 15,000 in a city total of 40,226.\n\nRobert Reed Church (1839–1912), a freedman, was the South's first black millionaire. He made his wealth from speculation in city real estate, much of it after Memphis became depopulated after the yellow fever epidemics. He founded the city's first black-owned bank, Solvent Savings Bank, ensuring that the black community could get loans to establish businesses. He was deeply involved in local and national Republican politics and directed patronage to the black community. His son became a major politician in Memphis. He was a leader of black society and a benefactor in numerous causes. Because of the drop in city population, blacks gained other opportunities. They were hired to the police force as patrolmen and retained positions in it until 1895, when imposed segregation forced them out.\n\nAtlanta, Georgia had been devastated in the war, but as a major railroad center it rebuilt rapidly afterwards, attracting many rural migrants. From 1860 to 1870 Fulton County (Of which Atlanta was the county seat) more than doubled in population, from 14,000 to 33,000. In a pattern seen across the South, many freedmen moved from plantations to towns or cities for work and to gather in communities of their own. Fulton County went from 20.5% black in 1860 to 45.7% black in 1870. Atlanta quickly became a leading national center of black education. The faculty and students provided a supportive environment for civil rights discussions and activism. Atlanta University was established in 1865. The forerunner of Morehouse College opened in 1867, Clark University opened in 1869. What is now Spelman College opened in 1881, and Morris Brown College in 1885. This would be one of several factors aiding the establishment of one of the nation's oldest and best-established African American elite in Atlanta.\n\nPhiladelphia, Pennsylvania was one of the largest cities north of the Mason–Dixon line, and attracted many free blacks before the Civil War. They generally lived in the Southwark and Moyamensing neighborhoods. By the 1890s, the neighborhoods had a negative reputation in terms of crime, poverty, and mortality. W.E.B. Du Bois, in his pioneering sociological study \"The Philadelphia Negro\" (1899), undermined the stereotypes with experimental evidence. He shaped his approach to segregation and its negative impact on black lives and reputations. The results led Du Bois to realize that racial integration was the key to democratic equality in American cities.\n\nThe African-American community engaged in a long-term struggle for quality public schools. Historian Hilary Green says it \"was not merely a fight for access to literacy and education, but one for freedom, citizenship, and a new postwar social order.\" The black community and its white supporters in the North emphasized the critical role of education is the foundation for establishing equality in civil rights. Anti-literacy laws for both free and enslaved black people had been in force in many southern states since the 1830s, The widespread illiteracy made it urgent that high on the African-American agenda was creating new schooling opportunities, including both private schools and public schools for black children funded by state taxes. The states did pass suitable laws during Reconstruction, but the implementation was weak in most rural areas, and with uneven results in urban areas. After Reconstruction ended the tax money was limited, but local blacks and national religious groups and philanthropists helped out.\n\nIntegrated public schools meant local white teachers in charge, and they were not trusted. The black leadership generally supported segregated all-black schools. The black community wanted black principals and teachers, or (in private schools) highly supportive whites sponsored by northern churches. Public schools were segregated throughout the South during Reconstruction and afterward into the 1950s. New Orleans was a partial exception: its schools were usually integrated during Reconstruction.\n\nIn the era of Reconstruction, the Freedmen's Bureau opened 1000 schools across the South for black children using federal funds. Enrollments were high and enthusiastic. Overall, the Bureau spent $5 million to set up schools for blacks and by the end of 1865, more than 90,000 Freedmen were enrolled as students in public schools. The school curriculum resembled that of schools in the north. By the end of Reconstruction, however, state funding for black schools was minimal, and facilities were quite poor.\n\nMany Freedman Bureau teachers were well-educated Yankee women motivated by religion and abolitionism. Half the teachers were southern whites; one-third were blacks, and one-sixth were northern whites. Black men slightly outnumbered black women. The salary was the strongest motivation except for the northerners, who were typically funded by northern organizations and had a humanitarian motivation. As a group, only the black cohort showed a commitment to racial equality; they were the ones most likely to remain teachers.\n\nAlmost all colleges in the South were strictly segregated; a handful of northern colleges accepted black students. Private schools were established across the South by churches, and especially by northern denominations, to provide education after elementary schooling. They focused on secondary level (high school) work and provided a small amount of collegiate work. Tuition was minimal, so national and local churches often supported the colleges financially, and also subsidized some teachers. The largest dedicated organization was the American Missionary Association, chiefly sponsored by the Congregational churches of New England.\n\nIn 1900, Northern churches or organizations they sponsored operated 247 schools for blacks across the South, with a budget of about $1 million. They employed 1600 teachers and taught 46,000 students. At the collegiate level the most prominent private schools were Fisk University in Nashville, Atlanta University, and Hampton Institute in Virginia. A handful were founded in northern states. Howard University was a federal school based in Washington.\n\nIn 1890, Congress expanded the land-grant plan to include federal support for state-sponsored colleges across the South. It required southern states with segregated systems to establish black colleges as land-grant institutions so that all students would have an opportunity to study at such places. Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute was of national importance because it set the standards for industrial education. Of even greater influence was Tuskegee Normal School for Colored Teachers, founded in 1881 by the state of Alabama and led by Hampton alumnus Booker T. Washington until his death in 1915. Elsewhere, in 1900 there were few black students enrolled in college-level work. Only 22 blacks graduated from college before the Civil War. Oberlin College in Ohio was a pioneer; it graduated its first black student in 1844. The number of black graduates rose rapidly: 44 graduated in the 1860s; 313 in the 1870s; 738 in the 1880s; 1126 in the 1890s; and 1613 in the decade 1900–1909. They became professionals; 54% became teachers; 20% became clergyman; others were physicians, lawyers or editors. They averaged about $15,000 in wealth. Many provided intellectual and organizational support for civic projects, especially civil rights activities at the local level. While the colleges and academies were generally coeducational, historians until recently largely ignored the role of women as students and teachers.\n\nFunding for education for blacks in the South came from multiple sources. From 1860 to 1910, religious denominations and philanthropies contributed about $55 million. Blacks themselves through their churches, contributed over $22 million. The southern states spent about $170 million in tax dollars on black schools, and about six times that amount for white schools.\n\nMuch philanthropy from rich Northerners focused on the education of blacks in the South. By far the largest early funding came from the Peabody Education Fund. The money was donated by George Peabody, originally of Massachusetts, who made a fortune in finance in Baltimore and London. He gave $3.5 million to \"encourage the intellectual, moral, and industrial education of the destitute children of the Southern States.\"\n\nThe John F. Slater Fund for the Education of Freedmen was created in 1882 with $1.5 million for \"Uplifting the legally emancipated population of the Southern states and their posterity.\" After 1900, even larger sums came from Rockefeller's General Education Board, from Andrew Carnegie and from the Rosenwald Foundation.\n\nBy 1900, the black population in the United States had reached 8.8 million; it was based overwhelmingly in the rural South. The school-age population was 3 million; half of them were in attendance. They were taught by 28,600 teachers, the vast majority of whom were black. Schooling (for both whites and blacks) was geared to teaching the three R's to younger children. There were only 86 high schools for blacks in the entire South, plus 6 in the North. These 92 schools had 161 male teachers, and 111 female teachers; they taught 5200 students in the high school grades. In 1900, there were only 646 blacks who graduated from high school.\n\nBlack churches played a powerful role in the African-American civil rights movement. They were the core community group around which black Republicans organize their partisanship. The great majority of the black Baptist and Methodist churches rapidly became independent of the primarily white national or regional denominations after 1865. Black Baptist congregations set up their own associations and conventions. Their ministers became leading political spokesman for their congregations. Black women found their own space and church-sponsored organizations, ranging from choirs to missionary projects, to church schools and Sunday schools.\n\nIn San Francisco there were three black churches in the early 1860s. They all sought to represent the interests of the black community, provided spiritual leadership and rituals, organized help for the needy, and fought against attempts to deny blacks their civil rights. The San Francisco black churches had decisive support from the local Republican Party. In the 1850s, the Democrats controlled the state and enacted anti-black legislation. Even though black slavery had never existed in California, the laws were harsh. The Republican Party came to power in the early 1860s, and rejected exclusion and legislative racism. Republican leaders joined black activists to win the legal rights, especially in terms of the right to vote, the right to attend public schools, equal treatment in public transportation, and equal access to the court system.\n\nBlack Americans, once freed from slavery, were very active in forming their own churches, most of them Baptist or Methodist, and giving their ministers both moral and political leadership roles. In a process of self-segregation, practically all blacks left white churches so that few racially integrated congregations remained (apart from some Catholic churches in Louisiana). Four main organizations competed with each other across the South to form new Methodist churches composed of freedmen. They were the African Methodist Episcopal Church, founded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, founded in New York City; the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church (which was sponsored by the white Methodist Episcopal Church, South), and the well-funded Methodist Episcopal Church (Northern white Methodists). By 1871, the Northern Methodists had 88,000 black members in the South, and had opened numerous schools for them.\n\nThe blacks during Reconstruction Era were politically the core element of the Republican Party, and the ministers played a powerful political role. Their ministers could be more outspoken since they did not primarily depend on white support, in contrast to teachers, politicians, businessmen, and tenant farmers. Acting on the principle expounded by Charles H. Pearce, an AME minister in Florida: \"A man in this State cannot do his whole duty as a minister except he looks out for the political interests of his people,\" over 100 black ministers were elected to state legislatures during Reconstruction. Several served in Congress and one, Hiram Revels, in the U.S. Senate.\n\nThe most well organized and active of the black churches was the African Methodist Episcopal church (AME). In Georgia, AME Bishop Henry McNeal Turner (1834–1915) became a leading spokesman for justice and equality. He served as a pastor, writer, newspaper editor, debater, politician, the chaplain of the Army, and a key leader of emerging black Methodist organization in Georgia and the Southeast. In 1863, during the Civil War, Turner was appointed as the first black chaplain in the United States Colored Troops. Afterward, he was appointed to the Freedmen's Bureau in Georgia. He settled in Macon, Georgia, and was elected to the state legislature in 1868 during Reconstruction. He planted many AME churches in Georgia. In 1880, he was elected as the first southern bishop of the AME Church after a fierce battle within the denomination. He fought Jim Crow laws.\n\nTurner was the leader of black nationalism and promoted emigration of blacks to Africa. He believed in separation of the races. He started a back-to-Africa movement in support of the black American colony in Liberia. Turner built black pride by proclaiming \"God is a Negro.\"\n\nThere was a second all-black Methodist Church, the smaller African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church (AMEZ). AMEZ remained smaller than AME because some of its ministers lacked the authority to perform marriages, and many of its ministers avoided political roles. Its finances were weak, and in general its leadership was not as strong as AME. However it was the leader among all Protestant denominations in ordaining women and giving them powerful roles. One influential leader was bishop James Walker Hood (1831–1918) of North Carolina. He not only created and fostered his network of AMEZ churches in North Carolina, but he also was the grand master for the entire South of the Prince Hall Masonic Lodge, a secular organization that strengthen the political and economic forces inside the black community.\n\nIn addition to all-black churches, many black Methodists were associated with the Northern Methodist Church. Others were associated with the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church CME; CME was an organ of the white Southern Methodist Church. In general, the most politically active black ministers affiliated with AME.\n\nBlack Baptists broke from the white churches and formed independent operations across the South, rapidly forming state and regional associations. Unlike the Methodists, who had a hierarchical structure led by bishops, the Baptist churches were largely independent of each other, although they pooled resources for missionary activities, especially missions in Africa. The Baptist women worked hard to carve out a partially independent sphere inside the denomination.\n\nThe great majority of blacks lived in rural areas where services were held in small makeshift buildings. In the cities black churches were more visible. Besides their regular religious services, the urban churches had numerous other activities, such as scheduled prayer meetings, missionary societies, women's clubs, youth groups, public lectures, and musical concerts. Regularly scheduled revivals operated over a period of weeks reaching large, appreciative and noisy crowds.\n\nCharitable activities abounded concerning the care of the sick and needy. The larger churches had a systematic education program, besides the Sunday schools, and Bible study groups. They held literacy classes to enable older members to read the Bible. Private black colleges, such as Fisk in Nashville, often began in the basement of the churches. Church supported the struggling small business community.\n\nMost important was the political role. Churches hosted protest meetings, rallies, and Republican party conventions. Prominent laymen and ministers negotiated political deals, and often ran for office until disfranchisement took effect in the 1890s. In the 1880s, the prohibition of liquor was a major political concern that allowed for collaboration with like-minded white Protestants. In every case, the pastor was the dominant decision-maker. His salary ranged from $400 a year to upwards of $1500, plus housing – at a time when 50 cents a day was good pay for unskilled physical labor.\n\nIncreasingly the Methodists reached out to college or seminary graduates for their ministers, but most Baptists felt that education was a negative factor that undercut the intense religiosity and oratorical skills they demanded of their ministers.\n\nAfter 1910, as blacks migrated to major cities in both the North and the South, there emerged the pattern of a few very large churches with thousands of members and a paid staff, headed by an influential preacher. At the same time there were many \"storefront\" churches with a few dozen members.\n\nDeeply religious Southerners saw the hand of God in history, which demonstrated His wrath at their sinfulness, or His rewards for their suffering. Historian Wilson Fallin has examined the sermons of white and black Baptist preachers after the War. Southern white preachers said:\nGod had chastised them and given them a special mission – to maintain orthodoxy, strict biblicism, personal piety, and traditional race relations. Slavery, they insisted, had not been sinful. Rather, emancipation was a historical tragedy and the end of Reconstruction was a clear sign of God's favor.\nIn sharp contrast, Black preachers interpreted the Civil War as:\nGod's gift of freedom. They appreciated opportunities to exercise their independence, to worship in their own way, to affirm their worth and dignity, and to proclaim the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man. Most of all, they could form their own churches, associations, and conventions. These institutions offered self-help and racial uplift, and provided places where the gospel of liberation could be proclaimed. As a result, black preachers continued to insist that God would protect and help him; God would be their rock in a stormy land.\n\nAfter 1880, legal conditions worsened for blacks, and they were almost powerless to resist. The Northern allies in the Republican Party made an effort in 1890 to stop the deteriorating legal conditions by congressional legislation, but failed. Every southern state passed codes requiring segregation in most public places. These persisted until 1964, when they were repealed by Congress. They are known as Jim Crow laws. The Southern states In the 1890–1905 period systematically reduced the number of blacks allowed to vote to about 2% through restrictions that skirted the 15th amendment, because they did not explicitly mention race. These restrictions included literacy requirements, voter-registration laws, and poll taxes. The U.S. Supreme Court in 1896 ruled in favor of Jim Crow in the case of Plessy vs. Ferguson, declaring that \"separate but equal\" facilities for blacks were legal under the 14th Amendment.\n\nTypically in the Black Codes across the seven states of the lower South in 1866 intermarriage was illegal. The new Republican legislatures in six states repealed the restrictive laws. After the Democrats returned to power, the restriction was reimposed. Not until 1967 did the United States Supreme Court, in Loving v. Virginia rule that all provisions like it in 16 states were unconstitutional. A major concern in the 1860s was how to draw the line between black and white in a society in which white men and black slave women had fathered numerous children. On the one hand, a person's reputation, as black or white, was usually decisive. On the other hand, most laws used a \"one drop of blood\" criteria to the effect that one black ancestor legally put a person in the Black category. Legal segregation was imposed only in schooling, and marriage, but that changed in 1880s when new Jim Crow laws mandated the physical separation of the races in public places.\n\nFrom 1890 to 1908, southern states effectively disfranchised most black voters and many poor whites by making voter registration more difficult through poll taxes, literacy tests, and other arbitrary devices. They passed segregation laws and imposed second-class status on blacks in a system known as Jim Crow that lasted until the successes of the civil rights movement in 1964–65\n\nPolitical activities on behalf of equality often centered around transportation issues, such as segregation on streetcars and railroads. Beginning in the 1850s, lawsuits were filed against segregated streetcars and railroads in both the North and South. Some notable plaintiffs included Elizabeth Jennings Graham in New York, Charlotte L. Brown and Mary Ellen Pleasant in San Francisco, Ida B.Wells in Memphis, Tennessee and Robert Fox in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nLynch mob attacks on blacks, especially in the South, rose at the end of the 19th century. The perpetrators were rarely or never arrested or convicted. Nearly 3,500 African Americans and 1,300 whites were lynched in the United States, mostly from 1882 to 1901. The peak year was 1892.\n\nThe frequency of lynchings and the episodes that sparked them varied from state to state as functions of local race relations. Lynching was higher in the context of worsening economic conditions for poor rural whites in heavily black counties, especially the low price of cotton in the 1890s. Ida B. Wells (1862–1931) used her newspaper in Memphis Tennessee to attack lynchings; fearful for her life, she fled to the more peaceful precincts of Chicago in 1892 where she continued her one-person crusade. Nationally organized opposition to lynching began with the formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in 1909. There were 82 lynchings in 1909, and 10 in 1929.\n\nIn the mainstream national and local media of the late 19th century, \"Blacks were persistently stereotyped as criminals, savages, or comic figures. They were superstitious, lazy, violent, immoral, the butt of humor, and the source of danger to civilized life.\" Booker T. Washington, the young college president from Alabama, became famous for his articulate challenges to the extremely negative stereotypes. According to his biographer Robert J. Norrell, Washington:\n\nMuch of the black political leadership in this area came from the ministry, and from Union Civil War veterans. The white political leadership featured veterans and lawyers. Ambitious young black men had a difficult time becoming lawyers, with few exceptions such as James T. Rapier, Aaron Alpeoria Bradley and John Mercer Langston.\n\nThe upper class among the black population was largely mulatto and had been free before the war. During Reconstruction, 19 of the 22 black members of Congress were mulattoes. These wealthier, mixed-race blacks represented the majority of the leaders in the civil rights movement of the 20th century as well. Hahn reports that the mulatto element held disproportionate power in the black political community in South Carolina and Louisiana. Many of the leaders, however, were also dark-skinned and former slaves.\n\nIn 1892, Anna J. Cooper (1858–1964) published \"A Voice from the South: By A Woman from the South\". It led to many speeches where she called for civil rights and woman's rights. \"A Voice from the South\" was one of the first articulations of Black feminism. The book advanced a vision of self-determination through education and social uplift for African-American women. Its central thesis was that the educational, moral, and spiritual progress of black women would improve the general standing of the entire African-American community. She says that the violent natures of men often run counter to the goals of higher education, so it is important to foster more female intellectuals because they will bring more elegance to education. This view was criticized by some as submissive to the 19th-century cult of true womanhood, but others label it as one of the most important arguments for black feminism in the 19th century. Cooper advanced the view that it was the duty of educated and successful black women to support their underprivileged peers in achieving their goals. The essays in \"A Voice from the South\" also touched on a variety of topics, from racism and the socioeconomic realities of black families to the administration of the Episcopal Church. \nFrederick Douglass (1818–1895), an escaped slave, was a tireless abolitionist before the war. He was an author, publisher, lecturer and diplomat afterward. His biographer argues:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10698861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10698861", "title": "Consideration", "text": "Consideration\n\nConsideration is a concept of English common law and is a necessity for simple contracts but not for special contracts (contracts by deed). The concept has been adopted by other common law jurisdictions, including the US.\n\nThe court in \"Currie v Misa\" declared consideration to be a “Right, Interest, Profit, Benefit, or Forbearance, Detriment, Loss, Responsibility”. Thus, consideration is a promise of something of value given by a promissor in exchange for something of value given by a promisee; and typically the thing of value is goods, money, or an act. Forbearance to act, such as an adult promising to refrain from smoking, is enforceable only if one is thereby surrendering a legal right.\n\nConsideration may be thought of as the concept of value offered and accepted by people or organisations entering into contracts. Anything of value promised by one party to the other when making a contract can be treated as \"consideration\": for example, if A signs a contract to buy a car from B for $5,000, A's consideration is the $5,000, and B's consideration is the car.\n\nAdditionally, if A signs a contract with B such that A will paint B's house for $500, A's consideration is the service of painting B's house, and B's consideration is $500 paid to A. Further, if A signs a contract with B such that A will \"not\" repaint his own house in any other color than white, and B will pay A $500 per year to keep this deal up, there is also consideration. Although A did not promise to affirmatively do anything, A did promise \"not\" to do something that he was allowed to do, and so A did pass consideration. A's consideration to B is the \"forbearance\" in painting his own house in a color other than white, and B's consideration to A is $500 per year. Conversely, if A signs a contract to buy a car from B for $0, B's consideration is still the car, but A is giving no consideration, and so there is no valid contract. However, if B still gives the title to the car to A, then B cannot take the car back, since, while it may not be a valid contract, it \"is\" a valid gift.\n\nIn common law it is a prerequisite that both parties offer consideration before a contract can be thought of as binding. The doctrine of consideration is irrelevant in many jurisdictions, although contemporary commercial litigant relations have held the relationship between a promise and a deed is a reflection of the nature of contractual considerations. If there is no element of consideration found, there is thus no contract formed.\n\nHowever, even if a court decides there is no contract, there might be a possible recovery under the doctrines of \"quantum meruit\" (sometimes referred to as a quasi-contract) or promissory estoppel.\n\nThere are a number of common issues as to whether consideration exists in a contract:\n\nSystems based on Roman law (including Germany and Scotland) do not require consideration, and some commentators consider it unnecessary and have suggested that the doctrine of consideration should be abandoned, and estoppel used to replace it as a basis for contracts. However, [[legislation]], rather than judicial development, has been touted as the only way to remove this entrenched common law doctrine. [[Lord Denning|Lord Justice Denning]] famously stated that \"The doctrine of consideration is too firmly fixed to be overthrown by a side-wind\".\n\nThe reason that both exist in common law jurisdictions is thought by leading scholars to be the result of the combining by 19th century judges of two distinct threads: first the consideration requirement was at the heart of the action of [[assumpsit]], which had grown up in medieval times and remained the normal action for breach of a simple contract in England and Wales until 1884, when the old forms of action were abolished; secondly, the notion of agreement between two or more parties as being the essential legal and moral foundation of contract in all legal systems, was promoted by the 18th century French writer Pothier in his \"Traite des Obligations\", much read (especially after translation into English in 1805) by English judges and jurists. The latter chimed well with the fashionable will theories of the time, especially [[John Stuart Mill]]'s influential ideas on free will, and got grafted on to the traditional common law requirement for consideration to ground an action in assumpsit.\n\n[[Civil law (legal system)|Civil law]] systems take the approach that an exchange of promises, or a concurrence of wills alone, rather than an exchange in valuable rights is the correct basis. So if A promises to give B a book, and B accepts the offer without giving anything in return, B would have a legal right to the book and A could not change her mind about giving it to B as a gift. However, in [[common law system]]s the concept of \"[[culpa in contrahendo]]\", a form of [[estoppel]], is increasingly used to create obligations during [[pre-contractual negotiations]]. Estoppel is an [[Equity (law)|equitable doctrine]] that provides for the creation of legal obligations if a party has given another an [[wikt:assurance|assurance]] and the other has relied on the assurance to his [[detriment (law)|detriment]].\n\nGenerally, courts do not inquire whether the deal between two parties was monetarily fair—merely that each party passed some legal obligation or duty to the other party. The dispositive issue is presence of consideration, not adequacy of the consideration. The values between consideration passed by each party to a contract need not be comparable.\n\nFor instance, if A offers B $200 to buy B's mansion, luxury sports car, and private jet, there is still consideration on both sides. A's consideration is $200, and B's consideration is the mansion, car, and jet. Courts in the United States generally leave parties to their own contracts, and do not intervene. The old English rule of consideration questioned whether a party gave the \"value of a [[peppercorn (legal)|peppercorn]]\" to the other party. As a result, contracts in the United States have sometimes have had one party pass nominal amounts of consideration, typically citing $1. Thus, licensing contracts that do not involve any money at all often cite as consideration, \"for the sum of $1 and other good and valuable consideration.\"\n\nHowever, some courts in the United States may take issue with nominal consideration, or consideration with virtually no value. Some courts have since thought this was a sham. Since contract disputes are typically resolved in state court, some state courts have found that merely providing $1 to another is not a sufficiently legal duty, and therefore no legal consideration passes in these kinds of deals, and consequently, no contract is formed. However, this is a minority position.\n\nA party that \"already\" has a legal duty to provide money, an object, a service, or a forbearance, does not provide consideration when promising merely to uphold that duty. That legal duty can arise from law, or obligation under a previous contract.\n\nThe prime example of this sub-issue is where an uncle gives his seven-year-old nephew (a resident of the US) the following offer: \"if you do not smoke cigarettes or marijuana until your 18th birthday, then I will pay you $500\". On the nephew's 18th birthday, he tells the uncle to pay up, and the uncle says no. In the subsequent lawsuit, the uncle wins, because the nephew, by U.S. criminal law, already had a duty to refrain from smoking cigarettes while under 18, or marijuana at any age.\n\nThe same applies if the consideration is a performance for which the parties had previously contracted. For example, A agrees to paint B's house for $500, but halfway through the job A tells B that he will not finish unless B increases the payment to $750. If B agrees, and A then finishes the job, B still only needs to pay A the $500 originally agreed to, because A was already contractually obligated to paint the house for that amount.\n\nAn exception to this rule holds for [[settlement (litigation)|settlement]]s, such as an [[accord and satisfaction]]. If a creditor has a credit against a debtor for $10,000, and offers to settle it for $5,000, it is still binding, if accepted, even though the debtor had a legal duty to repay the entire $10,000.\n\nPre-existing duties relating to [[at-will employment]] depend largely on state law. Generally, [[at-will employment]] allows the employer to terminate the employee for good or even no reason, and allows the employee to resign for any reason. There are no duties of continued employment in the future. Therefore, when an employee demands a raise, there is no issue with consideration because the employee has no legal duty to continue working. Similarly, when an employer demands a pay-cut, there is also no contractual issue with consideration, because the employer has no legal duty to continue employing the worker. However, certain states require additional consideration other than the prospect of continued employment, to enforce terms demanded later by the employer, in particular, non-competition clauses.\n\nContracts where a legally valueless term is bundled with a term that does have legal value are still generally enforceable.\n\nConsider the uncle's situation above. If the same uncle had instead told his 17-year-old nephew the following offer: \"if you do not smoke cigarettes and do not engage females before your 18th birthday, then I will pay you $500\". On the nephew's 18th birthday, he asks the uncle to pay up, and this time, in the subsequent lawsuit, the nephew may win. Although the promise of not smoking was not valuable consideration (it was already legally prohibited), virtually all states allow some sort of engagement by minors. Even though the engagement by minors is legally restricted, there are circumstances where it is legal, and thus the promise to forbear from it entirely has legal value. However, the uncle would still be relieved from the liability if his nephew smoked a cigarette, even though \"that\" consideration is valueless, because it was paired with something of legal value; therefore, adherence to the entire, collective agreement is necessary.\n\nGenerally, past consideration is not a valid consideration and has no legal value. Past consideration is consideration that has already flowed from the promisee to the promisor. That is, the promisee's act or forbearance predates the promisor's promise. Past consideration therefore cannot be used as a basis when claiming damages.\n\nAn exception to this rule is where there is a duty owed to a third party. An act done before the giving of a promise to make a payment or to confer some other benefit can sometimes be consideration for the promise. For this to hold, three conditions must be satisfied (Pao On v Lau Yiu Long [1980]):\n\n\nGenerally, conditional consideration is valid consideration.\n\nSuppose A is a movie script writer and B runs a movie production company. A says to B, \"buy my script.\" B says \"How about this – I will pay you $5,000 so that you do not let anyone else produce your movie until one year from now. If I do produce your movie in that year, then I will give you another $50,000, and no one else can produce it. If I do not produce your movie in that year, then you're free to go.\" If the two subsequently get into a dispute, the issue of whether a contract exists is answered. B had an option contract—he could decide to produce the script, or not. B's consideration passed was the $5,000 down, and the possibility of $50,000. A's consideration passed was the exclusive rights to the movie script for at least one year.\n\nSuppose B commits a [[tort]] against A, causing $5,000 in [[compensatory damages]] and $3,000 in [[punitive damages]]. Since there is no guarantee that A would win against B if it went to court, A may agree to drop the case if B pays the $5,000 compensatory damages. This is sufficient consideration, since B's consideration is a guaranteed recovery, and A's consideration is that B only has to pay $5,000, instead of $8,000.\n\n\n[[Category:Contract law]]\n[[Category:Legal doctrines and principles]]"}
{"id": "23234121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23234121", "title": "Constructible set (topology)", "text": "Constructible set (topology)\n\nIn topology, a constructible set in a topological space is a finite union of locally closed sets. (A set is locally closed if it is the intersection of an open set and closed set, or equivalently, if it is open in its closure.) Constructible sets form a Boolean algebra (i.e., it is closed under finite union and complementation.) In fact, the constructible sets are precisely the Boolean algebra generated by open sets and closed sets; hence, the name \"constructible\". The notion appears in classical algebraic geometry.\n\nChevalley's theorem (EGA IV, 1.8.4.) states: Let formula_1 be a morphism of finite presentation of schemes. Then the image of any constructible set under \"f\" is constructible. In particular, the image of a variety need not be a variety, but is (under the assumptions) always a constructible set. For example, the map formula_2 that sends formula_3 to formula_4 has image the set formula_5, which is not a variety, but is constructible.\n\nIn any (not necessarily Noetherian) topological space, every constructible set contains a dense open subset of its closure.\n\nWarning: In EGA III, Def.9.1.2, constructible sets are defined using only \"retrocompact\" opens. That is, the family of constructible sets of a topological space is defined as the smallest family closed under finite intersection and complement and containing all \"retrocompact\" open subsets.\n\nSo for example, the origin formula_6 in the infinite affine space formula_7 is \"not\" constructible.\n\nIn any locally noetherian topological space, \"all\" subsets are retrocompact (EGA III, 9.1), so the two definitions are the same in this setting.\n\n"}
{"id": "202886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202886", "title": "Covariance and contravariance of vectors", "text": "Covariance and contravariance of vectors\n\nIn multilinear algebra and tensor analysis, covariance and contravariance describe how the quantitative description of certain geometric or physical entities changes with a change of basis. \n\nIn physics, a basis is sometimes thought of as a set of reference axes. A change of scale on the reference axes corresponds to a change of units in the problem. For instance, by changing scale from meters to centimeters (that is, \"dividing\" the scale of the reference axes by 100), the components of a measured velocity vector are \"multiplied\" by 100. Vectors exhibit this behavior of changing scale \"inversely\" to changes in scale to the reference axes and consequently are called \"contravariant\". As a result, vectors often have units of distance or distance with other units (as, for example, velocity has units of distance divided by time).\n\nIn contrast, covectors (also called \"dual vectors\") typically have units of the inverse of distance or the inverse of distance with other units. An example of a covector is the gradient, which has units of a spatial derivative, or distance. The components of covectors change in the \"same way\" as changes to scale of the reference axes and consequently are called \"covariant\".\n\nA third concept related to covariance and contravariance is invariance. An example of a physical observable that does not change with a change of scale on the reference axes is the mass of a particle, which has units of mass (that is, no units of distance). The single, scalar value of mass is independent of changes to the scale of the reference axes and consequently is called \"invariant\".\n\nUnder more general changes in basis:\n\nCurvilinear coordinate systems, such as cylindrical or spherical coordinates, are often used in physical and geometric problems. Associated with any coordinate system is a natural choice of coordinate basis for vectors based at each point of the space, and covariance and contravariance are particularly important for understanding how the coordinate description of a vector changes by passing from one coordinate system to another.\n\nThe terms \"covariant\" and \"contravariant\" were introduced by James Joseph Sylvester in 1851 in the context of associated algebraic forms theory. In the lexicon of category theory, covariance and contravariance are properties of functors; unfortunately, it is the lower-index objects (covectors) that generically have pullbacks, which are contravariant, while the upper-index objects (vectors) instead have pushforwards, which are covariant. This terminological conflict may be avoided by calling contravariant functors \"cofunctors\"—in accord with the \"covector\" terminology, and continuing the tradition of treating vectors as the concept and covectors as the coconcept.\n\nTensors are objects in multilinear algebra that can have aspects of both covariance \"and\" contravariance.\n\nIn physics, a vector typically arises as the outcome of a measurement or series of measurements, and is represented as a list (or tuple) of numbers such as\n\nThe numbers in the list depend on the choice of coordinate system. For instance, if the vector represents position with respect to an observer (position vector), then the coordinate system may be obtained from a system of rigid rods, or reference axes, along which the components \"v\", \"v\", and \"v\" are measured. For a vector to represent a geometric object, it must be possible to describe how it looks in any other coordinate system. That is to say, the components of the vectors will \"transform\" in a certain way in passing from one coordinate system to another.\n\nA \"contravariant vector\" has components that \"transform as the coordinates do\" under changes of coordinates (and so inversely to the transformation of the reference axes), including rotation and dilation. The vector itself does not change under these operations; instead, the components of the vector change in a way that cancels the change in the spatial axes, in the same way that coordinates change. In other words, if the reference axes were rotated in one direction, the component representation of the vector would rotate in exactly the opposite way. Similarly, if the reference axes were stretched in one direction, the components of the vector, like the coordinates, would reduce in an exactly compensating way. Mathematically, if the coordinate system undergoes a transformation described by an invertible matrix \"M\", so that a coordinate vector x is transformed to formula_4, then a contravariant vector v must be similarly transformed via formula_5. This important requirement is what distinguishes a contravariant vector from any other triple of physically meaningful quantities. For example, if \"v\" consists of the \"x\"-, \"y\"-, and \"z\"-components of velocity, then \"v\" is a contravariant vector: if the coordinates of space are stretched, rotated, or twisted, then the components of the velocity transform in the same way. Examples of contravariant vectors include displacement, velocity and acceleration. On the other hand, for instance, a triple consisting of the length, width, and height of a rectangular box could make up the three components of an abstract vector, but this vector would not be contravariant, since a change in coordinates on the space does not change the box's length, width, and height: instead these are scalars.\n\nBy contrast, a \"covariant vector\" has components that change oppositely to the coordinates or, equivalently, transform like the reference axes. For instance, the components of the gradient vector of a function\ntransform like the reference axes themselves.\n\nThe general formulation of covariance and contravariance refer to how the components of a coordinate vector transform under a change of basis (passive transformation). Thus let \"V\" be a vector space of dimension \"n\" over the field of scalars \"S\", and let each of and be a basis of \"V\". Also, let the change of basis from f to f′ be given by\n\nfor some invertible \"n\"×\"n\" matrix \"A\" with entries formula_7.\nHere, each vector \"Y\" of the f′ basis is a linear combination of the vectors \"X\" of the f basis, so that\n\nA vector formula_9 in \"V\" is expressed uniquely as a linear combination of the elements of the f basis as\n\nwhere \"v\"[f] are scalars in \"S\" known as the components of \"v\" in the f basis. Denote the column vector of components of \"v\" by v[f]:\n\nso that () can be rewritten as a matrix product\n\nThe vector \"v\" may also be expressed in terms of the f′ basis, so that\n\nHowever, since the vector \"v\" itself is invariant under the choice of basis,\n\nThe invariance of \"v\" combined with the relationship () between f and f′ implies that\n\ngiving the transformation rule\n\nIn terms of components,\n\nwhere the coefficients formula_17 are the entries of the inverse matrix of \"A\".\n\nBecause the components of the vector \"v\" transform with the \"inverse\" of the matrix \"A\", these components are said to transform contravariantly under a change of basis.\n\nThe way \"A\" relates the two pairs is depicted in the following informal diagram using an arrow. The reversal of the arrow indicates a contravariant change:\n\nA linear functional \"α\" on \"V\" is expressed uniquely in terms of its components (scalars in \"S\") in the f basis as\n\nThese components are the action of \"α\" on the basis vectors \"X\" of the f basis.\n\nUnder the change of basis from f to f′ (), the components transform so that\n\nDenote the row vector of components of \"α\" by \"α\"[f]:\n\nso that () can be rewritten as the matrix product\n\nBecause the components of the linear functional α transform with the matrix \"A\", these components are said to transform covariantly under a change of basis.\n\nThe way \"A\" relates the two pairs is depicted in the following informal diagram using an arrow. A covariant relationship is indicated since the arrows travel in the same direction:\n\nHad a column vector representation been used instead, the transformation law would be the transpose\n\nThe choice of basis f on the vector space \"V\" defines uniquely a set of coordinate functions on \"V\", by means of\nThe coordinates on \"V\" are therefore contravariant in the sense that\nConversely, a system of \"n\" quantities \"v\" that transform like the coordinates \"x\" on \"V\" defines a contravariant vector. A system of \"n\" quantities that transform oppositely to the coordinates is then a covariant vector.\n\nThis formulation of contravariance and covariance is often more natural in applications in which there is a coordinate space (a manifold) on which vectors live as tangent vectors or cotangent vectors. Given a local coordinate system \"x\" on the manifold, the reference axes for the coordinate system are the vector fields\nThis gives rise to the frame at every point of the coordinate patch.\n\nIf \"y\" is a different coordinate system and\nthen the frame f' is related to the frame f by the inverse of the Jacobian matrix of the coordinate transition:\nOr, in indices,\n\nA tangent vector is by definition a vector that is a linear combination of the coordinate partials formula_30. Thus a tangent vector is defined by\n\nSuch a vector is contravariant with respect to change of frame. Under changes in the coordinate system, one has\n\nTherefore, the components of a tangent vector transform via\n\nAccordingly, a system of \"n\" quantities \"v\" depending on the coordinates that transform in this way on passing from one coordinate system to another is called a contravariant vector.\n\nIn a finite-dimensional vector space \"V\" over a field \"K\" with a symmetric bilinear form (which may be referred to as the metric tensor), there is little distinction between covariant and contravariant vectors, because the bilinear form allows covectors to be identified with vectors. That is, a vector \"v\" uniquely determines a covector \"α\" via\nfor all vectors \"w\". Conversely, each covector \"α\" determines a unique vector \"v\" by this equation. Because of this identification of vectors with covectors, one may speak of the covariant components or contravariant components of a vector, that is, they are just representations of the same vector using the reciprocal basis.\n\nGiven a basis of \"V\", there is a unique reciprocal basis of \"V\" determined by requiring that\nthe Kronecker delta. In terms of these bases, any vector \"v\" can be written in two ways:\nThe components \"v\"[f] are the contravariant components of the vector \"v\" in the basis f, and the components \"v\"[f] are the covariant components of \"v\" in the basis f. The terminology is justified because under a change of basis,\n\nIn the Euclidean plane, the dot product allows for vectors to be identified with covectors. If formula_38 is a basis, then the dual basis formula_39 satisfies\n\nThus, e and e are perpendicular to each other, as are e and e, and the lengths of e and e normalized against e and e, respectively.\n\nFor example, suppose that we are given a basis e, e consisting of a pair of vectors making a 45° angle with one another, such that e has length 2 and e has length 1. Then the dual basis vectors are given as follows:\nApplying these rules, we find\nand\n\nThus the change of basis matrix in going from the original basis to the reciprocal basis is\nsince\n\nFor instance, the vector\nis a vector with contravariant components\n\nThe covariant components are obtained by equating the two expressions for the vector \"v\":\nso\n\nIn the three-dimensional Euclidean space, one can also determine explicitly the dual basis to a given set of basis vectors e, e, e of \"E\" that are not necessarily assumed to be orthogonal nor of unit norm. The dual basis vectors are:\n\nEven when the e and e are not orthonormal, they are still mutually reciprocal:\n\nThen the contravariant components of any vector v can be obtained by the dot product of v with the dual basis vectors:\n\nLikewise, the covariant components of v can be obtained from the dot product of v with basis vectors, viz.\n\nThen v can be expressed in two (reciprocal) ways, viz.\nor\nCombining the above relations, we have\nand we can convert between the basis and dual basis with\nand\n\nIf the basis vectors are orthonormal, then they are the same as the dual basis vectors. So there is no need to distinguish between contravariant components and covariant components which are also equal.\n\nMore generally, in an \"n\"-dimensional Euclidean space \"V\", if a basis is\nthe reciprocal basis is given by (double indices are summed over),\nwhere the coefficients \"g\" are the entries of the inverse matrix of\nIndeed, we then have\n\nThe covariant and contravariant components of any vector\n\nare related as above by\nand\n\nIn the field of physics, the adjective covariant is often used informally as a synonym for invariant. For example, the Schrödinger equation does not keep its written form under the coordinate transformations of special relativity. Thus, a physicist might say that the Schrödinger equation is \"not covariant\". In contrast, the Klein–Gordon equation and the Dirac equation do keep their written form under these coordinate transformations. Thus, a physicist might say that these equations are \"covariant\".\n\nDespite this usage of \"covariant\", it is more accurate to say that the Klein–Gordon and Dirac equations are invariant, and that the Schrödinger equation is not invariant. Additionally, to remove ambiguity, the transformation by which the invariance is evaluated should be indicated.\n\nBecause the components of vectors are contravariant and those of covectors are covariant, the vectors themselves are often referred to as being contravariant and the covectors as covariant.\n\nThe distinction between covariance and contravariance is particularly important for computations with tensors, which often have mixed variance. This means that they have both covariant and contravariant components, or both vector and covector components. The valence of a tensor is the number of variant and covariant terms, and in Einstein notation, covariant components have lower indices, while contravariant components have upper indices. The duality between covariance and contravariance intervenes whenever a vector or tensor quantity is represented by its components, although modern differential geometry uses more sophisticated index-free methods to represent tensors.\n\nIn tensor analysis, a covariant vector varies more or less reciprocally to a corresponding contravariant vector. Expressions for lengths, areas and volumes of objects in the vector space can then be given in terms of tensors with covariant and contravariant indices. Under simple expansions and contractions of the coordinates, the reciprocity is exact; under affine transformations the components of a vector intermingle on going between covariant and contravariant expression.\n\nOn a manifold, a tensor field will typically have multiple, upper and lower indices, where Einstein notation is widely used. When the manifold is equipped with a metric, covariant and contravariant indices become very closely related to one another. Contravariant indices can be turned into covariant indices by contracting with the metric tensor. The reverse is possible by contracting with the (matrix) inverse of the metric tensor. Note that in general, no such relation exists in spaces not endowed with a metric tensor. Furthermore, from a more abstract standpoint, a tensor is simply \"there\" and its components of either kind are only calculational artifacts whose values depend on the chosen coordinates.\n\nThe explanation in geometric terms is that a general tensor will have contravariant indices as well as covariant indices, because it has parts that live in the tangent bundle as well as the cotangent bundle.\n\nA contravariant vector is one which transforms like formula_65, where formula_66 are the coordinates of a particle at its proper time formula_67. A covariant vector is one which transforms like formula_68, where formula_69 is a scalar field.\n\nIn category theory, there are covariant functors and contravariant functors. The assignment of the dual space to a vector space is a standard example of a contravariant functor. Some constructions of multilinear algebra are of 'mixed' variance, which prevents them from being functors.\n\nIn differential geometry, the components of a vector relative to a basis of the tangent bundle are covariant if they change with the same linear transformation as a change of basis. They are contravariant if they change by the inverse transformation. This is sometimes a source of confusion for two distinct but related reasons. The first is that vectors whose components are covariant (called covectors or 1-forms) actually pull back under smooth functions, meaning that the operation assigning the space of covectors to a smooth manifold is actually a \"contravariant\" functor. Likewise, vectors whose components are contravariant push forward under smooth mappings, so the operation assigning the space of (contravariant) vectors to a smooth manifold is a \"covariant\" functor. Secondly, in the classical approach to differential geometry, it is not bases of the tangent bundle that are the most primitive object, but rather changes in the coordinate system. Vectors with contravariant components transform in the same way as changes in the coordinates (because these actually change oppositely to the induced change of basis). Likewise, vectors with covariant components transform in the opposite way as changes in the coordinates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11262086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11262086", "title": "DH-1 (rocket)", "text": "DH-1 (rocket)\n\nThe DH-1 was a circa-2005 reusable two-stage-to-orbit rocket concept proposed in the book \"The Rocket Company\" by Patrick J. G. Stiennon, David M. Hoerr, Doug Birkholz (AIAA, 2005). The concept is described in the expired US patent 5568901. The DH-1 was never built, and its manufacturing company, AM&M, is also fictional. The book highlighted and sought to solve many problems of building a Cheap Access To Space vehicle via the DH-1 design.\n\n\"The Rocket Company\" is a work of fiction, but the science, engineering and politics that underlies the design of the DH-1 are described as highly-feasible. The design is notable in that it attempts to avoid new or nonexistent wonder technologies, to rely on human rather than computer control, to consider the possible economics of a very small payload capacity (including pilot), to make use of a 'pop up first stage' launch profile, to market the vehicle for 'space access' rather than 'cargo delivery', and to offer a business plan whose intention is to sell the DH-1 vehicles themselves, rather than payload space on a company launch vehicle, as is currently the norm.\n\nThe first stage is cylindrical in shape, and . It has an empty weight of , carries of methane and oxygen, and a gross lift-off weight (GLOW) of , including the second stage. It is fitted with five RL-60 and 4 RL-10 sustainer engines, and 4 small jet landing engines, all modified to burn methane. At launch it is mounted on four internal launch-rails fitted with pneumatic shock absorbers, rather than locked to the launch frame with explosive bolts. Allowing the DH-1 to rise as soon as thrust exceeds weight avoids sudden shock loads and allows it to settle back onto the launch frame in the event of critical engine failure in the first few meters of flight.\n\nFlight is functionally similar to the DC-X. At launch all 9 rockets are fired until the DH-1 reaches 100,000 feet. At that point the RL-60s are shut down and the sustainer engines push the rocket up to 200,000 ft (~60 km) where separation occurs. The first stage flight profile is almost entirely vertical, with only slight sideways motion to keep above the launch/landing area. The first stage then drops back to the launch site, experiencing 'reentry heating' roughly comparable to the SR-71, releasing a drogue chute at 120,000 ft, and decelerating and landing with 30 seconds reserve fuel on the jet engines.\n\nThe second stage is cone shaped, , , and cone angle of 11.5 degrees. It has an empty weight of , carries of hydrogen and oxygen, and a gross weight of at separation. It is fitted with two RL-60 and a small RCS system. At staging height the air is so thin the engines can be optimised for vacuum without performance penalty. The inter-tank section doubles as the flight and cargo cabin. Power is provided by batteries and a strip of solar panels that run around the top of the cabin. Reentry is base first and is protected by transpiration heatshield, before a parafoil is deployed and the upper stage glides down in a horizontal position to land on three legs; two extended from the base and one from the nosecone.\n\nA much desired goal for space launch is the ability to put material and people into orbit with the same reliability and comparative cost as commercial air transport. For reusable vehicles the desire is for a vehicle that operates like an aircraft, in that after it lands you only need to refuel and reload it in order to fly again. The Rocket Company takes the idea one step further, and proposes that the vehicles should be sold like commercial vehicles, under the same export rules as a 747. \n\nOnce purchased, the DH-1 would operate as a specialized aircraft that can be used as often or as rarely as the customer desires, similar to the SR-71, Air Force One, or a UAV. The customer would not be buying an ability to launch satellites so much as a complete space programme for less than $400M (including facilities and DH-1) and a yearly cost of under $100M. Since there are no overflight issues and the facilities can fit in a one-mile circle, they can be located far inland, allowing many inland locations (such as Ohio or Switzerland for example) to run their own launch facilities.\n\nThe RL-60 rocket is a closed-cycle expander engine, and is a scaled-up version of the RL-10, one of the most reliable engines ever built. Though this type of engine is not as capable of generating the same power as the SSME, it is much less complex and much more reliable. Expander cycle engines do not need computer controllers to merely function. The fuel coming out of the engine bell cooling system is also not much hotter than room temperature, and hence does not cause nearly so much damage as preburners (read 'mini rocket engines) do.\n\nCurrent material technology is not up to building a single-stage vehicle that can go into orbit, and carry a useful payload, and return to earth in a condition to launch again. The DH-1 gets around this problem by splitting the task between the two stages, allowing both to operate safely within known material limits, and known operating methods. A DH-1–style vehicle can therefore be designed for reliability and safety, rather than absolute performance at the expense of those criteria.\n\nWith an estimated manufacturing cost of $65 million and a sale price of $250 million the development costs of ~$3 billion could be paid off with about 20 sales. Launch costs were estimated at $1M (launch often) to $100M (once per year) depending on how often the vehicle was operated, with launch facilities costing $100M and fitting inside a 1-mile circle. The Rocket Company asserts that globally such sales are possible. Potential clients are suggested as NASA, the USAF, NATO countries like UK, France, Germany and Japan, as well as private firms, like Virgin Galactic or Bigelow Aerospace. \n\nThe Rocket Company asserts that with a number of reliable vehicles competing in an open market, the price should eventually fall to close to the actual launch cost of under $200 per pound.\n\nThe upper stage is designed to operate in space, and to be refueled there. Assuming the presence of a space station for storing the propellant, an orbital DH-1 could be refueled after 17 launches. Linking two such refueled stages nose to nose would enable you to take ~35,000 lb to the Lunar surface, the Martian surface, or geosynchronous orbit, and return to the station. Due to fuel requirements, the cost to these locations is 6 times greater than the cost to LEO.\n\nVariants with a stretched cabin and a hinged nose have also been suggested. The former could be outfitted in orbit to carry people in comparative comfort on long duration flights, while the latter could be used to carry bulky cargo that would not fit through the normal cargo hatch. For interplanetary flights, the book suggested using one RL-60 modified to run on methane which was fitted with an engine bell extension, which was removable to allow aerobreaking.\n"}
{"id": "47058944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47058944", "title": "Desuspension", "text": "Desuspension\n\nIn topology, a field within mathematics, desuspension is an operation inverse to suspension.\n\nIn general, given an \"n\"-dimensional space formula_1, the suspension formula_2 has dimension \"n\" + 1. Thus, the operation of suspension creates a way of moving up in dimension. In the 1950s, to define a way of moving down, mathematicians introduced an inverse operation formula_3, called desuspension. Therefore, given an \"n\"-dimensional space formula_1, the desuspension formula_5 has dimension \"n\" – 1.\n\nNote that in general formula_6.\n\nThe reasons to introduce desuspension:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4601361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4601361", "title": "Electromagnetic stress–energy tensor", "text": "Electromagnetic stress–energy tensor\n\nIn relativistic physics, the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor is the contribution to the stress–energy tensor due to the electromagnetic field. The stress–energy tensor describes the flow of energy and momentum in spacetime. The electromagnetic stress–energy tensor contains the negative of the classical Maxwell stress tensor that governs the electromagnetic interactions.\n\nIn free space and flat space–time, the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor in SI units is\n\nwhere formula_2 is the electromagnetic tensor and where formula_3 is the Minkowski metric tensor of metric signature (−+++). When using the metric with signature (+−−−), the expression for formula_4 will have opposite sign. \n\nExplicitly in matrix form:\n\nwhere\n\nis the Poynting vector, \n\nis the Maxwell stress tensor, and \"c\" is the speed of light. Thus, formula_8 is expressed and measured in SI pressure units (pascals).\n\nThe permittivity of free space and permeability of free space in cgs-Gaussian units are\n\nthen:\n\nand in explicit matrix form:\n\nwhere Poynting vector becomes: \n\nThe stress–energy tensor for an electromagnetic field in a dielectric medium is less well understood and is the subject of the unresolved Abraham–Minkowski controversy.\n\nThe element formula_13 of the stress–energy tensor represents the flux of the \"μ\"th-component of the four-momentum of the electromagnetic field, formula_14, going through a hyperplane (formula_15 is constant). It represents the contribution of electromagnetism to the source of the gravitational field (curvature of space–time) in general relativity.\n\nThe electromagnetic stress–energy tensor has several algebraic properties:\n\n\n\nThe symmetry of the tensor is as for a general stress–energy tensor in general relativity. The trace of the energy-momentum tensor is a Lorentz scalar; the electromagnetic field (and in particular electromagnetica waves) has no Lorentz-invariant energy scale, so its energy-momentum tensor must have a vanishing trace. This tracelessness eventually relates to the masslessness of the photon.\n\nThe electromagnetic stress–energy tensor allows a compact way of writing the conservation laws of linear momentum and energy in electromagnetism. The divergence of the stress–energy tensor is:\n\nwhere formula_21 is the (4D) Lorentz force per unit volume on matter.\n\nThis equation is equivalent to the following 4D conservation laws\n\nrespectively describing the flux of electromagnetic energy density\n\nand electromagnetic momentum density \n\nwhere J is the electric current density and \"ρ\" the electric charge density.\n\n"}
{"id": "36188092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36188092", "title": "Fa (concept)", "text": "Fa (concept)\n\nFa (;) is a concept in Chinese philosophy that covers ethics, logic, and law. It can be translated as \"law\" in some contexts, but more often as \"model\" or \"standard.\" First gaining importance in the Mohist school of thought, the concept was principally elaborated in Legalism. In Han Fei's philosophy, the king is the sole source of \"fa\" (law), taught to the common people so that there would be a harmonious society free of chance occurrences, disorder, and \"appeal to privilege\". High officials were not to be held above \"fa\" (law or protocol), nor were they to be allowed to independently create their own \"fa\", uniting both executive fiat and rule of law.\n\nXunzi, a philosopher that would end up being foundational in Han dynasty Confucianism, also took up \"fa\", suggesting that it could only be properly assessed by the Confucian sage (ruler), and that the most important \"fa\" were the very rituals that Mozi had ridiculed for their ostentatious waste and lack of benefit for the people at large.\n\nThe concept of \"fa\" first gained importance in the Mohist school of thought. To Mozi, a standard must stand \"three tests\" in order to determine its efficacy and morality. The first of these tests was its origin; if the standard had precedence in the actions or thought of the semi-mythological sage kings of the Xia dynasty whose examples are frequently cited in classical Chinese philosophy. The second test was one of validity; does the model stand up to evidence in the estimation of the people? The third and final test was one of applicability; this final one is a utilitarian estimation of the net good that, if implemented, the standard would have on both the people and the state.\n\nThe third test speaks to the fact that to the Mohists, a \"fa\" was not simply an abstract model, but an active tool. The real-world use and practical application of \"fa\" were vital. Yet \"fa\" as models were also used in later Mohist logic as principles used in deductive reasoning. As classical Chinese philosophical logic was based on analogy rather than syllogism, \"fa\" were used as benchmarks to determine the validity of logical claims through comparison. There were three \"fa\" in particular that were used by these later Mohists (or \"Logicians\") to assess such claims, which were mentioned earlier. The first was considered a \"root\" standard, a concern for precedence and origin. The second, a \"source\", a concern for empiricism. The third, a \"use\", a concern for the consequence and pragmatic utility of a standard. These three \"fa\" were used by the Mohists to both promote social welfare and denounce ostentation or wasteful spending.\n\n"}
{"id": "574759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574759", "title": "Feed forward (control)", "text": "Feed forward (control)\n\nFeed-forward, sometimes written feedforward, is a term describing an element or pathway within a control system that passes a controlling signal from a source in its external environment to a load elsewhere in its external environment. This is often a command signal from an external operator.\n\nA control system which has only feed-forward behavior responds to its control signal in a pre-defined way without responding to how the load reacts; it is in contrast with a system that also has feedback, which adjusts the output to take account of how it affects the load, and how the load itself may vary unpredictably; the load is considered to belong to the external environment of the system.\n\nIn a feed-forward system, the control variable adjustment is not error-based. Instead it is based on knowledge about the process in the form of a mathematical model of the process and knowledge about or measurements of the process disturbances.\n\nSome prerequisites are needed for control scheme to be reliable by pure feed-forward without feedback: the external command or controlling signal must be available, and the effect of the output of the system on the load should be known (that usually means that the load must be predictably unchanging with time). Sometimes pure feed-forward control without feedback is called 'ballistic', because once a control signal has been sent, it cannot be further adjusted; any corrective adjustment must be by way of a new control signal. In contrast, 'cruise control' adjusts the output in response to the load that it encounters, by a feedback mechanism.\n\nThese systems could relate to control theory, physiology, or computing.\n\nWith feed-forward or Feedforward control, the disturbances are measured and accounted for before they have time to affect the system. In the house example, a feed-forward system may measure the fact that the door is opened and automatically turn on the heater before the house can get too cold. The difficulty with feed-forward control is that the effects of the disturbances on the system must be accurately predicted, and there must not be any unmeasured disturbances. For instance, if a window was opened that was not being measured, the feed-forward-controlled thermostat might let the house cool down.\n\nThe term has specific meaning within the field of CPU-based automatic control. The discipline of “feedforward control” as it relates to modern, CPU based automatic controls is widely discussed, but is seldom practiced due to the difficulty and expense of developing or providing for the mathematical model required to facilitate this type of control. Open-loop control and feedback control, often based on canned PID control algorithms, are much more widely used.\n\nThere are three types of control systems: open loop, feed-forward, and feedback. \nAn example of a pure open loop control system is manual non-power-assisted steering of a motor car; the steering system does not have access to an auxiliary power source and does not respond to varying resistance to turning of the direction wheels; the driver must make that response without help from the steering system. In comparison, power steering has access to a controlled auxiliary power source, which depends on the engine speed. When the steering wheel is turned, a valve is opened which allows fluid under pressure to turn the driving wheels. A sensor monitors that pressure so that the valve only opens enough to cause the correct pressure to reach the wheel turning mechanism. This is feed-forward control where the output of the system, the change in direction of travel of the vehicle, plays no part in the system. See Model predictive control.\n\nIf you include the driver in the system, then he does provide a feedback path by observing the direction of travel and compensating for errors by turning the steering wheel. In that case you have a feedback system, and the block labeled \"System\" in Figure(c) is a feed-forward system.\n\nIn other words, systems of different types can be nested, and the overall system regarded as a black-box.\n\nFeedforward control is distinctly different from open loop control and teleoperator systems. Feedforward control requires a mathematical model of the plant (process and/or machine being controlled) and the plant's relationship to any inputs or feedback the system might receive. Neither open loop control nor teleoperator systems require the sophistication of a mathematical model of the physical system or plant being controlled. Control based on operator input without integral processing and interpretation through a mathematical model of the system is a teleoperator system and is not considered feedforward control.\n\nHistorically, the use of the term “feedforward” is found in works by D. M. MacKay as early as 1956. While MacKay’s work is in the field of biological control theory, he speaks only of feedforward systems. MacKay does not mention “Feedforward Control” or allude to the discipline of “Feedforward Controls.” MacKay and other early writers who use the term “feedforward” are generally writing about theories of how human or animal brains work.\n\nThe discipline of “feedforward controls” was largely developed by professors and graduate students at Georgia Tech, MIT, Stanford and Carnegie Mellon. Feedforward is not typically hyphenated in scholarly publications. Meckl and Seering of MIT and Book and Dickerson of Georgia Tech began the development of the concepts of Feedforward Control in the mid 1970s. The discipline of Feedforward Controls was well defined in many scholarly papers, articles and books by the late 1980s.\n\nThe benefits of feedforward control are significant and can often justify the extra cost, time and effort required to implement the technology. Control accuracy can often be improved by as much as an order of magnitude if the mathematical model is of sufficient quality and implementation of the feedforward control law is well thought out. Energy consumption by the feedforward control system and its driver is typically substantially lower than with other controls. Stability is enhanced such that the controlled device can be built of lower cost, lighter weight, springier materials while still being highly accurate and able to operate at high speeds. Other benefits of feedforward control include reduced wear and tear on equipment, lower maintenance costs, higher reliability and a substantial reduction in hysteresis. Feedforward control is often combined with feedback control to optimize performance.\n\nThe mathematical model of the plant (machine, process or organism) used by the feedforward control system may be created and input by a control engineer or it may be learned by the control system. Control systems capable of learning and/or adapting their mathematical model have become more practical as microprocessor speeds have increased. The discipline of modern feedforward control was itself made possible by the invention of microprocessors.\n\nFeedforward control requires integration of the mathematical model into the control algorithm such that it is used to determine the control actions based on what is known about the state of the system being controlled. In the case of control for a lightweight, flexible robotic arm, this could be as simple as compensating between when the robot arm is carrying a payload and when it is not. The target joint angles are adjusted to place the payload in the desired position based on knowing the deflections in the arm from the mathematical model’s interpretation of the disturbance caused by the payload. Systems that plan actions and then pass the plan to a different system for execution do not satisfy the above definition of feedforward control. Unless the system includes a means to detect a disturbance or receive an input and process that input through the mathematical model to determine the required modification to the control action, it is not true feedforward control.\n\nIn systems theory, an open system is a feed forward system that does not have any feedback loop to control its output. In contrast, a closed system uses on a feedback loop to control the operation of the system. In an open system, the output of the system is not fed back into the input to the system for control or operation.\n\nIn physiology, feed-forward control is exemplified by the normal anticipatory regulation of heartbeat in advance of actual physical exertion. Feed-forward control can be likened to learned anticipatory responses to known cues. Feedback regulation of the heartbeat provides further adaptiveness to the running eventualities of physical exertion.\n\nFeedforward systems are also found in biological control by human and animal brains.\n\nEven in the case of biological feedforward systems, such as in the human brain, knowledge or a mental model of the plant (body) can be considered to be mathematical as the model is characterized by limits, rhythms, mechanics and patterns.\n\nA pure feed-forward system is different from a homeostatic control system, which has the function of keeping the body's internal environment 'steady' or in a 'prolonged steady state of readiness.' A homeostatic control system relies mainly on feedback (especially negative), in addition to the feedforward elements of the system.\n\nThe cross regulation of genes can be represented by a graph, where genes are the nodes and one node is linked to another if the former is a transcription factor for the latter. A motif which predominantly appears in all known networks (E. coli, Yeast...) is A activates B, A and B activate C. This motif has been shown to be a feed forward system, detecting non-temporary change of environment. This feed forward control theme is commonly observed in hematopoietic cell lineage development, where irreversible commitments are made.\n\nIn computing, feed-forward normally refers to a perceptron network in which the outputs from all neurons go to following but not preceding layers, so there are no feedback loops. The connections are set up during a training phase, which in effect is when the system is a feedback system.\n\nIn the early 1970s, intercity coaxial transmission systems, including L-carrier, used feed-forward amplifiers to diminish linear distortion. This more complex method allowed wider bandwidth than earlier feedback systems. Optical fiber, however, made such systems obsolete before many were built.\n\nFeedforward control is a discipline within the field of automatic controls used in automation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238181", "title": "Gibbs free energy", "text": "Gibbs free energy\n\nIn thermodynamics, the Gibbs free energy (IUPAC recommended name: Gibbs energy or Gibbs function; also known as free enthalpy to distinguish it from Helmholtz free energy) is a thermodynamic potential that can be used to calculate the maximum of reversible work that may be performed by a thermodynamic system at a constant temperature and pressure (isothermal, isobaric). The Gibbs free energy (ΔGº = ΔHº-TΔSº) (J in SI units) is the \"maximum\" amount of non-expansion work that can be extracted from a thermodynamically closed system (one that can exchange heat and work with its surroundings, but not matter); this maximum can be attained only in a completely reversible process. When a system transforms reversibly from an initial state to a final state, the decrease in Gibbs free energy equals the work done by the system to its surroundings, minus the work of the pressure forces.\n\nThe Gibbs energy (also referred to as \"G\") is also the thermodynamic potential that is minimized when a system reaches chemical equilibrium at constant pressure and temperature. Its derivative with respect to the reaction coordinate of the system vanishes at the equilibrium point. As such, a reduction in \"G\" is a necessary condition for the spontaneity of processes at constant pressure and temperature.\n\nThe Gibbs free energy, originally called \"available energy\", was developed in the 1870s by the American scientist Josiah Willard Gibbs. In 1873, Gibbs described this \"available energy\" as\nThe initial state of the body, according to Gibbs, is supposed to be such that \"the body can be made to pass from it to states of dissipated energy by reversible processes\". In his 1876 magnum opus \"On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances\", a graphical analysis of multi-phase chemical systems, he engaged his thoughts on chemical free energy in full.\n\nAccording to the second law of thermodynamics, for systems reacting at STP (or any other fixed temperature and pressure), there is a general natural tendency to achieve a minimum of the Gibbs free energy.\n\nA quantitative measure of the favorability of a given reaction at constant temperature and pressure is the change Δ\"G\" (sometimes written \"delta \"G\"\" or \"d\"G\"\") in Gibbs free energy that is (or would be) caused by the reaction. As a necessary condition for the reaction to occur at constant temperature and pressure, Δ\"G\" must be smaller than the non-PV (e.g. electrical) work, which is often equal to zero (hence Δ\"G\" must be negative). Δ\"G\" equals the maximum amount of non-\"PV\" work that can be performed as a result of the chemical reaction for the case of reversible process. If the analysis indicated a positive Δ\"G\" for the reaction, then energy — in the form of electrical or other non-\"PV\" work — would have to be added to the reacting system for Δ\"G\" to be smaller than the non-\"PV\" work and make it possible for the reaction to occur.\n\nWe can think of ∆G as the amount of \"free\" or \"useful\" energy available to do work. The equation can be also seen from the perspective of the system taken together with its surroundings (the rest of the universe). First, assume that the given reaction at constant temperature and pressure is the only one that is occurring. Then the entropy released or absorbed by the system equals the entropy that the environment must absorb or release, respectively. The reaction will only be allowed if the total entropy change of the universe is zero or positive. This is reflected in a negative Δ\"G\", and the reaction is called exergonic.\n\nIf we couple reactions, then an otherwise endergonic chemical reaction (one with positive Δ\"G\") can be made to happen. The input of heat into an inherently endergonic reaction, such as the elimination of cyclohexanol to cyclohexene, can be seen as coupling an unfavourable reaction (elimination) to a favourable one (burning of coal or other provision of heat) such that the total entropy change of the universe is greater than or equal to zero, making the \"total\" Gibbs free energy difference of the coupled reactions negative.\n\nIn traditional use, the term \"free\" was included in \"Gibbs free energy\" to mean \"available in the form of useful work\". The characterization becomes more precise if we add the qualification that it is the energy available for \"non-volume\" work. (An analogous, but slightly different, meaning of \"free\" applies in conjunction with the Helmholtz free energy, for systems at constant temperature). However, an increasing number of books and journal articles do not include the attachment \"free\", referring to \"G\" as simply \"Gibbs energy\". This is the result of a 1988 IUPAC meeting to set unified terminologies for the international scientific community, in which the adjective \"free\" was supposedly banished. This standard, however, has not yet been universally adopted.\n\nThe quantity called \"free energy\" is a more advanced and accurate replacement for the outdated term \"affinity\", which was used by chemists in the earlier years of physical chemistry to describe the \"force\" that caused chemical reactions.\n\nIn 1873, Willard Gibbs published \"A Method of Geometrical Representation of the Thermodynamic Properties of Substances by Means of Surfaces\", in which he sketched the principles of his new equation that was able to predict or estimate the tendencies of various natural processes to ensue when bodies or systems are brought into contact. By studying the interactions of homogeneous substances in contact, i.e., bodies composed of part solid, part liquid, and part vapor, and by using a three-dimensional volume-entropy-internal energy graph, Gibbs was able to determine three states of equilibrium, i.e., \"necessarily stable\", \"neutral\", and \"unstable\", and whether or not changes would ensue. Further, Gibbs stated:\n\nIn this description, as used by Gibbs, \"ε\" refers to the internal energy of the body, \"η\" refers to the entropy of the body, and \"ν\" is the volume of the body.\n\nThereafter, in 1882, the German scientist Hermann von Helmholtz characterized the affinity as the largest quantity of work which can be gained when the reaction is carried out in a reversible manner, e.g., electrical work in a reversible cell. The maximum work is thus regarded as the diminution of the free, or available, energy of the system (\"Gibbs free energy\" \"G\" at \"T\" = constant, \"P\" = constant or \"Helmholtz free energy\" \"F\" at \"T\" = constant, \"V\" = constant), whilst the heat given out is usually a measure of the diminution of the total energy of the system (internal energy). Thus, \"G\" or \"F\" is the amount of energy \"free\" for work under the given conditions.\n\nUntil this point, the general view had been such that: \"all chemical reactions drive the system to a state of equilibrium in which the affinities of the reactions vanish\". Over the next 60 years, the term affinity came to be replaced with the term free energy. According to chemistry historian Henry Leicester, the influential 1923 textbook \"Thermodynamics and the Free Energy of Chemical Substances\" by Gilbert N. Lewis and Merle Randall led to the replacement of the term \"affinity\" by the term \"free energy\" in much of the English-speaking world.\n\nGibbs free energy was originally defined graphically. In 1873, American scientist Willard Gibbs published his first thermodynamics paper, \"Graphical Methods in the Thermodynamics of Fluids\", in which Gibbs used the two coordinates of the entropy and volume to represent the state of the body. In his second follow-up paper, \"A Method of Geometrical Representation of the Thermodynamic Properties of Substances by Means of Surfaces\", published later that year, Gibbs added in the third coordinate of the energy of the body, defined on three figures. In 1874, Scottish physicist James Clerk Maxwell used Gibbs' figures to make a 3D energy-entropy-volume thermodynamic surface of a fictitious water-like substance. Thus, in order to understand the very difficult concept of Gibbs free energy one must be able to understand its interpretation as Gibbs defined originally by section AB on his figure 3 and as Maxwell sculpted that section on his 3D surface figure.\n\nThe Gibbs free energy is defined as\n\nwhich is the same as\n\nwhere:\n\nThe expression for the infinitesimal reversible change in the Gibbs free energy as a function of its \"natural variables\" \"p\" and \"T\", for an open system, subjected to the operation of external forces (for instance, electrical or magnetic) \"X\", which cause the external parameters of the system \"a\" to change by an amount d\"a\", can be derived as follows from the first law for reversible processes:\n\nwhere:\n\nThis is one form of Gibbs fundamental equation. In the infinitesimal expression, the term involving the chemical potential accounts for changes in Gibbs free energy resulting from an influx or outflux of particles. In other words, it holds for an open system or for a closed, chemically reacting system where the \"N\" are changing. For a closed, non-reacting system, this term may be dropped.\n\nAny number of extra terms may be added, depending on the particular system being considered. Aside from mechanical work, a system may, in addition, perform numerous other types of work. For example, in the infinitesimal expression, the contractile work energy associated with a thermodynamic system that is a contractile fiber that shortens by an amount −d\"l\" under a force \"f\" would result in a term \"f\" d\"l\" being added. If a quantity of charge −d\"e\" is acquired by a system at an electrical potential Ψ, the electrical work associated with this is −Ψ d\"e\", which would be included in the infinitesimal expression. Other work terms are added on per system requirements.\n\nEach quantity in the equations above can be divided by the amount of substance, measured in moles, to form \"molar Gibbs free energy\". The Gibbs free energy is one of the most important thermodynamic functions for the characterization of a system. It is a factor in determining outcomes such as the voltage of an electrochemical cell, and the equilibrium constant for a reversible reaction. In isothermal, isobaric systems, Gibbs free energy can be thought of as a \"dynamic\" quantity, in that it is a representative measure of the competing effects of the enthalpic and entropic driving forces involved in a thermodynamic process.\n\nThe temperature dependence of the Gibbs energy for an ideal gas is given by the Gibbs–Helmholtz equation, and its pressure dependence is given by\n\nIf the volume is known rather than pressure, then it becomes\n\nor more conveniently as its chemical potential:\n\nIn non-ideal systems, fugacity comes into play.\n\nThe Gibbs free energy total differential natural variables may be derived by Legendre transforms of the internal energy.\n\nThe definition of \"G\" from above is\n\nTaking the total differential, we have\n\nReplacing d\"U\" with the result from the first law gives\n\nThe natural variables of \"G\" are then \"p\", \"T\", and {\"N\"}.\n\nBecause \"S\", \"V\", and \"N\" are extensive variables, an Euler integral allows easy integration of d\"U\":\n\nBecause some of the natural variables of \"G\" are intensive, d\"G\" may not be integrated using Euler integrals as is the case with internal energy. However, simply substituting the above integrated result for \"U\" into the definition of \"G\" gives a standard expression for \"G\":\n\nThis result applies to homogeneous, macroscopic systems, but not to all thermodynamic systems.\n\nThe system under consideration is held at constant temperature and pressure, and is closed (no matter can come in or out). The Gibbs energy of any system is and an infinitesimal change in \"G\", at constant temperature and pressure yields:\n\nBy the first law of thermodynamics, a change in the internal energy \"U\" is given by\n\nwhere \"δQ\" is energy added as heat, and \"δW\" is energy added as work. The work done on the system may be written as \"δW\" = −\"PdV\" + \"δW\", where −\"PdV\" is the mechanical work of compression/expansion done on the system and \"δW\" is all other forms of work, which may include electrical, magnetic, etc. Assuming that only mechanical work is done,\n\nand the infinitesimal change in \"G\" is:\n\nThe second law of thermodynamics states that for a closed system, formula_20, and so it follows that:\n\nThis means that for a system which is not in equilibrium, its Gibbs energy will always be decreasing, and when it is in equilibrium (i.e. no longer changing), the infinitesimal change \"dG\" will be zero. In particular, this will be true if the system is experiencing any number of internal chemical reactions on its path to equilibrium.\n\nDuring a reversible electrochemical reaction at constant temperature and pressure, the following equations involving the Gibbs free energy hold:\n\nand rearranging gives\n\nwhich relates the cell potential resulting from the reaction to the equilibrium constant and reaction quotient for that reaction (Nernst equation),\n\nwhere\n\nMoreover, we also have:\n\nwhich relates the equilibrium constant with Gibbs free energy. This implies that at equilibrium\n\nA chemical reaction will (or can) proceed spontaneously if the change in the total entropy of the universe that would be caused by the reaction is nonnegative. As discussed in the overview, if the temperature and pressure are held constant, the Gibbs free energy is a (negative) proxy for the change in total entropy of the universe. It is \"negative\" because \"S\" appears with a negative coefficient in the expression for \"G\", so the Gibbs free energy moves in the opposite direction from the total entropy. Thus, a reaction with a positive Gibbs free energy will not proceed spontaneously. However, in biological systems (among others), energy inputs from other energy sources (including the Sun and exothermic chemical reactions) are \"coupled\" with reactions that are not entropically favored (i.e. have a Gibbs free energy above zero). Taking into account the coupled reactions, the total entropy in the universe increases. This coupling allows endergonic reactions, such as photosynthesis and DNA synthesis, to proceed without decreasing the total entropy of the universe. Thus biological systems do not violate the second law of thermodynamics.\n\nThe standard Gibbs free energy of formation of a compound is the change of Gibbs free energy that accompanies the formation of 1 mole of that substance from its component elements, at their standard states (the most stable form of the element at 25 °C and 100 kPa). Its symbol is Δ\"G\"˚.\n\nAll elements in their standard states (diatomic oxygen gas, graphite, etc.) have standard Gibbs free energy change of formation equal to zero, as there is no change involved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22784865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22784865", "title": "Great Gypsy Round-up", "text": "Great Gypsy Round-up\n\nThe Great Gypsy Round-up (), also known as the general imprisonment of the gypsies (\"prisión general de gitanos\"), was a raid authorized and organized by the Spanish Monarchy that led to the arrest of all gypsies (Romani) in the region, and their imprisonment in labor camps. The raid was approved by the King Ferdinand VI of Spain, and organized by the Marquis of Ensenada, and set in motion simultaneously across Spain on July 30, 1749.\n\nSince a royal edict by Charles II in 1695, Spanish gypsies had been restricted to certain towns. An official edict in 1717 restricted them to only 75 towns and districts, so that they would not be concentrated in any one region.\n\nThe plans for the roundup were developed in secrecy. Among the first to draw up plans was the appointed Governor of the Council of Castile, Gaspar Vázquez Tablada, Bishop of Oviedo. It was later also supported by the opinion of the Jesuit Father Francisco Rávago, confessor to Ferdinand VI, whose reply about the morality of the roundup can be summarised in his commentary that: \nThe plan entailed sending troops to the towns with gypsy settlements, each carrying sealed set of instructions, which were only to be revealed to the commanders on a date just prior to the roundup in August. The gypsy settlements were to be surrounded, and all able-bodied adult gypsy males were internally deported to forced labor in the Naval arsenals or to specified mines, prisons, or factories. The women and children were forced into clothing manufacture. Those too ill to travel would remain in military custody until well enough to travel, or until they reached a \"Christian death\". The operation was to be funded by confiscated goods and homes of the gypsies.\n\nThe mechanics of the raid varied in efficiency from town to town. The roundup in Seville, where the city gates were closed by the encircling army to prevent escape of the target, created alarm in the general public, who was ignorant of the goals. Special edicts were obtained to prevent the use of churches as asylum. The definition of who exactly was a gypsy proved to be difficult in many cases, and was prone to abuse. For example, Gypsies married to non-gypsies were often spared. Nomadic gypsies, already less frequent, proved difficult to roundup. Ultimately, nearly 9-12 thousand gypsies were detained. The latter stages of transport and housing of the detainees proved less organized.\n\nAs protests began to arise from different communities, the orders were repeatedly modified to permit the release of some gypsies, often creating confusion among the local military commanders. Gradually, further imprisonments became sporadic, and in 1763, those gypsies who still remained in forced labor were ordered to be released by the king, a process that took the better part of two years.\n\nThe \"Gran Redada\" can be viewed as one of the last attempts by the crown of Spain to \"purify\" the country of Spain by large-scale dislocation of a whole ethnic community, preceded by the Expulsion of the Jews in 1492 and the Expulsion of the Moriscos in 1609.\n\n"}
{"id": "13535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13535", "title": "Heart of Darkness", "text": "Heart of Darkness\n\nHeart of Darkness (1899) is a novella by Polish-English novelist Joseph Conrad about a narrated voyage up the Congo River into the Congo Free State in the so-called \"heart of Africa\". Charles Marlow, the narrator, tells his story to friends aboard a boat anchored on the River Thames. This setting provides the frame for Marlow's story of his obsession with the ivory trader Kurtz, which enables Conrad to create a parallel between what Conrad calls \"the greatest town on earth\", London, and Africa as places of darkness.\n\nCentral to Conrad's work is the idea that there is little difference between so-called civilised people and those described as savages; \"Heart of Darkness\" raises questions about imperialism and racism.\n\nOriginally issued as a three-part serial story in \"Blackwood's Magazine\" to celebrate the thousandth edition of the magazine, \"Heart of Darkness\" has been widely re-published and translated into many languages. In 1998, the Modern Library ranked \"Heart of Darkness\" 67th on their list of the 100 best novels in English of the twentieth century.\n\nIn 1890, at the age of 32, Conrad was appointed by a Belgian trading company to serve on one of its steamers. While sailing up the Congo River from one station to another, the captain became ill and Conrad assumed command. He guided the ship up the tributary Lualaba River to the trading company's innermost station, Kindu, in Eastern Kongo. The story's main narrator, Charles Marlow, has similar experiences to the author himself.\nWhen Conrad began to write the novella, eight years after returning from Africa, he drew inspiration from his travel journals. He described \"Heart of Darkness\" as \"a wild story\" of a journalist who becomes manager of a station in the (African) interior and makes himself worshipped by a tribe of savages. Thus described, the subject seems comic, but isn't. The tale was first published as a three-part serial, February, March and April 1899, in \"Blackwood's Magazine\" (February 1899 was the magazine's 1000th issue: special edition). Then later, in 1902, \"Heart of Darkness\" was included in the book \"\" (published on 13 November 1902, by William Blackwood).\n\nThe volume consisted of \"Youth: a Narrative\", \"Heart of Darkness\" and \"The End of the Tether\" in that order. For future editions of the book, in 1917 Conrad wrote an \"\" where he, after denying any \"unity of artistic purpose\" underlying the collection, discusses each of the three stories, and makes light commentary on the character Marlow—the narrator of the tales within the first two stories. He also mentions how \"Youth\" marks the first appearance of Marlow.\n\nOn 31 May 1902, in a letter to William Blackwood, Conrad remarked:\n\nI call your own kind self to witness ... the last pages of Heart of Darkness where the interview of the man and the girl locks in—as it were—the whole 30000 words of narrative description into one suggestive view of a whole phase of life and makes of that story something quite on another plane than an anecdote of a man who went mad in the Centre of Africa.\n\nThere have been many proposed sources for the character of the antagonist, Kurtz. Georges-Antoine Klein, an agent who became ill and later died aboard Conrad's steamer, has been identified by scholars and literary critics as one basis for Kurtz. The principal figures involved in the disastrous \"rear column\" of the Emin Pasha Relief Expedition have also been identified as likely sources, including column leader Edmund Musgrave Barttelot, slave trader Tippu Tip and the expedition's overall leader, Welsh explorer Henry Morton Stanley. Adam Hochschild, in \"King Leopold's Ghost\", believes that the Belgian soldier Léon Rom is the most important influence on the character.\n\nAboard the \"Nellie\", anchored in the River Thames near Gravesend, England, Charles Marlow tells his fellow sailors about the events that led to his appointment as captain of a river steamboat for an ivory trading company. As a child, Marlow had been fascinated by \"the blank spaces\" on maps, particularly by the biggest, which by the time he had grown up was no longer blank but turned into \"a place of darkness\" (Conrad 10). Yet there remained a big river, \"resembling an immense snake uncoiled, with its head in the sea, its body at rest curving afar over a vast country and its tail lost in the depths of the land\" (Conrad 10). The image of this river on the map fascinated Marlow \"as a snake would a bird\" (Conrad 10). Feeling as though \"instead of going to the centre of a continent I were about to set off for the centre of the earth\", Marlow takes passage on a French steamer bound for the African coast and then into the interior (Conrad 18). After more than thirty days the ship anchors off the seat of the government near the mouth of the big river. Marlow, with still some two hundred miles to go, now takes passage on a little sea-going steamer captained by a Swede. He departs some thirty miles up the river where his Company's station is. Work on the railway is going on, involving removal of rocks with explosives. Marlow enters a narrow ravine to stroll in the shade under the trees, and finds himself in \"the gloomy circle of some Inferno\": the place is full of diseased Africans who worked on the railroad and now await their deaths, their sickened bodies already as thin as air (Conrad 24–25). Marlow witnesses the scene \"horror-struck\" (Conrad 26).\n\nMarlow has to wait for ten days in the Company's Outer Station, where he sleeps in a hut. At this station, which strikes Marlow as a scene of devastation, he meets the Company's impeccably dressed chief accountant who tells him of a Mr. Kurtz, who is in charge of a very important trading-post, and a widely respected, first-class agent, a \"'very remarkable person'\" who \"'Sends in as much ivory as all the others put together'\" (Conrad 28). The agent predicts that Kurtz will go very far: \"'He will be a somebody in the Administration before long. They, above—the Council in Europe, you know—mean him to be'\" (Conrad 29).\n\nMarlow departs with a caravan of sixty men to travel on foot some two hundred miles into the wilderness to the Central Station, where the steamboat that he is to captain is based. On the fifteenth day of his march, he arrives at the station, which has some twenty employees, and is shocked to learn from a fellow European that his steamboat had been wrecked in a mysterious accident two days earlier. He meets the general manager, who informs him that he could wait no longer for Marlow to arrive, because the up-river stations had to be relieved, and rumours had one important station in jeopardy because its chief, the exceptional Mr. Kurtz, was ill. \"Hang Kurtz\", Marlow thinks, irritated (Conrad 34). He fishes his boat out of the river and is occupied with its repair for some months, during which a sudden fire destroys a grass shed full of materials used to trade with the natives. While one of the natives is tortured for allegedly causing the fire, Marlow is invited in the room of the station's brick-maker, a man who spent a year waiting for material to make bricks. Marlow gets the impression the man wants to pump him, and is curious to know what kind of information he is after. Hanging on the wall is \"a small sketch in oils, on a panel, representing a woman draped and blindfolded carrying a lighted torch\" (Conrad 39). Marlow is fascinated with the sinister effect of the torchlight upon the woman's face, and is informed that Mr. Kurtz made the painting in the station a year ago. The brick-maker calls Kurtz \"'a prodigy'\" and \"'an emissary of pity, and science, and progress'\", and feels Kurtz represents the \"'higher intelligence, wide sympathies, a singleness of purpose'\" needed for the cause Europe entrusts the Company with (Conrad 39). The man predicts Kurtz will rise in the hierarchy within two years and then makes the connection to Marlow: \"'The same people who sent him specially also recommended you'\" (Conrad 39–40).\n\nMarlow is frustrated by the months it takes to perform the necessary repairs, made all the slower by the lack of proper tools and replacement parts at the station. During this time, he learns that Kurtz is far from admired, but more or less resented (mostly by the manager).\n\nOnce underway, the journey up-river to Kurtz's station takes two months to the day. The steamboat stops briefly near an abandoned hut on the riverbank, where Marlow finds a pile of wood and a note indicating that the wood is for them and that they should proceed quickly but with caution as they near the Inner Station.\nThe journey pauses for the night about eight miles below the Inner Station. In the morning the crew awakens to find that the boat is enveloped by a thick white fog. From the riverbank they hear a very loud cry, followed by a discordant clamour. A few hours later, as safe navigation becomes increasingly difficult, the steamboat is attacked with a barrage of small arrows from the forest. The helmsman is impaled by a spear and falls at Marlow's feet. Marlow sounds the steam whistle repeatedly, frightening the attackers and causing the shower of arrows to cease. Marlow and a pilgrim (Marlow's word for the European hangers-on in the steamer) watch the helmsman die. In a flash forward, Marlow notes that the International Society for the Suppression of Savage Customs had commissioned Kurtz to write a report, which he did eloquently. A handwritten postscript, apparently added later by Kurtz, reads \"Exterminate all the brutes!\" (Conrad 83).\n\nAt Kurtz's station Marlow sees a man on the riverbank waving his arm, urging them to land. The pilgrims, heavily armed, escort the manager on to the shore to retrieve Mr. Kurtz. The man from the bank boards the steamboat, and turns out to be a Russian wanderer who had happened to stray into Kurtz's camp. He explains that he had left the wood and the note at the abandoned hut. Through conversation Marlow discovers just how wanton Kurtz can be; how the natives worship him; and how very ill he has been of late. The Russian admires Kurtz for his intellect and his insights into love, life, and justice, and suggests that he is a poet. He tells of how Kurtz opened his mind, and seems to admire him even for his power—and for his willingness to use it. Marlow, on the other hand, suggests that Kurtz has gone mad.\n\nFrom the steamboat, Marlow observes the station in detail and is surprised to see near the station house a row of posts topped with the severed heads of natives. Around the corner of the house, the manager appears with the pilgrims, bearing a gaunt and ghost-like Kurtz on an improvised stretcher. The area fills with natives, apparently ready for battle, but Kurtz shouts something from the stretcher, and the natives retreat into the forest. The pilgrims carry Kurtz to the steamer and lay him in one of the cabins, where he and the manager have a private conversation. Marlow watches a beautiful native woman walk in measured steps along the shore and stop next to the steamer. When the manager exits the cabin he pulls Marlow aside and tells him that Kurtz has harmed the Company's business in the region, that his methods are \"unsound\". Later, the Russian reveals that Kurtz believes the Company wants to remove him from the station and kill him, and Marlow confirms that hangings had been discussed.\nAfter midnight, Marlow discovers that Kurtz has left his cabin on the steamer and returned to shore. He goes ashore and finds a very weak Kurtz crawling his way back to the station house, though not too weak to call to the natives for help. Marlow threatens to harm Kurtz if he raises an alarm, but Kurtz only laments that he had not accomplished more in the region. The next day they prepare for their journey back down the river. The natives, including the ornately dressed woman, once again assemble on shore and begin to shout unintelligibly. Noticing the pilgrims readying their rifles, Marlow sounds the steam whistle repeatedly to scatter the crowd of natives. Only the woman remains unmoved, with outstretched arms. The pilgrims open fire as the current carries them swiftly downstream.\n\nKurtz's health worsens on the return trip, and Marlow himself becomes increasingly ill. The steamboat breaks down and, while it is stopped for repairs, Kurtz gives Marlow a packet of papers, including his commissioned report and a photograph, telling him to keep them away from the manager. When Marlow next speaks with him, Kurtz is near death; as he dies, Marlow hears him weakly whisper: \"The horror! The horror!\" (Conrad 116). A short while later, the \"manager's boy\" announces to the rest of the crew, in a scathing tone, \"Mistah Kurtz—he dead\" (Conrad 117). The next day Marlow pays little attention to the pilgrims as they bury \"something\" in a muddy hole (Conrad 117). He falls very ill, himself near death.\n\nUpon his return to Europe, Marlow is embittered and contemptuous of the \"civilised\" world. Many callers come to retrieve the papers Kurtz had entrusted to him, but Marlow withholds them or offers papers he knows they have no interest in. He then gives Kurtz's report to a journalist, for publication if he sees fit. Finally Marlow is left with some personal letters and a photograph of Kurtz's fiancée, whom Kurtz referred to as \"My Intended\" (Conrad 79). When Marlow visits her, she is dressed in black and still deep in mourning, although it has been more than a year since Kurtz's death. She presses Marlow for information, asking him to repeat Kurtz's final words. Uncomfortable, Marlow lies and tells her that Kurtz's final word was her name.\n\nLiterary critic Harold Bloom wrote that \"Heart of Darkness\" had been analysed more than any other work of literature that is studied in universities and colleges, which he attributed to Conrad's \"unique propensity for ambiguity\". However, it was not a big success during Conrad's life. When it was published as a single volume in 1902 with two more novellas, \"Youth\" and \"The End of the Tether\", it received the least commentary from critics. F. R. Leavis referred to \"Heart of Darkness\" as a \"minor work\" and criticised its \"adjectival insistence upon inexpressible and incomprehensible mystery\". Conrad himself did not consider it to be particularly notable. By the 1960s, though, it was a standard assignment in many college and high school English courses.\n\nIn \"King Leopold's Ghost\" (1998), Adam Hochschild wrote that literary scholars have made too much of the psychological aspects of \"Heart of Darkness\", while paying scant attention to Conrad's accurate recounting of the horror arising from the methods and effects of colonialism in the Congo Free State. \"\"Heart of Darkness\" is experience ... pushed a little (and only very little) beyond the actual facts of the case.\" Other critiques include Hugh Curtler's \"Achebe on Conrad: Racism and Greatness in Heart of Darkness\" (1997). Moving beyond ideology critique, French philosopher Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe called \"Heart of Darkness\" \"one of the greatest texts of Western literature\" and used Conrad's tale for a reflection on \"The Horror of the West\".\n\n\"Heart of Darkness\" is criticised in postcolonial studies, particularly by Nigerian novelist Chinua Achebe. In his 1975 public lecture \"An Image of Africa: Racism in Conrad's Heart of Darkness\", Achebe described Conrad's novella as \"an offensive and deplorable book\" that de-humanised Africans. Achebe argued that Conrad, \"blinkered ... with xenophobia\", incorrectly depicted Africa as the antithesis of Europe and civilisation, ignoring the artistic accomplishments of the Fang people who lived in the Congo River basin at the time of the book's publication. He argued that the book promoted and continues to promote a prejudiced image of Africa that \"depersonalises a portion of the human race\", and concluded that it should not be considered a great work of art.\n\nZimbabwean scholar Rino Zhuwarara broadly agreed with Achebe, though considered it important to be \"sensitised to how peoples of other nations perceive Africa\". In 2003, Botswanan scholar Peter Mwikisa concluded the book was \"the great lost opportunity to depict dialogue between Africa and Europe.\" In 1983, British academic Cedric Watts criticized Achebe's apparent assertion that only black people may accurately analyse and assess the novella. Stan Galloway writes, in a comparison of \"Heart of Darkness\" with \" Jungle Tales of Tarzan\", \"The inhabitants [of both works], whether antagonists or compatriots, were clearly imaginary and meant to represent a particular fictive cipher and not a particular African people.\"\n\nNovelist Caryl Phillips stated in 2003 that: \"Achebe is right; to the African reader the price of Conrad's eloquent denunciation of colonisation is the recycling of racist notions of the 'dark' continent and her people. Those of us who are not from Africa may be prepared to pay this price, but this price is far too high for Achebe.\" More recent critics have stressed that the \"continuities\" between Conrad and Achebe are profound and that a form of \"postcolonial mimesis\" ties the two authors.\n\nOrson Welles adapted and starred in \"Heart of Darkness\" in a CBS Radio broadcast on 6 November 1938 as part of his series, \"The Mercury Theatre on the Air\". In 1939 Welles adapted the story for his first film for RKO Pictures, writing a screenplay with John Houseman. It was intended to be entirely filmed as a POV from Marlow's eyes. Welles even filmed a short presentation film illustrating his intent. It has been reported as lost to history. The project was never realised; one reason given was the loss of European markets after the outbreak of war. Welles still hoped to produce the film when he presented another radio adaptation of the story as his first program as producer-star of the CBS radio series \"This Is My Best\". Welles scholar Bret Wood called the broadcast of 13 March 1945, \"the closest representation of the film Welles might have made, crippled, of course, by the absence of the story's visual elements (which were so meticulously designed) and the half-hour length of the broadcast.\"\n\nIn 1991, Australian author and playwright Larry Buttrose wrote and staged a theatrical production of \"Kurtz\" (based on \"Heart of Darkness\") with the Crossroads Theatre Company, Sydney. The play was announced to be broadcast as a radio play to Australian radio audiences in August 2011 by the Vision Australia Radio Network, and also by the RPH – Radio Print Handicapped Network across Australia.\n\nIn 2011, an operatic adaptation by composer Tarik O'Regan and librettist Tom Phillips was premiered at the Linbury Theatre of the Royal Opera House in London. A suite for orchestra and narrator was subsequently extrapolated from it.\n\nIn 2015, an adaption of Orson Welles' screenplay by Jamie Lloyd and Laurence Bowen was aired on BBC Radio 4. The production starred James McAvoy as Marlow.\n\nThe CBS television anthology \"Playhouse 90\" aired a 90-minute loose adaptation in 1958. This version, written by Stewart Stern, uses the encounter between Marlow (Roddy McDowall) and Kurtz (Boris Karloff) as its final act, and adds a backstory in which Marlow had been Kurtz's adopted son. The cast includes Inga Swenson and Eartha Kitt.\n\nThe most famous adaptation is Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 motion picture \"Apocalypse Now\" based on the screenplay by John Milius, which moves the story from the Congo to Vietnam and Cambodia during the Vietnam War. In \"Apocalypse Now\", Martin Sheen plays Captain Benjamin L. Willard, a US Army Captain assigned to \"terminate the command\" of Colonel Walter E. Kurtz. Marlon Brando played Kurtz, in one of his most famous roles. A production documentary of the film, titled \"\", exposed some of the major difficulties which director Coppola faced in seeing the movie through to completion. The difficulties that Coppola and his crew faced mirrored some of the themes of the book.\n\nOn 13 March 1993 TNT aired a new version of the story directed by Nicolas Roeg, starring Tim Roth as Marlow and John Malkovich as Kurtz.\n\nThe video game \"Far Cry 2,\" released on 21 October 2008, is a loose modernised adaptation of \"Heart of Darkness\". The player assumes the role of a mercenary operating in Africa whose task it is to kill an arms dealer, the elusive \"Jackal\". The last area of the game is called 'The Heart of Darkness'.\n\nThe video game \",\" released on 26 June 2012, is a direct modernised adaptation of \"Heart of Darkness\". The player assumes the role of special-ops agent Martin Walker as he and his team search Dubai for survivors in the aftermath of catastrophic sandstorms that left the city without contact to the outside world. The character John Konrad, who replaces the character Kurtz, is a reference to the author of the novella.\n\n\"Victoria II\", a grand strategy game produced by Paradox Interactive, launched an expansion pack titled \"Heart of Darkness\" on 16 April 2013, which revamped the game's colonial system, and naval warfare.\n\nThe novel \"Hearts of Darkness\", by Paul Lawrence, moves the events of the novel to England in 1666. Marlow's journey into the jungle is reimagined as the journey of the narrator, Harry Lytle, and his friend Davy Dowling out of London and towards Shyam, a plague-stricken town that has descended into cruelty and barbarism loosely modelled on real-life Eyam. While Marlow must return to civilisation with Kurtz, Lytle and Dowling are searching for the spy James Josselin. Like Kurtz, Josselin's reputation is immense, and the protagonists are well-acquainted with his accomplishments by the time they finally meet him.\n\nPoet Yedda Morrison's 2012 book \"Darkness\" erases Conrad's novella, \"whiting out\" his text so that only images of the natural world remain.\n\nJames Reich's \"Mistah Kurtz! A Prelude to Heart of Darkness\" presents the early life of Kurtz, his appointment to his station in the Congo, and his messianic disintegration in a novel that dovetails with the conclusion of Conrad's novella. Reich's novel is premised upon the papers Kurtz leaves to Marlow at the end of \"Heart of Darkness.\"\n\nIn Josef Škvorecký's novel \"The Engineer of Human Souls\" Kurtz is seen as the epitome of exterminatory colonialism, and here and elsewhere Škvorecký emphasises the importance of Conrad's concern with Russian imperialism in Eastern Europe.\n\nT. S. Eliot wrote \"Mistah Kurtz—he dead\" at the beginning of the poem \"The Hollow Men\", quoting the \"manager's boy\" when he announced the death of Kurtz to the crew.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5097395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5097395", "title": "Homophobia", "text": "Homophobia\n\nHomophobia encompasses a range of negative attitudes and feelings toward homosexuality or people who are identified or perceived as being lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT). It has been defined as contempt, prejudice, aversion, hatred or antipathy, may be based on irrational fear, and is often related to religious beliefs.\n\nHomophobia is observable in critical and hostile behavior such as discrimination and violence on the basis of sexual orientations that are non-heterosexual. Recognized types of homophobia include \"institutionalized\" homophobia, e.g. religious homophobia and state-sponsored homophobia, and \"internalized\" homophobia, experienced by people who have same-sex attractions, regardless of how they identify.\n\nNegative attitudes toward identifiable LGBT groups have similar yet specific names: lesbophobia is the intersection of homophobia and sexism directed against lesbians, biphobia targets bisexuality and bisexual people, and transphobia targets transgender and transsexual people and gender variance or gender role nonconformity. According to 2010 Hate Crimes Statistics released by the FBI National Press Office, 19.3 percent of hate crimes across the United States \"were motivated by a sexual orientation bias.\" Moreover, in a Southern Poverty Law Center 2010 \"Intelligence Report\" extrapolating data from fourteen years (1995–2008), which had complete data available at the time, of the FBI's national hate crime statistics found that LGBT people were \"far more likely than any other minority group in the United States to be victimized by violent hate crime.\"\n\nThe term \"homophobia\" and its usage have been criticized by several sources as unwarrantedly pejorative.\n\nAlthough sexual attitudes tracing back to Ancient Greece (8th to 6th centuries BC to the end of antiquity (ca. 600 AD)) have been termed homophobia by scholars, the term itself is relatively new, and an intolerance towards homosexuality and homosexuals grew during the Middle Ages, especially by adherents of Islam and Christianity.\n\nCoined by George Weinberg, a psychologist, in the 1960s, the term \"homophobia\" is a blend of (1) the word \"homosexual\", itself a mix of neo-classical morphemes, and (2) \"phobia\" from the Greek φόβος, phóbos, meaning \"fear\" or \"morbid fear\". Weinberg is credited as the first person to have used the term in speech. The word \"homophobia\" first appeared in print in an article written for the May 23, 1969, edition of the American pornographic magazine \"Screw\", in which the word was used to refer to heterosexual men's fear that others might think they are gay.\n\nConceptualizing anti-LGBT prejudice as a social problem worthy of scholarly attention was not new. A 1969 article in \"Time\" described examples of negative attitudes toward homosexuality as \"homophobia\", including \"a mixture of revulsion and apprehension\" which some called \"homosexual panic\". In 1971, Kenneth Smith used \"homophobia\" as a personality profile to describe the psychological aversion to homosexuality. Weinberg also used it this way in his 1972 book \"Society and the Healthy Homosexual\", published one year before the American Psychiatric Association voted to remove homosexuality from its list of mental disorders. Weinberg's term became an important tool for gay and lesbian activists, advocates, and their allies. He describes the concept as a medical phobia:\n\nIn 1981, \"homophobia\" was used for the first time in \"The Times\" (of London) to report that the General Synod of the Church of England voted to refuse to condemn homosexuality.\n\nHomophobia manifests in different forms, and a number of different types have been postulated, among which are internalized homophobia, social homophobia, emotional homophobia, rationalized homophobia, and others. There were also ideas to classify homophobia, racism, and sexism as an \"intolerant personality disorder\".\n\nIn 1992, the American Psychiatric Association, recognizing the power of the stigma against homosexuality, issued the following statement, reaffirmed by the Board of Trustees, July 2011:\n\"Whereas homosexuality \"per se\" implies no impairment in judgment, stability, reliability, or general social or vocational capabilities, the American Psychiatric Association (APA) calls on all international health organizations, psychiatric organizations, and individual psychiatrists in other countries to urge the repeal in their own countries of legislation that penalizes homosexual acts by consenting adults in private. Further, APA calls on these organizations and individuals to do all that is possible to decrease the stigma related to homosexuality wherever and whenever it may occur.\"\n\nMany world religions contain anti-homosexual teachings, while other religions have varying degrees of ambivalence, neutrality, or incorporate teachings that regard homosexuals as third gender. Even within some religions which generally discourage homosexuality, there are also people who view homosexuality positively, and some religious denominations bless or conduct same-sex marriages. There also exist so-called Queer religions, dedicated to serving the spiritual needs of LGBTQI persons. Queer theology seeks to provide a counterpoint to religious homophobia. In 2015, attorney and author Roberta Kaplan stated that Kim Davis \"is the clearest example of someone who wants to use a religious liberty argument to discriminate [against same-sex couples].\"\n\nThe Bible, especially the Old Testament, contains some passages commonly interpreted as condemning homosexuality or same-gender sexual relations. Leviticus 18:22, says \"Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination.\" The destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah is also commonly seen as a condemnation of homosexuality. Christians and Jews who oppose homosexuality often cite such passages; historical context and interpretation is more complicated. Scholarly debate over the interpretation of these passages has focused on placing them in proper historical context, for instance pointing out that Sodom's sins are historically interpreted as being other than homosexuality, and on the translation of rare or unusual words in the passages in question. In \"Religion Dispatches\" magazine, Candace Chellew-Hodge argues that the six or so verses that are often cited to condemn LGBT people are referring instead to \"abusive sex\". She states that the Bible has no condemnation for \"loving, committed, gay and lesbian relationships\" and that Jesus was silent on the subject.\n\nThe official teaching of the Catholic Church regarding homosexuality is that same-sex behavior should not be expressed. The Catechism of the Catholic Church States that, \"'homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered.'...They are contrary to the natural law... Under no circumstances can they be approved.\"\n\nIn some cases, the distinction between religious homophobia and state-sponsored homophobia is not clear, a key example being territories under Islamic authority. All major Islamic sects forbid homosexuality, which is a crime under Sharia Law and treated as such in most Muslim countries. In Afghanistan, for instance, homosexuality carried the death penalty under the Taliban. After their fall, homosexuality was reduced from a capital crime to one that is punished with fines and prison sentences. The legal situation in the United Arab Emirates, however, is unclear.\n\nIn 2009, the International Lesbian and Gay Association (ILGA) published a report entitled \"State Sponsored Homophobia 2009\", which is based on research carried out by Daniel Ottosson at Södertörn University College, Stockholm, Sweden. This research found that of the 80 countries around the world that continue to consider homosexuality illegal:\n\nIn 2001, Al-Muhajiroun, an international organization seeking the establishment of a global Islamic caliphate, issued a fatwa declaring that all members of The Al-Fatiha Foundation (which advances the cause of gay, lesbian, and transgender Muslims) were \"murtadd\", or apostates, and condemning them to death. Because of the threat and because they come from conservative societies, many members of the foundation's site still prefer to be anonymous so as to protect their identities while they are continuing a tradition of secrecy.\n\nState-sponsored homophobia includes the criminalization and penalization of homosexuality, hate speech from government figures, and other forms of discrimination, violence, persecution of LGBT people.\n\nIn medieval Europe, homosexuality was considered sodomy and it was punishable by death. Persecutions reached their height during the Medieval Inquisitions, when the sects of Cathars and Waldensians were accused of fornication and sodomy, alongside accusations of Satanism. In 1307, accusations of sodomy and homosexuality were major charges leveled during the Trial of the Knights Templar. The theologian Thomas Aquinas was influential in linking condemnations of homosexuality with the idea of natural law, arguing that \"special sins are against nature, as, for instance, those that run counter to the intercourse of male and female natural to animals, and so are peculiarly qualified as unnatural vices.\"\n\nAlthough bisexuality was accepted as normal human behavior in Ancient China, homophobia became ingrained in the late Qing Dynasty and the Republic of China due to interactions with the Christian West, and homosexual behaviour was outlawed in 1740. When Mao Zedong came to power, the government thought of homosexuality as \"social disgrace or a form of mental illness\", and \"[d]uring the cultural revolution (1966–76), people who were homosexual faced their worst period of persecution in Chinese history.\" Despite there being no law in the communist People's Republic against homosexuality, \"police regularly rounded up gays and lesbians.\" Other laws were used to prosecute homosexual people and they were \"charged with hooliganism or disturbing public order.\"\n\nThe Soviet Union under Vladimir Lenin decriminalized homosexuality in 1922, long before many other European countries. The Soviet Communist Party effectively legalized no-fault divorce, abortion and homosexuality, when they abolished all the old Tsarist laws and the initial Soviet criminal code kept these liberal sexual policies in place. Lenin's emancipation was reversed a decade later by Joseph Stalin and homosexuality remained illegal under Article 121 until the Yeltsin era.\n\nHomosexuals were one of the many groups alongside Jews that were murdered during the Holocaust.\n\nHomosexuality is illegal in 74 countries. The North Korean government condemns Western gay culture as a vice caused by the decadence of a capitalist society, and it denounces it as promoting consumerism, classism, and promiscuity. In North Korea, \"violating the rules of collective socialist life\" can be punished with up to two years' imprisonment. However, according to the North Korean government, \"As a country that has embraced science and rationalism, the DPRK recognizes that many individuals are born with homosexuality as a genetic trait and treats them with due respect. Homosexuals in the DPRK have never been subject to repression, as in many capitalist regimes around the world.\"\n\nRobert Mugabe, the former president of Zimbabwe, has waged a violent campaign against LGBT people, arguing that before colonisation, Zimbabweans did not engage in homosexual acts. His first major public condemnation of homosexuality was in August 1995, during the Zimbabwe International Book Fair. He told an audience: \"If you see people parading themselves as lesbians and gays, arrest them and hand them over to the police!\" In September 1995, Zimbabwe's parliament introduced legislation banning homosexual acts. In 1997, a court found Canaan Banana, Mugabe's predecessor and the first President of Zimbabwe, guilty of 11 counts of sodomy and indecent assault.\n\nInternalized homophobia refers to negative stereotypes, beliefs, stigma, and prejudice about homosexuality and LGBT people that a person with same-sex attraction turns inward on themselves, whether or not they identify as LGBT. The degree to which someone is affected by these ideas depends on how much and which ideas they have consciously and subconsciously internalized. These negative beliefs can be mitigated with education, life experience and therapy, especially with gay-friendly psychotherapy/analysis. Internalized homophobia also applies to conscious or unconscious behaviors which a person feels the need to promote or conform to cultural expectations of heteronormativity or heterosexism. This can include extreme repression and denial coupled with forced outward displays of heteronormative behavior for the purpose of appearing or attempting to feel \"normal\" or \"accepted.\" Other expressions of internalized homophobia can also be subtle. Some less overt behaviors may include making assumptions about the gender of a person's romantic partner, or about gender roles. Some researchers also apply this label to LGBT people who support \"compromise\" policies, such as those that find civil unions acceptable in place of same-sex marriage.\n\nSome studies have shown that people who are homophobic are more likely to have repressed homosexual desires. In 1996, a controlled study of 64 heterosexual men (half said they were homophobic by experience, with self-reported orientation) at the University of Georgia found that men who were found to be homophobic (as measured by the Index of Homophobia) were considerably more likely to experience more erectile responses when exposed to homoerotic images than non-homophobic men. Another study in 2012 arrived at similar results when researchers found that students who came from \"the most rigid anti-gay homes\" were most likely to reveal repressed homosexual attraction. The researchers said that this explained why some religious leaders who denounce homosexuality are later revealed to have secret homosexual relations. They noted that \"these people are at war with themselves and are turning this internal conflict outward.\" A 2016 eye-tracking study showed that heterosexual men with high negative impulse reactions toward homosexuals gazed for longer periods at homosexual imagery than other heterosexual men. According to Cheval et al. (2016), these findings reinforce the necessity to consider that homophobia might reflect concerns about sexuality in general and not homosexuality in particular.\n\nResearcher Iain R. Williamson, in his 1998 paper \"Internalized Homophobia and Health Issues Affecting Lesbians and Gay Men\" finds the term \"homophobia\" to be \"highly problematic\" but for reasons of continuity and consistency with the majority of other publications on the issue retains its use rather than using more accurate but obscure terminology. The phrase \"internalized sexual stigma\" is sometimes used in place to represent internalized homophobia. An internalized stigma arises when a person believes negative stereotypes about themselves, regardless of where the stereotypes come from. It can also refer to many stereotypes beyond sexuality and gender roles. Internalized homophobia can cause discomfort with and disapproval of one's own sexual orientation. Ego-dystonic sexual orientation or egodystonic homophobia, for instance, is a condition characterized by having a sexual orientation or an attraction that is at odds with one's idealized self-image, causing anxiety and a desire to change one's orientation or become more comfortable with one's sexual orientation. Such a situation may cause extreme repression of homosexual desires. In other cases, a conscious internal struggle may occur for some time, often pitting deeply held religious or social beliefs against strong sexual and emotional desires. This discordance can cause clinical depression, and a higher rate of suicide among LGBT youth (up to 30 percent of non-heterosexual youth attempt suicide) has been attributed to this phenomenon. Psychotherapy, such as gay affirmative psychotherapy, and participation in a sexual-minority affirming group can help resolve the internal conflicts, such as between religious beliefs and sexual identity. Even informal therapies that address understanding and accepting of non-heterosexual orientations can prove effective. Many diagnostic \"Internalized Homophobia Scales\" can be used to measure a person's discomfort with their sexuality and some can be used by people regardless of gender or sexual orientation. Critics of the scales note that they presume a discomfort with non-heterosexuality which in itself enforces heternormativity.\n\nThe fear of being identified as gay can be considered as a form of social homophobia. Theorists including Calvin Thomas and Judith Butler have suggested that homophobia can be rooted in an individual's fear of being identified as gay. Homophobia in men is correlated with insecurity about masculinity. For this reason, homophobia is allegedly rampant in sports, and in the subculture of its supporters that is considered stereotypically male, such as association football and rugby.\n\nThese theorists have argued that a person who expresses homophobic thoughts and feelings does so not only to communicate their beliefs about the class of gay people, but also to distance themselves from this class and its social status. Thus, by distancing themselves from gay people, they are reaffirming their role as a heterosexual in a heteronormative culture, thereby attempting to prevent themselves from being labeled and treated as a gay person. This interpretation alludes to the idea that a person may posit violent opposition to \"the Other\" as a means of establishing their own identity as part of the majority and thus gaining social validation.\n\nNancy J. Chodorow states that homophobia can be viewed as a method of protection of male masculinity.\n\nVarious psychoanalytic theories explain homophobia as a threat to an individual's own same-sex impulses, whether those impulses are imminent or merely hypothetical. This threat causes repression, denial or reaction formation.\n\nDisapproval of homosexuality and of gay people is not evenly distributed throughout society, but is more or less pronounced according to age, ethnicity, geographic location, race, sex, social class, education, partisan identification and religious status. According to UK HIV/AIDS charity AVERT, religious views, lack of homosexual feelings or experiences, and lack of interaction with gay people are strongly associated with such views.\n\nThe anxiety of heterosexual individuals (particularly adolescents whose construction of heterosexual masculinity is based in part on not being seen as gay) that others may identify them as gay has also been identified by Michael Kimmel as an example of homophobia. The taunting of boys seen as eccentric (and who are not usually gay) is said to be endemic in rural and suburban American schools, and has been associated with risk-taking behavior and outbursts of violence (such as a spate of school shootings) by boys seeking revenge or trying to assert their masculinity. Homophobic bullying is also very common in schools in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn some cases, the works of authors who merely have the word \"Gay\" in their name (Gay Talese, Peter Gay) or works about things also contain the name (\"Enola Gay\") have been destroyed because of a perceived pro-homosexual bias.\n\nIn the United States, attitudes about people who are homosexual may vary on the basis of partisan identification. Republicans are far more likely than Democrats to have negative attitudes about people who are gay and lesbian, according to surveys conducted by the National Election Studies from 2000 through 2004. This disparity is shown in the graph on the right, which is from a book published in 2008 by Joseph Fried. The tendency of Republicans to view gay and lesbian people negatively could be based on homophobia, religious beliefs, or conservatism with respect to the traditional family.\n\nHomophobia also varies by region; statistics show that the Southern United States has more reports of anti-gay prejudice than any other region in the US.\n\nIn a 1998 address, author, activist, and civil rights leader Coretta Scott King stated that \"Homophobia is like racism and anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry in that it seeks to dehumanize a large group of people, to deny their humanity, their dignity and personhood.\" One study of white adolescent males conducted at the University of Cincinnati by Janet Baker has been used to argue that negative feelings towards gay people are also associated with other discriminatory behaviors. According to the study, hatred of gay people, anti-Semitism, and racism are \"likely companions.\" Baker hypothesized \"maybe it's a matter of power and looking down on all you think are at the bottom.\" A study performed in 2007 in the UK for the charity Stonewall reports that up to 90 percent of the population support anti-discrimination laws protecting gay and lesbian people.\n\nSocial constructs and culture can perpetuate homophobic attitudes. Such cultural sources in the black community include:\n\nSources of homophobia in the white community include:\n\nProfessional sports in many countries involves homophobic expressions by star athletes and by fans. Incidents in the United States have included:\n\nHowever, the major professional sports leagues do not advocate homophobia, and regard the LGBT community as an important marketing base.\n\nThere are at least two studies which indicate that homophobia may have a negative economic impact for the countries where it is widespread. In these countries there is a flight of their LGBT populations —with the consequent loss of talent—, as well as an avoidance of LGBT tourism, that leaves the pink money in LGBT-friendlier countries. As an example, LGBT tourists contribute 6,800 million dollars every year to the Spanish economy.\n\nAs soon as 2005, an editorial from the \"New York Times\" related the politics of \"don't ask, don't tell\" in the US Army with the lack of translators from Arabic, and with the delay in the translation of Arabic documents, calculated to be about 120,000 hours at the time. Since 1998, with the introduction of the new policy, about 20 Arabic translators had been expelled from the Army, specifically during the years the US was involved in wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nM. V. Lee Badgett, an economist at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, presented in March 2014 in a meeting of the World Bank the results of a study about the economical impact of homophobia in India. Only in health expenses, caused by depression, suicide, and HIV treatment, India would have spent additional 23,100 million dollars due to homophobia. On top, there would be costs caused by violence, workplace loss, rejection of the family, and bullying at school, that would result in a lower education level, lower productivity, lower wages, worse health, and a lower life expectancy among the LGBT population. In total, she estimated for 2014 in India a loss of up to 30,800 million dollars, or 1,7 % of the Indian GDP.\n\nThe LGBT activist Adebisi Alimi, in a preliminary estimation, has calculated that the economic loss due to homophobia in Nigeria is about 1% of its GDP. Taking into account that in 2015 homosexuality is still illegal in 36 of the 54 African countries, the money loss due to homophobia in the continent could amount to hundreds of millions of dollars every year.\n\nA study had been conducted regarding socioecological measurement of homophobia for all countries and its public health impact for 158 countries. They had found that prejudice against gay people the economic cost is $119.1 billion of GDP in worldwide. They had found Asian economical loss is 88.29 billion dollar for homophobia and for 8.04 billion dollar for latin America & Caribbean. Economical cost of East Asia and middle asia is 10.85 billion dollar. Economical cost of Middle East and North Africa is 16.92 billion dollar. The researcher suggested that 1% decrease in the level of homophobia is associated with a 10% increase in the gross domestic product per capita.\n\nMost international human rights organizations, such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, condemn laws that make homosexual relations between consenting adults a crime. Since 1994, the United Nations Human Rights Committee has also ruled that such laws violated the right to privacy guaranteed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In 2008, the Roman Catholic Church issued a statement which \"urges States to do away with criminal penalties against [homosexual persons].\" The statement, however, was addressed to reject a resolution by the UN Assembly that would have precisely called for an end of penalties against homosexuals in the world. In March 2010, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a recommendation on measures to combat discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity, described by CoE Secretary General as the first legal instrument in the world dealing specifically with one of the most long-lasting and difficult forms of discrimination to combat.\n\nTo combat homophobia, the LGBT community uses events such as gay pride parades and political activism (\"See gay pride).\" This is criticized by some as counter-productive though, as gay pride parades showcase what could be seen as more \"extreme\" sexuality: fetish-based and gender-variant aspects of LGBT culture. One form of organized resistance to homophobia is the International Day Against Homophobia (or IDAHO), first celebrated May 17, 2005 in related activities in more than 40 countries. The four largest countries of Latin America (Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Colombia) developed mass media campaigns against homophobia since 2002.\n\nIn addition to public expression, legislation has been designed, controversially, to oppose homophobia, as in hate speech, hate crime, and laws against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Successful preventative strategies against homophobic prejudice and bullying in schools have included teaching pupils about historical figures who were gay, or who suffered discrimination because of their sexuality.\n\nSome argue that anti-LGBT prejudice is immoral and goes above and beyond the effects on that class of people. Warren J. Blumenfeld argues that this emotion gains a dimension beyond itself, as a tool for extreme right-wing conservatives and fundamentalist religious groups and as a restricting factor on gender-relations as to the weight associated with performing each role accordingly. Furthermore, Blumenfeld in particular stated:\n\nDrawing upon research by Arizona State University Professor Elizabeth Segal, University of Memphis professors Robin Lennon-Dearing and Elena Delavega argued in a 2016 article published in the \"Journal of Homosexuality\" that homophobia could be reduced through exposure (learning about LGBT experiences), explanation (understanding the different challenges faced by LGBT people), and experience (putting themselves in situations experienced by LGBT people by working alongside LGBT co-workers or volunteering at an LGBT community center).\n\nResearchers have proposed alternative terms to describe prejudice and discrimination against LGBT people. Some of these alternatives show more semantic transparency while others do not include -\"phobia\":\n\n\nPeople and groups have objected to the use of the term \"homophobia\".\n\nUse of \"homophobia\", \"homophobic\", and \"homophobe\" has been criticized as pejorative against LGBT rights opponents. Behavioral scientists William O'Donohue and Christine Caselles stated in 1993 that \"as [\"homophobia\"] is usually used, [it] makes an illegitimately pejorative evaluation of certain open and debatable value positions, much like the former disease construct of homosexuality\" itself, arguing that the term may be used as an \"ad hominem\" argument against those who advocate values or positions of which the user does not approve. Philosopher Gary Colwell stated in 1999 that \"the boundary of the term 'homophobia' is made so elastic that it can stretch around, not just phobias, but every kind of rational fear as well; and not just around every kind of fear, but also around every critical posture or idea that anyone may have about the practice of homosexuality\".\n\nIn 2012 the Associated Press Stylebook was revised to advise against using non-clinical words with the suffix -phobia, including homophobia, in \"political and social contexts.\" AP Deputy Standards Editor Dave Minthorn said the word homophobia suggests a severe mental disorder, and that it could be substituted with \"anti-gay\" or similar phrasing. The AP's decision was criticized in some media outlets, especially those in the LGBT area, who argued that homophobia did not necessarily have to be interpreted in a strict clinical sense.\n\nThe term \"heterophobia\" is sometimes used to describe reverse discrimination or negative attitudes towards heterosexual people and opposite-sex relationships. The scientific use of \"heterophobia\" in sexology is restricted to few researchers, notably those who question Alfred Kinsey's sex research. To date, the existence or extent of heterophobia is mostly unrecognized by sexologists. Beyond sexology there is no consensus as to the meaning of the term because it is also used to mean \"fear of the opposite\" such as in Pierre-André Taguieff's \"The Force of Prejudice: On Racism and Its Doubles\" (2001).\n\nReferring to the debate on both meaning and use, SUNY lecturer Raymond J. Noonan, in his 1999 presentation to The Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS) and the American Association of Sex Educators, Counselors, and Therapists (AASECT) Conference, states:\n\nThe term heterophobia is confusing for some people for several reasons. On the one hand, some look at it as just another of the many me-too social constructions that have arisen in the pseudoscience of victimology in recent decades. (Many of us recall John Money’s 1995 criticism of the ascendancy of victimology and its negative impact on sexual science.) Others look at the parallelism between heterophobia and homophobia, and suggest that the former trivializes the latter... For others, it is merely a curiosity or parallel-construction word game. But for others still, it is part of both the recognition and politicization of heterosexuals' cultural interests in contrast to those of gays—particularly where those interests are perceived to clash.\n\nStephen M. White and Louis R. Franzini introduced the related term \"heteronegativism\" to refer to the considerable range of negative feelings that some gay individuals may hold and express toward heterosexuals. This term is preferred to \"heterophobia\" because it does not imply extreme or irrational fear.\n\n"}
{"id": "432622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432622", "title": "Horror and terror", "text": "Horror and terror\n\nThe distinction between horror and terror is a standard literary and psychological concept applied especially to Gothic and horror fiction. \"Terror\" is usually described as the feeling of dread and anticipation that \"precedes\" the horrifying experience. By contrast, \"horror\" is the feeling of revulsion that usually \"follows\" a frightening sight, sound, or otherwise experience. It is the feeling one gets after coming to an awful realisation or experiencing a deeply unpleasant occurrence. In other words, horror is more related to being shocked or scared (being horrified), while terror is more related to being anxious or fearful. Horror has also been defined as a combination of terror and revulsion.\n\nThe distinction between terror and horror was first characterized by the Gothic writer Ann Radcliffe (1764–1823). Terror is characterized by \"obscurity\" or indeterminacy in its treatment of potentially horrible events; it is this indeterminacy which leads to the sublime. She says in the essay that it \"expands the soul and awakens the faculties to a high degree of life\". Horror, in contrast, \"freezes and nearly annihilates them\" with its unambiguous displays of atrocity. She goes on: \"I apprehend that neither Shakespeare nor Milton by their fictions, nor Mr Burke by his reasoning, anywhere looked to positive horror as a source of the sublime, though they all agree that terror is a very high one; and where lies the great difference between horror and terror, but in uncertainty and obscurity, that accompany the first, respecting the dreader evil.\"\n\nAccording to Devendra Varma in \"The Gothic Flame\" (1966):\n\nThe difference between Terror and Horror is the difference between awful apprehension and sickening realization: between the smell of death and stumbling against a corpse.\n\nHorror is also a genre of film and fiction that relies on horrifying images or situations to tell stories and prompt reactions in their audiences. In these films the moment of horrifying revelation is usually preceded by a terrifying build up, often using the medium of scary music.\n\nIn his non-fiction book \"Danse Macabre\", Stephen King elaborated on the themes of terror and horror, also adding a third element which he referred to as \"revulsion\". He describes terror as \"the finest element\" of the three, and the one he strives hardest to maintain in his own writing. Citing many examples, he defines \"terror\" as the suspenseful moment in horror before the actual monster is revealed. \"Horror,\" King writes, is that moment at which one sees the creature/aberration that causes the terror or suspense, a \"shock value\". King finally compares \"revulsion\" with the gag-reflex, a bottom-level, cheap gimmick which he admits he often resorts to in his own fiction if necessary, confessing:\nI recognize terror as the finest emotion and so I will try to terrorize the reader. But if I find that I cannot terrify, I will try to horrify, and if I find that I cannot horrify, I'll go for the gross-out. I'm not proud.\n\n"}
{"id": "2842189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2842189", "title": "Hyphenation algorithm", "text": "Hyphenation algorithm\n\nA hyphenation algorithm is a set of rules, especially one codified for implementation in a computer program, that decides at which points a word can be broken over two lines with a hyphen. For example, a hyphenation algorithm might decide that \"impeachment\" can be broken as \"impeach-ment\" or \"im-peachment\" but not \"impe-achment\".\n\nOne of the reasons for the complexity of the rules of word-breaking is that different \"dialects\" of English tend to differ on hyphenation: American English tends to work on sound, but British English tends to look to the origins of the word and then to sound. There are also a large number of exceptions, which further complicates matters.\n\nSome rules of thumb can be found in \"On Hyphenation – Anarchy of Pedantry.\" Among the algorithmic approaches to hyphenation, the one implemented in the TeX typesetting system is widely used. It is thoroughly documented in the first two volumes of\n\"Computers and Typesetting\" and in Francis Mark Liang's dissertation. The aim of Liang's work was to get the algorithm as accurate as he practically could and to keep any exception dictionary small.\n\nIn TeX's original hyphenation patterns for American English, the exception list contains only 14 words.\n\nPorts of the TeX hyphenation algorithm are available as libraries for several programming languages, including Haskell, JavaScript, Perl, PostScript, Python, Ruby, C#, and TeX can be made to show hyphens in the log by the command codice_1.\n\nIn LaTeX, hyphenation correction can be added by users by using:\n\nThe \\hyphenation command declares allowed hyphenation points in which words is a list of words, separated by spaces, in which each hyphenation point is indicated by a - character. For example,\n\ndeclares that in the current job \"fortran\" should not be hyphenated and that if \"ergonomic\" must be hyphenated, it will be at one of the indicated points.\n\nHowever, there are several limits. For example, the stock \\hyphenation command accepts only ASCII letters by default and so it cannot be used to correct hyphenation for words with non-ASCII characters (like \"ä\", \"é\", \"ç\"), which are very common in almost all languages except English. Simple workarounds exist, however.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2536894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2536894", "title": "Idée reçue", "text": "Idée reçue\n\nAn idée reçue (pronounced ), plural idées reçues, a French phrase literally meaning a received (accepted) idea, is a generally held opinion or concept. This term was used by Gustave Flaubert in his work \"Le Dictionnaire des idées reçues\" to refer to clichés and platitudes, most of which are as insipid as they are banal.\n"}
{"id": "8843988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8843988", "title": "Indignation", "text": "Indignation\n\nIndignation is a complex and discrete emotion that is triggered by social emotions and social environments. Feelings of anger and disgust are some emotions that make up indignation. The feeling of indignation can occur when one is mistreated by another or negative feelings are sparked when a situation is out of the normal realm of society. When situations or actions that are considered to be unjust behavior occur, the feeling of indignation is experienced. With unjust actions and behaviors comes to blame. Blame also helps to make up the emotion of indignation. When blameworthy actions take place, the emotion of indignation occurs and negative feelings are projected onto the person who is to blame. Which can be brought on by disturbances that go against social normative. According to Claude Miller, “indignation is defined as a non-primary, discrete, social emotion, specifying disapproval of someone else's blameworthy action, as that action is explicitly viewed to be in violation of the objective order, and implicitly perceived as injurious to the perceiver’s self-concept” (Miller et al, 2007, pg.1). Indignation is experienced when violations are made to our daily lives. Indignation is an emotion that is considered to be an adaptive behavior. Social environment and social emotions being a the stimuli for indignation. Our emotions and behaviors adapt depending on certain situations. Internal and external social norms play a part in experiencing the emotion of indignation. It is expected that everyone coexists and follows the social normative behaviors society has put in place. When something disrupts what is considered to be a social norm, a violation occurs, both internally and externally. A range of feelings are experienced internally, as well as a desire to be removed from the situation externally. When norms are disrupted, offense is taken and the emotion of indignation is ignited.\n\nThe attribution process is integral in the development of indignation. It is the split-second assessments a person makes (attributions) about their own behavior or in the behavior of others in order to figure out the reason or cause behind it. Behaviors can be classified as situational (external) or dispositional (internal). Fritz Heider wrote that people tend to view behavior in one of two ways; the cause of situational factors or of dispositional factors. From this, an individual is either an Entity theorist or an Incremental theorist when considering event or categorization but is not exclusive to either group. According to one scholar, ”People's implicit theories create a framework for processing information, forming inferences, determining attributions, shaping predictions, understanding others’ behaviors, and construction representations of social events”. Taking this into account and based on a persons classification of entity or incremental theorist (which delineates how a person views behavior in relation to its driving factors), research demonstrates that said person is inclined to experience indignation with more or less frequency and severity respectively.\n\nEntity Theorists believe that judgements of moral character can be made from merely a few or even a single observation(s). They are most often found making stereotypes about people or events, and believe that disposition based attributions are innate, and rarely ever change. ‘You can’t teach an old dog new tricks’ explains how entity theorists might explain a situation. Behavior, to them, is caused by the unchanging, internal (character) attributes. Hypothetically, if the two different types of people were sitting on a parole board for a jailed criminal, those who exemplify traits of entity theorists might say ‘once a criminal always a criminal’ and reason that the criminal behavior was driven by the immoral nature of the person and they would do it again, no matter the circumstance, when given the opportunity.\n\nEntity Theory Dispositional traits are used within the entity theory as a basic unit of analysis. Either positive or negative attributes are experienced and possibly expressed. With indignations the attributes experienced are going to be negative. These tendencies are most likely going to remain the same and be predictable with little to no room for change. An assumption is made and judgments are carried out. Entity theory creates and holds judgements based on a single behavioral observation. Once something is believed to be true, it is almost permanently labeled. Objective situational evidence is neglected to be taken into consideration. While disposition-relevant information is the main focus due to the fact that it feeds the reinforcement of negative information.\n\nIncremental theorists believe just the opposite position of some entity theorists. They can make judgements of moral character more based on changing external factors (situational) and factors such as effort, desire such as goals. When formulating judgements, incremental theorists take recent evidence into account and avoid broad character attributions. For example, those of those who are considered to be incremental theorists might argue that, the aforementioned criminal’s behavior, was possibly the subsequent result of a poor upbringing or was drug induced, and while, in prison, the incarcerated changed his/her lifestyle through exemplary behavior and service to others. Thus they would not be a threat to the public anymore, in theory.\n\nDefensive Attribution Theory aims at describing how an individual ultimately wants to explain behavior in a way that protects their ego and is flattering to the self. Attributions are deemed as biased because an individual, in explaining behavior, will \"take credit for good outcomes and avoid responsibility for the bad\". In this, a person is trying to exert a varying degree of control over their environment. It should be easier to distort one’s judgments of dissimilar others—with whom one does not readily identify—than with similar others—with whom one not only more readily identifies, but from whom one should also expect a greater measure of empathy. Moreover, since entity theory promotes internal characterological attributions, we should expect entity theorists to be more sensitive and defensive with regard to perceptions of similarity than incremental theorists. ( Miller et al 2007, pg. 12).\n\nThe actor-observer effect is when an individual ascribes personal successes as the cause of factors concerning \"disposition\" (I, the student, did well on the test because I studied hard) and personal failures as the cause of \"situational\" factors (I, the student, did poorly on the test because the test questions were very difficult). The opposite is true of when an individual is assessing the behavior of others. When the actor views an observer (other people) succeeding, they will believe that the success was the result of \"situational\" factors. The classmate did well on the test because the questions were easy. If the actor sees the observer experience failure, the actor will say that it was because of something, usually negative, that deals with the observer's \"disposition\". The classmate did poorly because he/she is lazy and did not study.\n\nIndignation has been applied in many different settings.\n\nIndignation has a large role in politics. This is because politicians hold the power to offend many people based the decisions that they make. The decisions that politicians make impact hundreds, thousands, or millions of people. Certain decisions they make may cause many constituents to feel indignant because they feel like those decisions go against what they stand for or believe in, especially if the constituents belong to the same party as the politician. Politicians themselves also feel indignant because if people are not in favor of their policies or are competing against them, they will attack their self-construct. For example, this can be seen when politicians are debating. The other politician typically questions their policies and procedures in hopes to make their competition feel indignant. By doing this, the hope would be that the debate would be stifled.\n\nIt has been stated that indignation provides the capacity to think through certain situations (Bromell, 2013, p. 290). The person feeling indignant wants to think about why they are feeling indignant so that they can figure out an appropriate response and pin-point whatever caused them to feel indignant. It has been stated that “when indignation does not express itself immediately as violence, it becomes an investigation of (and what he believes is a more appropriate response to) whatever has caused it” \n\nRighteous indignation is typically a reactive emotion of anger over perceived mistreatment, insult, or malice. It is akin to what is called the sense of injustice. In some Christian doctrines, righteous indignation is considered the only form of anger which is not sinful, e.g., when Jesus drove the money lenders out of the temple. (Gospel of Matthew 21).\n\n\nPretense of indignation and or outrage has become common currency in politics in recent years. Its most effective application has been not in the houses of \"big P politics,\" but rather in the public media. It serves three purposes: The first is to attempt to elicit at a minimum an explanation of, or apology and confession, for the purported cause of the indignation, offense, or hurt feelings. The second purpose is more sinister in that by \"going public\" the reader or viewer is invited to be part of the accusers cohort or worse its lynch mob.\n\nThere is a third, more sinister, effect yet. By creating public outrage the provocateur hopes for public protest which will ultimately become rioting. This naturally occupies the time efforts and resources of the political accused to seem ineffective, and the provocateur is thus distanced from the effects of his or her feigndignation.\n\nFeigndignation has become a favorite tool of provocateurs a.k.a. \"community organizers,\" and it been used mostly to settle issues by character assassination in political issues where the accuser is either unable or unwilling to engage in simple civil discourse, or that their case is simply specious: In effect, why have a discussion when you can cancel it. \n\n\nClaude H. Miller, Judee K. Burgoon, and John R. Hall (2007). \"The Effects of Implicit Theories of Moral Character on Affective Reactions to Moral Transgressions.\" Social Cognition: Vol. 25, No. 6, pp. 819-832.\nhttps://doi.org/10.1521/soco.2007.25.6.819\n"}
{"id": "873137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873137", "title": "Landed gentry", "text": "Landed gentry\n\nThe landed gentry, or simply the gentry, is a largely historical British social class consisting in theory of landowners who could live entirely from rental income, or at least had a country estate. It was distinct from, and socially \"below\", the aristocracy or peerage, although in fact some of the landed gentry were wealthier than some peers, and many gentry were related to peers. They often worked as administrators of their own lands, while others became public, political, religious, and armed forces figures. The decline of this privileged class largely stemmed from the 1870s agricultural depression; however, there are still a large number of hereditary gentry in the UK to this day, many of whom transferred their landlord style management skills after the agricultural depression into the business of land agency, the act of buying and selling land.\n\nThe designation \"landed gentry\" originally referred exclusively to members of the upper class who were landlords and also commoners in the British sense – that is, they did not hold peerages – but usage became more fluid over time. Similar or analogous social systems of landed gentry also sprang up in countries that maintained a colonial system; the term is employed in many British colonies such as the Colony of Virginia and some parts of India. By the late 19th century, the term was also applied to peers such as the Duke of Westminster who lived on landed estates. The book series \"Burke's Landed Gentry\" recorded the members of this class. Successful burghers often used their accumulated wealth to buy country estates, with the aim of establishing themselves as landed gentry.\n\nThe term \"gentry\", some of whom were landed, included four separate groups in England:\n\n\nAll of the first group, and very many of the last three, were \"armigerous\", having obtained the right to carry a coats of arms. In many Continental societies, this was exclusively the right of the nobility, and at least the upper clergy. In France this was originally true but many of the landed gentry, burghers and wealthy merchants were allowed to register coats of arms and become \"armigerous\".\n\nThe term \"landed gentry\", although originally used to mean nobility, came to be used of the lesser nobility in England around 1540. Once identical, eventually these terms became complementary, in the sense that their definitions began to fill in parts of what the other lacked. The historical term gentry by itself, so Peter Coss argues, is a construct that historians have applied loosely to rather different societies. Any particular model may not fit a specific society, yet a single definition nevertheless remains desirable. The phrase \"landed gentry\" referred in particular to the untitled members of the landowning upper class. The most stable and respected form of wealth has historically been land, and great prestige and political qualifications were (and to a lesser extent still are) attached to land ownership.\n\nThe primary meaning of \"landed gentry\" encompasses those members of the land owning classes who are not members of the peerage. It was an informal designation: one belonged to the landed gentry if other members of that class accepted one as such. A newly rich man who wished his family to join the gentry (and they nearly all did so wish), was expected not only to buy a country house and estate, but also to sever all financial ties with the business which had made him wealthy in order to cleanse his family of the \"taint of trade\". However, during the 19th century, as the new rich of the Industrial Revolution became more and more numerous and politically powerful, this expectation was gradually relaxed. From the late 16th-century, the gentry emerged as the class most closely involved in politics, the military and law. It provided the bulk of Members of Parliament, with many gentry families maintaining political control in a certain locality over several generations (see List of political families in the United Kingdom). Owning land was a prerequisite for suffrage (the civil right to vote) in county constituencies until the Reform Act 1832; until then, Parliament was largely in the hands of the landowning class.\n\nMembers of the landed gentry were upper class (not middle class); this was a highly prestigious status. Particular prestige was attached to those who inherited landed estates over a number of generations. These are often described as being from \"old\" families. Titles are often considered central to the upper class, but this is certainly not universally the case. For example, both Captain Mark Phillips and Vice Admiral Sir Timothy Laurence, the first and second husbands of HRH The Princess Anne, lacked any rank of peerage, yet could scarcely be considered anything other than upper class.\n\nThe agricultural sector's middle class, on the other hand, comprise the larger tenant farmers, who rent land from the landowners, and yeoman farmers, who were defined as \"a person qualified by possessing free land of forty shillings annual [feudal] value, and who can serve on juries and vote for a Knight of the Shire. He is sometimes described as a small landowner, a farmer of the middle classes.\" Anthony Richard Wagner of the Richmond Herald wrote that \"a Yeoman would not normally have less than 100 acres\" (40 hectares) and in social status is one step down from the gentry, but above, say, a husbandman. So while yeoman farmers owned enough land to support a comfortable lifestyle, they nevertheless farmed it themselves and were excluded from the \"landed gentry\" because they worked for a living, and were thus \"in trade\" as it was termed. Apart from a few \"honourable\" professions connected with the governing elite (the clergy of the established church, the officer corps of the British Armed Forces, the diplomatic and civil services, the bar or the judiciary), such occupation was considered demeaning by the upper classes, particularly by the 19th century, when the earlier mercantile endeavours of younger sons were increasingly discontinued. Younger sons, who could not expect to inherit the family estate, were instead urged into professions of state service. It became a pattern in many families that while the eldest son would inherit the estate and enter politics, the second son would join the army, the third son go into law, and the fourth son join the church.\n\nPersons who are closely related to peers are also more correctly described as gentry than as nobility, since the latter term, in the modern British Isles, is synonymous with \"peer\". However, this popular usage of 'nobility' omits the distinction between titled and untitled nobility. The titled nobility in Britain are the peers of the realm, whereas the untitled nobility comprise those here described as gentry.\n\nDavid Cannadine wrote that the gentry's lack of titles \"did not matter, for it was obvious to contemporaries that the landed gentry were all for practical purposes the equivalent of continental nobles, with their hereditary estates, their leisured lifestyle, their social pre-eminence, and their armorial bearings\". British armigerous families who hold no title of nobility are represented, together with those who hold titles through the College of Arms, by the Commission and Association for Armigerous Families of Great Britain at CILANE.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, the names and families of those with titles (specifically peers and baronets, less often including those with the non-hereditary title of knight) were often listed in books or manuals known as \"Peerages\", \"Baronetages\", or combinations of these categories, such as the \"Peerage, Baronetage, Knightage, and Companionage\". As well as listing genealogical information, these books often also included details of the right of a given family to a coat of arms. They were comparable to the Almanach de Gotha in continental Europe. Novelist Jane Austen, whose family were not quite members of the landed gentry class, summarised the appeal of these works, particularly for those included in them:\n\nEqually wryly, Oscar Wilde referred to the Peerage as \"the best thing in fiction the English have ever done\".\n\nIn the 1830s, one peerage publisher, John Burke, expanded his market and his readership by publishing a similar volume for people without titles, which was called \"A Genealogical and Heraldic History of the Commoners of Great Britain and Ireland, enjoying territorial possessions or high official rank\", popularly known as \"Burke's Commoners. Burke's Commoners\" was published in four volumes from 1833 to 1838.\nSubsequent editions were re-titled \"A Genealogical and Heraldic History of the Landed Gentry; or, Commons of Great Britain and Ireland\" or \"Burke's Landed Gentry.\"\n\n\"Burke's Landed Gentry\" continued to appear at regular intervals throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, driven, in the 19th century, principally by the energy and readable style of the founder's son and successor as editor, Sir John Bernard Burke (who generally favoured the romantic and picturesque in genealogy over the mundane, or strictly correct).\n\nA review of the 1952 edition in \"Time\" noted:\n\nThe last three-volume edition of \"Burke's Landed Gentry\" was published between 1965 and 1972. A new series, under new owners, was begun in 2001 on a regional plan, starting with \"Burke's Landed Gentry; The Kingdom in Scotland\". However, these volumes no longer limit themselves to people with any connection, ancestral or otherwise, with land, and they contain much less information, particularly on family history, than the 19th and 20th century editions.\n\nThe popularity of \"Burke's Landed Gentry\" gave currency to the expression \"Landed Gentry\" as a description of the untitled upper classes in England (although the book also included families in Wales, Scotland and Ireland, where, however, social structures were rather different). An alternate name was employed by the publishers of a similar, though less genealogical, series, known as \"Walford's County Families\", wherein the term \"county family\" referred more or less to the same people Burke covered by the term, \"landed gentry\". They were also known as the upper ten thousand.\n\nFamilies were arranged in alphabetical order by surname, and each family article was headed with the surname and the name of their landed property, e.g. \"Capron of Southwick Hall\". There was then a paragraph on the owner of the property, with his coat of arms illustrated, and all his children and remoter male-line descendants also listed, each with full names and details of birth, marriage, death, and any matters tending to enhance their social prestige, such as school and university education, military rank and regiment, Church of England cures held, and other honours and socially approved involvements. Cross references were included to other families in \"Burke's Landed Gentry\" or in \"Burke's Peerage and Baronetage\": thus encouraging browsing through connections. Professional details were not usually mentioned unless they conferred some social status, such as those of civil service and colonial officials, judges and barristers.\n\nAfter the section dealing with the current owner of the property, there usually appeared a section entitled \"Lineage\" which listed, not only ancestors of the owner, but (so far as known) every male-line descendant of those ancestors, thus including many people in the ranks of the \"Landed Gentry\" families who had never owned an acre in their lives but who might share in the status of their eponymous kin as connected, however remotely to the \"landed gentry\" or to a \"county family\".\n\nThe Great Depression of British Agriculture at the end of the 19th century, together with the introduction in the 20th century of increasingly heavy levels of taxation on inherited wealth, put an end to agricultural land as the primary source of wealth for the upper classes. Many estates were sold or broken up, and this trend was accelerated by the introduction of protection for agricultural tenancies, encouraging outright sales, from the mid-20th century.\n\nSo devastating was this for the ranks formerly identified as being of the landed gentry that \"Burke's Landed Gentry\" began, in the 20th century, to include families historically in this category who had ceased to own their ancestral lands. The focus of those who remained in this class shifted from the lands or estates themselves, to the stately home or \"family seat\" which was in many cases retained without the surrounding lands. Many of these buildings were purchased for the nation and preserved as monuments to the lifestyles of their former owners (who sometimes remained in part of the house as lessees or tenants) by the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty. The National Trust, which had originally concentrated on open landscapes rather than buildings, accelerated its country house acquisition programme during and after the Second World War, partly because of the widespread destruction of country houses in the 20th century by owners who could no longer afford to maintain them. Those who retained their property usually had to supplement their incomes from sources other than the land, sometimes by opening their properties to the public.\n\nIn the 21st century, the term \"landed gentry\" is still used, as the landowning class still exists, but it increasingly refers more to historic than to current landed wealth or property in a family. Moreover, the deference which was once automatically given to members of this class by most British people has almost completely dissipated as its wealth, political power and social influence have declined, and other social figures such as celebrities have grown to take their place in the public's interest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3736239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3736239", "title": "Learned optimism", "text": "Learned optimism\n\nLearned optimism is the idea in positive psychology that a talent for joy, like any other, can be cultivated. It is contrasted with learned helplessness. Learning optimism is done by consciously challenging any negative self talk.\n\nLearned optimism was defined by Martin Seligman and published in his 1990 book, \"Learned Optimism\". The benefits of an optimistic outlook are many: Optimists are higher achievers and have better overall health. Pessimism, on the other hand, is much more common; pessimists are more likely to give up in the face of adversity or to suffer from depression. Seligman invites pessimists to learn to be optimists by thinking about their reactions to adversity in a new way. The resulting optimism—one that grew from pessimism—is a learned optimism. The optimist's outlook on failure can thus be summarized as \"What happened was an unlucky situation (not personal), and really just a setback (not permanent) for this one, of many, goals (not pervasive)\".\n\nOther differences exist between pessimists and optimists in terms of explanatory style:\n\n\nMartin Seligman's learned optimism now orients the U.S. armed services' psychological stance. Keith Ablow blamed this in part for the actions of the U.S. soldier accused of killing 16 civilians in Afghanistan. He wrote that soldiers are \"taught to deny stress and trauma, and false bravado is actually encouraged, under the banner of 'resilience.' It's a bad, bad idea that pushes soldiers to 'fake good' until they fall apart. And, then, the system continues to withhold needed care, particularly of a psychotherapeutic, insight-oriented variety.\"\n\nSeligman came to the concept of learned optimism through a scientific study of learned helplessness, the idea that a certain reoccurring negative event is out of the person's control. As he was performing tests to study helplessness further, he began to wonder why some people resisted helplessness-conditioning. He noticed that, while some subjects blamed themselves for negative outcomes, others blamed the experiment for setting them up to fail.\n\nSeligman shifted his focus to attempting to discover what it is that keeps some people from ever becoming helpless. The answer was optimism. Using his knowledge about conditioning people to be helpless in the lab, he shifted his focus to conditioning people to be optimists. The result of these experiments led to defining the processes of learning optimism.\n\nIn a study completed by Martin Seligman and Gregory Buchanan at the University of Pennsylvania and published by the American Psychological Association, learned optimism techniques were found to significantly reduce depression in a class of college freshmen. As incoming students to the university, a survey determined the most pessimistic students and they were invited to participate in the study. They were randomly assigned, half to attend a 16-hour workshop on the techniques of learning optimism, and half were the control group. In an 18-month follow up, 32% of the control group suffered moderate to severe depression and 15% suffered moderate to severe anxiety disorder, whereas only 22% of the workshop participants were depressed and 7% had anxiety issues. Those who participated in the learned optimism workshop also reported fewer health problems over the 18-month period of the study than those students in the control group.\n\nA study done by Peter Schulman at the Wharton School, published in the \"Journal of Selling and Sales Management\", looked to determine the effects of applying learned optimism in business. After measuring the optimism levels of an insurance sales force, it was determined that the optimistic sales people sold 35 percent more, and identified pessimists were two times more likely to quit in the first year than optimists. As a result of his studies, he recommends testing sales job candidates for optimism levels to fit them to appropriate positions, training employees in learned optimism techniques, and designing an organization overall to have attainable goals set and good support from management.\n\nFinally, a study conducted by Mark Ylvisaker of the College of Saint Rose and Timothy Feeney of the Wildwood Institute looked at children with executive function impairment. The children had brain functioning impairments affecting motor skills, memory, or the ability to focus. Learned optimism was not taught to the children themselves, but rather to their caretakers, who often are more likely to feel helpless than optimistic in regards to caring for the child. It was found that learned optimism in caretakers of children with brain damage actually led the children to develop more functioning than children without optimistic caretakers. Thus Ylvisaker concludes that the optimism of professional rehabilitators can affect the results of their clients.\n\nAccording to Martin Seligman, anyone can learn optimism. Whether currently an optimist or a pessimist, benefits can be gained from exposure to the process of learned optimism to improve response to both big and small adversities. A learned optimism test (developed by Seligman) is used to determine an individual's base level of optimism. Being in the more pessimistic categories means that learning optimism has a chance of preventing depression, helping the person achieve more, and improve physical health.\n\nSeligman's process of learning optimism consists of a simple method to train a new way of responding to adversity, specifically, by learning to talk themselves through personal defeat. It begins with the Ellis ABC model of adversity, belief, and consequence. Adversity is the event that happens, Belief is how that adversity is interpreted, and Consequences are the feelings and actions that result from the beliefs. This is demonstrated in the example below:\n\n\nIn the journey to learning optimism, emphasis is placed on first understanding one's current reaction to and interpretation of adversity. Learners are asked to keep a journal for two days in which they note small adverse events and the beliefs and consequences that followed. Next the learner returns to the journal to highlight pessimism (e.g.,  pervasiveness: \"it doomed me...\") in their written descriptions of the events.\n\nTo the ABC model, Seligman adds \"D\" (disputation) and E (energization). Disputation centers on generating counter-evidence to any of the following: the negative beliefs in general, the causes of the event, or the implications. D also means reminding oneself of any potential usefulness of moving on from the adversity. Disputation for the above traffic example might sound like this: \"I am overreacting. I don't know what situation he is in. Maybe he is on his way to his daughter's piano recital and is running late. I'm sure I have cut people off before without meaning to, so I should really cut him a break. I am not in a hurry anyway.\"\n\nOver time, responses like this are predicted to change feelings to be more hopeful and positive. Successful disputation leads to energization, the E in the ABCDE model. One is energized, and should indeed try to actively celebrate, the positive feelings and sense of accomplishment that come from successful disputation of negative beliefs. Disputation and Energization (celebration) are the keys to Seligman's method.\n\nTeaching children learned optimism by guiding them through the ABCDE techniques can help children to better deal with adversity they encounter in their lives. If children are taught early then the thought process of disputation is claimed to become ingrained in them. They do not, then, have to focus on being optimistic, but rather optimism becomes automatic and leads to a more positive life for the child. \n\nIf learnable, optimism techniques could be practical in life. They are used today in many areas such as parenting, business, therapy, and education. \n\nBusiness would benefit from more optimistic workers, as they are more successful . Seligman's focus in business is on \"the personal wall\" that is each individual worker's set-point of discouragement. Putting the ABCDE model into practice attempts to allow workers to respond to this \"wall\" with a readiness to conquer rather than to feel dejected. The Attributional Style Questionnaire is often used to measure optimism of job candidates during the interview process by asking the participant to write down causes for situational failures. Participants attributions may be used to help understand if the candidate will be a high or low performer in his/her projected role based on his level of optimism.\n\nLearned optimism has been used to combat depression during cognitive behavioral therapy. . This is based on the idea that patients may be depressed in part because they have a pessimistic outlook . Rather than perceiving adversity as a constant thing that cannot be overcome, and taking personal blame for that adversity, patients come out of cognitive behavioral therapy with the belief that they can control how they respond to adversity. A shift toward optimism is a shift away from depression.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33689817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33689817", "title": "Life cycle thinking", "text": "Life cycle thinking\n\nLife cycle thinking is an approach to becoming mindful of how everyday life affects the environment. This approach evaluates how both consuming products and engaging in activities impacts the environment but it not only evaluates them at one single step, but takes a holistic picture of an entire product or activity system. \nThis means when talking about a product and taking a life cycle thinking approach, what is actually being evaluated is the impact of the activity of consuming that product. This is because by consuming a product, a series of associated activities are required to make it happen. For example, the raw material extraction, material processing, transportation, distribution, consumption, reuse/recycling, and disposal must all be considered when evaluating the environmental impact. This is called the life cycle of a product. The overall idea of making a holistic evaluation of a system's effect can be defined as life cycle thinking. \n\nLife cycle thinking therefore also can be applied to the consumption of other socio-economic activities such as watching a movie, making arts and crafts, cooking dinner, or even doing homework. For example, renting a movie, which seems to be a harmless activity, would involve burning gasoline to drive to the video store, using electricity to power the television and DVD player, and consuming power from the remote’s batteries. \nHowever, when trying to analyze quantitatively the effects of life cycles, limits to evaluation are subject to what assessment approach is taken because the chain reaction can become so complex that it could require decades to figure out the life cycle of a specific process. Life cycle thinking overall is a way to become more mindful of the complexities of consuming products and engaging in activities and how they affect the environment.\n\nThe goal of life cycle thinking is to make people and companies more aware of how their actions impact the environment in a holistic sense rather than a one time pollution that comes as a direct result of using a product or doing an activity at one specific time. Although it is nearly impossible to undergo consumption of anything with no environmental impact, life cycle thinking can help people make better alternative decisions to mitigate their environmental impact. One of the goals of life cycle thinking is to avoid burden shifting. This is to make sure that reducing the environmental impact at one stage in the life cycle does not increase the impact at other places in the cycle. For example, plug in electric cars reduce the amount of gasoline burned but they increase the amount of electricity used which is usually generated by other polluting energy sources such as coal. Life cycle thinking can also demonstrate the benefits to technological innovation. For example, movies can now be downloaded through television service providers and gaming devices which eliminates the need to drive to a DVD rental location. By identifying pollution costs, companies can innovate to mitigate their expenses while consumers can make better alternative choices to mitigate their impact.\n\n\nLife-cycle thinking has applications in many sectors, such as the following:\n\nThe agriculture/food sector is a big source environmental impacts that occur throughout the lifetime of a product, from farm to table to disposal. Life-cycle thinking works to reduce these impacts at all stages of food production. Nutrition, health, well being, cultural identity and lifestyle are also factors that should be addressed when looking at the impacts of choices made in food production to ensure decreases in emissions and environmental impact do not occur at the expense of consumer wellbeing.\n\nA product Life Cycle Analysis involves all production and service processes involved in the manufacturing of a product throughout its life-cycle. This includes the production of materials needed to make the product. Since the manufacturing sector is a big emitter of pollutants and user of natural resources, pinpointing areas in which to decrease environmental impact throughout the manufacturing process is a big part of life-cycle thinking.\n\nDrastic increases in atmospheric CO2 caused by the burning of fossil fuels, has led to the search for alternative energy sources like biofuels and renewable energy sources. To analyze whether or not these alternative sources have overall less environmental impact then conventional energy sources, life-cycle analysis is needed. Life-cycle thinking is an intricate part of finding new energy sources that have an overall smaller impact on the environment.\n\nLife-cycle thinking and analysis can help reduce negative environmental impacts of waste generation and management. This includes looking at ways to reduce waste production, increase recycling, and dispose of waste in a more environmentally friendly way. This is complicated by differences in benefits and burdens of in different geographical regions and the fact that effects usually occur over long periods of time. Furthermore, benefits and burdens of different processes can occur in many different forms and can be difficult to identify, quantify and compare.\n\nRetail often accounts for a significant portion of economies and thus can have huge implications in terms of environmental impacts. The life cycle of a product in retail would include the complete supply-chain of the product, its use and disposal or end-of-life treatment.\n\nThere are many uses for life-cycle thinking in construction, especially in terms of construction waste and waste management. Finding better ways to recycle waste and prevent waste are important to reduce negative environmental impact of the construction industry.\n\nFor construction products in Europe, a standardised methodology for building assessment considering Environmental Products Declarations (EPD) has been approved. The main standards are EN 15978 (buildings) and EN 15804 (products).\n\nFinding alternative fuel sources are the biggest challenges to reducing negative environmental impact in the transportation sector. Biofuels are becoming increasing popular as an alternative to fossil fuels. Life cycle analysis can provide a fuller picture of the extent alternative fuel sources reduce emissions and overall environmental impact compared to conventional fuels.\n\nService industries play a big part in adding environmental burdens, especially in terms of greenhouse gas emissions generated by travel and tourist industries. The service industry is expected to play a larger part in the modern economy as \"dematerialization\", or the replacement of manufactured goods by services in many firms, plays a bigger role in the economy.\n\nThere are many different approaches to life cycle thinking that all involve looking at life cycle-generated impacts and ways to minimize these impacts. An important component to life cycle approaches is avoiding burden shifting, in other words, ensuring that improvements in one stage are not achieved at the expense of another stage. Approaches of impact measurement focus on decreasing environmental impact and resource use throughout all stages of a process. \n\nCommonly used approaches:\n\nLife-cycle assessment (LCA or life cycle analysis) is a technique used to assess potential environmental impacts of a product at different stages of its life. This technique takes a \"cradle-to-grave\" or a \"cradle to cradle\" approach and looks at environmental impacts that occur throughout the lifetime of a product from raw material extraction, manufacturing and processing, distribution, use, repair and maintenance, disposal and recycling.\n\nLife cycle management is a business approach to manage the total life cycle of products and services. It follows the life cycle thinking that businesses, through the activities they must perform, have environmental, social and economic impacts. LCM is used to understand and analyze life cycle stages of products and services of a business, identify potential economic, social or environmental risks and opportunities at each stage and create ways to act upon those opportunities and reduce potential risks.\n\nLife cycle costing (or life cycle cost analysis) is the total cost analysis of a process or system. This includes costs incurred over the life of the system and is frequently used to find most cost-effective means for providing goods and services.\n\nDesign for the Environment Program (DfE) was created in 1992 by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and works to prevent pollution and the reduce the risks pollution presents to humans and the environment. The main goals of the DfE are to promote green cleaning, recognize safer industrial and consumer products through safer product labeling, define best practices in production and manufacturing, and identify safer chemicals for these processes based on life cycle thinking. Having said this they must know that the air pollution in USA has the mixing of liquid, solid, gaseous, odour and noise pollution which is dangerous for human being, animals and plants.\n\nProduct service systems (PSS) are sets of marketable products and services that work together to fulfill a user’s needs. This new approach is a result of firms realizing that services in combination with products can provide higher profits and customer satisfaction then simply selling products alone. Firms that use PSS work to find ways to maximize the use of their product throughout its lifetime, using services to supplement its usage. PSS has been seen to have smaller environmental impact than traditional business models, as the focus on services has led to a decrease in material production and consumption. This applies to life cycle thinking because it involves looking at the life-cycle cost of a product (i.e. maintenance and storage costs) for a consumer and reducing that cost by providing services with the purchased good.\n\nIntegrated product policy works to minimize environmental degradation caused by products by looking at all phases of a product’s life-cycle to pinpoint where taking action is most effective. This also uses a cradle-to-grave approach when looking at a product’s life. In addition, it is important that policies avoid burden shifting and do not decrease environment emissions at one stage of development at the expense of another. Policy measures used to action upon recommendations include economic instruments, substance bans, voluntary agreements, environmental labeling and product design guidelines.\n\nThere are multiple situations to which life cycle thinking can be applied, including the everyday life of consumers, business and government policy. By applying life cycle thinking to multiple aspects of the community, consumers, businesses and governments can have a largely positive aspect on the environment. This is true even if the steps taken to apply life cycle thinking are small.\n\nEach day consumers make choices as to which products they would like to use based on their needs and the different brands available. However, most consumers do not take into consideration the environmental impacts of the product when they make their choice. For example, consumers do not consider the product's energy usage, questionable labor conditions that produced it, hazardous waste from production, impacts on the ecosystem, or pollution of air or water. \n\nConsumers can apply life cycle thinking in multiple different ways with regards to their product choices in order to reduce their impact on the environment. Firstly, consumers can choose to use products from companies who take strides towards sustainability. Many companies provide sustainability reports that consumers can read to educate themselves about the companies they buy from. By using life cycle thinking, consumers can choose a company with smaller production impacts.\n\nPrimarily, consumer usage has the largest impact on the environment throughout a product's life. By using life cycle thinking this impact can be reduced. This would require educating consumers to make better choices about product usage. This can come from the companies who provide the service or product or from government agencies. For example, consumers can ask themselves what impacts they have while using the product. Ask do I really need to use this or is there a more sustainable option, such as hang drying laundry on a nice day rather than using a dryer. Consumers can educate themselves on how to become more sustainable themselves through life cycle thinking rather than relying on companies and the government to be sustainable for them.\n\nBusinesses are responsible for many choices about their services and products each day. By applying life cycle thinking, businesses can recognize the potential impacts of their choices. They consider how each design and manufacturing decision has an effect on the environment and how they can make it more sustainable. Businesses not only take into consideration how the product is made, but also how the product will be used and disposed of by the user. Companies try to have a more sustainable product by making products recyclable or reusable. They challenging part is balancing cost and sustainable choices. Life cycle thinking allows them to see the best sustainable options but is limited when it comes to pricing these choices. Life cycle thinking for businesses entails consideration of where to obtain raw material, how to manufacture the material, transporting, distributing, using, and disposing of the product. By looking at all of these phases businesses make the best choices for themselves and the consumer for a lower impact on the environment.\n\nGovernment plays a key role in life cycle thinking by establishing policies to regulate environmental impacts. By applying life cycle thinking policy makers can set standards that businesses and consumers need to meet. They do so by gathering information as a baseline of the environmental impact and use that to set goals based on knowledge from life cycle thinking. They can also use trends from supply chains of different businesses they regulate to determine where the biggest influence can be made to majorly reduce the impacts of the businesses. Government sectors can also use life cycle thinking to better educate consumers. Requiring labels on products describing the impacts the product has and how to use the products in order to reduce the impact can be an important role for the government. Regulating supply chains and consumers with policy is motivational as negative reinforcement. Life cycle thinking provides a methodology for creating those policies in order to have the most effective and most cost efficient means of reducing environmental impacts.\n\nMany consumers, when making decisions on what to buy and what not to buy, consider the environmental impact of the particular product. Policy makers recognize this desire, and act to create policy that not only helps consumers do this, but will do so while keeping a growing economy in mind.\n\nThere are many aspects of life cycle thinking incorporated into European policy. The Sustainable Consumption and Production Action Plan is a piece of legislation that aims to reduce environmental impact and consumption of resources associated with the complete life cycles of goods and services. On July 16, 2008 the European Commission presented this legislation. This proposal suggests plans on how to not only reduce the environmental impacts of goods and services, but also encourages the use of more sustainable goods and production technologies. This action plan also encourages the European Union to seek out every opportunity to innovate in industry.\nThe Integrated Product Policy is another legislative action that Europe has taken in order to facilitate life cycle thinking. The Integrated Product Policy seeks to minimize the environmental degradation caused from the manufacturing, use and disposal of all products. This legislation looks at all aspects of the product’s life cycle and takes action where necessary to reduce.\n\nThe Thematic Strategy on Sustainable Use of Natural Resources was implemented on 21 December 2005 to reduce environmental impacts associated with resource use and to do this in a growing economy. The objective can be described as “ensuring that the consumption of resources and their associated impacts do not exceed the carrying capacity of the environment and breaking linkages between economic growth and resource use”.\n\nWhile the term \"life cycle thinking\" is not as prominent in United States policy, there are considerations of the life cycle process throughout governmental policies and programs. There are Environmental Product Declarations that are used to incorporate life cycle thinking into companies and organizations. They communicate to the consumer the environmental performance of a product or system. These declarations are based on the Life Cycle Assessment and once the assessment is complete a product or system can be certified EPD.\n\nThe Environmental Protection Agency's program, Design for the Environment works with individual industry sectors to compare and improve the performance and human health and environmental risks and costs of existing and alternative products, processes, and practices. DfE partnership projects promote integrating cleaner, cheaper, and smarter solutions into everyday business practices. The Design for the Environment program is also equipped with a labeling program. They allow safer products to carry these labels and they are an indication to consumers that buying these products will be safer for the environment and their families. \n\nAlso, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 is a piece of legislation that incorporates life cycle thinking. While this exact phrase isn't listed. This act includes sections on advanced biofuels. In Title II of the act, it requires the creation of Biomass-based diesel which is the addition of renewable biofuels to diesel fuel and will reduce emissions by 50% as compared to petroleum biofuel. In Title III improved standards will be implemented. \n\nSince life cycle thinking can be involved in the choices of individual consumers, as well as policy makers and businesses, it is very important that people are well informed about the subject and its uses. Increasing awareness of the Life Cycle Analysis technique would allow companies as well as individuals to consider multiple options for a new product. After consideration of all available options, life cycle thinking would encourage selection of the most sustainable option. If more individuals practiced life cycle thinking when looking for new materials or methods, they would be more aware of how the environmental cost of ownership of products can be influenced by the running costs in energy and consumables.\n\nLife cycle thinking can help people find new ways to improve environmental performance, image, and economic benefits. Since the decisions of global businesses and government organizations have such a large impact on the environment, incorporating life cycle thinking into their actions could greatly reduce negative environmental effects and improve sustainability. Many businesses do not always consider their supply chains or the \"end-of-life\" processes associated with their products; likewise, government actions frequently consider their own country or region and do not take into account the impact that they could have on other regions. \n\nNot only could life cycle thinking help the environment, it can also save the company more money and improve their reputation. If a company knows where their materials come from as well as where they will end up after they have reached the end of their useful life, economic performance could be further enhanced. Also, since presently so much emphasis is placed on sustainable actions, the more a company shows its concern and respect for the environment, the better its reputation will be.\n\nIn a case study on laundry detergents, it was found that washing clothes at lower temperatures resulted in energy savings and improvements in several environmental indicators, like climate change, acidification and photochemical ozone creation. Because the company understood the importance of life cycle thinking, they made the decision to conduct a Life Cycle Analysis to find the benefits of developing a different laundry detergent. Not only did the new detergents reduce environmental impact by decreasing energy consumption, it also benefitted the consumer by reducing electricity bills and helped the company by becoming a leader in the industry. (3)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4288872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4288872", "title": "List of sound artists", "text": "List of sound artists\n\nThis is a list of sound artists. Sound art is a diverse group of art practices that considers wide notions of sound, listening and hearing as its predominant focus. There is contention as to which artists are “sound artists” or if another category might be more accurate such as experimental music, electronic music, sound installation, circuit bending, sound sculpture, builder of experimental musical instruments, noise music, acoustic ecology, sound poetry, installation art, performance art or Fluxus.\n\nThe category “sound art” is relatively new and it is difficult to justify excluding any artist who uses sound (as opposed to standard definitions of music) and listening as a significant element in their art from this field. Whether or not an artist has achieved sufficient renown is difficult as accolades are seldom in the area of sound art, but in other categories (visual art, music, design, etc.).\n\nPublished material on sound art is sparse. Scottish artist Susan Philipsz's 2010 British Turner Prize win for her piece 'Lowlands' was the first time a work of sound art won this prize and highlighted the genre's blurred boundaries with other, more visual artforms.\n"}
{"id": "39070170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39070170", "title": "Maxwellisation", "text": "Maxwellisation\n\nMaxwellisation is the legal practice in English and Scots law that allows persons who are to be criticised in an official report to respond prior to publication, based on details of the criticism received in advance.\n\nThe process takes its name from the publisher Robert Maxwell. In 1969, Maxwell was criticised in a report by the Department of Trade and Industry as \"unfit to hold the stewardship of a public company\". Maxwell took the matter to court, where the DTI was said by the judge to have \"virtually committed the business murder\" of Maxwell.\n\nTo avoid any repeat of Mr Justice Forbes' ruling, official policy was altered to ensure prior notice would be given of critical findings. Relevant witnesses are shown the specific extracts of reports relating to them.\n\nMany examples exist of the process being applied, including the 1997 report into the Guinness share-trading fraud and the Iraq Inquiry.\n"}
{"id": "51634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51634", "title": "Mens rea", "text": "Mens rea\n\nMens rea (; Law Latin for \"guilty mind\") is the mental element of a person's intention to commit a crime; or knowledge that one's action or lack of action would cause a crime to be committed. It is a necessary element of many crimes.\n\nThe standard common law test of criminal liability is expressed in the Latin phrase \"actus reus non facit reum nisi mens sit rea\", i.e. \"the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty\". In jurisdictions with due process, there must be both \"actus reus\" (\"guilty act\") and \"mens rea\" for a defendant to be guilty of a crime (see concurrence). As a general rule, someone who acted without mental fault is not liable in criminal law. Exceptions are known as strict liability crimes.\n\nIn civil law, it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective mental element to establish liability for breach of contract or tort, for example. But if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached, such intent may increase the scope of liability and the damages payable to the plaintiff.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the terms \"mens rea\" and \"actus reus\" have been replaced by alternative terminology. In Australia, \"mens rea\" is now called \"fault elements\" or \"mental elements\" and \"actus reus\" is now called \"physical elements\" or \"external elements\". The point of the changes was to replace Latin with plain English.\n\nUnder the traditional common law, the guilt or innocence of a person relied upon whether he had committed the crime (\"actus reus\"), and whether he intended to commit the crime (\"mens rea\"). However, many modern penal codes have created levels of \"mens rea\" called modes of culpability, which depend on the surrounding elements of the crime: the conduct, the circumstances, and the result, or what the Model Penal Code calls CAR (conduct, attendant circumstances, result). The definition of a crime is thus constructed using only these elements rather than the colorful language of \"mens rea\":\n\nThe traditional common law definitions and the modern definitions approach the crime from different angles.\n\nIn the traditional common law approach, the definition includes:\n\n\nModern law approaches the analysis somewhat differently. Homicide is a \"results\" crime in that it forbids \"any\" \"intentional\" or \"knowing\" conduct that \"results\" in the death of another human being. \"Intentional\" in this sense means the actor possessed a \"purpose\" or \"desire\" that his or her objective (i.e. death of another human being) be achieved. \"Knowing\" means that the actor was aware or practically certain that the death would result. Thus, the \"actus reus\" and \"mens rea\" of homicide in a modern criminal statute can be considered as follows:\n\n\nIn the modern approach, the attendant circumstances tend to replace the traditional \"mens rea\", indicating the level of culpability as well as other circumstances. For example, the crime of \"theft of government property\" would include as an attendant circumstance that the property belong to the government.\n\nThe levels of \"mens rea\" and the distinction between them vary between jurisdictions. Although common law originated from England, the common law of each jurisdiction with regard to culpability varies as precedents and statutes vary.\n\n\n\nThe vast majority of criminal prosecutions in the United States are carried out by the component states in accordance with the laws of the state in question. Historically, the states (with the partial exception of civil-law Louisiana) applied common law rules of \"mens rea\" similar to those extant in England, but over time American understandings of common law \"mens rea\" terms diverged from those of English law and from each other. By the late 1950s to early 1960s, the common law of \"mens rea\" was widely acknowledged to be a slippery, vague, and confused mess. This was one of several factors that led to the development of the Model Penal Code.\n\nSince its publication in 1957, the formulation of \"mens rea\" set forth in the Model Penal Code has been highly influential throughout the US in clarifying the discussion of the different modes of culpability. The following levels of \"mens rea\" are found in the MPC:\n\n\nExcept for strict liability, these classes of \"mens rea\" are defined in Section 2.02(2) of the MPC.\n\nSince the federal government of the United States does not have a generalized police power like that of the states, the scope of its criminal statutes is necessarily circumscribed. Ordinary prosecutions are the province of the states, and only crimes of special federal import are pursued by the federal government. Consequently, Title 18 of the United States Code does not use the aforementioned culpability scheme but relies instead on more traditional definitions of crimes taken from common law. For example, \"malice aforethought\" is used as a requirement for committing capital murder.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada has found that the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms guarantees a minimum requirement for the mental state of various crimes. For example, the crime of murder must include a mental requirement of at least subjective foresight of death. For crimes where imprisonment is a sanction, there is a requirement of at least a defence of due diligence.\n\nMens rea needs to be proved by prosecution from offence to offence. If it is a common law offence, mens rea is found out by relevant precedent (\"DPP v Morgan\" [1976] AC 182). Where the offence is in legislation, the requisite mens rea is found by interpreting the intention of the legislation. They must intend to commit the full offence.\n\nMens Rea in the Indian Penal Code 1860 sets out the definition of offences, the general conditions of liability, the conditions of exemptions from liability and punishments for the respective offences. Legislatures had not used the common law doctrine of mens rea in defining these crimes. However, they preferred to import it by using different terms indicating the required evil intent or mens rea as an essence of a particular offence.\n\nGuilt in respect to almost all offences created under the IPC is fastened either on the ground of intention, knowledge or reason to believe. Almost all the offences under the IPC are qualified by one or other words such as ‘wrongful gain or loss’, ‘dishonesty’, ‘fraudulently’, ‘reason to believe’, ‘criminal knowledge or intention’, ‘intentional cooperation’, ‘voluntarily’, ‘malignantly’, ‘wantonly’, ‘maliciously’. All these words indicate the blameworthy mental condition required at the time of commission of the offence, nowhere found in the IPC, its essence is reflected in almost all the provisions of the Indian Penal Code 1860. Every offence created under the IPC virtually imports the idea of criminal intent or mens rea in some form or other.\n\nThe general rule under common law is that \"ignorance of the law or a mistake of law is no defense to criminal prosecution.\" In some cases, courts have held if knowledge of a law, or the intent to break a law, is a material element of an offense a defendant may use ignorance as a defense to willfulness if his misunderstanding is in good faith:\n\nCrimes like tax evasion are specific intent crimes and require intent to violate the law as an element of the offense. In \"R. v. Klundert\", for example, the Ontario Court of Appeal found as follows:\n\nNot all offenses require specific intent, and a misreading, even in good faith, may not excuse the criminal conduct. A good-faith belief that a law is unjust or unconstitutional is no excuse, but \"reasonable compliance upon an official statement of law, afterward determined to be invalid or erroneous\" does not constitute a criminal act.\n\nHowever, a law must be worded as such, that it affords that a reasonable person who is not an attorney is able to comprehend the specific acts that the law prohibits. Otherwise, the statute may be struck down as unconstitutional pursuant to the Vagueness doctrine.\n\nThe test for the existence of \"mens rea\" may be:\n\nThe court will have little difficulty in establishing \"mens rea\" if there is actual evidencefor instance, if the accused made an admissible admission. This would satisfy a \"subjective\" test. But a significant proportion of those accused of crimes make no such admissions. Hence, some degree of objectivity must be brought to bear as the basis upon which to impute the necessary component(s). It is always reasonable to assume that people of ordinary intelligence are aware of their physical surroundings and of the ordinary laws of cause and effect (see causation). Thus, when a person plans what to do and what not to do, he will understand the range of likely outcomes from given behaviour on a sliding scale from \"inevitable\" to \"probable\" to \"possible\" to \"improbable\". The more an outcome shades towards the \"inevitable\" end of the scale, the more likely it is that the accused both foresaw and desired it, and, therefore, the safer it is to impute intention. If there is clear subjective evidence that the accused did \"not\" have foresight, but a reasonable person would have, the hybrid test may find criminal negligence. In terms of the burden of proof, the requirement is that a jury must have a high degree of certainty before convicting, defined as \"beyond a reasonable doubt\" in the United States and \"sure\" in the United Kingdom. It is this reasoning that justifies the defenses of infancy, and of lack of mental capacity under the M'Naghten Rules, an alternate common law rule (e.g., \"Durham\" test), and one of various statutes defining mental illness as an excuse. Moreover, if there is an irrebuttable presumption of \"doli incapax\" - that is, that the accused did not have sufficient understanding of the nature and quality of his actionsthen the requisite \"mens rea\" is absent no matter what degree of probability might otherwise have been present. For these purposes, therefore, where the relevant statutes are silent and it is for the common law to form the basis of potential liability, the reasonable person must be endowed with the same intellectual and physical qualities as the accused, and the test must be whether an accused with these specific attributes would have had the requisite foresight and desire.\n\nIn English law, s8 Criminal Justice Act 1967 provides a statutory framework within which \"mens rea\" is assessed. It states:\nUnder s8(b) therefore, the jury is allowed a wide latitude in applying a hybrid test to impute intention or foresight (for the purposes of recklessness) on the basis of all the evidence.\n\nOne of the mental components often raised in issue is that of motive. If the accused admits to having a motive consistent with the elements of foresight and desire, this will add to the level of probability that the actual outcome was intended (it makes the prosecution case more credible). But if there is clear evidence that the accused had a different motive, this may decrease the probability that he or she desired the actual outcome. In such a situation, the motive may become subjective evidence that the accused did not intend, but was reckless or willfully blind.\n\nMotive cannot be a defense. If, for example, a person breaks into a laboratory used for the testing of pharmaceuticals on animals, the question of guilt is determined by the presence of an \"actus reus\", i.e. entry without consent and damage to property, and a \"mens rea\", i.e. intention to enter and cause the damage. That the person might have had a clearly articulated political motive to protest such testing does not affect liability. If motive has any relevance, this may be addressed in the sentencing part of the trial, when the court considers what punishment, if any, is appropriate.\n\nIn such cases, there is clear subjective evidence that the accused foresaw but did not desire the particular outcome. When the accused failed to stop the given behavior, he took the risk of causing the given loss or damage. There is always some degree of intention subsumed within recklessness. During the course of the conduct, the accused foresees that he may be putting another at risk of injury: A choice must be made at that point in time. By deciding to proceed, the accused actually intends the other to be exposed to the risk of that injury. The greater the probability of that risk maturing into the foreseen injury, the greater the degree of recklessness and, subsequently, sentence rendered. For example, at common law, an unlawful homicide committed recklessly would ordinarily constitute the crime of voluntary manslaughter. One committed with \"extreme\" or \"gross\" recklessness as to human life would constitute murder, sometimes defined as \"depraved heart\" or \"abandoned and malignant heart\" murder.\n\nHere, the test is both subjective and objective. There is credible subjective evidence that the particular accused neither foresaw nor desired the particular outcome, thus potentially excluding both intention and recklessness. But a reasonable person with the same abilities and skills as the accused would have foreseen and taken precautions to prevent the loss and damage being sustained. Only a small percentage of offences are defined with this \"mens rea\" requirement. Most legislatures prefer to base liability on either intention or recklessness and, faced with the need to establish recklessness as the default \"mens rea\" for guilt, those practising in most legal systems rely heavily on objective tests to establish the minimum requirement of foresight for recklessness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1618642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1618642", "title": "Metal theft", "text": "Metal theft\n\nMetal theft is \"the theft of items for the value of their constituent metals\". It usually increases when worldwide prices for scrap metal rise, as has happened dramatically due to rapid industrialization in India and China. Apart from precious metals like gold and silver, the metals most commonly stolen are non-ferrous metals such as copper, aluminium, brass, and bronze. However, even cast iron and steel are seeing higher rates of theft due to increased scrap metal prices.\n\nOne defining characteristic of metal theft is the motivation. Whereas other items are generally stolen for their extrinsic value, items involved in metal theft are stolen for their intrinsic value as raw material or commodities. Thefts often have negative consequences much greater than the value of the metal stolen, such as the destruction of valuable statues, power interruptions, and the disruption of railway traffic.\n\nScrap metal has drastically increased in price over recent years. In 2001, ferrous scrap sold for $77 a ton, increasing to $300/ton by 2004. In 2008, it hit nearly $500/ton.\n\nSome elected officials and law enforcement officials have concluded that many metal thefts are by drug addicts stealing metal in order to fund their addictions. Some officials believe that many of these drug-related metal thefts are caused by methamphetamine users; however, this varies by the location of the metal being stolen. Another explanation for the phenomenon is the unusually high price of non-ferrous metals coupled with elevated levels of unemployment. Regardless of the reason, the industrialization of developing nations helps to increase the demand for scrap metal.\n\nIn the fourth quarter of 2008, world market prices for metals like copper, aluminium, and platinum dropped steeply. Although there is anecdotal evidence that this price decrease has led to fewer metal thefts, strong empirical research on the exact nature of the relationship between commodity prices and metal thefts is still lacking. Some have argued that the \"genie is out of the bottle\" now and drops in commodity prices will not result in corresponding drops in thefts. In fact, it is possible that thefts may actually increase to compensate for the loss in value.\n\nAs of December 2014 according to The National Insurance Crime Bureau the number of insurance claims for metal theft has been decreasing in the U.S possibly because of dropping scrap metal prices.\n\n in the United States alone, metal theft costs the US economy $1 billion annually, according to Department of Energy estimates. As of 2008 It was estimated that South Africa lost approximately 5 billion Rand annually due to metal theft. As of 2008 metal theft was the fastest growing crime in the UK with the annual damage to industry estimated at £360m. Thieves often cause damage far in excess of the value they recover by selling stolen metal as scrap. For example, thieves who strip copper plumbing and electrical wiring from houses render the residences uninhabitable without expensive, time-consuming repairs.\n\nRequiring scrap metal buyers to record the photo IDs of scrap metal sellers, and record scrap metal transactions may reduce the rate of metal theft. Paying scrap metal sellers by check rather than cash may reduce the rate of metal theft. Utility companies who are often the targets of metal theft can electroplate coding on to copper wire, which can positively identify the wire as stolen even if the insulation is burned off.\n\nAnything made of metal has value as scrap metal, and can be stolen:\n\nIn Australia in 2008, 8 tonnes of copper wiring, believed to be stolen from a variety of locations including rail tracks, power stations and scrap metal depots, was seized on its way to the Asian black market.\n\nIn November 2011 a person tried to hand-saw a hot electrical line in a subway tunnel in Vienna. A fire arose; train traffic was stopped. The thief was probably hurt. In November 2015 a man burnt to death in Vienna in an empty building, one which had a 100 kV cable that went through the basement. The police found three people alive and assumed that they had been attempting to steal copper.\nIn May 2013 the Westbahn near Amstetten had to be closed for safety reasons; grounding copper wires had been stolen; The copper stolen was worth €2,000, but total damages to the station cost upwards of €30,000.\nIn July 2013 in Lower Austria () of copper wire worth less than €1,000 was stolen from a railway transformer station. The damage to the railways electronics cost €140,000.\nIn May 2016, police caught several people that had stolen several tons of copper wire from a substation and caused 400,000 € worth of damage in Lower Austria.\n\nIn Quebec, during May 2006, thieves stole sections of copper roofing, gutters and wiring from four Quebec city churches, two being St. Charles de Limoilou and St. Francois d'Assise. The thieves were discovered in action on their third night, whereupon they fled. High copper prices are believed to be the reason for the thefts. Repairs were expected to cost more than $40,000.\n\nIn October 2010, a bronze bell was stolen in Shelburne County, Nova Scotia. Thieves removed the bell from a monument in Roseway Cemetery. The bell was part of the Roseway United Memorial Church, built in 1912, until it was demolished in 1993. It was recovered in a Halifax-area scrapyard October 6, 2010.\n\nIn September 2011, Peterborough, Ontario, experienced a four-hour power outage north of the city when thieves stole power transmission wires.\n\n327 bronze markers stolen from Theresienstadt concentration camp cemetery in mid-April 2008, with 700 more stolen the next week. A scrap metal dealer was arrested on April 18, 2008. He intended to melt them down for their copper.\n\nA ten-tonne footbridge and of railway trackage, from the town of Horní Slavkov in the Karlovy Vary Region was dismantled and removed by a gang of thieves who presented forged papers saying that the bridge had been condemned. The bridge was erected in 1901.\n\nThe French railway network company RFF face regular thefts of metal that affect the operation of the trains.\n\nIn February 2006, near the German city of Weimar, thieves dismantled and carted away some of disused rail track, causing at least 200,000 euros worth of damage.\nIn June 2012, a semi-burnt man was found after midnight beneath a street in or near Wilhelmsburg, Germany. At a nearby train track, 3 km of overhead contact wire had been torn down, the theft apparently unfinished.\nIn April 2016, a cast bronze owl was stolen from the grave of a 2 year old child in Rommerkirchen. The €800 sculpture far exceeds the €20 scrap value.\n\nIn Haiti, after the 2010 Haiti earthquake, some looters were reported to be removing rebar from the concrete of collapsed buildings in order to sell it. Others hacked up downed power lines.\n\nIn the city of Calcutta, India more than 10,000 manhole covers were taken in two months. These were replaced with concrete covers, but these were also stolen, this time for the rebar inside them.\n\nIn 2016, the sewers in Medan Merdeka avenue near National Monument, Central Jakarta, was discovered had been clogged with 10 truck loads of rubber-PVC cable jacket, causing flood in the area. Then it was discovered that the cables belongs to PT Telkom or PT PLN, state-owned telecommunication and electricity provider. The cable jacket was left clogging the sewer, while the metal thieves stole the inner copper wires.\n\nSeveral war graves in the Java Sea were discovered to have been removed by metal scavengers. The wrecks of , , and had been totally removed. A sizable portion of was also scavenged.\n\nThe wrecks of , , and were also missing.\n\nOn 11 January 2011, the theft of of copper cable caused an ICE train to derail near the Dutch city of Zevenaar. Nobody was harmed.\n\nIn 2001, thieves in Khabarovsk Krai stole electric and telephone lines leading to military bases there. A small bridge was stolen in Russia in 2007, when a man chopped up its 5-meter span and hauled it away.\n\nMetal theft in South Africa is rampant, with an estimated R5 billion per annum lost due to the theft. The stolen metal ranges from copper cables, piping, bolts to manhole covers. The theft continuously disrupts and degrades services, such as the power supply provided by Eskom and the telecommunication services by Telkom. Eskom estimated that the theft has cost the company about R25 million per annum, with incidents increasing from 446 incidents in 2005; 1,059 in 2007 and 1,914 in 2008. The theft has cost Telkom R863 million (April 2007 – January 2008 period). Despite the minimal copper reserve South Africa has, as much as 3000 tonnes of copper leave Cape Town harbour every month. Aside from the economic impact, the theft also impacted people's lives, this includes the death of six children due to theft of manhole covers (2004–2008 figures). The theft of copper cables is a serious problem in Gauteng.\n\nIn February 2004, thieves in western Ukraine dismantled and stole an long, one-tonne steel bridge that spanned the river Svalyavka. In September 2009, smugglers attempted to make off with 25 tons of radioactive scrap metal from the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone. The Security Service of Ukraine caught them.\n\nSignificant rises in metal theft were observed during 2006–2007 in the UK, especially in North East England, where metal theft was still on the rise .\n\nIn the UK, the British Metals Recycling Association is working with authorities such as the Association of Chief Police Officers and the British Transport Police to halt the problem of metal being stolen from its members' sites and to identify stolen materials. Also see Operation Tremor.\n\nRoofs, manhole covers, statues etc. have all been increasingly targeted recently due to the rising cost of metal. Most of the time metal is sold for scrap, but occasionally it is used by the thieves themselves. There have been many stories of metal theft; a bronze statue of former Olympic champion Steve Ovett disappeared from Preston Park in Brighton and church bells in Devon were stolen by thieves. A statue made by Henry Moore and estimated to be worth £300,000 was stolen from a museum in 2006, and believed to have been melted down for its scrap value of around £5,000. Churches, especially older churches, suffer as 'lead theft' from church (and other) roofs is on the rise.\nIn late 2011 the police began a number of crackdowns on metal theft, the largest in South Yorkshire resulting in at least 22 arrests and the seizure of amateur smelting equipment. In August 2012, thieves stole 26 metal cages from an animal hospital in Kibworth, Leicestershire. Cages containing sick or injured animals were emptied by the thieves, leading to the death of eight animals and the escape of several others. The cages were worth about £30,000. Theft of copper cable by the side of railway tracks has also become increasingly a problem, and results in train stoppages as well as creating serious safety issues both for the perpetrators and the traveling public.\n\nIn Boston during the summer of 2008, two state employees stole of decorative iron trim that had been removed from the Longfellow Bridge for refurbishment and sold it for scrap. The men, one of whom was a Department of Conservation and Recreation district manager, were charged with receiving $12,147 for the historic original parapet coping. The estimated cost to remake the pieces, scheduled for replication by 2012, was over $500,000. The men were later convicted, in September 2009.\n\nIn New Castle, Pennsylvania, two brothers dismantled a bridge by using a cutting torch to take it apart. Between September 16 and September 28, 2011, the brothers stole the entire bridge and then sold the steel for $5,000.\n\nCities across the United States have become targets for metal thieves. Manhole cover thefts increased dramatically between 2007 and 2008, with Philadelphia as one of the hardest hit targets. Other cities dealing with this trend include Chicago, Illinois; Greensboro, North Carolina, Long Beach, California; and Palm Beach County, Florida.\n\nCopper wire thefts have also become increasingly common in the US. With copper prices at $3.70 a pound , compared to $0.60 a pound in 2002, people have been increasingly stealing copper wire from telephone and power company assets. Gangs have been created, a black market for copper wire has emerged, and men even have been injured in power plants while trying to obtain copper wire. Other sources of stolen copper include railroad signal lines, grounding bars at electric substations, and even a bell stolen from a Buddhist temple in Tacoma, Washington, which was later recovered.\n\nFor example, Georgia, like many other states, has seen enough copper crime that a special task force has been created to fight it. The Metro Atlanta Copper Task Force is led by the Atlanta Police Department and involves police and recyclers from surrounding metro areas, Georgia Power, and the Fulton County District Attorney's office.\n\nMany states around the nation have passed – or are exploring – legislation to combat the problem. A new Georgia law took effect in July 2007 making it a crime to knowingly buy stolen metal. It allows prosecutors to prosecute for the actual cost of returning property to original conditions, as many of these thefts dramatically hurt the surrounding property value.\n\nOn September 1, 2007, Earl Thelander of Onawa, Iowa, became the United States' first innocent copper theft fatality. Thelander sustained second- and third-degree burns over 80% of his body during an August 28, 2007, explosion, after copper thieves stripped propane and water lines from a rural residence and let the home fill with gas. Thelander, who, along with his wife, was preparing the empty home for a new tenant, reported the burglary to the Monona County Sheriff's Office, who investigated the initial crime. Hours after local law enforcement sent the Thelanders home, Thelander returned to the home to see if officials had cleared the home for entry. With no law enforcement nor fire department personnel present, he entered the home, and, smelling no fumes, felt it safe to work. In the basement, he plugged in a fan to help dry water on the basement floor, the electricity sparking an explosion.\n\nIn response to the growing concerns and the lack of hard numbers on these crimes in Indianapolis, the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) and the University of Indianapolis Community Research Center (CRC) began in 2008 a collaborative effort to collect data on metal thefts. The Indianapolis Metal Theft Project gathers and analyzes a wide variety of data to provide a clearer understanding of the incidence, types, costs, and impacts of metal theft in Indianapolis in order to inform and implement strategies to reduce these crimes and their impacts.\n\nThe Department of Justice's Office of Community-Oriented Policing and the Center for Problem-Oriented Policing published its 58th problem-solving guide in 2010 directed towards theft of scrap metal. Brandon Kooi provides a review of the problem in the US and internationally, followed by a number of suggested responses and what to consider in those responses.\n\nThe International Association of Property Crime Investigators presents the annual National Metal Theft Investigation Seminar uniting law enforcement and corporate security to share, learn and network to combat metal theft.\n\nThe Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries is one of the groups backing these educational efforts throughout the country. As the nation’s trade association for the scrap recycling industry, ISRI provides members and community leaders with resources that they can use when facing the issue. They have also teamed with the National Crime Prevention Council (known for McGruff the Crime Dog and the “Take a Bite Out of Crime” slogan) in an effort to team with law enforcement and crime prevention organizations to fight and solve this problem, and have established a theft alert system that these groups can use. ISRI and the National Crime Prevention Council offer a number of tips for how to fight and prevent metal theft, including requiring photo ID and license plate information for every transaction, training employees on identifying stolen goods, and keeping good records that might be useful later.\n\n\nSpecific citations:\n\nGeneral references:\n\n"}
{"id": "40239786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40239786", "title": "Murder of Dwayne Jones", "text": "Murder of Dwayne Jones\n\nDwayne Jones was a Jamaican 16-year-old who was killed by a violent mob in Montego Bay in 2013, after he attended a dance party dressed in women's clothing. The incident attracted national and international media attention and brought increased scrutiny to the status of LGBT rights in Jamaica.\n\nPerceived as effeminate, Jones was bullied in school and, at the age of 14, was forced out of his family home by his father. He moved into a derelict house in Montego Bay with transgender friends. On the evening of 21 July 2013, they went to the Irwin area of the city and attended a dance party. When some men at the party discovered that the cross-dressing Jones was not a woman, they confronted and attacked him. Jones was beaten, stabbed, shot, and run over with a car; he died in the early hours of the morning. Police investigated the murder but did not arrest or charge anyone for the crime, which remains unsolved.\n\nThe event made newspaper headlines in Jamaica and was also the subject of reporting in both the United Kingdom and the United States. While voices on social media accused Jones of provoking his killers by cross-dressing in public, the murder was condemned by Jamaican educators and the country's Justice Minister. In the wake of the attack, both domestic and international organisations devoted to LGBT rights and human rights – among them Human Rights Watch, Jamaicans for Justice, and the Jamaica Forum for Lesbians, All-Sexuals & Gays – asked the Jamaican authorities for a proper investigation and legal recognition of LGBT rights on the island.\n\nRaised in an impoverished slum in Montego Bay, a city in northwest Jamaica, Jones faced bullying at high school from students who perceived his behaviour as effeminate. When Jones was 14, his father ejected him from the family home and encouraged neighbours to chase him out of the neighbourhood. After a period sleeping in bushes and on beaches, he began squatting in a derelict house in the hills above Montego Bay with two transgender friends, Keke and Khloe, both 23 at the time of Jones' death. Jones was known among friends as \"Gully Queen\", a reference to the storm drainage systems in which many homeless LGBT Jamaicans live. Friends noted that Jones desired to become a teacher or to work in the tourist industry. He also wanted to become a performer like the American pop star Lady Gaga, and had won a local dancing competition. Khloe described him as \"a diva\" who was \"always very feisty and joking around\".\n\nIn 2006, \"Time\" magazine said that Jamaica may be the most homophobic country in the world. The country's laws criminalising same-sex activity between males were introduced in 1864, during the British colonial administration. According to the Sexual Offences Act of 2009, any man convicted under these laws must register as a sex offender. These laws have been cited as contributing to wider homophobic attitudes among the Jamaican populace, including the view that gay people are criminals regardless of whether or not they have committed any criminal act. Anti-LGBT perspectives have been furthered by the island's conservative Christian churches. Many reggae and dancehall songs, among them Buju Banton's \"Boom Bye Bye\", call for the killing of gays. Writing for the \"International Business Times\" in the summer of 2013, the journalist Palash Gosh noted that while Jamaica was \"awash in crime and violence, gays and lesbians are particularly prominent targets of wanton brutality.\" In the mid-2000s, two of Jamaica's best-known LGBT rights activists, Brian Williamson and Steve Harvey, were murdered. In the summer of 2013, Human Rights Watch carried out five weeks of fieldwork among Jamaica's LGBT community, reporting that over half of those interviewed had experienced violence as a result of their sexual orientation or gender identity, sometimes on more than one occasion.\n\nOn the evening of 21 July 2013 – when Jones was 16 – he dressed in female clothing and attended a dance party with Keke and Khloe called Henessey Sundays, held at a bar in the Irwin area. They arrived by taxi at around 2 am. Jones passed as a girl at the party, and several males danced with him. Although he initially kept his biological sex a secret from others at the party, fearing homophobic persecution, he revealed his identity to a girl with whom he had previously been to church. The girl informed her male friends, who accosted him outside the venue, demanding to know, \"Are you a woman or a man?\" One of the men used a lantern to examine Jones' feet, claiming that they were too large to be those of a biological woman. Discovering his sex, they started calling him \"batty boy\" and other homophobic epithets. Khloe tried to get him to avoid confrontation, whispering in his ear, \"Walk with me, walk with me\", but Jones refused, instead insisting to those assembled that he was female.\n\nWhen someone pulled on Jones' bra strap, he ran away, and the crowd pursued and attacked him further down the road. He was beaten, stabbed, shot and run over by a car. He slipped in and out of consciousness for two hours before another attack finally killed him. There were no reports of anyone trying to help him during the altercation. Khloe was also attacked and almost raped, but escaped by hiding first in a church and then in neighbouring woods. Khloe commented, \"When I saw Dwayne's body, I started shaking and crying. It was horrible.\" Police arrived at the scene at 5 am to find the body dumped in bushes along Orange Main Road. They launched an investigation into the homicide, inviting friends and family of the victim to contact them. Jones' family declined to claim the body, and his father refused to talk to the press about the incident.\n\nOn 14 August, Deputy Superintendent of Police Steve Brown announced that fourteen statements had been collected and that the investigation was progressing. In October 2013, a group of men set fire to the place in which Jones had lived as a squatter, forcing its four occupants to flee, in what was also believed to be an anti-LGBT hate crime. Everald Morgan, an officer at the St James Public Health Department, requested that police provide protection for the four youths made homeless by the arson attack, but they declined to do so. Meanwhile, a charity named Dwayne's House was set up in Jones' memory to aid homeless LGBT youth in Jamaica. , however, no one had been arrested or charged, and in August 2015 the crime was still considered unsolved.\n\nJones' murder made headline news across Jamaica. Jamaica's Justice Minister, Senator Mark Golding, condemned the killing and called for an end to \"depraved acts of violence\" in Jamaica. He added that \"all well-thinking Jamaicans\" should embrace \"the principle of respect for the basic human rights of all persons\" and express tolerance towards minority groups such as the LGBT community. Annie Paul, the publications officer of the Jamaican campus of the University of the West Indies (UWI), stated that on the basis of comments provided on social media, she thought that most Jamaicans believed that Jones provoked his own murder by cross-dressing within a society that did not tolerate such behaviour. Newton D. Duncan, the UWI Professor of Paediatric Surgery, similarly noted that the \"overwhelming majority\" of Jamaicans believed that cross-dressers are homosexuals and deserve punishment. He added that this was a common misconception, because the majority of cross-dressers were heterosexual. He condemned the attack and compared it to the lynching of an African-American man in Harper Lee's novel \"To Kill a Mockingbird\", drawing links between the anti-LGBT violence of Jamaica and the anti-black violence of the mid-20th century United States.\n\nWriting in the Jamaican broadsheet \"The Gleaner\", Carolyn Cooper, Professor of Literary and Cultural Studies at UWI, condemned the group who committed Jones' murder. She blamed their behaviour on the selective use of the Bible, noting that while many Jamaicans embrace those Biblical passages which condemn same-sex sexual activity and cross-dressing, they are themselves typically guilty of many other Biblical sins, such as adultery and murder. She commented that Jones had been killed just for being himself and expressed the hope that his killers face legal prosecution for their crime. The following week she published a follow-up article in which she responded to several emails that she had received which claimed that the real victims of the scenario were the men whom Jones deceived when he was dancing with them. She reiterated her condemnation of Jones' killers, remarking that rather than retaliating violently, they should have brushed it off with a humorous comment.\n\nJaevion Nelson, an HIV/AIDS campaigner and human rights advocate, also published an article on the subject in \"The Gleaner\". He noted that his initial reaction was to question why Jones had gone to the dance party and why he was not satisfied in attending Jamaica's underground gay parties. He added that he had subsequently realised that adopting this viewpoint was rooted in \"the culture of violence\" by which a victim is blamed for what happened to them. He called on Jamaicans to be tolerant of LGBT individuals, and to focus on \"rebuilding this great nation on the principles of inclusivity, love, equality and respect with no distinctions whatsoever\". Also in \"The Gleaner\", Sheila Veléz Martínez, a law professor at the University of Pittsburgh, condemned the murder as \"alarming evidence\" of the high rates of homophobia in Jamaican society.\n\nOn 25 July, the Jamaica Forum for Lesbians, All-Sexuals & Gays (J-FLAG), an LGBT rights organisation, issued a public statement expressing their \"deep concern\" regarding the case, and offering their condolences to Jones' friends and family. They encouraged local people to aid the police in locating the perpetrators of the attack, which they asserted was an affront to Jamaica's democracy. J-FLAG's director Dane Lewis later commented that despite an increase in homophobic violence, Jamaican society was becoming more tolerant toward LGBT people; he attributed this to the actions of individuals like Jones, who have helped improve the public visibility of LGBT people in Jamaican society. Another LGBT rights organisation, Quality of Citizenship Jamaica, issued a press release calling for the government and churches to engage with LGBT organisations to establish common ground which could be undergirded by the principle of \"true respect for all,\" found in the nation's National Anthem. Human rights organisation Jamaicans for Justice called on Prime Minister Portia Simpson-Miller and religious leaders to condemn the murder, also commenting on what they saw as a lack of media coverage and public outrage about the incident, adding that \"we must ask ourselves what this says about us as a people.\"\n\nNews of Jones' murder attracted international media attention, resulting in condemnation of the killing by human rights groups. Graeme Reid, the LGBT Rights Program director at Human Rights Watch in New York, issued a statement that the Jamaican government should send an \"unequivocal message\" that there would be \"zero tolerance\" of anti-LGBT violence. Reid noted that Jamaica's Prime Minister had vowed to decriminalise same-sex sexual activity in her 2011 election campaign but had yet to implement that promise. He encouraged the Jamaican authorities to take action to investigate Jones' murder and to promote respect for the country's LGBT citizens.\n\nIn a February 2014 briefing, the U.S. Acting Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Uzra Zeya, cited Jones' case as well as the torture and murder of Cameroonian HIV/AIDS activist Eric Ohena Lembembe as examples of the \"troubling acts of violence\" against LGBT individuals that had happened across the globe in the previous year.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a black LGBT organisation, the Out and Proud Diamond Group (OPDG), in association with the Peter Tatchell Foundation, organised a protest outside Jamaica's London embassy on 28 August. Talking to press, the OPDG's Marvin Kibuuka condemned Jones' murder and called for supporters to actively oppose the persecution of LGBT people in both Jamaica and elsewhere. Peter Tatchell later asserted that the lack of action by Simpson-Miller and the police was tantamount to colluding with those guilty of an anti-LGBT hate crime.\n\nIn her introduction to an academic study of \"queerness and children's literature\", Laura Robinson, an Associate Professor of English at the Royal Military College of Canada, cited Jones' murder alongside the 2013 Russian LGBT propaganda law as an example in which youth issues intersected with LGBT issues. She added that Jones was a \"child who did not end up having what Judith Butler calls a 'livable life'.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19651913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19651913", "title": "Nascent state", "text": "Nascent state\n\nThe nascent state (\"Statu Nascenti\") is defined as a psychological process of destructuration-reorganization where the individual becomes capable of merging with other persons and creating a new collectivity with a very high degree of solidarity. This concept was first defined by Francesco Alberoni, a prominent Italian sociologist, journalist, and professor in Sociology, in his book \"Statu Nascenti\". However, the concept is referred to in much of his work. In his book \"Falling in Love and Loving\", Alberoni defends that there are similarities to be found between massive collective movements and love relationships:\nUp till now, sociologists, psychologists, and philosophers have displayed a sort of repugnance or embarrassment in admitting that there is something in common—or better, something identical—to be found both in great historical processes like Islam, the French Revolution, or the Russian Revolution and in such personal, banal phenomena as the experience of falling in love. [...]\n\nIn an analogous way, the falling-in-love process is the simplest form of a collective movement. [...]\n\nThe definition given of the falling-in-love process (i.e. the nascent state of a collective movement made up of two people) offers us a theoretical slot in which to position this mysterious phenomenon of collective movements. Not only, but the same definition provides us with an extraordinary tool for investigating the nature of all such movements.\nTherefore, falling in love is seen as the nascent state of a collective movement formed of two people only. According to Francesco Alberoni, the phenomenology of falling in love is the same for young people and adults, for men and women and for homosexuals and heterosexuals. This is because the structure of the nascent state is always the same.\n\n"}
{"id": "1872139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1872139", "title": "National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance", "text": "National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance\n\nThe National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance (NAAFA) is a non-profit, fat acceptance civil-rights organization in the United States dedicated to improving the quality of life for the obese. NAAFA works to eliminate discrimination based on body size and provide fat people with the tools for self-empowerment through public education, advocacy, and member support.\n\nNAAFA was founded in 1969 by Bill Fabrey in New York City as the \"National Association to Aid Fat Americans.\" In its early years, social activities and letter-writing campaigns were a major part of the organization. As the organization turned more toward political activism, the name was changed during the 1980s.\n\nNAAFA has a yearly national convention in summer, which is usually alternated between the east and west coasts. In 2008 they introduced the \"NAAFA Size Diversity Toolkit\" to educate corporations on quality of life issues. As part of its ongoing campaign, NAAFA also opposes airline policies regarding charging fat people for each seat they use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "244067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244067", "title": "Negative sign (astrology)", "text": "Negative sign (astrology)\n\nIn astrology, a negative, ceptive, dispassive, yin, nocturnal or feminine sign refers to any of the six even-numbered signs of the zodiac: Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn or Pisces.\n\nThese 11 signs constitute the earth and water triplicities.\n\nIn astrology there are two groups: positive and negative. These two groups also\ninclude six individual signs that are called zodiac signs. The negative signs associated\nwith the zodiac are Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and Pisces. The positive\nsigns associated with the zodiac are Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and\nAquarius. The twelve signs are divided into two\ngroups based upon one's exact time and place of birth. The negative and positive signs\nalternate, starting with Aries as positive and Taurus as negative and continuing this pattern through the list of zodiac signs.\n\nThe signs negative and positive are referred to as a negative-sunsign or a\npositive-sunsign. There are many terms used in astrology to differentiate the\ntwo groups. In Chinese astrology, the two groups are categorized as yin and yang, corresponding respectively to negative and positive. Standen explains that different astrologers may refer to signs by different names. For example, an astrologer may refer to positive signs as masculine and negative signs as feminine. Each sign is divided into two main\ntypes: active and passive. As a general rule, the active type will be called masculine and the passive type will be called feminine.\n\nZodiac signs associated with the negative are Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and Pisces. Note that there is no value judgment attached to the terms negative or positive. They may be likened to polarities in a magnet: one side is positive and one side is negative. Neither side is \"good\" nor \"bad\"—they are merely different.\n\nThe sunsign effect is a pattern of alternating high and low extraversion-scores for\nthe 12 signs. Introvert is a person who gains energy when alone and spends it when with other people. Extravert is a person who gains energy from socialization, expending it when alone. Jan J.F. van Rooij did an experiment on Introversion-Extraversion: astrology\nversus psychology, to see if those in the negative sunsign were introverted and those in\nthe positive sunsign were negative. Van Rooijs did this experiment on those with\nastrological knowledge and on those with no astrological knowledge. His results showed\nthat negative sunsign people are not that responsive to the outer world and are\naccordingly not influenced that easily by astrological information. They rely more on\ntheir own ideas and feelings, thus proving his point that people who are born with the\nnegative sunsign are introverted, and those born with the positive sunsign are\nextroverted.\n\nEarth and Water are the elements attached to those who are in the negative sign.\nEarth is the element of Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn. Water is the element of Cancer,\nScorpio, and Pisces. Elements are the basic traits of the signs. They reveal the\nfundamental aspects of the personality.\n“Water signs are attuned to waves of emotion, and often seem to have a built-in\nsonar for reading a mood. This gives them a special sensitivity in relationships, knowing\nwhen to show warmth and when to hold back. At their best, they are a healing force that\nbring people together -- at their worst, they are psychic vampires, able to manipulate\nand drain the life force of the closest to them”. Hall explains that water signs are\nmore in tune with their emotions and are comfortable showing them. Water signs bring a\ncertain presence to a situation; they seek out the problem and fix it.\n“Earth signs are sensual, meaning they engage with life through the five senses.\nIt takes time to sense the dense physical world, and earth signs can operate at a slower,\nmore thorough pace than the other elements. Theyʼre oriented toward whatʼs real, and\noften this makes them very productive, able to create tangible results.”\nEarth signs are described by Hall as earthy people. These signs focus on the things\nthat connect us to the earth: things which bring peace, as opposed to focusing on the material world.\n\n"}
{"id": "3552615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3552615", "title": "Newtonian motivations for general relativity", "text": "Newtonian motivations for general relativity\n\nSome of the basic concepts of general relativity can be outlined outside the relativistic domain. In particular, the idea that mass–energy generates curvature in space and that curvature affects the motion of masses can be illustrated in a Newtonian setting. We use circular orbits as our prototype. This has the advantage that we know the kinetics of circular orbits. This allows us to calculate curvature of orbits in space directly and compare the results with dynamical forces.\n\nA unique feature of the gravitational force is that all massive objects accelerate in the same manner in a gravitational field. This is often expressed as \"The gravitational mass is equal to the inertial mass.\" This allows us to think of gravity as a curvature of spacetime. \n\nIf initially parallel paths of two particles on nearby geodesics remain parallel within some accuracy, then spacetime is flat to within that accuracy. [Ref. 2, p. 30]\n\nConsider the situation in which there are two particles in nearby circular polar orbits of the Earth at radius formula_1 and speed formula_2. Since the orbits are circular, the gravitational force on the particles must equal the centripetal force,\n\nwhere \"G\" is the gravitational constant and formula_4 is the mass of the earth.\n\nThe particles execute simple harmonic motion about the earth and with respect to each other. They are at their maximum distance from each other as they cross the equator. Their trajectories intersect at the poles.\n\nFrom Newton's Law of Gravitation the separation vector formula_5 can be shown to be given by the \"geodesic equation\"\n\nwhere formula_7 is the curvature of the trajectory and formula_8 is the speed of light c times the time.\n\nThe curvature of the trajectory is generated by the mass of the earth formula_4. This is represented by the \"field equation\"\n\nIn this example, the field equation is simply a statement of the Newtonian concept that centripetal force is equal to gravitational force for circular orbits. We refer to this expression as a field equation in order to highlight the similarities with the Einstein field equation. This equation is in a much different form than Gauss's law, which is the usual characterization of the field equation in Newtonian mechanics.\n\nMass can be written in terms of the average mass density formula_11 inside a sphere of radius formula_1 by the expression\n\nThe field equation becomes\n\nThe curvature of the particle trajectories is proportional to mass density.\n\nA requirement of General Relativity is that all measurements must be made locally. We can therefore imagine that the particles are inside a windowless spacecraft co-orbiting the earth with the center of mass of the spacecraft coincident with one of the particles. That particle would be at rest with respect to the spacecraft. An observer in the spacecraft would have no indication that the craft was orbiting the earth. The observer is only allowed to measure the behavior of the particles in the frame of the craft.\n\nIn this example, we can define a local coordinate system such that the formula_15-direction is toward the ceiling of the craft and this is directed along formula_16. The formula_17-direction is toward the front of the craft and is in the direction of formula_18. The formula_19-direction is toward the left side of the craft.\n\nIn this frame, the vector formula_5 is the position vector for the second particle. An observer in the craft would think the second particle was oscillating in a potential well generated by a gravitational field. This is an example of a coordinate acceleration due to the choice of frames as opposed to a physical acceleration due to actual forces.\n\nMore generally, particles move in elliptic or hyberbolic trajectories in a plane that contains the earth center. The orbits need not be circular. One can obtain intuitive geodesic and field equations in those situations as well [Ref 2, Chapter 1]. Unlike circular orbits, however, the speed of the particles in elliptic or hyperbolic trajectories is not constant. We therefore do not have a constant speed with which to scale the curvature. Therefore, in anticipation of the transition to relativistic mechanics, the trajectories and curvatures are scaled with the speed of light formula_21.\n\nFrom Newton's Law of Gravitation\n\none can obtain the geodesic equation for the separation of two particles in nearby trajectories\n\nand the field equation\n\nif the particle separation is perpendicular to formula_16 and\n\nif the separation is parallel to formula_16. In the calculation of formula_28 the radius was expanded in terms of formula_5. Only the linear term was retained.\n\nIn the case that the separation of the particle is radial, the curvature is negative. This will cause the particles to separate rather than to be drawn toward each other as in the case in which they have the same radius. This is easy to understand. Outer orbits travel slower than inner orbits. This leads to particle separation.\n\nA local coordinate system for a space craft co-moving with one of the particles can again be defined. The formula_15-direction, toward the ceiling, is in the direction of formula_16. The formula_17-direction, toward the front of the craft, is perpendicular to formula_16 but still in the plane of the trajectory. Unlike in a circular orbit, this craft no longer necessarily points in the direction of the velocity. The formula_19-direction is toward the left side of the craft.\n\nThe geodesic equation in a radial gravitational field can be described succinctly in tensor notation [Ref. 2, p. 37] in the co-moving frame in which the ceiling of the space craft is in the formula_35 direction\n\nwhere the Latin indices are over the spatial directions in the co-moving system, and we have used the Einstein summation convention in which repeated indices are summed. The curvature tensor formula_37 is given by\n\nand the separation vector is given by\n\nwhere formula_40 is the component of formula_5 in the formula_42 direction, formula_43 is the component in the formula_44 direction, and formula_45 is the component in the formula_46 direction.\n\nIn this co-moving coordinate system the curvature tensor is diagonal. This is not true in general.\n\nThe co-moving spacecraft has no windows. An observer is not able to tell which direction is the formula_35 direction, nor can he/she know which direction is the velocity with respect to earth. The orientation of the spacecraft may be quite different from the simple coordinate system in which the ceiling is in the formula_35 direction and the front of the craft is in a direction coplanar with the radius and the velocity. We can transform our simple coordinates to an arbitrarily oriented coordinate system through rotations. This, however, destroys the diagonal nature of the curvature matrix.\n\nRotations are performed with a rotation matrix formula_49 such that the separation vector formula_50 is related to the separation vector before rotation formula_5 by the relation\n\nThe inverse formula_53 of formula_54 is defined by\n\nwhich yields\n\nHere formula_57 is the Kronecker delta.\n\nA simple rotation matrix that rotates the coordinate axis through an angle formula_58 about the formula_17-axis is\n\nThis is a rotation in the y-z plane. The inverse is obtained by switching the sign of formula_58.\n\nIf the rotation matrix does not depend on time then the geodisic equation becomes, upon rotation\n\nwhere\n\nThe curvature in the new coordinate system is non-diagonal. The inverse problem of transforming an arbitray coordinate system into a diagonal system can be performed mathematically with the process of diagonalization.\n\nThe space craft may tumble about its center of mass. In that case the rotation matrix is time dependent. If the rotation matrix is time dependent, then it does not commute with the time derivative.\n\nIn that case, the rotation of the separation velocity can be written\n\nwhich becomes\n\nwhere\n\nis known as a Christoffel symbol.\n\nThe geodesic equation becomes\n\nwhich is the same as before with the exception that the derivatives have been generalized.\n\nThe velocity in the frame of the spacecraft can be written\n\nThe geodesic equation becomes\n\nIn an arbitrarily rotating spacecraft, the curvature of space is due to two terms, one due to the mass density and one due to the arbitrary rotation of the spacecraft. The arbitrary rotation is non-physical and must be eliminated in any real physical theory of gravitation. In General Relativity this is done with a process called Fermi–Walker transport. In a Euclidean sense, Fermi–Walker transport is simply a statement that the spacecraft is not allowed to tumble\n\nfor all i and j. The only time-dependent rotations allowed are those generated by the mass density.\n\nwhere\n\nand formula_74 is a Christoffel symbol.\n\nwhere formula_76 is a rotation matrix and the curvature tensor is\n\nThe curvature is proportional to the mass density\n\nThe geodesic and field equations simply are a restatement of Newton's Law of Gravitation as seen from a local frame of reference co-moving with the mass within the local frame. This picture contains many of the elements of General Relativity, including the concept that particles travel along geodesics in a curved space (spacetime in the relativistic case) and that the curvature is due to the presence of mass density (mass/energy density in the relativistic case). This picture also contains some of the mathematical machinery of General Relativity such as tensors, Christoffel symbols, and Fermi–Walker transport.\n\nGeneral relativity generalizes the geodesic equation and the field equation to the relativistic realm in which trajectories in space are replaced with world lines in spacetime. The equations are also generalized to more complicated curvatures.\n"}
{"id": "44879482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44879482", "title": "OpenStructures", "text": "OpenStructures\n\nOpenStructures is an open source modular construction model based on a shared geometrical grid, called the OS grid. It was conceived by designer Thomas Lommée, and first demonstrated at the Z33, a house for contemporary art. According to Lommee, the OpenStructures project explores the possibility of a modular system where \"everyone designs for everyone.\" OpenStructures is developing a database where anyone can share designs which are in turn available for download by the public. Each component design in the OS system will feature previously designed OS parts that were used to create it. In addition, each part will feature component designs that can be made from it.\n\nThe OpenStructures model includes large and small scale manufacturers as well as craftsmen. They are invited to create their own designs according to the OS standard for sale on the market, which can in turn be fixed or disassembled at their end of life and made into new products. \n\nThe OpenStructures grid is built around a square of 4 x 4 cm and is scalable. The squares can be further subdivided or put together to form larger squares, without losing inter-compatibility. The image shows nine complete squares of each 4x4 cm put together. \n\nDesigners use the OS grid to determine dimensions, assembly points, and interconnecting diameters. This allows parts that were not originally from the same design to be used together in a new design. \n\nOpenStructures works at several scales, and analogies are made to biological systems including (from smallest to biggest):\n\n\nOne of the research areas of OpenStructures is architecture. Architects of the Brussels Cooperation Collective have worked on the subject.\n\nAutarchitecture (, ) is based in OpenStructures and proposes flexible constructions that can adapt over time.\n\nOpen smart brick elements and buildings can be based on OpenStructures.\n\nFab Lab Academy had been building several beehives making use of the OpenStructures system to make them more sustainable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13696101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13696101", "title": "Paradox (literature)", "text": "Paradox (literature)\n\nIn literature, the paradox is an anomalous juxtaposition of incongruous ideas for the sake of striking exposition or unexpected insight. It functions as a method of literary composition and analysis that involves examining apparently contradictory statements and drawing conclusions either to reconcile them or to explain their presence.\n\nLiterary or rhetorical paradoxes abound in the works of Oscar Wilde and G. K. Chesterton. Most literature deals with paradox of situation; Rabelais, Cervantes, Sterne, Borges, and Chesterton are recognized as masters of situation as well as verbal paradox. Statements such as Wilde's \"I can resist anything except temptation\" and Chesterton's \"spies do not look like spies\" are examples of rhetorical paradox. Further back, Polonius' observation that \"though this be madness, yet there is method in't\" is a memorable third. Also, statements that are illogical and metaphoric may be called paradoxes, for example: \"The pike flew to the tree to sing.\" The literal meaning is illogical, but there are many interpretations for this metaphor.\n\nCleanth Brooks, an active member of the New Critical movement, outlines the use of reading poems through paradox as a method of critical interpretation. Paradox in poetry means that tension at the surface of a verse can lead to apparent contradictions and hypocrisies. Brooks' seminal essay, \"The Language of Paradox\", lays out his argument for the centrality of paradox by demonstrating that paradox is \"the language appropriate and inevitable to poetry.\" The argument is based on the contention that referential language is too vague for the specific message a poet expresses; he must \"make up his language as he goes.\" This, Brooks argues, is because words are mutable and meaning shifts when words are placed in relation to one another.\n\nIn the writing of poems, paradox is used as a method by which unlikely comparisons can be drawn and meaning can be extracted from poems both straightforward and enigmatic.\n\nBrooks points to William Wordsworth's poem \"It is a beauteous evening, calm and free\". He begins by outlining the initial and surface conflict, which is that the speaker is filled with worship, while his female companion does not seem to be. The paradox, discovered by the poem's end, is that the girl is more full of worship than the speaker precisely because she is always consumed with sympathy for nature and not – as is the speaker – in tune with nature while immersed in it.\n\nIn his reading of Wordsworth's poem, \"Composed upon Westminster Bridge\", Brooks contends that the poem offers paradox not in its details, but in the situation the speaker creates. Though London is a man-made marvel, and in many respects in opposition to nature, the speaker does not view London as a mechanical and artificial landscape but as a landscape composed entirely of nature. Since London was created by man, and man is a part of nature, London is thus too a part of nature. It is this reason that gives the speaker the opportunity to remark upon the beauty of London as he would a natural phenomenon, and, as Brooks points out, can call the houses \"sleeping\" rather than \"dead\" because they too are vivified with the natural spark of life, granted to them by the men that built them.\n\nBrooks ends his essay with a reading of John Donne's poem \"The Canonization\", which uses a paradox as its underlying metaphor. Using a charged religious term to describe the speaker's physical love as saintly, Donne effectively argues that in rejecting the material world and withdrawing to a world of each other, the two lovers are appropriate candidates for canonization. This seems to parody both love and religion, but in fact it combines them, pairing unlikely circumstances and demonstrating their resulting complex meaning. Brooks points also to secondary paradoxes in the poem: the simultaneous duality and singleness of love, and the double and contradictory meanings of \"die\" in Metaphysical poetry (used here as both sexual union and literal death). He contends that these several meanings are impossible to convey at the right depth and emotion in any language but that of paradox. A similar paradox is used in Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\", when Juliet says, \"For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch and palm to palm is holy palmer's kiss.\"\n\nBrooks' contemporaries in the sciences were, in the 1940s and 50's, reorganizing university science curricula into codified disciplines. The study of English, however, remained less defined and it became a goal of the New Critical movement to justify literature in an age of science by separating the work from its author and critic (see Wimsatt and Beardsley's Intentional fallacy and Affective fallacy) and by examining it as a self-sufficient artifact. In Brooks's use of the paradox as a tool for analysis, however, he develops a logical case as a literary technique with strong emotional effect. His reading of \"The Canonization\" in \"The Language of Paradox\", where paradox becomes central to expressing complicated ideas of sacred and secular love, provides an example of this development.\n\nAlthough paradox and irony as New Critical tools for reading poetry are often conflated, they are independent poetical devices. Irony for Brooks is \"the obvious warping of a statement by the context\" whereas paradox is later glossed as a special kind of qualification that \"involves the resolution of opposites.\"\n\nIrony functions as a presence in the text – the overriding context of the surrounding words that make up the poem. Only sentences such as 2 + 2 = 4 are free from irony; most other statements are prey to their immediate context and are altered by it (take, as an example, the following joke. \"A woman walks into a bar and asks for a \"double entendre\". The bartender gives it to her.\" This last statement, perfectly acceptable elsewhere, is transformed by its context in the joke to an innuendo). Irony is the key to validating the poem because a test of any statement grows from the context – validating a statement demands examining the statement in the context of the poem and determining whether it is appropriate to that context.\n\nParadox, however, is essential to the structure and being of the poem. In \"The Well Wrought Urn\" Brooks shows that paradox was so essential to poetic meaning that paradox was almost identical to poetry. According to literary theorist Leroy Searle, Brooks' use of paradox emphasized the indeterminate lines between form and content. \"The form of the poem uniquely embodies its meaning,\" and the language of the poem \"affects the reconciliation of opposites or contraries.\" While irony functions within the poem, paradox often refers to the meaning and structure of the poem and is thus inclusive of irony. This existence of opposites or contraries and the reconciliation thereof is poetry and the meaning of the poem.\n\nR.S. Crane, in his essay \"The Critical Monism of Cleanth Brooks\", argues strongly against Brooks' centrality of paradox. For one, Brooks believes that the very structure of poetry is paradox, and ignores the other subtleties of imagination and power that poets bring to their poems. Brooks simply believed that, \"'Imagination' reveals itself in the balance or reconciliation of opposite or discordant qualities.\" Brooks, in leaning on the crutch of paradox, only discusses the truth poetry can reveal, and speaks nothing about the pleasure it can give. (231) Also, by defining poetry as uniquely having a structure of paradox, Brooks ignores the power of paradox in everyday conversation and discourse, including scientific discourse, which Brooks claimed was opposed to poetry. Crane claims that, using Brooks' definition of poetry, the most powerful paradoxical poem in modern history is Einstein's formula E = mc, which is a profound paradox in that matter and energy are the same thing. The argument for the centrality of paradox (and irony) becomes a \"reductio ad absurdum\" and is therefore void (or at least ineffective) for literary analysis.\n"}
{"id": "39350271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39350271", "title": "Parity plot", "text": "Parity plot\n\nA parity plot is a scatterplot that compares experimental data against tabulated data. Each point has coordinates (\"x\", \"y\"), where \"x\" is the tabulated value, and \"y\" is the corresponding experimental value.\n\nA line of the equation \"y\" = \"x\" is sometimes added as a reference. When an experimental value equals a tabulated value, the point will lie on the line.\n\nParity plots are found in scientific papers and reports, when the author wishes to compare his data to accepted values in an easily understandable way.\n\n"}
{"id": "3398483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3398483", "title": "Regift", "text": "Regift\n\nRegifting or regiving is the act of taking a gift that has been received and giving it to somebody else, sometimes in the guise of a new gift. One example of a formalization of this activity are the white elephant gift exchanges, in which items can be regifted from year to year.\n\nIn the USA, \"National Regifting Day\" is December 18. In Canada, eBay marketed \"National Re-gifting Week\" as December 26–30 (December 26 being Boxing Day, a time traditionally associated with gift-giving).\n\nRegiving differs from straightforward giving in that goods are not acquired specifically for donation. Typically, goods that have been received as a gift are offered to others, unbeknown to them that it was originally a gift to the person offering it. Often the motives are principally charitable but also includes giving items which are surplus to one's needs.\n\nHowever, re-gifting also refers the means of giving away unwanted gifts as a way of disposing them. Consider the \"fruitcake gift\" scenario. Someone receives a fruitcake but they don't like (or want) fruitcake but think someone else might. They give it away to someone who also may not like fruitcake either.\n\nRegiving differs from recycling in that recycling is most often associated with breaking components down and rebuilding into new products.\n\nThe term was popularized by an episode of the NBC sitcom \"Seinfeld\" (\"The Label Maker\"), although the practice pre-dates the term substantially. In the episode, the character Elaine calls Dr. Tim Whatley a \"regifter\" after he gives Jerry Seinfeld a label-maker that was originally given to Whatley by Elaine.\n\nAnother variant introduced in \"Seinfeld\" is degifting (see Indian giver), which refers to the act of demanding a gift back from the receiver.\n\nSeveral rules of etiquette are proposed in popular media regarding regifting; they include rewrapping the gift, not using the gift before regifting it, and not giving the gift back to the original gift-giver.\n\nRegifting has become a popular addition to many white elephant gift exchanges or yankee swap events. There are no rules that specifically prohibit or encourage the practice of regifting at these parties, but generally the host of the party suggests regifting if it is an option. However, if the host suggests a spending limit for the party, it is generally poor etiquette to regift in lieu of making a purchase. The online variations of these exchanges eliminate this situation through their online purchasing requirements.\n\nA variant of regifting was mentioned as one of Oprah's Favorite Things during the recession-themed 2008 episode.\n\nA Fairleigh Dickinson University PublicMind Poll in Dec. 2010 showed that regifting was \"commonplace.\" Burçak Ertimur, one of the investigators in the study, and a professor of marketing at FDU, said “The popularity of regifting is driven by many things for different people. For some, it’s thrift in difficult economic times, or it’s a way to get around annoyingly high expectations about gift-giving. It’s also awareness of, or guilt over, how much stuff goes into the landfill. But the main reason might be just the sheer volume of stuff we have,” she said.\n\nRegifting has recently become more acceptable when it was adopted by environmentally and budgetary conscious people that encourage the Green Gifting concept.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "441111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=441111", "title": "Rio Declaration on Environment and Development", "text": "Rio Declaration on Environment and Development\n\nThe Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, often shortened to Rio Declaration, was a short document produced at the 1992 United Nations \"Conference on Environment and Development\" (UNCED), informally known as the Earth Summit. The Rio Declaration consisted of 27 principles intended to guide countries in future sustainable development. It was signed by over 170 countries.\n\nThe international community met twice to assess the progress made in implementing the principles of the document; first in New York in 1997 during a General Assembly Session of the UN, and then in Johannesburg in 2002. While the document helped to raise environmental awareness, evidence shows that little has been achieved in the document's environmental goals.\n\nThe Rio Declaration proclaims 27 principles. It includes formulations of the precautionary principle (principle 15) and of the polluter pays principle (principle 16).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29815061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29815061", "title": "Ronald Campbell Macfie", "text": "Ronald Campbell Macfie\n\nRonald Campbell Macfie (1867–1931) was a Scottish medical doctor, poet and science writer specialising in eugenics and evolution.\n\nHe was a Scottish physician and writer. He had qualified in medicine in Aberdeen in 1897 and specialised in the treatment of tuberculosis.\n\nHe was also a Liberal Member of British Parliament mentioned in \"The Bookman Treasury of Living Poets\" (4th edition 1931) as a contributor to such works as \"Fairy Tales for Old and Young (1909), and The Golden Treasury of Scottish Poetry (1940)\". Among his works are \"Man’s Record in the Rocks\" (\"My Magazine\", May 1921) \" The Art of Keeping Well\" Cassell & Co. 1918/The Vegetarian Society and \"Evolutionary Consequences of War\" (cited below).\n\nCampbell Macfie suggested that male war deaths (during World War I) would create a surplus of fertile women, thus reducing the overall birthrate whilst the surviving men would select partners from a wide range of 'surplus' females according to eugenically (sexually) attractive characteristics. He averred that:\n\nMacfie was a critic of Darwinism and developed his own non-Darwinian evolution theory which was a form of neovitalism. He believed that chance played no role in evolution and that evolution was directed; he discussed these views in his book \"Heredity, Evolution, and Vitalism\" (1912). Macfie was also a panpsychist as he believed mind was to be found in all matter. MacFie had dedicated one of his books and a poem to the naturalist J. Arthur Thomson in honor of his efforts to promote a neovitalist biology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15668833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15668833", "title": "Season cracking", "text": "Season cracking\n\nSeason cracking is a form of stress-corrosion cracking of brass cartridge cases originally reported from British forces in India. During the monsoon season, military activity was temporarily reduced, and ammunition was stored in stables until the dry weather returned. Many brass cartridges were subsequently found to be cracked, especially where the case was crimped to the bullet. It was not until 1921 that the phenomenon was explained by Moor, Beckinsale and Mallinson: ammonia from horse urine, combined with the residual stress in the cold-drawn metal of the cartridges, was responsible for the cracking.\n\nSeason cracking is characterised by deep brittle cracks which penetrate into affected components. If the cracks reach a critical size, the component can suddenly fracture, sometimes with disastrous results. However, if the concentration of ammonia is very high, then attack is much more severe, and attack over all exposed surfaces occurs. The problem was solved by annealing the brass cases after forming so as to relieve the residual stresses.\nThe attack takes the form of a reaction between ammonia and copper to form the cuprammonium ion, formula [Cu(NH)], a chemical complex which is water-soluble, and hence washed from the growing cracks. The problem of cracking can therefore also occur in copper and any other copper alloy, such as bronze. The tendency of copper to react with ammonia was exploited in making rayon, and the deep blue colour of the aqueous solution of copper(II) oxide in ammonia is known as Schweizer's reagent.\n\nAlthough the problem was first found in brass, any alloy containing copper will be susceptible to the problem. It includes copper itself (as used in pipe for example), bronzes and other alloys with a significant copper content.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1805271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1805271", "title": "Social construction of technology", "text": "Social construction of technology\n\nSocial construction of technology (also referred to as SCOT) is a theory within the field of Science and Technology Studies. Advocates of SCOT—that is, social constructivists—argue that technology does not determine human action, but that rather, human action shapes technology. They also argue that the ways a technology is used cannot be understood without understanding how that technology is embedded in its social context. SCOT is a response to technological determinism and is sometimes known as technological constructivism.\n\nSCOT draws on work done in the constructivist school of the sociology of scientific knowledge, and its subtopics include actor-network theory (a branch of the sociology of science and technology) and historical analysis of sociotechnical systems, such as the work of historian Thomas P. Hughes. Its empirical methods are an adaptation of the Empirical Programme of Relativism (EPOR), which outlines a method of analysis to demonstrate the ways in which scientific findings are socially constructed (see strong program). Leading adherents of SCOT include Wiebe Bijker and Trevor Pinch.\n\nSCOT holds that those who seek to understand the reasons for acceptance or rejection of a technology should look to the social world. It is not enough, according to SCOT, to explain a technology's success by saying that it is \"the best\"—researchers must look at how the criteria of being \"the best\" is defined and what groups and stakeholders participate in defining it. In particular, they must ask who defines the technical criteria success is measured by, why technical criteria are defined this way, and who is included or excluded. Pinch and Bijker argue that technological determinism is a myth that results when one looks backwards and believes that the path taken to the present was the only possible path.\n\nSCOT is not only a theory, but also a methodology: it formalizes the steps and principles to follow when one wants to analyze the causes of technological failures or successes.\n\nAt the point of its conception, the SCOT approach was partly motivated by the ideas of the strong programme in the sociology of science (Bloor 1973). In their seminal article, Pinch and Bijker refer to the \"Principle of Symmetry\" as the most influential tenet of the Sociology of Science, which should be applied in historical and sociological investigations of technology as well. It is strongly connected to Bloor's theory of social causation.\n\nThe \"Principle of Symmetry\" holds that in explaining the origins of scientific beliefs, that is, assessing the success and failure of models, theories, or experiments, the historian/sociologist should deploy the same \"kind\" of explanation in the cases of success as in cases of failure. When investigating beliefs, researchers should be impartial to the (\"a posteriori\" attributed) truth or falsehood of those beliefs, and the explanations should be unbiased. The strong programme adopts a position of relativism or neutralism regarding the arguments that social actors put forward for the acceptance/rejection of any technology. All arguments (social, cultural, political, economic, as well as technical) are to be treated equally.\n\nThe symmetry principle addresses the problem that the historian is tempted to explain the success of successful theories by referring to their \"objective truth\", or inherent \"technical superiority\", whereas s/he is more likely to put forward sociological explanations (citing political influence or economic reasons) only in the case of failures. For example, having experienced the obvious success of the chain-driven bicycle for decades, it is tempting to attribute its success to its \"advanced technology\" compared to the \"primitiveness\" of the Penny Farthing, but if we look closely and symmetrically at their history (as Pinch and Bijker do), we can see that at the beginning bicycles were valued according to quite different standards than nowadays. The early adopters (predominantly young, well-to-do gentlemen) valued the speed, the thrill, and the spectacularity of the Penny Farthing – in contrast to the security and stability of the chain-driven Safety Bicycle. Many other social factors (e.g., the contemporary state of urbanism and transport, women's clothing habits and feminism) have influenced and changed the relative valuations of bicycle models.\n\nA weak reading of the \"Principle of Symmetry\" points out that there often are many competing theories or technologies, which all have the potential to provide slightly different solutions to similar problems. In these cases, sociological factors tip the balance between them: that's why we should pay equal attention to them.\n\nA strong, social constructivist reading would add that even the emergence of the questions or problems to be solved are governed by social determinations, so the Principle of Symmetry is applicable even to the apparently purely technical issues.\n\nThe following concepts and 'stages' of SCOT are adapted from the Empirical Programme of Relativism (EPOR).\n\n\"Interpretative flexibility\" means that each technological artifact has different meanings and interpretations for various groups. Bijker and Pinch show that the air tire of the bicycle meant a more convenient mode of transportation for some people, whereas it meant technical nuisances, traction problems and ugly aesthetics to others. In racing air tires lent to greater speed.\n\nThese alternative interpretations generate different \"problems\" to be solved. How should aesthetics, convenience, and speed be prioritized? What is the \"best\" tradeoff between traction and speed?\n\nThe most basic relevant groups are the \"users\" and the \"producers\" of the technological artifact, but most often many subgroups can be delineated – users with different socioeconomic status, competing producers, etc. Sometimes there are relevant groups who are neither users, nor producers of the technology, for example, journalists, politicians, and civil organizations. Trevor Pinch has argued that the salespeople of technology should also be included in the study of technology. The groups can be distinguished based on their shared or diverging interpretations of the technology in question.\n\nJust as technologies have different meanings in different social groups, there are always multiple ways of constructing technologies. A particular design is only a single point in the large field of technical possibilities, reflecting the interpretations of certain relevant groups.\n\nThe different interpretations often give rise to conflicts between criteria that are hard to resolve technologically (e.g., in the case of the bicycle, one such problem was how a woman could ride the bicycle in a skirt while still adhering to standards of decency), or conflicts between the relevant groups (the \"Anti-cyclists\" lobbied for the banning of the bicycles). Different groups in different societies construct different problems, leading to different designs.\n\nThe first stage of the SCOT research methodology is to reconstruct the alternative interpretations of the technology, analyze the problems and conflicts these interpretations give rise to, and connect them to the design features of the technological artifacts. The relations between groups, problems, and designs can be visualized in diagrams.\n\nOver time, as technologies are developed, the interpretative and design flexibility collapse through closure mechanisms. Two examples of closure mechanisms:\n\n\nClosure is not permanent. New social groups may form and reintroduce interpretative flexibility, causing a new round of debate or conflict about a technology. (For instance, in the 1890s automobiles were seen as the \"green\" alternative, a cleaner environmentally-friendly technology, to horse-powered vehicles; by the 1960s, new social groups had introduced new interpretations about the environmental effects of the automobile, eliciting the opposite conclusion.)\n\nThe second stage of the SCOT methodology is to show how closure is achieved.\n\nThis is the third stage of the SCOT methodology, but the seminal article of Pinch and Bijker does not proceed to this stage. Many other historians and sociologists of technology nevertheless do. For example, Paul N. Edwards shows in his book \"The Closed World: Computers and the Politics of Discourse in Cold War America\" the strong relations between the political discourse of the Cold War and the computer designs of this era.\n\nIn 1993, Langdon Winner published an influential critique of SCOT entitled \"Upon Opening the Black Box and Finding it Empty: Social Constructivism and the Philosophy of Technology.\" In it, he argues that social constructivism is an overly narrow research program. He identifies the following specific limitations in social constructivism:\nOther critics include Stewart Russell with his letter in the journal \"Social Studies of Science\" titled \"The Social Construction of Artifacts: A Response to Pinch and Bijker\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "143377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143377", "title": "Ted Bundy", "text": "Ted Bundy\n\nTheodore Robert Bundy (born Theodore Robert Cowell; November 24, 1946 – January 24, 1989) was an American serial killer, kidnapper, rapist, burglar, and necrophile who assaulted and murdered numerous young women and girls during the 1970s and possibly earlier. Shortly before his execution and after more than a decade of denials, he confessed to 30 homicides that he committed in seven states between 1974 and 1978. The true number of victims is unknown and possibly higher.\n\nMany of Bundy's young female victims regarded him as handsome and charismatic, which were traits that he exploited to win their trust. He would typically approach them in public places, feigning injury or disability, or impersonating an authority figure, before overpowering and assaulting them at more secluded locations. He sometimes revisited his secondary crime scenes for hours at a time, grooming and performing sexual acts with the decomposing corpses until putrefaction and destruction by wild animals made further interaction impossible. He decapitated at least 12 of his victims, and for a period of time, he kept some of the severed heads as mementos in his apartment. On a few occasions, he simply broke into dwellings at night and bludgeoned his victims as they slept.\n\nIn 1975, Bundy was jailed for the first time when he was incarcerated in Utah for aggravated kidnapping and attempted criminal assault. He then became a suspect in a progressively longer list of unsolved homicides in multiple states. Facing murder charges in Colorado, he engineered two dramatic escapes and committed further assaults, including three murders, before his ultimate recapture in Florida in 1978. For the Florida homicides, he received three death sentences in two separate trials.\n\nBundy was executed in the electric chair at Florida State Prison on January 24, 1989. Biographer Ann Rule described Bundy as \"a sadistic sociopath who took pleasure from another human's pain and the control he had over his victims, to the point of death, and even after\". He once called himself \"the most cold-hearted son of a bitch you'll ever meet\"; Attorney Polly Nelson—a member of his last defense team—wrote: \"Ted was the very definition of heartless evil.\"\n\nBundy was born Theodore Robert Cowell on November 24, 1946, to Eleanor Louise Cowell (known for most of her life as Louise) at the Elizabeth Lund Home for Unwed Mothers in Burlington, Vermont. His father's identity was never determined with any degree of certainty. His birth certificate assigned paternity to a salesman and Air Force veteran named Lloyd Marshall, but Louise later claimed that she had been seduced by \"a sailor\" whose name may have been Jack Worthington. Years later, investigators would find no record of anyone by that name in Navy or Merchant Marine archives. Some family members expressed suspicions that Bundy might have been fathered by Louise's own violent, abusive father, Samuel Cowell, but no material evidence has ever been cited to support or refute this.\n\nFor the first three years of his life, Bundy lived in the Philadelphia home of his maternal grandparents, Samuel and Eleanor Cowell, who raised him as their son to avoid the social stigma that accompanied birth outside of wedlock at the time. Family, friends, and even young Ted were told that his grandparents were his parents and that his mother was his older sister. He eventually discovered the truth, although he had varied recollections of the circumstances. He told a girlfriend that a cousin showed him a copy of his birth certificate after calling him a \"bastard\", but he told biographers Stephen Michaud and Hugh Aynesworth that he found the certificate himself. Biographer and true crime writer Ann Rule, who knew Bundy personally, believed that he did not find out until 1969, when he located his original birth record in Vermont. Bundy expressed a lifelong resentment toward his mother for never talking to him about his real father, and for leaving him to discover his true parentage for himself.\n\nIn some interviews, Bundy spoke warmly of his grandparents and told Rule that he \"identified with\", \"respected\", and \"clung to\" his grandfather. In 1987, however, he and other family members told attorneys that Samuel Cowell was a tyrannical bully and a bigot who hated blacks, Italians, Catholics, and Jews. Bundy's grandfather beat his wife and the family dog and swung neighborhood cats by their tails. He once threw Louise's younger sister Julia down a flight of stairs for oversleeping. He sometimes spoke aloud to unseen presences, and at least once he flew into a violent rage when the question of Ted's paternity was raised. Bundy described his grandmother as a timid and obedient woman who periodically underwent electroconvulsive therapy for depression and feared to leave their house toward the end of her life. Ted occasionally exhibited disturbing behavior, even at that early age. Julia recalled awakening one day from a nap to find herself surrounded by knives from the Cowell kitchen; her three-year-old nephew was standing by the bed, smiling.\n\nIn 1950, Louise abruptly changed her surname from Cowell to Nelson, and at the urging of multiple family members, she left Philadelphia with her son to live with cousins Alan and Jane Scott in Tacoma, Washington. In 1951 Louise met Johnny Culpepper Bundy, a hospital cook, at an adult singles night at Tacoma's First Methodist Church. They married later that year and Johnny Bundy formally adopted Ted. Johnny and Louise conceived four children of their own, and although Johnny tried to include his adoptive son in camping trips and other family activities, Ted remained distant. He later complained to his girlfriend that Johnny wasn't his real father, \"wasn't very bright\", and \"didn't make much money.\"\n\nBundy had different recollections of Tacoma when he spoke to his biographers. When he talked to Michaud and Aynesworth, he described how he roamed his neighborhood, picking through trash barrels in search of pictures of naked women. When he spoke to Polly Nelson, he explained how he perused detective magazines, crime novels, and true crime documentaries for stories that involved sexual violence, particularly when the stories were illustrated with pictures of dead or maimed bodies. In a letter to Rule, he asserted that he \"never, ever read fact-detective magazines, and shuddered at the thought [that anyone would]\". In his conversation with Michaud, he described how he would consume large quantities of alcohol and \"canvass the community\" late at night in search of undraped windows where he could observe women undressing, or \"whatever [else] could be seen.\"\n\nBundy also varied the accounts of his social life. He told Michaud and Aynesworth that he \"chose to be alone\" as an adolescent because he was unable to understand interpersonal relationships. He claimed that he had no natural sense of how to develop friendships. \"I didn't know what made people want to be friends,\" he said. \"I didn't know what underlay social interactions.\" Classmates from Woodrow Wilson High School told Rule, however, that Bundy was \"well known and well liked\" there, \"a medium-sized fish in a large pond\".\n\nSnow skiing was Bundy's only significant athletic avocation; he enthusiastically pursued the activity by using stolen equipment and forged lift tickets.\n\nDuring high school, he was arrested at least twice on suspicion of burglary and auto theft. When he reached age 18, the details of the incidents were expunged from his record, which is customary in Washington State and most other states.\n\nAfter graduating from high school in 1965, Bundy spent a year at the University of Puget Sound (UPS) before he transferred to the University of Washington (UW) in 1966 to study Chinese. In 1967, he became romantically involved with a UW classmate who is identified by several pseudonyms in Bundy biographies, most commonly Stephanie Brooks. In early 1968 he dropped out of college and worked at a series of minimum-wage jobs. He also volunteered at the Seattle office of Nelson Rockefeller's presidential campaign and in August attended the 1968 Republican National Convention in Miami as a Rockefeller delegate. Shortly thereafter Brooks ended their relationship and returned to her family home in California, frustrated by what she described as Bundy's immaturity and lack of ambition. Psychiatrist Dorothy Lewis would later pinpoint this crisis as \"probably the pivotal time in his development\". Devastated by Brooks's rejection, Bundy traveled to Colorado and then farther east, visiting relatives in Arkansas and Philadelphia and enrolling for one semester at Temple University. It was at this time in early 1969, Rule believes, that Bundy visited the office of birth records in Burlington and confirmed his true parentage.\n\nBundy was back in Washington in the fall of 1969 when he met Elizabeth Kloepfer (identified in Bundy literature as Meg Anders, Beth Archer, or Liz Kendall), a divorcée from Ogden, Utah. She worked as a secretary at the University of Washington School of Medicine. Their stormy relationship would continue well past his initial incarceration in Utah in 1976.\n\nIn mid-1970, Bundy was now focused and goal oriented, and he re-enrolled at UW, this time as a psychology major. He became an honor student and was well regarded by his professors. In 1971, he took a job at Seattle's Suicide Hotline Crisis Center, where he met and worked alongside Ann Rule. Rule was a former Seattle police officer and aspiring crime writer who would later write one of the definitive Bundy biographies, \"The Stranger Beside Me\". She saw nothing disturbing in Bundy's personality at the time and described him as \"kind, solicitous, and empathetic\".\n\nAfter graduating from UW in 1972, Bundy joined Governor Daniel J. Evans' re-election campaign. Posing as a college student, he shadowed Evans' opponent, former governor Albert Rosellini, and recorded his stump speeches for analysis by Evans' team. After Evans was re-elected, Bundy was hired as an assistant to Ross Davis, Chairman of the Washington State Republican Party. Davis thought well of Bundy and described him as \"smart, aggressive ... and a believer in the system\". In early 1973, Bundy was accepted into the law schools of UPS and the University of Utah despite mediocre Law School Admission Test scores. He got in on the strength of letters of recommendation from Evans, Davis, and several UW psychology professors.\n\nDuring a trip to California on Republican Party business in the summer of 1973, Bundy rekindled his relationship with Brooks, who marveled at his transformation into a serious, dedicated professional who was seemingly on the cusp of a distinguished legal and political career. He continued to date Kloepfer as well, and neither woman was aware of the other's existence. In the fall of 1973, Bundy matriculated at UPS Law School and continued courting Brooks, who flew to Seattle several times to stay with him. They discussed marriage; at one point he introduced her to Davis as his fiancée. In January 1974, however, he abruptly broke off all contact; her phone calls and letters went unreturned. Finally reaching him by phone a month later, Brooks demanded to know why Bundy had unilaterally ended their relationship without explanation. In a flat, calm voice, he replied, \"Stephanie, I have no idea what you mean\" and hung up. She never heard from him again. He later explained, \"I just wanted to prove to myself that I could have married her\"; but Brooks concluded in retrospect that he had deliberately planned the entire courtship and rejection in advance as vengeance for the breakup she initiated in 1968.\n\nBy then, Bundy had begun skipping classes at law school; by April, he had stopped attending entirely, as young women began to disappear in the Pacific Northwest. The year the murders began, he was the assistant director of the Seattle Crime Prevention Advisory Commission and wrote a pamphlet for women on rape prevention. Bundy joked with local newsmen that after his eight weeks in Salt Lake City’s jail system, before being released on bail, he had a beneficial experience for studying the law, thus giving him new insights for improving the criminal justice system. His first order of action was to focus on addressing the bail‐bond system and improving it.\n\nThere is no consensus on when or where Bundy began killing women. He told different stories to different people and refused to divulge the specifics of his earliest crimes, even as he confessed in graphic detail to dozens of later murders in the days preceding his execution. He told Nelson that he attempted his first kidnapping in 1969 in Ocean City, New Jersey, but did not kill anyone until sometime in 1971 in Seattle. He told psychologist Art Norman that he killed two women in Atlantic City in 1969 while visiting family in Philadelphia. He hinted but refused to elaborate to homicide detective Robert D. Keppel that he committed a murder in Seattle in 1972, and another murder in 1973 that involved a hitchhiker near Tumwater. Rule and Keppel both believed that he might have started killing as a teenager. Circumstantial evidence suggested that he abducted and killed 8-year-old Ann Marie Burr of Tacoma when he was 14 years old in 1961; this was an allegation that he repeatedly denied. His earliest documented homicides were committed in 1974 when he was 27 years old. By his own admission, he had mastered the necessary skills—in the era before DNA profiling—to leave minimal incriminating forensic evidence at the crime scene.\n\nShortly after midnight on January 4, 1974 (around the time that he terminated his relationship with Brooks), Bundy entered the basement apartment of 18-year-old Karen Sparks (identified as Joni Lenz, Mary Adams, or Terri Caldwell by various sources), a dancer and student at UW. After bludgeoning the sleeping woman senseless with a metal rod from her bed frame, he sexually assaulted her with either the same rod, or a metal speculum, causing extensive internal injuries. She remained unconscious for 10 days, but survived with permanent physical and mental disabilities. In the early morning hours of February 1, Bundy broke into the basement room of Lynda Ann Healy, a UW undergraduate who broadcast morning radio weather reports for skiers. He beat her unconscious, dressed her in blue jeans, a white blouse, and boots, and carried her away.\n\nDuring the first half of 1974, female college students disappeared at the rate of about one per month. On March 12, Donna Gail Manson, a 19-year-old student at The Evergreen State College in Olympia, southwest of Seattle, left her dormitory to attend a jazz concert on campus, but never arrived. On April 17, Susan Elaine Rancourt disappeared while on her way to her dorm room after an evening advisers meeting at Central Washington State College in Ellensburg, east-southeast of Seattle. Two female Central Washington students later came forward to report encounters—one on the night of Rancourt's disappearance, the other three nights earlier—with a man wearing an arm sling, asking for help carrying a load of books to his brown or tan Volkswagen Beetle. On May 6, Roberta Kathleen Parks left her dormitory at Oregon State University in Corvallis, south of Portland, to have coffee with friends at the Memorial Union, but never arrived.\n\nDetectives from the King County and Seattle police departments grew increasingly concerned. There was no significant physical evidence, and the missing women had little in common, apart from being young, attractive, white college students with long hair parted in the middle. On June 1, Brenda Carol Ball, 22, disappeared after leaving the Flame Tavern in Burien, near Seattle–Tacoma International Airport. She was last seen in the parking lot, talking to a brown-haired man with his arm in a sling. In the early hours of June 11, UW student Georgann Hawkins vanished while walking down a brightly lit alley between her boyfriend's dormitory residence and her sorority house. The next morning, three Seattle homicide detectives and a criminalist combed the entire alleyway on their hands and knees, finding nothing. After Hawkins's disappearance was publicized, witnesses came forward to report seeing a man that night who was in an alley behind a nearby dormitory; he was on crutches with a leg cast and was struggling to carry a briefcase. One woman recalled that the man asked her to help him carry the case to his car, a light brown Volkswagen Beetle.\n\nDuring this period, Bundy was working in Olympia at the Department of Emergency Services (DES), a state government agency involved in the search for the missing women. There, he met and dated Carole Ann Boone, a twice-divorced mother of two who, six years later, would play an important role in the final phase of his life.\nReports of the six missing women and Sparks' brutal beating appeared prominently in newspapers and on television throughout Washington and Oregon. Fear spread among the population; hitchhiking by young women dropped sharply. Pressure mounted on law enforcement agencies, but the paucity of physical evidence severely hampered them. Police could not provide reporters with the little information that was available for fear of compromising the investigation. Further similarities between the victims were noted: The disappearances all took place at night, usually near ongoing construction work, within a week of midterm or final exams; all of the victims were wearing slacks or blue jeans; and at most crime scenes, there were sightings of a man wearing a cast or a sling, and driving a brown or tan Volkswagen Beetle.\n\nThe Pacific Northwest murders culminated on July 14, with the broad daylight abductions of two women from a crowded beach at Lake Sammamish State Park in Issaquah, a suburb east of Seattle. Five female witnesses described an attractive young man wearing a white tennis outfit with his left arm in a sling, speaking with a light accent, perhaps Canadian or British. Introducing himself as \"Ted,\" he asked their help in unloading a sailboat from his tan or bronze-colored Volkswagen Beetle. Four refused; one accompanied him as far as his car, saw that there was no sailboat, and fled. Three additional witnesses saw him approach Janice Anne Ott, 23, a probation case worker at the King County Juvenile Court, with the sailboat story, and watched her leave the beach in his company. About four hours later, Denise Marie Naslund, a 19-year-old woman who was studying to become a computer programmer, left a picnic to go to the restroom and never returned. Bundy told Stephen Michaud that Ott was still alive when he returned with Naslund—and that he forced one to watch as he murdered the other—but he later denied it in an interview with Lewis on the eve of his execution.\n\nThe King County police were finally provided with a detailed description of the suspect and his car when they posted fliers throughout the Seattle area. A composite sketch was printed in regional newspapers and broadcast on local television stations. Elizabeth Kloepfer, Ann Rule, a DES employee, and a UW psychology professor all recognized the profile, the sketch, and the car, and reported Bundy as a possible suspect; but detectives—who were receiving up to 200 tips per day—thought it unlikely that a clean-cut law student with no adult criminal record could be the perpetrator.\n\nOn September 6, two grouse hunters stumbled across the skeletal remains of Ott and Naslund near a service road in Issaquah, east of Lake Sammamish State Park. An extra femur and several vertebrae found at the site were later identified by Bundy as Georgann Hawkins'. Six months later, forestry students from Green River Community College discovered the skulls and mandibles of Healy, Rancourt, Parks, and Ball on Taylor Mountain, where Bundy frequently hiked, just east of Issaquah. Manson's remains were never recovered.\n\nIn August 1974, Bundy received a second acceptance from the University of Utah Law School and moved to Salt Lake City, leaving Kloepfer in Seattle. While he called Kloepfer often, he dated \"at least a dozen\" other women. When he studied the first-year law curriculum a second time, \"he was devastated to find out that the other students had something, some intellectual capacity, that he did not. He found the classes completely incomprehensible. 'It was a great disappointment to me,' he said.\"\n\nA new string of homicides began the following month, including two that would remain undiscovered until Bundy confessed to them shortly before his execution. On September 2, he raped and strangled a still-unidentified hitchhiker in Idaho, then either disposed of the remains immediately in a nearby river, or returned the next day to photograph and dismember On October 2, he seized 16-year-old Nancy Wilcox in Holladay, a suburb of Salt Lake City, and dragged her into a wooded area, intending to \"de-escalate\" his pathological urges, he claimed, by raping and then releasing her; but he strangled her—accidentally, he said—in the process of trying to silence her screams. Her remains were buried near Capitol Reef National Park, some south of Holladay, but were never found.\n\nOn October 18, Melissa Anne Smith—the 17-year-old daughter of the police chief of Midvale (another Salt Lake City suburb)—disappeared after leaving a pizza parlor. Her nude body was found in a nearby mountainous area nine days later. Postmortem examination indicated that she may have remained alive for up to seven days following her disappearance. On October 31, Laura Ann Aime, also 17, disappeared south in Lehi after leaving a café just after midnight. Her naked body was found by hikers to the northeast in American Fork Canyon on Thanksgiving Day. Both women had been beaten, raped, sodomized, and strangled with nylon stockings. Years later, Bundy described his postmortem rituals with the corpses of Smith and Aime, including hair shampooing and application of makeup.\n\nIn the late afternoon of November 8, Bundy approached 18-year-old telephone operator Carol DaRonch at Fashion Place Mall in Murray, less than a mile from the Midvale restaurant where Melissa Smith was last seen. He identified himself as \"Officer Roseland\" of the Murray Police Department and told DaRonch that someone had attempted to break into her car. He asked her to accompany him to the station to file a complaint. When DaRonch pointed out to Bundy that he was driving on a road that did not lead to the police station, he immediately pulled to the shoulder and attempted to handcuff her. During their struggle, he inadvertently fastened both handcuffs to the same wrist, and DaRonch was able to open the car door and escape. Later that evening, Debra Jean Kent, a 17-year-old student at Viewmont High School in Bountiful, north of Murray, disappeared after leaving a theater production at the school to pick up her brother. The school's drama teacher and a student told police that \"a stranger\" had asked each of them to come out to the parking lot to identify a car. Another student later saw the same man pacing in the rear of the auditorium, and the drama teacher spotted him again shortly before the end of the play. Outside the auditorium, investigators found a key that unlocked the handcuffs removed from Carol DaRonch's wrist.\n\nIn November, Elizabeth Kloepfer called King County police a second time after she read that young women were now disappearing in towns surrounding Salt Lake City. Detective Randy Hergesheimer of the Major Crimes division interviewed her in detail. By then, Bundy had risen considerably on the King County hierarchy of suspicion, but the Lake Sammamish witness considered most reliable by detectives failed to identify him from a photo lineup. In December, Kloepfer called the Salt Lake County Sheriff's Office and repeated her suspicions. Bundy's name was added to their list of suspects, but at that time no credible evidence linked him to the Utah crimes. In January 1975 Bundy returned to Seattle after his final exams and spent a week with Kloepfer, who did not tell him that she had reported him to police on three separate occasions. She made plans to visit him in Salt Lake City in August.\n\nIn 1975, Bundy shifted much of his criminal activity eastward, from his base in Utah to Colorado. On January 12, a 23-year-old registered nurse named Caryn Eileen Campbell disappeared while walking down a well-lit hallway between the elevator and her room at the Wildwood Inn (now the Wildwood Lodge) in Snowmass Village, southeast of Salt Lake City. Her nude body was found a month later next to a dirt road just outside the resort. She had been killed by blows to her head from a blunt instrument that left distinctive linear grooved depressions on her skull; her body also bore deep cuts from a sharp weapon. northeast of Snowmass, on March 15, Vail ski instructor Julie Cunningham, 26, disappeared while walking from her apartment to a dinner date with a friend. Bundy later told Colorado investigators that he approached Cunningham on crutches and asked her to help carry his ski boots to his car, where he clubbed and handcuffed her, then assaulted and strangled her at a secondary site near Rifle, west of Vail. Weeks later, he made the six-hour drive from Salt Lake City to revisit her remains.\n\nDenise Lynn Oliverson, 25, disappeared near the Utah–Colorado border in Grand Junction on April 6 while riding her bicycle to her parents' house; her bike and sandals were found under a viaduct near a railroad bridge. On May 6, Bundy lured 12-year-old Lynette Dawn Culver from Alameda Junior High School in Pocatello, Idaho, north of Salt Lake City. He drowned and then sexually assaulted her in his hotel room, before disposing of her body in a river north of Pocatello (possibly the Snake).\n\nIn mid-May, three of Bundy's Washington State DES coworkers, including Carole Ann Boone, visited him in Salt Lake City and stayed for a week in his apartment. Bundy subsequently spent a week in Seattle with Kloepfer in early June and they discussed getting married the following Christmas. Again, Kloepfer made no mention of her multiple discussions with the King County Police and Salt Lake County Sheriff's Office, and Bundy disclosed neither his ongoing relationship with Boone nor a concurrent romance with a Utah law student known in various accounts as Kim Andrews or Sharon Auer.\n\nOn June 28, Susan Curtis vanished from the campus of Brigham Young University in Provo, south of Salt Lake City. Curtis's murder became Bundy's last confession, tape-recorded moments before he entered the execution chamber. The bodies of Wilcox, Kent, Cunningham, Culver, Curtis, and Oliverson were never recovered.\n\nIn August or September 1975, Bundy was baptized into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, although he was not an active participant in services and ignored most church restrictions. He would later be excommunicated by the LDS Church following his 1976 kidnapping conviction. When asked his religious preference after his arrest, Bundy answered \"Methodist\", the religion of his childhood.\n\nIn Washington state, investigators were still struggling to analyze the Pacific Northwest murder spree that had ended as abruptly as it had begun. In an effort to make sense of an overwhelming mass of data, they resorted to the then-innovative strategy of compiling a database. They used the King County payroll computer, a \"huge, primitive machine\" by contemporary standards, but the only one available for their use. After inputting the many lists they had compiled—classmates and acquaintances of each victim, Volkswagen owners named \"Ted\", known sex offenders, and so on—they queried the computer for coincidences. Out of thousands of names, 26 turned up on four separate lists; one was Ted Bundy. Detectives also manually compiled a list of their 100 \"best\" suspects, and Bundy was on that list as well. He was \"literally at the top of the pile\" of suspects when word came from Utah of his arrest.\n\nOn August 16, 1975, Bundy was arrested by a Utah Highway Patrol officer in Granger (another Salt Lake City suburb). The officer had observed Bundy cruising a residential area in the pre-dawn hours; Bundy fled the area at high speed after seeing the patrol car. The officer searched the car after he noticed that the Volkswagen's front passenger seat had been removed and placed on the rear seats. He found a ski mask, a second mask fashioned from pantyhose, a crowbar, handcuffs, trash bags, a coil of rope, an ice pick, and other items initially assumed to be burglary tools. Bundy explained that the ski mask was for skiing, he had found the handcuffs in a dumpster, and the rest were common household items. However, Detective Jerry Thompson remembered a similar suspect and car description from the November 1974 DaRonch kidnapping, which matched Bundy's name from Kloepfer's December 1974 phone call. In a search of Bundy's apartment, police found a guide to Colorado ski resorts with a checkmark by the Wildwood Inn and a brochure that advertised the Viewmont High School play in Bountiful, where Debra Kent had disappeared. The police did not have sufficient evidence to detain Bundy, and he was released on his own recognizance. Bundy later said that searchers missed a collection of Polaroid photographs of his victims; he destroyed the photographs after he was released.\n\nSalt Lake City police placed Bundy on 24-hour surveillance, and Thompson flew to Seattle with two other detectives to interview Kloepfer. She told them that in the year prior to Bundy's move to Utah, she had discovered objects that she \"couldn't understand\" in her house and in Bundy's apartment. These items included crutches, a bag of plaster of Paris that he admitted stealing from a medical supply house, and a meat cleaver that was never used for cooking. Additional objects included surgical gloves, an Oriental knife in a wooden case that he kept in his glove compartment, and a sack full of women's clothing. Bundy was perpetually in debt, and Kloepfer suspected that he had stolen almost everything of significant value that he possessed. When she confronted him over a new TV and stereo, he warned her, \"If you tell anyone, I'll break your fucking neck.\" She said Bundy became \"very upset\" whenever she considered cutting her hair, which was long and parted in the middle. She would sometimes awaken in the middle of the night to find him under the bed covers with a flashlight, examining her body. He kept a lug wrench, taped halfway up the handle, in the trunk of her car—another Volkswagen Beetle, which he often borrowed—\"for protection\". The detectives confirmed that Bundy had not been with Kloepfer on any of the nights during which the Pacific Northwest victims had vanished, nor on the day Ott and Naslund were abducted. Shortly thereafter, Kloepfer was interviewed by Seattle homicide detective Kathy McChesney, and learned of the existence of Stephanie Brooks and her brief engagement to Bundy around Christmas 1973.\n\nIn September, Bundy sold his Volkswagen Beetle to a Midvale teenager. Utah police impounded it, and FBI technicians dismantled and searched it. They found hairs matching samples obtained from Caryn Campbell's body. Later, they also identified hair strands \"microscopically indistinguishable\" from those of Melissa Smith and Carol DaRonch. FBI lab specialist Robert Neill concluded that the presence of hair strands in one car matching three different victims who had never met one another would be \"a coincidence of mind-boggling rarity\".\n\nOn October 2, detectives put Bundy into a lineup. DaRonch immediately identified him as \"Officer Roseland\". In the same lineup, witnesses from Bountiful picked him as the stranger who lurked about the high school auditorium. There was insufficient evidence to link him to Debra Kent (whose body was never found), but more than enough evidence to charge him with aggravated kidnapping and attempted criminal assault in the DaRonch case. He was freed on $15,000 bail, paid by his parents, and spent most of the time between indictment and trial in Seattle, living in Kloepfer's house. Seattle police had insufficient evidence to charge him in the Pacific Northwest murders, but kept him under close surveillance. \"When Ted and I stepped out on the porch to go somewhere,\" Kloepfer wrote, \"so many unmarked police cars started up that it sounded like the beginning of the Indy 500.\"\n\nIn November, the three principal Bundy investigators—Jerry Thompson from Utah, Robert Keppel from Washington, and Michael Fisher from Colorado—met in Aspen, Colorado and exchanged information with 30 detectives and prosecutors from five states. While officials left the meeting (later known as the Aspen Summit) convinced that Bundy was the murderer they sought, they agreed that more hard evidence would be needed before he could be charged with any of the murders.\n\nOn February 23, 1976, Bundy stood trial for the DaRonch kidnapping. On the advice of his attorney, John O'Connell, Bundy waived his right to a jury due to the negative publicity surrounding the case. On March 1, after a four-day bench trial and a weekend of deliberation, Judge Stewart Hanson Jr. found him guilty of kidnapping and assault. On June 30, he was sentenced to serve a minimum of one to a maximum of 15 years in the Utah State Prison. In October, he was found hiding in bushes in the prison yard carrying an \"escape kit\"—road maps, airline schedules, and a social security card—and spent several weeks in solitary confinement. Later that month, Colorado authorities charged him with Caryn Campbell's murder. After a period of resistance, he waived extradition proceedings and was transferred to Aspen in January 1977.\n\nOn June 7, 1977, Bundy was transported from the Garfield County jail in Glenwood Springs to Pitkin County Courthouse in Aspen for a preliminary hearing. He had elected to serve as his own attorney, and as such, was excused by the judge from wearing handcuffs or leg shackles. During a recess, he asked to visit the courthouse's law library to research his case. Bundy was concealed behind a bookcase when he opened a window and jumped from the second story, spraining his right ankle as he landed. After shedding an outer layer of clothing he walked through Aspen as roadblocks were being set up on its outskirts, then hiked southward onto Aspen Mountain. Near its summit he broke into a hunting cabin and stole food, clothing, and a rifle. The following day he left the cabin and continued south toward the town of Crested Butte, but became lost in the forest. For two days he wandered aimlessly on the mountain, missing two trails that led downward to his intended destination. On June 10, he broke into a camping trailer on Maroon Lake, south of Aspen, taking food and a ski parka; but instead of continuing southward, he walked back north toward Aspen, eluding roadblocks and search parties along the way. Three days later, he stole a car at the edge of Aspen Golf Course. Cold, sleep-deprived, and in constant pain from his sprained ankle, he drove back into Aspen, where two police officers noticed his car weaving in and out of its lane and pulled him over. He had been a fugitive for six days. In the car were maps of the mountain area around Aspen that prosecutors were using to demonstrate the location of Caryn Campbell's body (as his own attorney, Bundy had rights of discovery), indicating that his escape was not a spontaneous act, but had been planned.\nBack in jail in Glenwood Springs, Bundy ignored the advice of friends and legal advisors to stay put. The case against him, already weak at best, was deteriorating steadily as pretrial motions consistently resolved in his favor and significant bits of evidence were ruled inadmissible. \"A more rational defendant might have realized that he stood a good chance of acquittal, and that beating the murder charge in Colorado would probably have dissuaded other prosecutors ... with as little as a year and a half to serve on the DaRonch conviction, had Ted persevered, he could have been a free man.\" Instead, Bundy assembled a new escape plan. He acquired a detailed floor plan of the jail and a hacksaw blade from other inmates, and accumulated $500 in cash, smuggled in over a six-month period, he later said, by visitors—Carole Ann Boone in particular. During the evenings, while other prisoners were showering, he sawed a hole about one foot (0.30 m) square between the steel reinforcing bars in his cell's ceiling and, having lost , was able to wriggle through it into the crawl space above. In the weeks that followed he made a series of practice runs, exploring the space. Multiple reports from an informant of movement within the ceiling during the night were not investigated.\n\nBy late 1977, Bundy's impending trial had become a cause célèbre in the small town of Aspen, and Bundy filed a motion for a change of venue to Denver. On December 23 the Aspen trial judge granted the request—but to Colorado Springs, where juries had historically been hostile to murder suspects. On the night of December 30, with most of the jail staff on Christmas break and nonviolent prisoners on furlough with their families, Bundy piled books and files in his bed, covered them with a blanket to simulate his sleeping body, and climbed into the crawlspace. He broke through the ceiling into the apartment of the chief jailer—who was out for the evening with his wife—changed into street clothes from the jailer's closet, and walked out the front door to freedom.\n\nAfter stealing a car, Bundy drove eastward out of Glenwood Springs, but the car soon broke down in the mountains on Interstate 70. A passing motorist gave him a ride into Vail, to the east. From there he caught a bus to Denver, where he boarded a morning flight to Chicago. In Glenwood Springs, the jail's skeleton crew did not discover the escape until noon on December 31, more than 17 hours later. By then Bundy was already in Chicago.\n\nFrom Chicago, Bundy traveled by train to Ann Arbor, Michigan. There, on January 2 in a local tavern, he watched his alma mater UW defeat Michigan in the Rose Bowl. Five days later he stole a car and drove to Atlanta, where he boarded a bus and arrived in Tallahassee, Florida, on the morning of January 8. He rented a room under the alias Chris Hagen at a boarding house near the Florida State University (FSU) campus. Bundy later said that he initially resolved to find legitimate employment and refrain from further criminal activity, knowing he could probably remain free and undetected in Florida indefinitely as long as he did not attract the attention of police; but his lone job application, at a construction site, had to be abandoned when he was asked to produce identification. He reverted to his old habits of shoplifting and stealing credit cards from women's wallets left in shopping carts.\n\nIn the early hours of January 15, 1978—one week after his arrival in Tallahassee—Bundy entered FSU's Chi Omega sorority house through a rear door with a faulty locking mechanism. Beginning at about 2:45 a.m. he bludgeoned Margaret Bowman, 21, with a piece of oak firewood as she slept, then garroted her with a nylon stocking. He then entered the bedroom of 20-year-old Lisa Levy and beat her unconscious, strangled her, tore one of her nipples, bit deeply into her left buttock, and sexually assaulted her with a hair mist bottle. In an adjoining bedroom he attacked Kathy Kleiner, breaking her jaw and deeply lacerating her shoulder; and Karen Chandler, who suffered a concussion, broken jaw, loss of teeth, and a crushed finger. Tallahassee detectives later determined that the four attacks took place in a total of less than 15 minutes, within earshot of more than 30 witnesses who heard nothing. After leaving the sorority house, Bundy broke into a basement apartment eight blocks away and attacked FSU student Cheryl Thomas, dislocating her shoulder and fracturing her jaw and skull in five places. She was left with permanent deafness, and equilibrium damage that ended her dance career. On Thomas's bed, police found a semen stain and a pantyhose \"mask\" containing two hairs \"similar to Bundy's in class and characteristic\".\nOn February 8, Bundy drove east to Jacksonville, in a stolen FSU van. In a parking lot he approached 14-year-old Leslie Parmenter, the daughter of Jacksonville Police Department's Chief of Detectives, identifying himself as \"Richard Burton, Fire Department\", but retreated when Parmenter's older brother arrived and challenged him. That afternoon, he backtracked westward to Lake City. At Lake City Junior High School the following morning, 12-year-old Kimberly Diane Leach was summoned to her homeroom by a teacher to retrieve a forgotten purse; she never returned to class. Seven weeks later, after an intensive search, her partially mummified remains were found in a pig farrowing shed near Suwannee River State Park, northwest of Lake City.\n\nOn February 12, with insufficient cash to pay his overdue rent and a growing suspicion that police were closing in on him, Bundy stole a car and fled Tallahassee, driving westward across the Florida Panhandle. Three days later, at around 1:00 a.m., he was stopped by Pensacola police officer David Lee near the Alabama state line after a \"wants and warrants\" check showed his Volkswagen Beetle was stolen. When told he was under arrest, Bundy kicked Lee's legs out from under him and took off running. Lee fired a warning shot followed by a second round, gave chase and tackled him. The two struggled over Lee's gun before the officer finally subdued and arrested Bundy. In the stolen vehicle were three sets of IDs belonging to female FSU students, 21 stolen credit cards and a stolen television set. Also found were a pair of dark-rimmed non-prescription glasses and a pair of plaid slacks, later identified as the disguise worn by \"Richard Burton, Fire Department\" in Jacksonville. As Lee transported his suspect to jail, unaware that he had just arrested one of the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives, he heard Bundy say, \"I wish you had killed me.\"\n\nFollowing a change of venue to Miami, Bundy stood trial for the Chi Omega homicides and assaults in June 1979. The trial was covered by 250 reporters from five continents and was the first to be televised nationally in the United States. Despite the presence of five court-appointed attorneys, Bundy again handled much of his own defense. From the beginning, he \"sabotaged the entire defense effort out of spite, distrust, and grandiose delusion\", Nelson later wrote. \"Ted [was] facing murder charges, with a possible death sentence, and all that mattered to him apparently was that he be in charge.\"\n\nAccording to Mike Minerva, a Tallahassee public defender and member of the defense team, a pre-trial plea bargain was negotiated in which Bundy would plead guilty to killing Levy, Bowman and Leach in exchange for a firm 75-year prison sentence. Prosecutors were amenable to a deal, by one account, because \"prospects of losing at trial were very good.\" Bundy, on the other hand, saw the plea deal not only as a means of avoiding the death penalty, but also as a \"tactical move\": he could enter his plea, then wait a few years for evidence to disintegrate or become lost and for witnesses to die, move on, or retract their testimony. Once the case against him had deteriorated beyond repair, he could file a post-conviction motion to set aside the plea and secure an acquittal. At the last minute, however, Bundy refused the deal. \"It made him realize he was going to have to stand up in front of the whole world and say he was guilty\", Minerva said. \"He just couldn't do it.\"\n\nAt trial, crucial testimony came from Chi Omega sorority members Connie Hastings, who placed Bundy in the vicinity of the Chi Omega House that evening, and Nita Neary, who saw him leaving the sorority house clutching the oak murder weapon. Incriminating physical evidence included impressions of the bite wounds Bundy had inflicted on Lisa Levy's left buttock, which forensic odontologists Richard Souviron and Lowell Levine matched to castings of Bundy's teeth. The jury deliberated for less than seven hours before convicting him on July 24, 1979, of the Bowman and Levy murders, three counts of attempted first degree murder (for the assaults on Kleiner, Chandler and Thomas) and two counts of burglary. Trial judge Edward Cowart imposed death sentences for the murder convictions.\n\nSix months later, a second trial took place in Orlando, for the abduction and murder of Kimberly Leach. Bundy was found guilty once again, after less than eight hours' deliberation, due principally to the testimony of an eyewitness who saw him leading Leach from the schoolyard to his stolen van. Important material evidence included clothing fibers with an unusual manufacturing error, found in the van and on Leach's body, which matched fibers from the jacket Bundy was wearing when he was arrested.\n\nDuring the penalty phase of the trial, Bundy took advantage of an obscure Florida law providing that a marriage declaration in court, in the presence of a judge, constituted a legal marriage. As he was questioning former Washington State DES coworker Carole Ann Boone—who had moved to Florida to be near Bundy, had testified on his behalf during both trials, and was again testifying on his behalf as a character witness—he asked her to marry him. She accepted, and Bundy declared to the court that they were legally married.\n\nOn February 10, 1980, Bundy was sentenced for a third time to death by electrocution. As the sentence was announced, he reportedly stood and shouted, \"Tell the jury they were wrong!\" This third death sentence would be the one ultimately carried out nearly nine years later.\n\nIn October 1982, Boone gave birth to a daughter and named Bundy as the father. While conjugal visits were not allowed at Raiford Prison, inmates were known to pool their money in order to bribe guards to allow them intimate time alone with their female visitors.\n\nShortly after the conclusion of the Leach trial and the beginning of the long appeals process that followed, Bundy initiated a series of interviews with Stephen Michaud and Hugh Aynesworth. Speaking mostly in third person to avoid \"the stigma of confession\", he began for the first time to divulge details of his crimes and thought processes.\n\nHe recounted his career as a thief, confirming Kloepfer's long-time suspicion that he had shoplifted virtually everything of substance that he owned. \"The big payoff for me,\" he said, \"was actually \"possessing\" whatever it was I had stolen. I really enjoyed having something ... that I had wanted and gone out and taken.\" Possession proved to be an important motive for rape and murder as well. Sexual assault, he said, fulfilled his need to \"totally possess\" his victims. At first, he killed his victims \"as a matter of expediency ... to eliminate the possibility of [being] caught\"; but later, murder became part of the \"adventure\". \"The \"ultimate\" possession was, in fact, the taking of the life\", he said. \"And then ... the physical possession of the remains.\"\n\nBundy also confided in Special Agent William Hagmaier of the FBI Behavioral Analysis Unit. Hagmaier was struck by the \"deep, almost mystical satisfaction\" that Bundy took in murder. \"He said that after a while, murder is not just a crime of lust or violence\", Hagmaier related. \"It becomes possession. They are part of you ... [the victim] becomes a part of you, and you [two] are forever one ... and the grounds where you kill them or leave them become sacred to you, and you will always be drawn back to them.\" Bundy told Hagmaier that he considered himself to be an \"amateur\", an \"impulsive\" killer in his early years, before moving into what he termed his \"prime\" or \"predator\" phase at about the time of Lynda Healy's murder in 1974. This implied that he began killing well before 1974—though he never explicitly admitted doing so.\n\nIn July 1984, Raiford guards found two hacksaw blades that Bundy had hidden in his cell. A steel bar in one of the cell's windows had been sawed completely through at the top and bottom and glued back into place with a homemade soap-based adhesive. Several months later, guards found an unauthorized mirror hidden in the cell, and Bundy was again moved to a different cell .\n\nSometime during this period, Bundy was attacked by a group of his fellow death row inmates. Though he denied having been assaulted, a number of inmates confessed to the crime, characterized by one source as a \"gang rape\". Shortly thereafter, he was charged with a disciplinary infraction for unauthorized correspondence with another high-profile criminal, John Hinckley, Jr. In October 1984, Bundy contacted Robert Keppel and offered to share his self-proclaimed expertise in serial killer psychology in the ongoing hunt for his successor in Washington, the Green River Killer. Keppel and Green River Task Force detective Dave Reichert interviewed Bundy, but Gary Leon Ridgway remained at large for a further 17 years. Keppel published a detailed documentation of the Green River interviews, and later collaborated with Michaud on another examination of the interview material. Bundy coined the nickname \"The Riverman\" for Gary Ridgway, which was later used for the title of Keppel's book, \"The Riverman: Ted Bundy and I Hunt for the Green River Killer\".\n\nIn early 1986, an execution date (March 4) was set on the Chi Omega convictions; the Supreme Court issued a brief stay, but the execution was quickly rescheduled. In April, shortly after the new date (July 2) was announced, Bundy finally confessed to Hagmaier and Nelson what they believed was the full range of his depredations, including details of what he did to some of his victims after their deaths. He told them that he revisited Taylor Mountain, Issaquah, and other secondary crime scenes, often several times, to lie with his victims and perform sexual acts with their decomposing bodies until putrefaction forced him to stop. In some cases, he drove for several hours each way and remained the entire night. In Utah, he applied makeup to Melissa Smith's lifeless face, and he repeatedly washed Laura Aime's hair. \"If you've got time,\" he told Hagmaier, \"they can be anything you want them to be.\" He decapitated approximately twelve of his victims with a hacksaw, and kept at least one group of severed heads—probably the four later found on Taylor Mountain (Rancourt, Parks, Ball and Healy)—in his apartment for a period of time before disposing of them.\n\nLess than 15 hours before the scheduled July 2 execution, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals stayed it indefinitely and remanded the Chi Omega case for review on multiple technicalities—including Bundy's mental competency to stand trial, and an erroneous instruction by the trial judge during the penalty phase requiring the jury to break a 6–6 tie between life imprisonment and the death penalty—that, ultimately, was never resolved. A new date (November 18, 1986) was then set to carry out the Leach sentence; the Eleventh Circuit Court issued a stay on November 17. In mid-1988, the Eleventh Circuit ruled against Bundy, and in December the Supreme Court denied a motion to review the ruling. Within hours of that final denial, a firm execution date of January 24, 1989, was announced. Bundy's journey through the appeals courts had been unusually rapid for a capital murder case: \"Contrary to popular belief, the courts moved Bundy as fast as they could ... Even the prosecutors acknowledged that Bundy's lawyers never employed delaying tactics. Though people everywhere seethed at the apparent delay in executing the archdemon, Ted Bundy was actually on the fast track.\"\n\nWith all appeal avenues exhausted and no further motivation to deny his crimes, Bundy agreed to speak frankly with investigators. He confessed to Keppel that he had committed all eight of the Washington and Oregon homicides for which he was the prime suspect. He described three additional previously unknown victims in Washington and two in Oregon whom he declined to identify (if indeed he ever knew their identities). He said he left a fifth corpse—Donna Manson's—on Taylor Mountain, but incinerated her head in Kloepfer's fireplace. (\"Of all the things I did to [Kloepfer],\" he told Keppel, \"this is probably the one she is least likely to forgive me for. Poor Liz.\")\n\nHe described in graphic detail his abduction of Georgann Hawkins from the brightly lit UW alley; how he had lured her to his car before rendering her unconscious with a crowbar he had earlier placed beside the vehicle before handcuffing her and driving her to Issaquah, where he had strangled her, before spending the entire night with her body, and later revisited her corpse on three later occasions. He also admitted, for the first time, that he returned to the UW alley the morning after Hawkins's abduction and murder. There, in the very midst of a major crime scene investigation, he located and gathered Hawkins's earrings and one of her shoes, where he had left them in the adjoining parking lot, and departed, unobserved. \"It was a feat so brazen,\" wrote Keppel, \"that it astonishes police even today.\"\n\n\"He described the Issaquah crime scene [where the bones of Ott, Naslund, and Hawkins were found], and it was almost like he was just there\", Keppel said. \"Like he was seeing everything. He was infatuated with the idea because he spent so much time there. He is just totally consumed with murder all the time.\" Nelson's impressions were similar: \"It was the absolute misogyny of his crimes that stunned me,\" she wrote, \"his manifest rage against women. He had no compassion at all ... he was totally engrossed in the details. His murders were his life's accomplishments.\"\n\nBundy confessed to detectives from Idaho, Utah, and Colorado that he had committed numerous additional homicides, including several that were unknown to the police. He explained that when he was in Utah he could bring his victims back to his apartment, \"where he could reenact scenarios depicted on the covers of detective magazines.\" A new ulterior strategy quickly became apparent: he withheld many details, hoping to parlay the incomplete information into yet another stay of execution. \"There are other buried remains in Colorado\", he admitted, but refused to elaborate. The new strategy—immediately dubbed \"Ted's bones-for-time scheme\"—served only to deepen the resolve of authorities to see Bundy executed on schedule, and yielded little new detailed information. In cases where he did give details, nothing was found. Colorado detective Matt Lindvall interpreted this as a conflict between his desire to postpone his execution by divulging information and his need to remain in \"total possession—the only person who knew his victims' true resting places.\"\n\nWhen it became clear that no further stays would be forthcoming from the courts, Bundy supporters began lobbying for the only remaining option, executive clemency. Diana Weiner, a young Florida attorney and Bundy's last purported love interest, asked the families of several Colorado and Utah victims to petition Florida Governor Bob Martinez for a postponement to give Bundy time to reveal more information. All refused. \"The families already believed that the victims were dead and that Ted had killed them\", wrote Nelson. \"They didn't need his confession.\" Martinez made it clear that he would not agree to further delays in any case. \"We are not going to have the system manipulated\", he told reporters. \"For him to be negotiating for his life over the bodies of victims is despicable.\"\n\nBoone had championed Bundy's innocence throughout all of his trials and felt \"deeply betrayed\" by his admission that he was, in fact, guilty. She moved back to Washington with her daughter and refused to accept his phone call on the day that he was executed. \"She was hurt by his relationship with Diana [Weiner],\" Nelson wrote, \"and devastated by his sudden wholesale confessions in his last days.\"\n\nHagmaier was present during Bundy's final interviews with investigators. On the eve of his execution, he talked of suicide. \"He did not want to give the state the satisfaction of watching him die\", Hagmaier said.\n\nBundy died in the Raiford electric chair at 7:16 a.m. EST on January 24, 1989; he was 42 years old. Hundreds of revelers—including 20 off-duty police officers, by one account—sang, danced and set off fireworks in a pasture across the street from the prison as the execution was carried out, then cheered loudly as the white hearse containing his corpse departed the prison. His body was cremated in Gainesville, and his ashes scattered at an undisclosed location in the Cascade Range of Washington State, in accordance with his will.\n\nBundy was an unusually organized and calculating criminal who used his extensive knowledge of law enforcement methodologies to elude identification and capture for years. His crime scenes were distributed over large geographic areas; his victim count had risen to at least 20 before it became clear that numerous investigators in widely disparate jurisdictions were hunting the same man. His assault methods of choice were blunt trauma and strangulation, two relatively silent techniques that could be accomplished with common household items. He deliberately avoided firearms due to the noise they made and the ballistic evidence they left behind. He was a \"meticulous researcher\" who explored his surroundings in minute detail, looking for safe sites to seize and dispose of victims. He was unusually skilled at minimizing physical evidence. His fingerprints were never found at a crime scene, nor any other incontrovertible evidence of his guilt, a fact he repeated often during the years in which he attempted to maintain his innocence.\n\nOther significant obstacles for law enforcement were Bundy's generic, essentially anonymous physical features, and a curious chameleon-like ability to change his appearance almost at will. Early on, police complained of the futility of showing his photograph to witnesses; he looked different in virtually every photo ever taken of him. In person, \"his expression would so change his whole appearance that there were moments that you weren't even sure you were looking at the same person\", said Stewart Hanson, Jr., the judge in the DaRonch trial. \"He [was] really a changeling.\" Bundy was well aware of this unusual quality and he exploited it, using subtle modifications of facial hair or hairstyle to significantly alter his appearance as necessary. He concealed his one distinctive identifying mark, a dark mole on his neck, with turtleneck shirts and sweaters. Even his Volkswagen Beetle proved difficult to pin down; its color was variously described by witnesses as metallic or non-metallic, tan or bronze, light brown or dark brown.\n\nBundy's \"modus operandi\" evolved in organization and sophistication over time, as is typical of serial murderers, according to FBI experts. Early on, it consisted of forcible late-night entry followed by a violent attack with a blunt weapon on a sleeping victim. Some victims were sexually assaulted with inert objects; all except Healy were left as they lay, unconscious or dead. As his methodology evolved Bundy became progressively more organized in his choice of victims and crime scenes. He would employ various ruses designed to lure his victim to the vicinity of his vehicle where he had pre-positioned a weapon, usually a crowbar. In many cases he wore a plaster cast on one leg or a sling on one arm, and sometimes hobbled on crutches, then requested assistance in carrying something to his vehicle. Bundy was regarded as handsome and charismatic by many of his victims, traits he exploited to win their confidence. \"Ted lured females\", Michaud wrote, \"the way a lifeless silk flower can dupe a honey bee.\" Once near or inside his vehicle the victim would be overpowered, bludgeoned, and restrained with handcuffs. Most were sexually assaulted and strangled, either at the primary crime scene or (more commonly) after transport to a pre-selected secondary site, often a considerable distance away. In situations where his looks and charm were not useful, he invoked authority by identifying himself as a police officer or firefighter. Toward the end of his spree, in Florida, perhaps under the stress of being a fugitive, he regressed to indiscriminate attacks on sleeping victims.\n\nAt secondary sites he would remove and later burn the victim's clothing, or in at least one case (Cunningham's) deposit them in a Goodwill Industries collection bin. Bundy explained that the clothing removal was ritualistic, but also a practical matter, as it minimized the chance of leaving trace evidence at the crime scene that could implicate him. (A manufacturing error in fibers from his own clothing, ironically, provided a crucial incriminating link to Kimberly Leach.) He often revisited his secondary crime scenes to engage in acts of necrophilia, and to groom or dress up the cadavers. Some victims were found wearing articles of clothing they had never worn, or nail polish that family members had never seen. He took Polaroid photos of many of his victims. \"When you work hard to do something right,\" he told Hagmaier, \"you don't want to forget it.\" Consumption of large quantities of alcohol was an \"essential component\", he told Keppel, and later Michaud; he needed to be \"extremely drunk\" while on the prowl in order to \"significantly diminish\" his inhibitions and to \"sedate\" the \"dominant personality\" that he feared might prevent his inner \"entity\" from acting on his impulses.\n\nAll of Bundy's known victims were white females, most of middle-class backgrounds. Almost all were between the ages of 15 and 25 and most were college students. He apparently never approached anyone he might have met before. (In their last conversation before his execution, Bundy told Kloepfer he had purposely stayed away from her \"when he felt the power of his sickness building in him.\") Rule noted that most of the identified victims had long straight hair, parted in the middle—like Stephanie Brooks, the woman who rejected him, and to whom he later became engaged and then rejected in return. Rule speculated that Bundy's animosity toward his first girlfriend triggered his protracted rampage and caused him to target victims who resembled her. Bundy dismissed this hypothesis: \"[T]hey ... just fit the general criteria of being young and attractive\", he told Hugh Aynesworth. \"Too many people have bought this crap that all the girls were similar ... [but] almost everything was dissimilar ... physically, they were almost all different.\" He did concede that youth and beauty were \"absolutely indispensable criteria\" in his choice of victims.\n\nAfter Bundy's execution, Ann Rule was surprised and troubled to hear from numerous \"sensitive, intelligent, kind young women\", who wrote or called to say they were deeply depressed because Bundy was dead. Many had corresponded with him, \"each believing that she was his only one\". Several said they suffered nervous breakdowns when he died. \"Even in death, Ted damaged women,\" Rule wrote. \"To get well, they must realize that they were conned by the master conman. They are grieving for a shadow man that never existed.\"\n\nBundy underwent multiple psychiatric examinations; the experts' conclusions varied. Dorothy Otnow Lewis, Professor of Psychiatry at the New York University School of Medicine and an authority on violent behavior, initially made a diagnosis of bipolar disorder, but later changed her impression more than once. She also suggested the possibility of a multiple personality disorder, based on behaviors described in interviews and court testimony: a great-aunt witnessed an episode during which Bundy \"seemed to turn into another, unrecognizable person ... [she] suddenly, inexplicably found herself afraid of her favorite nephew as they waited together at a dusk-darkened train station. He had turned into a stranger.\" Lewis recounted a prison official in Tallahassee describing a similar transformation: \"He said, 'He became weird on me.' He did a metamorphosis, a body and facial change, and he felt there was almost an odor emitting from him. He said, 'Almost a complete change of personality ... that was the day I was afraid of him.\n\nWhile experts found Bundy's precise diagnosis elusive, the majority of evidence pointed away from bipolar disorder or other psychoses, and toward antisocial personality disorder (ASPD). Bundy displayed many personality traits typically found in ASPD patients (who are often identified as \"sociopaths\" or \"psychopaths\"), such as outward charm and charisma with little true personality or genuine insight beneath the facade; the ability to distinguish right from wrong, but with minimal effect on behavior; and an absence of guilt or remorse. \"Guilt doesn't solve anything, really\", Bundy said, in 1981. \"It hurts you ... I guess I am in the enviable position of not having to deal with guilt.\" There was also evidence of narcissism, poor judgment, and manipulative behavior. \"Sociopaths\", prosecutor George Dekle wrote, \"are egotistical manipulators who think they can con anybody.\" \"Sometimes he manipulates even me\", admitted one psychiatrist. In the end, Lewis agreed with the majority: \"I always tell my graduate students that if they can find me a real, true psychopath, I'll buy them dinner\", she told Nelson. \"I never thought they existed ... but I think Ted may have been one, a true psychopath, without any remorse or empathy at all.\" Narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) has been proposed as an alternative diagnosis in at least one subsequent retrospective analysis.\n\nOn the afternoon before he was executed, Bundy granted an interview to James Dobson, a psychologist and founder of the Christian evangelical organization Focus on the Family. He used the opportunity to make new claims about violence in the media and the pornographic \"roots\" of his crimes. \"It happened in stages, gradually\", he said. \"My experience with ... pornography that deals on a violent level with sexuality, is once you become addicted to it ... I would keep looking for more potent, more explicit, more graphic kinds of material. Until you reach a point where the pornography only goes so far ... where you begin to wonder if maybe actually doing it would give that which is beyond just reading it or looking at it.\" Violence in the media, he said, \"particularly sexualized violence\", sent boys \"down the road to being Ted Bundys.\" The FBI, he suggested, should stake out adult movie houses and follow patrons as they leave. \"You are going to kill me,\" he said, \"and that will protect society from me. But out there are many, many more people who are addicted to pornography, and you are doing nothing about that.\"\n\nWhile Nelson was apparently convinced that Bundy's concern was genuine, most biographers, researchers, and other observers have concluded that his sudden condemnation of pornography was one last manipulative attempt to shift blame by catering to Dobson's agenda as a longtime pornography critic. He told Dobson that \"true crime\" detective magazines had \"corrupted\" him and \"fueled [his] fantasies ... to the point of becoming a serial killer\"; yet in a 1977 letter to Ann Rule, he wrote, \"Who in the world reads these publications? ... I have never purchased such a magazine, and [on only] two or three occasions have I ever picked one up.\" He told Michaud and Aynsworth in 1980, and Hagmaier the night before he spoke to Dobson, that pornography played a negligible role in his development as a serial killer. \"The problem wasn't pornography\", wrote Dekle. \"The problem was Bundy.\" \"I wish I could believe that his motives were altruistic,\" wrote Rule. \"But all I can see in that Dobson tape is another Ted Bundy manipulation of our minds. The effect of the tape is to place, once again, the onus of his crimes, not on \"himself\", but on \"us\".\"\n\nRule and Aynesworth both noted that for Bundy, the fault always lay with someone or something else. While he eventually confessed to 30 murders, he never accepted responsibility for any of them, even when offered that opportunity prior to the Chi Omega trial—which would have spared him the death penalty. He deflected blame onto a wide variety of scapegoats, including his abusive grandfather, the absence of his biological father, the concealment of his true parentage, alcohol, the media, the police (whom he accused of planting evidence), \"society\" in general, violence on television and, ultimately, true crime periodicals and pornography. He blamed television programming—which he watched mostly on sets that he had stolen—for \"brainwashing\" him into stealing credit cards. On at least one occasion he even tried to blame his victims: \"I have known people who ... radiate vulnerability\", he wrote in a 1977 letter to Kloepfer. \"Their facial expressions say 'I am afraid of you.' These people invite abuse ... By expecting to be hurt, do they subtly encourage it?\"\n\nA significant element of delusion permeated his thinking: Bundy was always surprised when anyone noticed that one of his victims was missing, because he imagined America to be a place where everyone is invisible except to themselves. And he was always astounded when people testified that they had seen him in incriminating places, because Bundy did not believe people noticed each other. \"I don't know why everyone is out to get me\", he complained to Lewis. \"He really and truly did not have any sense of the enormity of what he had done,\" she said. \"A long-term serial killer erects powerful barriers to his guilt,\" Keppel wrote, \"walls of denial that can sometimes never be breached.\" Nelson agreed. \"Each time he was forced to make an actual confession,\" she wrote, \"he had to leap a steep barrier he had built inside himself long ago.\"\n\nThe night before his execution, Bundy confessed to 30 homicides, but the true total remains unknown. Published estimates have run as high as 100 or more, and Bundy occasionally made cryptic comments to encourage that speculation. He told Hugh Aynesworth in 1980 that for every murder \"publicized\", there \"could be one that was not.\" When FBI agents proposed a total tally of 36, Bundy responded, \"Add one digit to that, and you'll have it.\" Years later he told attorney Polly Nelson that the common estimate of 35 was accurate, but Robert Keppel wrote that \"[Ted] and I both knew [the total] was much higher.\" \"I don't think even he knew ... how many he killed, or why he killed them\", said Rev. Fred Lawrence, the Methodist clergyman who administered Bundy's last rites. \"That was my impression, my strong impression.\"\n\nOn the evening before his execution, Bundy reviewed his victim tally with Bill Hagmaier on a state-by-state basis for a total of 30 homicides:\n\nThe following is a chronological summary of the 20 identified victims and 5 identified survivors:\n\n\n\n\n\nBundy remains a suspect in several unsolved homicides, and is likely responsible for others that may never be identified; in 1987 he confided to Keppel that there were \"some murders\" that he would \"never talk about\", because they were committed \"too close to home\", \"too close to family\", or involved \"victims who were very young\".\n\nMinutes before his execution, Hagmaier queried Bundy about unsolved homicides in New Jersey, Illinois, Vermont (the Curran case), Texas, and Miami, Florida. Bundy provided directions—later proven inaccurate—to Susan Curtis's burial site in Utah, but denied involvement in any of the open cases.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54500603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54500603", "title": "The Continence of Scipio (Gerbrand van den Eeckhout)", "text": "The Continence of Scipio (Gerbrand van den Eeckhout)\n\nThe Continence of Scipio () is a circa 1653 painting by Dutch artist Gerbrand van den Eeckhout. It shows the continence of Scipio and is now in the collection of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam.\n\nThe painting shows the moment when Scipio informs the groom that he can have his bride, as well as the riches that the bride's parents have just paid in ransom. Of the riches displayed, the ewer of the Amsterdam silversmith's guild, a famous silver object by Adam van Vianen, is also in the Rijksmuseum collection. Van den Eeckhout made another version of the same subject, that also features the ewer (lying on its side), which is now in the collection of the Toledo Museum of Art:\nThis painting is one of several paintings in the collection of art dealer D. Katz that were taken to the Führer museum in Linz. After WWII it was returned with other Nazi looted art to the Netherlands and has been on loan to the Rijksmuseum since. In 1966 it was noticed by the silver curator of art in the museum, Theresia M. Duyvené de Wit Klinkhamer, who included it in her overview of paintings that show the Adam van Vianen ewer. \n"}
{"id": "29177295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29177295", "title": "Theory of solar cells", "text": "Theory of solar cells\n\nThe theory of solar cells explains the process by which light energy in photons is converted into electric current when the photons strike a suitable semiconductor device. The theoretical studies are of practical use because they predict the fundamental limits of a solar cell, and give guidance on the phenomena that contribute to losses and solar cell efficiency.\n\nWhen a photon hits a piece of silicon, one of three things can happen:\n\nWhen a photon is absorbed, its energy is given to an electron in the crystal lattice. Usually this electron is in the valence band. The energy given to the electron by the photon \"excites\" it into the conduction band where it is free to move around within the semiconductor. The network of covalent bonds that the electron was previously a part of now has one fewer electron. This is known as a hole. The presence of a missing covalent bond allows the bonded electrons of neighboring atoms to move into the \"hole,\" leaving another hole behind, thus propagating holes throughout the lattice. It can be said that photons absorbed in the semiconductor create electron-hole pairs.\n\nA photon only needs to have energy greater than that of the band gap in order to excite an electron from the valence band into the conduction band. However, the solar frequency spectrum approximates a black body spectrum at about 5,800 K, and as such, much of the solar radiation reaching the Earth is composed of photons with energies greater than the band gap of silicon. These higher energy photons will be absorbed by the solar cell, but the difference in energy between these photons and the silicon band gap is converted into heat (via lattice vibrations — called phonons) rather than into usable electrical energy. The photovoltaic effect can also occur when two photons are absorbed simultaneously in a process called two-photon photovoltaic effect. However, high optical intensities are required for this nonlinear process.\n\nThe most commonly known solar cell is configured as a large-area p-n junction made from silicon. As a simplification, one can imagine bringing a layer of n-type silicon into direct contact with a layer of p-type silicon. In practice, p-n junctions of silicon solar cells are not made in this way, but rather by diffusing an n-type dopant into one side of a p-type wafer (or vice versa).\n\nIf a piece of p-type silicon is placed in close contact with a piece of n-type silicon, then a diffusion of electrons occurs from the region of high electron concentration (the n-type side of the junction) into the region of low electron concentration (p-type side of the junction). When the electrons diffuse across the p-n junction, they recombine with holes on the p-type side. However (in the absence of an external circuit) this diffusion of carriers does not go on indefinitely because charges build up on either side of the junction and create an electric field. The electric field promotes charge flow, known as drift current, that opposes and eventually balances out the diffusion of electrons and holes. This region where electrons and holes have diffused across the junction is called the depletion region because it contains practically no mobile charge carriers. It is also known as the \"space charge region\", although space charge extends a bit further in both directions than the depletion region.\n\nThere are two causes of charge carrier motion and separation in a solar cell:\n\n\nThese two \"forces\" may work one against the other at any given point in the cell. For instance, an electron moving through the junction from the p region to the n region (as in the diagram at the beginning of this article) is being pushed by the electric field against the concentration gradient. The same goes for a hole moving in the opposite direction.\n\nIt is easiest to understand how a current is generated when considering electron-hole pairs that are created in the depletion zone, which is where there is a strong electric field. The electron is pushed by this field toward the n side and the hole toward the p side. (This is opposite to the direction of current in a forward-biased diode, such as a light-emitting diode in operation.) When the pair is created outside the space charge zone, where the electric field is smaller, diffusion also acts to move the carriers, but the junction still plays a role by sweeping any electrons that reach it from the p side to the n side, and by sweeping any holes that reach it from the n side to the p side, thereby creating a concentration gradient outside the space charge zone.\n\nIn thick solar cells there is very little electric field in the active region outside the space charge zone, so the dominant mode of charge carrier separation is diffusion. In these cells the diffusion length of minority carriers (the length that photo-generated carriers can travel before they recombine) must be large compared to the cell thickness. In thin film cells (such as amorphous silicon), the diffusion length of minority carriers is usually very short due to the existence of defects, and the dominant charge separation is therefore drift, driven by the electrostatic field of the junction, which extends to the whole thickness of the cell.\n\nOnce the minority carrier enters the drift region, it is 'swept' across the junction and, at the other side of the junction, becomes a majority carrier. This reverse current is a generation current, fed both thermally and (if present) by the absorption of light. On the other hand, majority carriers are driven into the drift region by diffusion (resulting from the concentration gradient), which leads to the forward current; only the majority carriers with the highest energies (in the so-called Boltzmann tail; cf. Maxwell–Boltzmann statistics) can fully cross the drift region. Therefore, the carrier distribution in the whole device is governed by a dynamic equilibrium between reverse current and forward current.\n\nOhmic metal-semiconductor contacts are made to both the n-type and p-type sides of the solar cell, and the electrodes connected to an external load. Electrons that are created on the n-type side, or created on the p-type side, \"collected\" by the junction and swept onto the n-type side, may travel through the wire, power the load, and continue through the wire until they reach the p-type semiconductor-metal contact. Here, they recombine with a hole that was either created as an electron-hole pair on the p-type side of the solar cell, or a hole that was swept across the junction from the n-type side after being created there.\n\nThe voltage measured is equal to the difference in the quasi Fermi levels of the majority carriers (electrons in the n-type portion and holes in the p-type portion) at the two terminals.\n\nTo understand the electronic behavior of a solar cell, it is useful to create a model which is electrically equivalent, and is based on discrete ideal electrical components whose behavior is well defined. An ideal solar cell may be modelled by a current source in parallel with a diode; in practice no solar cell is ideal, so a shunt resistance and a series resistance component are added to the model. The resulting equivalent circuit of a solar cell is shown on the left. Also shown, on the right, is the schematic representation of a solar cell for use in circuit diagrams.\nFrom the equivalent circuit it is evident that the current produced by the solar cell is equal to that produced by the current source, minus that which flows through the diode, minus that which flows through the shunt resistor:\n\nwhere\n\nThe current through these elements is governed by the voltage across them:\n\nwhere\n\nBy the Shockley diode equation, the current diverted through the diode is:\n\nwhere\n\nBy Ohm's law, the current diverted through the shunt resistor is:\n\nwhere\n\nSubstituting these into the first equation produces the characteristic equation of a solar cell, which relates solar cell parameters to the output current and voltage:\n\nAn alternative derivation produces an equation similar in appearance, but with \"V\" on the left-hand side. The two alternatives are identities; that is, they yield precisely the same results.\n\nSince the parameters \"I, n, R\", and \"R\" cannot be measured directly, the most common application of the characteristic equation is nonlinear regression to extract the values of these parameters on the basis of their combined effect on solar cell behavior.\n\nWhen \"R\" is not zero, the above equation does not give the current \"I\" directly, but it can then be solved using the Lambert W function:\n\nWhen an external load is used with the cell, its resistance can simply be added to \"R\" and \"V\" set to zero in order to find the current.\n\nWhen \"R\" is infinite there is a solution for \"V\" for any formula_9 less than formula_10:\n\nOtherwise one can solve for \"V\" using the Lambert W function:\n\nHowever, when \"R\" is large it's better to solve the original equation numerically.\n\nThe general form of the solution is a curve with \"I\" decreasing as \"V\" increases (see graphs lower down). The slope at small or negative \"V\" (where the \"W\" function is near zero) approaches formula_13, whereas the slope at high \"V\" approaches formula_14.\n\nWhen the cell is operated at open circuit, \"I = 0\" and the voltage across the output terminals is defined as the \"open-circuit voltage\". Assuming the shunt resistance is high enough to neglect the final term of the characteristic equation, the open-circuit voltage \"V\" is:\n\nSimilarly, when the cell is operated at short circuit, \"V = 0\" and the current \"I\" through the terminals is defined as the \"short-circuit current\". It can be shown that for a high-quality solar cell (low \"R\" and \"I\", and high \"R\") the short-circuit current \"I\" is:\n\nIt is not possible to extract any power from the device when operating at either open circuit or short circuit conditions.\n\nThe values of \"I\", \"I\", \"R\", and \"R\" are dependent upon the physical size of the solar cell. In comparing otherwise identical cells, a cell with twice the junction area of another will, in principle, have double the \"I\" and \"I\" because it has twice the area where photocurrent is generated and across which diode current can flow. By the same argument, it will also have half the \"R\" of the series resistance related to vertical current flow; however, for large-area silicon solar cells, the scaling of the series resistance encountered by lateral current flow is not easily predictable since it will depend crucially on the grid design (it is not clear what \"otherwise identical\" means in this respect). Depending on the shunt type, the larger cell may also have half the \"R\" because it has twice the area where shunts may occur; on the other hand, if shunts occur mainly at the perimeter, then \"R\" will decrease according to the change in circumference, not area.\n\nSince the changes in the currents are the dominating ones and are balancing each other, the open-circuit voltage is practically the same; \"V\" starts to depend on the cell size only if \"R\" becomes too low. To account for the dominance of the currents, the characteristic equation is frequently written in terms of current density, or current produced per unit cell area:\n\nwhere\n\nThis formulation has several advantages. One is that since cell characteristics are referenced to a common cross-sectional area they may be compared for cells of different physical dimensions. While this is of limited benefit in a manufacturing setting, where all cells tend to be the same size, it is useful in research and in comparing cells between manufacturers. Another advantage is that the density equation naturally scales the parameter values to similar orders of magnitude, which can make numerical extraction of them simpler and more accurate even with naive solution methods.\n\nThere are practical limitations of this formulation. For instance, certain parasitic effects grow in importance as cell sizes shrink and can affect the extracted parameter values. Recombination and contamination of the junction tend to be greatest at the perimeter of the cell, so very small cells may exhibit higher values of \"J\" or lower values of \"R\" than larger cells that are otherwise identical. In such cases, comparisons between cells must be made cautiously and with these effects in mind.\n\nThis approach should only be used for comparing solar cells with comparable layout. For instance, a comparison between primarily quadratical solar cells like typical crystalline silicon solar cells and narrow but long solar cells like typical thin film solar cells can lead to wrong assumptions caused by the different kinds of current paths and therefore the influence of, for instance, a distributed series resistance contribution to \"r\". Macro-architecture of the solar cells could result in different surface areas being placed in any fixed volume - particularly for thin film solar cells and flexible solar cells which may allow for highly convoluted folded structures. If volume is the binding constraint, then efficiency density based on surface area may be of less relevance.\n\nTransparent conducting electrodes are essential components of solar cells. It is either a continuous film of indium tin oxide or a conducting wire network, in which wires are charge collectors while voids between wires are transparent for light. An optimum density of wire network is essential for the maximum solar cell performance as higher wire density blocks the light transmittance while lower wire density leads to high recombination losses due to more distance traveled by the charge carriers.\n\nTemperature affects the characteristic equation in two ways: directly, via \"T\" in the exponential term, and indirectly via its effect on \"I\" (strictly speaking, temperature affects all of the terms, but these two far more significantly than the others). While increasing \"T\" reduces the magnitude of the exponent in the characteristic equation, the value of \"I\" increases exponentially with \"T\". The net effect is to reduce \"V\" (the open-circuit voltage) linearly with increasing temperature. The magnitude of this reduction is inversely proportional to \"V\"; that is, cells with higher values of \"V\" suffer smaller reductions in voltage with increasing temperature. For most crystalline silicon solar cells the change in \"V\" with temperature is about -0.50%/°C, though the rate for the highest-efficiency crystalline silicon cells is around -0.35%/°C. By way of comparison, the rate for amorphous silicon solar cells is -0.20%/°C to -0.30%/°C, depending on how the cell is made.\n\nThe amount of photogenerated current \"I\" increases slightly with increasing temperature because of an increase in the number of thermally generated carriers in the cell. This effect is slight, however: about 0.065%/°C for crystalline silicon cells and 0.09% for amorphous silicon cells.\n\nThe overall effect of temperature on cell efficiency can be computed using these factors in combination with the characteristic equation. However, since the change in voltage is much stronger than the change in current, the overall effect on efficiency tends to be similar to that on voltage. Most crystalline silicon solar cells decline in efficiency by 0.50%/°C and most amorphous cells decline by 0.15-0.25%/°C. The figure above shows I-V curves that might typically be seen for a crystalline silicon solar cell at various temperatures.\nAs series resistance increases, the voltage drop between the junction voltage and the terminal voltage becomes greater for the same current. The result is that the current-controlled portion of the I-V curve begins to sag toward the origin, producing a significant decrease in the terminal voltage formula_18 and a slight reduction in \"I\", the short-circuit current. Very high values of \"R\" will also produce a significant reduction in \"I\"; in these regimes, series resistance dominates and the behavior of the solar cell resembles that of a resistor. These effects are shown for crystalline silicon solar cells in the I-V curves displayed in the figure to the right.\n\nLosses caused by series resistance are in a first approximation given by P=VI=IR and increase quadratically with (photo-)current. Series resistance losses are therefore most important at high illumination intensities.\nAs shunt resistance decreases, the current diverted through the shunt resistor increases for a given level of junction voltage. The result is that the voltage-controlled portion of the I-V curve begins to sag far from the origin, producing a significant decrease in the terminal current \"I\" and a slight reduction in \"V\". Very low values of \"R\" will produce a significant reduction in \"V\". Much as in the case of a high series resistance, a badly shunted solar cell will take on operating characteristics similar to those of a resistor. These effects are shown for crystalline silicon solar cells in the I-V curves displayed in the figure to the right.\nIf one assumes infinite shunt resistance, the characteristic equation can be solved for \"V\":\n\nThus, an increase in \"I\" produces a reduction in \"V\" proportional to the inverse of the logarithm of the increase. This explains mathematically the reason for the reduction in \"V\" that accompanies increases in temperature described above. The effect of reverse saturation current on the I-V curve of a crystalline silicon solar cell are shown in the figure to the right. Physically, reverse saturation current is a measure of the \"leakage\" of carriers across the p-n junction in reverse bias. This leakage is a result of carrier recombination in the neutral regions on either side of the junction.\nThe ideality factor (also called the emissivity factor) is a fitting parameter that describes how closely the diode's behavior matches that predicted by theory, which assumes the p-n junction of the diode is an infinite plane and no recombination occurs within the space-charge region. A perfect match to theory is indicated when \"n = 1\". When recombination in the space-charge region dominate other recombination, however, \"n = 2\". The effect of changing ideality factor independently of all other parameters is shown for a crystalline silicon solar cell in the I-V curves displayed in the figure to the right.\n\nMost solar cells, which are quite large compared to conventional diodes, well approximate an infinite plane and will usually exhibit near-ideal behavior under Standard Test Condition (\"n ≈ 1\"). Under certain operating conditions, however, device operation may be dominated by recombination in the space-charge region. This is characterized by a significant increase in \"I\" as well as an increase in ideality factor to \"n ≈ 2\". The latter tends to increase solar cell output voltage while the former acts to erode it. The net effect, therefore, is a combination of the increase in voltage shown for increasing \"n\" in the figure to the right and the decrease in voltage shown for increasing \"I\" in the figure above. Typically, \"I\" is the more significant factor and the result is a reduction in voltage.\n\nSometimes, the ideality factor is observed to be greater than 2, which is generally attributed to the presence of Schottky diode or heterojunction in the solar cell. The presence of a heterojunction offset reduces the collection efficiency of the solar cell and may contribute to low fill-factor.\n\n\n"}
