{"id": "49883395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49883395", "title": "Advertising in biology", "text": "Advertising in biology\n\nAdvertising in biology means the use of displays by organisms such as animals and plants to signal their presence for some evolutionary reason.\n\nSuch signalling may be honest, used to attract other organisms, as when flowers use bright colours, patterns, and scent to attract pollinators such as bees; or, again honestly, to warn off other organisms, as when distasteful animals use warning coloration to prevent attacks from potential predators. Such honest advertising benefits both the sender and the receiver.\n\nOther animals may advertise dishonestly; in Batesian mimicry, edible animals more or less accurately mimic distasteful animals to reduce their own risk of being attacked by predators.\n\nInsect-pollinated flowers use bright colours, patterns, rewards of nectar and pollen, and scent to attract pollinators such as bees. Some also use drugs such as caffeine to encourage bees to return more often. Advertising is influenced by sexual selection: in dioecious plants like sallow, the male flowers are brighter yellow (the colour of their pollen) and have more scent than female flowers. Honey bees are more attracted by the brighter male flowers, but not by their scent.\n\nMany flowers that are adapted for pollination by birds produce copious quantities of nectar and advertise this with their red coloration. Insects see red less well than other colours, and the plant needs to devote its energy to attracting birds that can act as pollinators rather than insects that cannot. In fact, the Canary Island endemic \"Echium wildpretii\" has two subspecies, a red-flowering one on Teneriffe which is mainly pollinated by birds, and a pink-flowered one on Las Palmas which is pollinated by insects.\n\nAdvertising takes a variety of forms in animals. Breeding adults often display to attract a mate. Breeding males of sexually dimorphic birds, such as peacocks, birds of paradise and bower birds, have elaborate plumage, song, and behaviour. These evolved through sexual selection by females. The males use these features alone or in combination to advertise their presence, and, especially but not only in species with lek mating, to compete with rival males. In a lek, the presence of multiple males advertises and potentially benefits all the males present, so they are both collaborating and competing.\n\nBreeding males may also advertise honestly to warn rival males of their strength, a classic example being the red deer, where the roaring of a rutting stag reliably signals its size. The honest advertisement benefits both sender and receiver, as neither need become involved in a costly fight to assess their relative strength. In the breeding season, frogs congregate at suitable breeding sites and call to advertise their presence, particularly at night. Females can distinguish between the fitness of males based on the characteristics of their voices. Desert toads emerge from their underground burrows in response to heavy rain. Males emerge first and when one finds a suitable ephemeral pool, its call attracts others and they all congregate there. Males may call in unison in noisy choruses, and breeding is explosive, a mass of males competing for the smaller number of females.\n\nColour can be used in advertising. Some butterflies have eyespots on their wings. These make no effort at concealment, but may startle a potential predator into trying elsewhere. The western skink has a distinctive blue tail. If the skink cannot escape from a predator by concealment or flight, it can afford to lose its tail in order to escape with its life. Similarly, some species of grasshopper are well-camouflaged when at rest but flash vivid colouration when flying. The grasshopper thus avoids being eaten while the potential predator hunts in vain for the brightly coloured insect it saw.\n\nMale crickets chirp to attract females, and in some species, their calls can be heard from great distances. However, a certain parasitic fly has taken advantage of this, the female is attracted to a calling male cricket on which it then deposits its developing larvae. Elaborate song is especially well-developed among birds, and again sexual selection has driven its evolution. Songbirds such as warblers have an extensive repertoire of songs, sometimes with thousands of phrases. The sedge warbler assembles an effectively infinite number of songs by assembling phrases in combination. Laboratory experiments by Clive Catchpole demonstrate that female sedge warblers select males with more varied songs, while field observation indicates that such males attract mates before other males.\n\nBreeding females may advertise oestrus (being \"on heat\" or \"in season\", i.e. that they are fertile, ovulating and receptive to breeding) with pheromones (scent), courtship behaviour, and visual signals. Human females have long been thought to conceal their ovulation, but women's behaviour changes around the time of ovulation with increased sexual motivation, and they are more attracted to men at that time; conversely, men are more attracted to the scent of women around the time of ovulation than in the non-ovulating (luteal) phase of the menstrual cycle.\n\nDistasteful animals use warning coloration (aposematism) to prevent attacks from potential predators.\n\nMany animals wish to advertise to those of their own species while being camouflaged to avoid predation. Many deep sea fish do this by way of bioluminescence. Patterns of photophores on their undersides emit light that from below hide their silhouettes and resemble the scintillating lights produced by the ever-moving surface layers of water. At the same time, each species has a distinctive pattern of photophores that enables another member of its species to identify it as a con-specific.\n"}
{"id": "611036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=611036", "title": "Aesara", "text": "Aesara\n\nAesara of Lucania ( \"Aisara\"; 4th or 3rd century BC) was a Pythagorean philosopher who wrote \"On Human Nature\", of which a fragment is preserved by Stobaeus.\n\nAesara is known only from a one-page fragment of her philosophical work titled \"On Human Nature\" preserved by Stobaeus. Lucania, where she came from, was an ancient district of southern Italy and part of Magna Graecia where many Pythagorean communities existed. It has been conjectured that her name is a variation on the name Aresa, who, according to one minor tradition, was a daughter of Pythagoras and Theano. A male writer from Lucania called Aresas is also mentioned by Iamblichus in his \"Life of Pythagoras\".\n\n\"On Human Nature\" is written in the Doric prose characteristic of the 3rd century BC or earlier, although that doesn't preclude the possibility that it was written later in an archaic style. It has been argued that the fragment is a Neopythagorean forgery dating from the Roman era, although this at least implies that there was an earlier Pythagorean called Aesara of Lucania worth imitating. It has also been suggested that the fragment is pseudonymous and comes from a textbook produced by one of the dissenting successor schools to Archytas of Tarentum in Italy in the 4th or 3rd century BC. In the absence of any strong evidence supporting either hypothesis, there is no reason to suppose that the fragment was not written by a woman philosopher called Aesara in the 4th or 3rd centuries BC.\n\nAesara argues that it is by studying our own human nature (and specifically the human soul) that we can understand the philosophical basis for natural law and morality:\n\nHuman nature seems to me to provide a standard of law and justice both for the home and for the city.\nAesara divides the soul into three parts: the mind which performs judgement and thought, the spirit which contains courage and strength, and desire which provides love and friendliness:\n\nBeing threefold, it is organized in accordance with triple functions: that which effects judgment and thoughtfulness is [the mind], that which effects strength and ability is [high spirit], and that which effects love and kindliness is desire.\n\nThese things, being divine, are the rational, mathematical, and functional principles at work in the soul. Aesara's theory of natural law concerns three applications of morality, concerning the individual, the family, and social institutions.\n\nThe Pythagoreans were notable as a sect for including women in their ranks. This did not necessarily equate to modern ideas of equality; they believed that women were responsible for creating harmony and justice in the home, in the same way that men had the same responsibility towards the state. Seen in this context, Aesara's theory of natural law is fundamental to justice and harmony in society as a whole.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "595344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595344", "title": "Alasdair MacIntyre", "text": "Alasdair MacIntyre\n\nAlasdair Chalmers MacIntyre (; born 12 January 1929) is a Scottish philosopher, primarily known for his contribution to moral and political philosophy, but also known for his work in history of philosophy and theology. MacIntyre's \"After Virtue\" (1981) is widely recognised as one of the most important works of Anglophone moral and political philosophy in the 20th century. He is senior research fellow at the Centre for Contemporary Aristotelian Studies in Ethics and Politics (CASEP) at London Metropolitan University, Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, and Permanent Senior Distinguished Research Fellow at the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. During his lengthy academic career, he also taught at Brandeis University, Duke University, Vanderbilt University, and Boston University.\n\nMacIntyre was born on 12 January 1929 in Glasgow, to Eneas and Greta (Chalmers) MacIntyre. He was educated at Queen Mary, University of London, and has a Master of Arts degree from the University of Manchester and from the University of Oxford. He began his teaching career in 1951 at Manchester. He taught at the University of Leeds, the University of Essex and the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom, before moving to the US in around 1969. MacIntyre has been something of an intellectual nomad, having taught at many universities in the US. He has held the following positions:\nHe has also been a visiting professor at Princeton University, and is a former president of the American Philosophical Association. In 2010, he was awarded the Aquinas Medal by the American Catholic Philosophical Association.\n\nFrom 2000 he was the Rev. John A. O'Brien Senior Research Professor in the Department of Philosophy (emeritus since 2010) at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, US. He is also professor emerit and emeritus at Duke University. In April 2005 he was elected to the American Philosophical Society, and in July 2010 became senior research fellow at London Metropolitan University's Centre for Contemporary Aristotelian Studies in Ethics and Politics. Since his retirement from active teaching in 2010, he remains the senior distinguished research fellow of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture, where he retains an office. He continues to make public presentations, including an annual keynote as part of the Center for Ethics and Culture's Fall Conference.\n\nHe has been married three times. From 1953 to 1963 he was married to Ann Peri, with whom he had two daughters. From 1963 to 1977 he was married to former teacher and now poet Susan Willans, with whom he had a son and daughter. Since 1977 he has been married to philosopher Lynn Joy, who is also on the philosophy faculty at Notre Dame.\n\nMacIntyre's approach to moral philosophy has a number of complex strains that inform it. Although his project is largely characterised by an attempt to revive an Aristotelian conception of moral philosophy as sustained by the virtues, he nevertheless describes his own account of this attempt as a \"peculiarly modern understanding\" of the task.\n\nThis \"peculiarly modern understanding\" largely concerns MacIntyre's approach to moral disputes. Unlike some analytic philosophers who try to generate moral consensus on the basis of an ideal of rationality, MacIntyre presents a historical narration of the development of ethics to illuminate the modern problem of \"incommensurable\" moral notions—i.e., notions whose value can not be reduced to a common measure. Following Hegel and Collingwood he offers a \"philosophical history\" (which he distinguishes from both analytical and phenomenological approaches to philosophy) in which he concedes from the beginning that \"there are no neutral standards available by appeal to which any rational agent whatsoever could determine\" the conclusions of moral philosophy.\n\nIndeed, one of MacIntyre's major points in his most famous work, \"After Virtue\", is that the failed attempt by various Enlightenment thinkers to furnish a final universal account of moral rationality led to the rejection of moral rationality altogether by subsequent thinkers such as Friedrich Nietzsche, Jean-Paul Sartre, and Charles Stevenson. On MacIntyre's account, it is especially Nietzsche's utter repudiation of the possibility of moral rationality that is the outcome of the Enlightenment's mistaken quest for a final and definitive argument that will settle moral disputes into perpetuity by power of a calculative reason alone and without use of teleology.\n\nBy contrast, MacIntyre is concerned with reclaiming various forms of moral rationality and argumentation that claim neither ultimate finality nor incorrigible certainty (the mistaken project of the Enlightenment), but nevertheless do not simply bottom out into relativistic or emotivist denials of any moral rationality whatsoever (according to him, the mistaken conclusion of Nietzsche, Sartre, and Stevenson). He does this by returning to the tradition of Aristotelian ethics with its teleological account of the good and moral persons, which reached a fuller articulation in the medieval writings of Thomas Aquinas and which in modern times was first rejected by the Enlightenment. This Aristotelian-Thomistic tradition, he proposes, presents \"the best theory so far,\" both of how things are and how we ought to act.\n\nMore generally, according to MacIntyre, it is the case that moral disputes always take place within and between rival traditions of thought that make recourse to a store of ideas, presuppositions, types of arguments and shared understandings and approaches that have been inherited from the past. Thus even though there is no definitive way for one tradition in moral philosophy to vanquish and exclude the possibility of another, nevertheless opposing views can call one another into question by various means including issues of internal coherence, imaginative reconstruction of dilemmas, epistemic crisis, and fruitfulness.\n\nProbably his most widely read work, \"After Virtue\" was written when MacIntyre was already in his fifties. Up until that time, MacIntyre had been a relatively influential analytic philosopher of a Marxist bent whose inquiries into moral philosophy had been conducted in a \"piecemeal way, focusing first on this problem and then on that, in a mode characteristic of much analytic philosophy.\" However, after reading the works of Thomas Kuhn and Imre Lakatos on philosophy of science and epistemology, MacIntyre was inspired to change the entire direction of his thought, tearing up the manuscript he had been working on and deciding to view the problems of modern moral and political philosophy \"not from the standpoint of liberal modernity, but instead from the standpoint of… Aristotelian moral and political practice.\"\n\nIn general terms, the task of \"After Virtue\" is to account both for the dysfunctional quality of moral discourse within modern society and rehabilitate what MacIntyre takes to be a forgotten alternative in the teleological rationality of Aristotelian virtue ethics. MacIntyre's thought is revolutionary as it articulates a politics of self-defence for local communities that aspire to protect their practices and sustain their way of life from corrosive effects of the capitalist economy.\n\nMacIntyre's second major work of his mature period takes up the problem of giving an account of philosophical rationality within the context of his notion of \"traditions,\" which had still remained under-theorized in \"After Virtue\". Specifically, MacIntyre argues that rival and largely incompatible conceptions of justice are the outcome of rival and largely incompatible forms of practical rationality. These competing forms of practical rationality and their attendant ideas of justice are in turn the result of \"socially embodied traditions of rational inquiry.\" Although MacIntyre's treatment of traditions is quite complex he does give a relatively concise definition: \"A tradition is an argument extended through time in which certain fundamental agreements are defined and redefined\" in terms of both internal and external debates.\n\nMuch of \"Whose Justice? Which Rationality?\" is therefore engaged in the task of not only giving the reader examples of what MacIntyre considers actual rival traditions and the different ways they can split apart, integrate, or defeat one another (e.g. Aristotelian, Augustinian, Thomist, Humean) but also with substantiating how practical rationality and a conception of justice help constitute those traditions. Specifically, according to him, the differing accounts of justice that are presented by Aristotle and Hume are due to the underlying differences in their conceptual schemes. MacIntyre argues that despite their incommensurability there are various ways in which alien traditions might engage one another rationally – most especially via a form of immanent critique which makes use of empathetic imagination to then put the rival tradition into \"epistemic crisis\" but also by being able to solve shared or analogous problems and dilemmas from within one's own tradition which remain insoluble from the rival approach.\n\nMacIntyre's account also defends three further theses: first, that all rational human inquiry is conducted whether knowingly or not from within a tradition; second, that the incommensurable conceptual schemes of rival traditions do not entail either relativism or perspectivism; third, that although the arguments of the book are themselves attempts at universally valid insights they are nevertheless given from within a particular tradition (that of Thomist Aristotelianism) and that this need not imply any philosophical inconsistency.\n\n\"Three Rival Versions of Moral Inquiry\" was first presented by MacIntyre as part of the Gifford lecture series at the University of Edinburgh in 1988 and is considered by many the third part in a trilogy of philosophical argumentation that commenced with \"After Virtue\". As its title implies, MacIntyre's aim in this book is to examine three major rival traditions of moral inquiry on the intellectual scene today (encyclopaedic, genealogical and traditional) which each in turn was given defence from a canonical piece published in the late nineteenth century (the Ninth Edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", Nietzsche's \"Genealogy of Morals\" and Pope Leo XIII's \"Aeterni Patris\", respectively). MacIntyre's book ultimately conducts a complex series of both interior and exterior critiques of the encyclopaedic and genealogical positions in an attempt to vindicate philosophical Thomism as the most persuasive form of moral inquiry currently on offer. His critique in chapter IX of Nietzsche's and Foucault's genealogical mode as implicitly committed to an emancipatory and continuous notion of self which they cannot account for on their own terms has been of particular influence.\n\nWhile \"After Virtue\" attempted to give an account of the virtues exclusively by recourse to social practices and the understanding of individual selves in light of \"quests\" and \"traditions,\" \"Dependent Rational Animals\" was a self-conscious effort by MacIntyre to ground virtues in an account of biology. MacIntyre writes the following of this shift in the preface to the book: \"Although there is indeed good reason to repudiate important elements in Aristotle's biology, I now judge that I was in error in supposing an ethics independent of biology to be possible.\"\n\nMore specifically, \"Dependent Rational Animals\" tries to make a holistic case on the basis of our best current knowledge (as opposed to an ahistorical, foundational claim) that \"human vulnerability and disability\" are the \"central features of human life\" and that Thomistic \"virtues of dependency\" are needed for individual human beings to flourish in their passage from stages of infancy to adulthood and old age. As MacIntyre puts it: \nIt is most often to others that we owe our survival, let alone our flourishing ... It will be a central thesis of this book that the virtues that we need, if we are to develop from our animal condition into that of independent rational agents, and the virtues that we need, if we are to confront and respond to vulnerability and disability both in ourselves and in others, belong to one and the same set of virtues, the distinctive virtues of dependent rational animals\nEngaging with scientific texts on human biology as well as works of philosophical anthropology, MacIntyre identifies the human species as existing on a continuous scale of both intelligence and dependency with other animals such as dolphins. One of his main goals is to undermine what he sees as the fiction of the disembodied, independent reasoner who determines ethical and moral questions autonomously and what he calls the \"illusion of self-sufficiency\" that runs through much of Western ethics culminating in Nietzsche's \"Übermensch\". In its place he tries to show that our embodied dependencies are a definitive characteristic of our species and reveal the need for certain kinds of virtuous dispositions if we are ever to flourish into independent reasoners capable of weighing the intellectual intricacies of moral philosophy in the first place.\n\nMacIntyre is a key figure in the recent surge of interest in virtue ethics, which identifies the central question of morality as having to do with the habits and knowledge concerning how to live a good life. His approach seeks to demonstrate that good judgment emanates from good character. Being a good person is not about seeking to follow formal rules. In elaborating this approach, MacIntyre understands himself to be reworking the Aristotelian idea of an ethical teleology.\n\nMacIntyre emphasises the importance of moral goods defined in respect to a community engaged in a 'practice'—which he calls 'internal goods' or 'goods of excellence'—rather than focusing on practice-independent obligation of a moral agent (deontological ethics) or the consequences of a particular act (utilitarianism). Before its recent resurgence, virtue ethics in European/American academia had been primarily associated with pre-modern philosophers (e.g. Plato, Aristotle, Thomas Aquinas). MacIntyre has argued that Aquinas' synthesis of Augustinianism with Aristotelianism is more insightful than modern moral theories by focusing upon the telos ('end', or completion) of a social practice and of a human life, within the context of which the morality of acts may be evaluated. His seminal work in the area of virtue ethics can be found in his 1981 book, \"After Virtue\".\n\nMacIntyre intends the idea of virtue to supplement, rather than replace, moral rules. Indeed, he describes certain moral rules as 'exceptionless' or unconditional. MacIntyre considers his work to be outside \"virtue ethics\" due to his affirmation of virtues as embedded in specific, historically grounded, social practices.\n\nPolitically, MacIntyre's ethics informs a defence of the Aristotelian 'goods of excellence' internal to practices against the modern pursuit of 'external goods', such as money, power, and status, that are characteristic of rule-based, utilitarian, Weberian modern institutions. He has been described as a 'revolutionary Aristotelian' because of his attempt to combine historical insights from his Marxist past with those of Aquinas and Aristotle after his conversion to Catholicism. For him, liberalism and postmodern consumerism not only justify capitalism but sustain and inform it over the long term. At the same time, he says, \"Marxists have always fallen back into relatively straightforward versions of Kantianism or utilitarianism\" and criticises Marxism as just another form of radical individualism, saying about Marxists, \"as they move towards power they always tend to become Weberians.\" Informed by this critique, Aristotelianism loses its sense of elitist complacency; moral excellence ceases to be part of a particular, historical practice in ancient Greece and becomes a universal quality of those who understand that good judgment emanates from good character. It has been argued that MacIntyre's thought is unable to provide a coherent and effective model for a justifiable and politically stable political order, due to its neglect of political theology.\n\nIn the 1950s/1960s, MacIntyre was a member of the Communist Party of Great Britain (leaving in 1956), briefly of the Socialist Labour League, and later of the Socialist Review Group/International Socialists.\n\nMacIntyre converted to Roman Catholicism in the early 1980s, and now does his work against the background of what he calls an \"Augustinian Thomist approach to moral philosophy.\" In an interview with \"Prospect\", MacIntyre explains that his conversion to Catholicism occurred in his fifties as a \"result of being convinced of Thomism while attempting to disabuse his students of its authenticity.\" Also, in his book \"Whose Justice, Which Rationality?\" there is a section towards the end that is perhaps autobiographical when he explains how one is chosen by a tradition and may reflect his own conversion to Roman Catholicism. Parallel recent developments in the methods of philosophical research, which carry resonances with MacIntyre's take on Thomism are witnessed with a modern approach to Avicennism (the historical legacies that were built upon the philosophy of Avicenna or Ibn Sina) as embodied in the works of Nader El-Bizri in connection with Islam, even though the orientation is phenomenological instead of being analytic, and the focus is on ontology rather than moral philosophy.\n\nFuller accounts of MacIntyre's view of the relationship between philosophy and religion in general and Thomism and Catholicism in particular can be found in his essays \"Philosophy recalled to its tasks\" and \"Truth as a good\" (both found in the collection \"The Tasks of Philosophy\") as well as in the survey of the Catholic philosophical tradition he gives in \"God, Philosophy and Universities\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3946519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3946519", "title": "Alexander Piatigorsky", "text": "Alexander Piatigorsky\n\nAlexander Moiseyevich Piatigorsky (; 30 January 1929, Moscow25 October 2009, London) was a Soviet dissident, Russian philosopher, scholar of South Asian philosophy and culture, historian, philologist, semiotician, writer. Well-versed in the study of language, he knew Sanskrit, Tamil, Pali, Tibetan, German, Russian, French, Italian and English. In an obituary appearing in the English-language newspaper The Guardian, he was cited as \"a man who was widely considered to be one of the more significant thinkers of the age and Russia's greatest philosopher.\" On Russian television stations he was mourned as \"the greatest Russian philosopher.\"\n\nPiatigorsky was born in Moscow. His father, Moshe, an engineer and lecturer at the Stalin metallurgical college was sent to a weapons production facility in the Urals (city of Nizhny Tagil) at the outbreak of World War II, where he took up a post as chief engineer in weapons production. Alexander worked in the plant during the war. Being a poor student of mathematics, chemistry and physics, Alexander was expelled from school twice, but at this time he learned Latin and some other languages out of sheer curiosity. He was a voracious reader, and read just about everything he could get his hands on.\n\nAt Moscow State University he studied philosophy, graduating in 1951. He moved to Stalingrad where he taught high-school history before returning to Moscow to join the Institute of Oriental Studies as \"a specialist in Tamil languages and Hindu studies.\" He compiled the first Russian-Tamil dictionary in 1960. In 1963, influenced by Yuri Lotman who was working in Tartu University, he was involved with Lotman, Vyacheslav Ivanov, Vladimir Toporov and others, in the establishment of Tartu-Moscow Semiotic School. The School developed the theoretical foundations and nomenclature for a new approach in semiotics for the study of society, consciousness and culture.\n\nIn 1964, Piatigorsky's friend, poet Joseph Brodsky, was handed down a five-year sentence of internal exile. The following year, in support of the writers Yuli Daniel and Andrey Sinyavsky, Piatigorsky with other Russian intellectuals:\n\nHis investigations and theoretical observations of the role played by thinking and philosophy in ancient South Asian culture and society were viewed with suspicion by some as a subtly indirect way of attacking the Soviet system. Knowing themselves to be likely targets of KGB surveillance, he and his fellow Indologists would gather in a room of the Moscow Institute of Oriental Studies where they would enter into \"fiery debates... in Sanskrit.\" He was expelled from the Oriental Institute in 1968.\n\nPiatigorsky continued to lecture at the University of Moscow. He pursued his Indological investigations, increasingly dealing with Buddhist thought, and continued with more general work on the metatheory of consciousness, psychology, semiotics and philosophy in general, while collaborating with various Russian philosophers and thinkers outside of Indology. Chief among them was his close friend, philosopher Merab Mamardashvili. Influenced by German Idealism, Mamardashvili was a Deputy Editor of the leading journal, Voprosy Filosofii (\"Problems of Philosophy\"), and was also a principal representative of the so-called \"Moscow School of Methodology.\" Participants in the Moscow School seminars included: Alexander Zinoviev, Evald Ilyenkov, Georgy Shchedrovitsky, Boris Grushin, Lefebvre, and others. The School is believed by some to be the source of the most important developments in philosophy in the post-War period, rivaling anything done in the Western analytical tradition. The School remains virtually unknown in the West because its members were forced to operate behind the \"Iron Curtain\" in a context of severely reduced operational visibility and Soviet-style repression. One of his friends was also an indologist and culture theoretician David Zilberman, who in 1968-1972 was a postgraduate student working under prof. Yuri Levada. Together they used to discuss problems of consciousness development. After they both migrated they kept friendship and continued research co-operation till Zilberman's death in July 1977. Piatigorsky's book\" \"Myshlenie i nablyudenie\"\" (Thinking and Observation), published in Riga in 2002, was dedicated to David Zilberman and included an explicit confession of Zilberman's influence on the author's thought.\n\nIn 1972, Piatigorsky's Buddhist teacher Dandaron was arrested by Soviet authorities. A number of Dandaron's students were imprisoned. Dandaron was sent to a Soviet labor camp where he perished in 1974. During the same period, Mamardashvili and Piatigorsky co-authored: \"Symbol and Consciousness: Metaphysical Discussion of Consciousness, Symbolism and Language\" Jerusalem (1982), in Russian. This abstract and complex text, combining Western and Eastern terms, is considered by some to be the most significant philosophical work written in the Russian language. The text:\n\nWritten in the two years before Piatigorsky left the Soviet Union for Britain in 1974, the manuscript was spirited out of the country by the British-Czech social philosopher Ernest Gellner. It is worth noticing that the text was written in a deteriorating situation of renewed political repression of the Russian intelligentsia by the Soviet state. The 'tightening of restrictions' followed a brief period of relaxation of Soviet controls on intellectual activity which had taken place from the mid-1960s until the early 1970s.\n\nDeparting the Soviet Union in 1974 for Israel, Piatigorsky made his way to Oxford University where he had been invited to give some lectures. But early times in London were severe for his family (at the moment of departure he has some children and pregnant wife). He arrived to London in the summer and had no normal job, he earned only 6.5 pounds a day. He accepted some invitations to lecture, but decided to stay in London. At Oxford he quickly became acquainted with Isaiah Berlin and Leszek Kołakowski. He joined the staff of the School of Oriental and African Studies, The University of London, as lecturer in 1975 with the commendation of Berlin who at one point is reported to have said: \"Piatigorsky is quite simply a genius!\" It is remarkable that Piatigorski didn't consider himself a dissident, he left Soviet Union just because he was bored, he felt that something was missing there.\n\nWhile at SOAS, Piatigorsky wrote numerous journal articles and Introductions and chapters to books in various academic fields. He wrote several larger scholarly works including: \"The Buddhist Philosophy of Thought\" (1984), \"Mythological Deliberations\" (1993), and \"Who's Afraid of Freemasons?\" (1997). The work on Freemasonry was a bestselling book on the sociology and philosophy of religious belief. In 1991, he was made Professor of the Ancient History of South Asia, a position from which he retired in 2001 as Emeritus Professor. \nDuring the final two decades of his life, Piatigorsky wrote a number of philosophical novels in Russian, one of which earned him the Andrei Bely prize in 2000. His first, \"The Philosophy of a Small Street\", was published in Moscow in 1994. The book was well-received, further establishing his reputation in Russian intellectual circles, while placing him in the forefront of public consciousness. \"Remember the Strange Person\" (1999) and \"An Ancient Man in the City\" (2001) followed. As a novelist he joins the select company of those few philosophers who successfully managed to cross over into the world of literature, including Jean-Paul Sartre, Albert Camus, Umberto Eco, and Alexander Zinoviev. He also crossed over successfully into the world of cinema. He was made the subject of 'Philosopher Escaped' (2005) a documentary film directed by Uldis Tirons about the life of a philosopher, and he played \"the part of an Indian merchant in his friend Otar Iosseliani's film Hunting Butterflies.\" \nPiatigorsky disliked traditional academic jargon and for most of his life he upheld the principle that scholars should publish as little as possible on the grounds that publishing interrupts thinking. His lecture style was lively and distinctive: he was able to speak with considerable effect about the most abstruse and difficult concepts. Pacing back and forth, smoking, when it was still permitted, he sometimes stopped to observe his cigarette as it burned, pausing before making the next point. He was never known to consult notes. He was married four times and had five children; Galia, Max, Ilya, Veronica and Anna. He died suddenly on 25 October 2009.\n\n\n\nThe Tirukkural\n\nSome \"in memoriam\" reflections in Russian\n"}
{"id": "33673135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33673135", "title": "Behavioral ethics", "text": "Behavioral ethics\n\nBehavioral ethics is a new field of social scientific research that seeks to understand how people actually behave when confronted with ethical dilemmas. It refers to behavior that is judged according to generally accepted norms of behavior.\n\nIn ethics teaching and research, ethics is arguably the \"next big thing\" because its �investigation agenda has generated many knowledge on why and how people choose and act when being confronted with ethical subject, which was unknown previously.\n\nPhilosophical views about morality has been supported traditionally by theoretical reasoning and introspection, with at best passing reference to actual human behavior. Models of human morality advanced by behavioral ethics based on the fact that morality is a new and still developing quality of the evolutionary dynamic that leads to our species.\n\nClarifying the difference between behavioral law and economics(BEL) and behavioral ethics(BE) is of importance. Compared to BLE, BE has reduced its ability of influencing broad legal academic circles. In addition, unlike BLE, BE was advanced as piece of the management literature, which is less related to legal scholarship than BLE is, and thus less likely to have impact on it.\n\nBehavioral ethics researchers have found the relationship between employees' justice perceptions and also, ethical and unethical behavior. In the 1990s, organizational justice became one of the most studied organizational themes. The term organizational justice is created by Greenberg(1987) to involve employee's perception of organizational events, policies, and practices as being fair or not fair. Classic work on distributive justice, procedural justice and interactional justice has been built. This research has focused on theoretical advance and empirical testing about the formation of justice judgements as well as the result of these justice evaluation. Justice and injustice perception have been related to an extensive variety of employee attitudes and behaviors consisted of trust, satisfaction, turnover and plenty of opposite formal negative behaviors such as theft and unethical behaviors which are more common.\n\nThere are experiments that can be linked to behavioral ethics. The Trolley problem and the Prisoner's dilemma both place individuals in decision-making situations that carry ethical questions. In each, an individual is asked to make a decision that affects another person. In the prisoner's dilemma, the principles of Reciprocity (social psychology) and Cooperation come into play, but not all who participate behave in the same manner. In the Trolley problem an individual has to choose which group of people to save. Both of these experiments shed light on how people behave when confronted with ethical dilemmas.\n\nIf firms are able to utilize the principles of behavioral psychology to alter consumer's behavior and thus increase sales and governments can change people's behavior and hence promote policy target using those same principles, then individuals and their employers can apply related principles of behavioral ethics to promote ethical behavior in the company and in society.\n\nAccording to an article in the Chron.com, examples of unethical behavior in business an environment can include:\n\n\nThese behaviors are mostly based on different rights that we all have in society and therefore have in work environments as well. Usually each company have its own set of policy but there are some common ones as well. \n\nAt most business conference, employees are required to report on the progress of their missions. It can lead to an ethical dilemma because they may report their performance better than it is due to external pressure.\n\nUnethical behavior is an action that falls outside of what is thought morally appropriate for a person, a job or a company. Individuals can act unethically, as can businesses, professionals and politicians.\n\nEthics can be defined as going beyond what is legal and doing right things, even no one is paying attention to. So unethical behavior in business is about actions that don't obey the acceptable criterion of business operations, failing to do right things in each condition.\n"}
{"id": "1392377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1392377", "title": "Catagenesis (biology)", "text": "Catagenesis (biology)\n\nCatagenesis is a somewhat archaic term from evolutionary biology referring to evolutionary directions that were considered \"retrogressive.\" It was a term used in contrast to anagenesis, which in present usage denotes the evolution of a single population into a new form without branching lines of descent.\n\n"}
{"id": "275713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275713", "title": "Caveat emptor", "text": "Caveat emptor\n\nCaveat emptor (, ) is Latin for \"Let the buyer beware\" \n(from \"caveat\", \"may he beware\", a subjunctive form of \"cavēre\", \"to beware\" + \"ēmptor\", \"buyer\"). Generally, \"caveat emptor\" is the contract law principle that controls the sale of real property after the date of closing, but may also apply to sales of other goods. The phrase \"caveat emptor\" and its use as a disclaimer of warranties arise from the fact that buyers typically have less information about the good or service they are purchasing, while the seller has more information. The quality of this situation is known as 'information asymmetry'. Defects in the good or service may be hidden from the buyer, and only known to the seller.\n\nA common way that information asymmetry between seller and buyer has been addressed is through a legally binding warranty, such as a guarantee of satisfaction. But without such a safeguard in place the ancient rule applies, and the buyer should beware.\n\nUnder the principle of \"caveat emptor\", the buyer could not recover damages from the seller for defects on the property that rendered the property unfit for ordinary purposes. The only exception was if the seller actively concealed latent defects or otherwise made material misrepresentations amounting to fraud.\n\nBefore statutory law, the buyer had no express warranty ensuring the quality of goods. In the UK, common law requires that goods must be \"fit for the particular purpose\" and of \"merchantable quality\", per Section 15 of the Sale of Goods Act but this implied warranty can be difficult to enforce and may not apply to all products. Hence, buyers are still advised to be cautious.\n\nThe modern trend in the U.S. is that the implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose applies in the real-estate context to only the sale of new residential housing by a builder-seller and that the \"caveat emptor\" rule applies to all other real-estate sale situations (e.g. homeowner to buyer). Other jurisdictions have provisions similar to this.\n\nUnder Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code, adopted by all U.S. states, the sale of new goods is governed by the \"perfect-tender\" rule unless the parties to the sale expressly agree in advance to terms equivalent to \"caveat emptor\" (such as describing the goods as sold \"as is\" and/or \"with all faults\") or other limitations such as the below-discussed limitations on remedies. The perfect-tender rule states that if a buyer who inspects new goods with reasonable promptness discovers them to be \"nonconforming\" (failing to meet the description provided or any other standards reasonably expectable by a buyer in his/her situation) and does not use the goods or take other actions constituting acceptance of them, the buyer may promptly return or refuse to accept (\"reject\") them and demand that the defect be remedied (\"cured\"). When goods fitting the same description and expectations are available for sale (\"e.g.\", when the vendor has other instances of the same mass-produced merchandise in stock inventory), either the vendor or the buyer may insist on an \"even exchange\" for other, \"conforming\" instances of the product. When conforming goods are not available in stock but are available for the dealer to purchase (usually on the open or \"spot\" market), the buyer may require that the seller obtain the goods elsewhere, even at a higher price, with the seller having to incur a loss equivalent to the price difference. If the vendor still does not or cannot provide the goods and the dispute proceeds to litigation (as opposed to renegotiation or settlement), then as in all cases of vendor breaches of contract, the buyer may recover only the damages that s/he would have suffered had s/he taken all feasible steps to minimize (\"mitigate\") his/her damages suffered.\n\nAs a default rule, the perfect-tender rule may be \"contracted around\" in ways that specify or limit a buyer's remedies (and that accordingly reduce the market price that rational buyers are willing to pay for the goods). In many cases, the vendor will not provide a refund but will provide store credit. In the cases of software, movies, and other copyrighted material, many vendors will offer only a direct exchange for another copy of the same title, with the effect that the initial transfer or license of intellectual-property rights is preserved. Most stores require proof of purchase and impose time limits on exchanges or refunds. Some larger chain stores, such as F.Y.E., Staples, Target, or Walmart, will, however, do exchanges or refunds at any time, with or without proof of purchase, although they usually require a form of picture identification and place per-transaction and/or per-person quantity or dollar limitations on such returns.\n\nIn the UK, consumer law has moved away from the \"caveat emptor\" model, with laws passed that have enhanced consumer rights and allow greater leeway to return goods that do not meet legal standards of acceptance. Consumer purchases are regulated by the Consumer Rights Act 2015, whilst business-to-business purchases are regulated by the Sale of Goods Act 1979.\n\nIn the UK, consumers have the right to a full refund for faulty goods. However, traditionally, many retailers allow customers to return goods within a specified period (typically two weeks to two months) for a full refund or an exchange, even if there is no fault with the product. Exceptions may apply for goods sold as damaged or to clear.\n\nGoods bought through \"distance selling,\" for example online or by phone, also have a statutory \"cooling off\" period of fourteen calendar days during which the purchase contract can be cancelled and treated as if not done.\n\nAlthough no longer applied in consumer law, the principle of \"caveat emptor\" is generally held to apply to transactions between businesses unless it can be shown that the seller had a clear information advantage over the buyer that could not have been removed by carrying out reasonable due diligence.\n\n\"Caveat venditor\" is Latin for \"let the seller beware.\" \n\nIn the landmark case of \"MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.\" (1916), New York Court Appeals Judge Benjamin N. Cardozo established that privity of duty is no longer required in regard to a lawsuit for product liability against the seller. This case is widely regarded as the origin of \"caveat venditor\" as it pertains to modern tort law in US. \n\n\"Caveat lector\" is Latin for \"let the reader beware\".\nOne variant of this phrase is \"caveat auditor\", where the caveat is addressed to any receiver of a given (kind of) message (not necessarily a written one).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10115122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10115122", "title": "Community of practice", "text": "Community of practice\n\nA community of practice (CoP) is a group of people who share a craft or a profession. The concept was first proposed by cognitive anthropologist Jean Lave and educational theorist Etienne Wenger in their 1991 book \"Situated Learning\" . Wenger then significantly expanded on the concept in his 1998 book \"Communities of Practice\" .\n\nA CoP can evolve naturally because of the members' common interest in a particular domain or area, or it can be created deliberately with the goal of gaining knowledge related to a specific field. It is through the process of sharing information and experiences with the group that members learn from each other, and have an opportunity to develop personally and professionally .\n\nCoPs can exist in physical settings, for example, a lunch room at work, a field setting, a factory floor, or elsewhere in the environment, but members of CoPs do not have to be co-located. They form a \"virtual community of practice\" (VCoP) when they collaborate online, such as within discussion boards and newsgroups, or a \"mobile community of practice\" (MCoP) when members communicate with one another via mobile phones and participate in community work on the go.\n\nCommunities of practice are not new phenomena: this type of learning has existed for as long as people have been learning and sharing their experiences through storytelling. The idea is rooted in American pragmatism, especially C. S. Peirce's concept of the \"community of inquiry\" , but also John Dewey's principle of learning through occupation .\n\nSince the publication of \"Situated Learning: Legitimate Peripheral Participation\" , communities of practice have been the focus of attention, first as a theory of learning and later as part of the field of knowledge management. See for a review of how the concept has changed over the years. offers a more critical view of the different ways in which the term communities of practice can be interpreted.\n\nTo understand how learning occurs outside the classroom while at the Institute for Research on Learning, Lave and Wenger studied how newcomers or novices to informal groups become established members of those groups . Lave and Wenger first used the term communities of practice to describe learning through practice and participation, which they named situated learning.\n\nThe structure of the community was created over time through a process of legitimate peripheral participation. Legitimation and participation together define the characteristic ways of belonging to a community whereas peripherality and participation are concerned with location and identity in the social world .\n\nLave and Wenger's research looked at how apprenticeships help people learn. They found that when newcomers join an established group or community, they spend some time initially observing and perhaps performing simple tasks in basic roles as they learn how the group works and how they can participate (an apprentice electrician, for example would watch and learn before actually doing any electrical work; initially taking on small simple jobs and eventually more complicated ones). Lave and Wenger described this socialization process as legitimate peripheral participation. The term \"community of practice\" is that group that Lave and Wenger referred to, who share a common interest and a desire to learn from and contribute to the community with their variety of experiences .\n\nIn his later work, abandoned the concept of legitimate peripheral participation and used the idea of an inherent tension in a duality instead. He identifies four dualities that exist in communities of practice, participation-reification, designed-emergent, identification-negotiability and local-global, although the participation-reification duality has been the focus of particular interest because of its links to knowledge management.\n\nHe describes the structure of a CoP as consisting of three interrelated terms: 'mutual engagement', 'joint enterprise' and 'shared repertoire' .\n\n\nFor Etienne Wenger, learning is central to human identity. A primary focus of Wenger’s more recent work is on learning as social participation – the individual as an active participant in the practices of social communities, and in the construction of his/her identity through these communities . In this context, a community of practice is a group of individuals participating in communal activity, and experiencing/continuously creating their shared identity through engaging in and contributing to the practices of their communities.\n\nThe structural characteristics of a community of practice are again redefined to a domain of knowledge, a notion of community and a practice.\n\n\n\n\nIn many organizations, communities of practice have become an integral part of the organization structure . These communities take on knowledge stewarding tasks that were formerly covered by more formal organizational structures. In some organizations there are both formal and informal communities of practice. There is a great deal of interest within organizations to encourage, support, and sponsor communities of practice in order to benefit from shared knowledge that may lead to higher productivity . Communities of practice are now viewed by many in the business setting as a means to capturing the tacit knowledge, or the know-how that is not so easily articulated.\n\nAn important aspect and function of communities of practice is increasing organization performance. identify four areas of organizational performance that can be affected by communities of practice: \n\nThe communities Lave and Wenger studied were naturally forming as practitioners of craft and skill-based activities met to share experiences and insights .\n\nLave and Wenger observed situated learning within a community of practice among Yucatán midwives, Liberian tailors, navy quartermasters and meat cutters as well as insurance claims processors. . Other fields have made use of the concept of CoPs. Examples include education , sociolinguistics, material anthropology, medical education, second language acquisition , Parliamentary Budget Offices , health care and business sectors, and child mental health practice (AMBIT).\n\nA famous example of a community of practice within an organization is that which developed around the Xerox customer service representatives who repaired the machines in the field . The Xerox reps began exchanging tips and tricks over informal meetings over breakfast or lunch and eventually Xerox saw the value of these interactions and created the Eureka project to allow these interactions to be shared across the global network of representatives. The Eureka database has been estimated to have saved the corporation $100 million.\n\nCollaboration constellations differ in various ways. Some are under organizational control (e.g., teams, see below) others, like CoPs, are self-organized or under the control of individuals. For examples of how these and other collaboration types vary in terms of their temporal or boundary focus and the basis of their members' relationships, see .\n\nA project team differs from a community of practice in several significant ways . \n\nBy contrast,\n\nIn addition to the distinction between CoP and other types of organizational groupings found in the workplace, in some cases it is useful to differentiate CoP from community of interest (CoI).\n\nCommunity of interest\n\nCommunity of practice\n\nSocial capital is said to be a multi-dimensional concept, with both public and private facets (Bourdieu 1991). That is, social capital may provide value to both the individual and the group as a whole. Through informal connections that participants build in their community of practice, and in the process of sharing their expertise, learning from others, and participating in the group, members are said to be acquiring social capital – especially those members who demonstrate expertise and experience.\n\n describe three kinds of knowledge: \"knowledge as object\", \"knowledge embedded within individuals\", and \"knowledge embedded in a community\". Communities of Practice have become associated with finding, sharing, transferring, and archiving knowledge, as well as making explicit \"expertise\", or tacit knowledge. Tacit knowledge is considered to be those valuable context-based experiences that cannot easily be captured, codified and stored , also .\n\nBecause knowledge management is seen \"primarily as a problem of capturing, organizing, and retrieving information, evoking notions of databases, documents, query languages, and data mining\" , the community of practice, collectively and individually, is considered a rich potential source of helpful information in the form of actual experiences; in other words, best practices.\n\nThus, for knowledge management, a community of practice is one source of content and context that if codified, documented and archived can be accessed for later use.\n\nMembers of communities of practice are thought to be more efficient and effective conduits of information and experiences. While organizations tend to provide manuals to meet the training needs of their employees, CoPs help foster the process of storytelling among colleagues which, in turn, helps them strengthen their skills on the job .\n\nStudies have shown that workers spend a third of their time looking for information and are five times more likely to turn to a co-worker rather than an explicit source of information (book, manual, or database) . Time is saved by conferring with members of a CoP. Members of the community have tacit knowledge, which can be difficult to store and retrieve outside. For example, one person can share the best way to handle a situation based on his experiences, which may enable the other person to avoid mistakes and shorten the learning curve. In a CoP, members can openly discuss and brainstorm about a project, which can lead to new capabilities. The type of information that is shared and learned in a CoP is boundless . clarifies the difference between tacit knowledge, or knowing \"how\", and explicit knowledge, or knowing \"what\". Performing optimally in a job requires being able to convert theory into practice. Communities of practice help the individual bridge the gap between knowing \"what\" and knowing \"how\" .\n\nAs members of communities of practice, individuals report increased communication with people (professionals, interested parties, hobbyists), less dependence on geographic proximity, and the generation of new knowledge .\n\nCommunicating with others in a community of practice involves creating \"social presence\". defines social presence as \"the degree of salience of another person in an interaction and the consequent salience of an interpersonal relationship\" (p. 38). It is believed that social presence affects how likely an individual is of participating in a CoP (especially in online environments) . Management of a community of practice often faces many barriers that inhibit individuals from engaging in knowledge exchange. Some of the reasons for these barriers are egos and personal attacks, large overwhelming CoPs, and time constraints .\n\nMotivation to share knowledge is critical to success in communities of practice. Studies show that members are motivated to become active participants in a CoP when they view knowledge as meant for the public good, a moral obligation and/or as a community interest . Members of a community of practice can also be motivated to participate by using methods such as tangible returns (promotion, raises or bonuses), intangible returns (reputation, self-esteem) and community interest (exchange of practice related knowledge, interaction).\n\nCollaboration is essential to ensuring that communities of practice thrive. Research has found that certain factors can indicate a higher level of collaboration in knowledge exchange in a business network . Sveiby and Simons found that more seasoned colleagues tend to foster a more collaborative culture. Additionally they noted that a higher educational level also predicts a tendency to favor collaboration.\n\nWhat makes a community of practice succeed depends on the purpose and objective of the community as well as the interests and resources of the members of that community. Wenger identified seven actions that could be taken in order to cultivate communities of practice:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18691664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18691664", "title": "Daniele Archibugi", "text": "Daniele Archibugi\n\nDaniele Archibugi is an Italian economic and political theorist. He works on the economics and policy of innovation and technological change, on the political theory of international relations and on political and technological globalisation.\n\nArchibugi graduated with an Economics degree at the University of Rome \"La Sapienza\" with Federico Caffè, and obtained a D.Phil. degree at SPRU of the University of Sussex under the mentorship of Christopher Freeman and Keith Pavitt. He has worked and taught at the Universities of Sussex, Naples, Cambridge, Sapienza University of Rome, LUISS University of Rome, Ritsumeikan University, Kyoto and SWEFE University, Chengdu. He was Leverhulme Visiting Professor at the London School of Economics, and Lauro de Bosis Visiting Professor at Harvard University. In June 2006, Archibugi was appointed Honorary Professor at the University of Sussex. He currently works at the Italian National Research Council in Rome and at Birkbeck, University of London.\n\nTogether with David Held, Archibugi has been a key figure in the development of cosmopolitanism and of cosmopolitan democracy in particular, namely the attempt to apply some of the norms and values of democracy to global politics. He has advocated substantial reforms in international organizations, including the United Nations and the European Union.\n\nHe has criticized the G7, G8 and G20 summits as undemocratic and urged for more transparent gathering for global politics. He has also taken position against a League of Democracies arguing that the same demands will be better served by a democratic reform of the United Nations. Archibugi is among the promoters of a directly elected World Parliament, and a supporter of the Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, an organisation which campaigns for democratic reform in the United Nations.\n\nArchibugi developed a taxonomy of the globalization of technology with Jonathan Michie, where they distinguish among three main devices of transmission of know-how: international exploitation of innovations, global generation of innovation and global collaborations in science and technology.\n\nAs Chairman of an Expert Group of the European Research Area on international collaboration in science and technology, he has pointed out that the demographic decline in Europe, combined with the lack of vocation of youngesters for hard sciences, will generate a dramatic shortage of qualified workers in less than a generation. This will jeopardize the standard of livings of Europeans in key areas such as medical research, information technologies and knowledge intensive industries. Archibugi has urged for substantial revisions to European immigration policy in order to accommodate at least two million qualified students in science, engineering from developing countries in a decade.\n\nIn the field of international relations\n\n\nIn the field of innovation studies\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40600794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40600794", "title": "Dany-Robert Dufour", "text": "Dany-Robert Dufour\n\nDany-Robert Dufour (born in 1947) is a French philosopher, professor of educational sciences at the university Paris-VIII. He teaches regularly abroad, particularly in Latin America.\nHis main focus is symbolic processes (specially \"désymbolisation\") with relevance to language philosophy, political philosophy and psychoanalysis. He is a frequent participant in cooperative artistic activities with music, literature or theatre.\n\nIn his books a large portion is dedicated to neoteny and the human physical inability of becoming \"full-grown\". This has forced humans to invent culture.\nThis condition may be weakness as well as greatness of man.\n\nCulture is created by \"intersubjectivity\", where an \"I\" is talking to a \"you\" about an \"it\". The \"it\" in this conversation between two persons present is a symbolization of something absent. A symbol has thus substituted the leader of the flock seen in other animals growing out of their neotenian state. This abstract \"leader\" he calls \"The Grand Subject\" and has been referred to different symbolic powers throughout the ages: spirits, machinery of gods (like the Olympic gods), the monotheistic almighty God, the Proletariate, the Race and, lately, the neoliberal Market.\n\nIn the book \"L'art de réduire les têtes\" (\"The Art of Shrinking Heads\") Dufour considers the postmodern change which Lyotard refers to as \"the end of the Grand Narrative\".\nThis new aspect suits liberalism in an excellent way, being more flexible than the old way of thinking to the everchanging circulation of merchandise, he claims.\n\nIn the book \"Le Divin Marché, la révolution culturelle libérale\" (\"The Divine Market, the Liberal Cultural Revolution\") Dufour tries to point out that we have come under the grip of a new victorious religion: the Divine Market, functioning on a simple but terribly efficient principle which Bernard Mandeville described in \"The Fable of the Bees\" in 1704: it is the vices (i.e., the self-regarding actions of men) which alone, by means of inventions and the circulation of capital in connection with luxurious living, stimulate society into action and progress. This \"miracle\" is produced by \"divine providence\", what Adam Smith was to call \"The Invisible Hand\".\n\nDufour also wants to point out that the liberal project tends to contradict the concept of \"school\" in Antiquity: Greek σχολή (scholē), Latin otium = free time, i.e. the time not employed to work or duties. This concept permitted the individual, before entering business life (Latin \"neg-otium\" = time not free), to create a mastering of mind not to be subject to uncontrolled passions, neither his own nor those of others.\n\nWe are thus left to distinguish between two contrary concepts of education: the classical one with self-control and the liberal one where passions and urges on the loose are permitted. The more this latter educational project triumphs, the more the desymbolized world of drives and urges will protrude, according to Dufour. This world, however, creates a new problem: when no longer control of passions and urges is effected on a symbolic level, it must more and more be effected on a pure corporal level, inwards with pills and outwards with surveillance techniques – something happening not without implications for the function of democracy in liberal societies.\n\nMore generally this book describes and analyses – one year before the big Financial crisis of 2007–08 – the potentially destructive effects of (neo)liberalism, not only on the market economy, but also and particularly on other fields of human expression such as politics, use of symbols, semiotics, psychology... And not to disregard what contains everything: how to handle one's own living.\n\nIn \"La cité perverse – libéralisme et pornographie\", 2009 (\"Perverted Society - Liberalism and Pornography\") Dufour attempts to display that the economical and financial crisis starting in October 2009 has provided us with at least one advantage: it has revealed the perverted mechanisms regulating the function of today's society.\n\nWe live in a world that has made egoism (Adam Smith's \"self love\") its foremost principle. This principle henceforth commands all forms of conduct, whether in the uppermost classes, among juvenile dilinquents or the middle-classes. Destructive for the notions of \"being together\" or \"being your-self\" it urges us to live in a perverted society: pornography, selfishness, contestation of every law whatsoever, acceptance of social darwinism. It makes the Other a tool and results in our world becoming de Sade-ish. It extolls henceforth the alliance between Adam Smith and Marquis de Sade. \nAgainst the old moral order, which summoned everyone to master his passions and urges, Dufour proposes that a new order has substituted the old one and that it is now, on the contrary, fashionable to display one's passions and urges regardless of any consequences. He analyses today's world as a result of the revolution of western metaphysics during the century between Pascal's puritan philosophy and de Sade's porno fixated one (philosophie puritaine – philosophie \"putaine\").\n\nde Sade had so well demonstrated how a world subject to the principle of absolute egoism would appear that he was to be imprisoned for 27 years and his books to be concealed in the archives of libraries for two centuries. Dufour investigates de Sade's return, first masked, then overtly, during the 20th century and the world which will become the result of this. He also tries to indicate some ways to escape this (a)moral trap.\n\n\"L'individu qui vient … après le libéralisme\" (\"The Individual that Appears … after liberalism\"), published in 2011, is a new step in Dufour's work. He considers that he has sufficiently deconstructed the liberal anthropology in his previous works and is now to enter a constructive line of work in his research for new possible axioms for a real civilizational policy.\n\nHe first states that western civilization, after a century of two forceful turbulences, nazism and stalinism, now is drawn into today's neoliberalism. This produces a crisis in a hitherto unseen extension, the nature of which is political, economical, ecological, moral, subjective, esthetical, intellectual …\n\nDufour, however, sees nothing fatal in this third historical dead end during a century. As a philosopher he considers possibilities to resist this latest totalitarianism which step by step changes and destroys various expressions of human culture.\n\nDufour sees no other solution than resuming things where they have been discontinued by this new religion which he in his previous works has called \"le divin Marché\" (The Divine Market). \nLike all religions a promise makes it function: salvation by continual growth of riches – a precipitous fleeing ahead leading to global devastation according to Dufour. To avoid such fate he proposes a return to the heart of civilization in order to find the necessary principles for a re-creation. In his opinion our civilization is in possession of the necessary resources for its renaissance.\n\nFor this reason he proposes to map the foundations for that western narrative which has wrecked facing \"The Divine Market\".\nHe proposes to go back to Giovanni Pico della Mirandola and his public \"Oration on the Dignity of Man\" which has been called the \"Manifesto of the Renaissance\".\n\nWhat it is all about is the perspective of a new Renaissance, new dynamics like those during the Quattrocento when knowledge was attained how to retrieve the fundaments of Greek civilization and, supported by this, how to overcome the grip of obscure tenets dominating general thinking. What Dufour proposes then is to retrieve the civilizational process where it was interrupted in order to obtain the individual who dares to think and act by her/himself while giving the same right to the Other. An individual cured from that egoism that is at present exalted to general law (Adam Smith's \"self love\"). An individual well prepared to meet with any type of flock mentality whether in the form of fanatical mass movements or the present tyranny (without a tyrant) of mass consumption.\n\nIn \"Le délire occidental\" (Occidental Madness), Dufour starts from what Descartes argued in his \"Discourse on the Method\": humans make themselves masters and owners of nature. This marks a turn in human progress that has led to the gradual development of thinking in terms of machinery and productivity and the present boost of technology as supreme value.\n\nIf this occidental madness today causes problems, it is because it has become worldwide: the neoliberal globalization without limitation exploiting everything, including people and environment. A madness which, like all forms of madness, is doomed to crash against reality. On the one hand because its pretentious omnipotence and illimited arrogance inevitably blocks it: our earth is already forcefully reacting to the ongoing vandalization. On the other hand, because this madness in an obvious way changes the three basic spheres of human life, which are \"work, leisure\" and \"love\", by voiding them of all substance.\nThis is thoroughly scrutinized in the book. \nYet, all is not lost: a new reason, free from this madness, is conjured up and the contours of it are sketched up.\n\nIn his book \"\"La situation désespéré du présent me remplit d'espoir\" (The Present Situation Fills Me with Hope), 2016, Dany-Robert Dufour tries to illustrate how the \"Occidental madness\", founded on the \"will to always have more\" (what the Greeks called pleonexia, greed), has resulted in nothing but provoking its contrary strife for purity. Which could be transformed into a new madness of \"fundamentalist\" expression, like for instance jihadism, where the strife for a purity guaranteed by the original union with God, can alter into absolute igominy of spectacular deranged massacres of \"infidels\". This second madness leads in turn to a third madness, that of \"madness of identity\" which can cause civil wars in the search for \"alien elements\" to exterminate.\n\nThat is why the present day philosophical question, according to Dany-Robert Dufour, is about how to get out of these impasses.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "646158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=646158", "title": "David Gross", "text": "David Gross\n\nDavid Jonathan Gross (; born February 19, 1941) is an American theoretical physicist and string theorist. Along with Frank Wilczek and David Politzer, he was awarded the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics for their discovery of asymptotic freedom. David Gross is the Chancellor’s Chair Professor of Theoretical Physics at the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics of the University of California, Santa Barbara, and was formerly the KITP director and holder of their Frederick W. Gluck Chair in Theoretical Physics . He is also a faculty member in the UC Santa Barbara Physics Department and is currently affiliated with the Institute for Quantum Studies at Chapman University in California. He is a foreign member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.\n\nGross was born to a Jewish family in Washington, D.C., in February 1941. His parents were Nora (Faine) and Bertram Myron Gross (1912–1997). Gross received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel, in 1962. He received his Ph.D. in physics from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1966, under the supervision of Geoffrey Chew.\nHe was a Junior Fellow at Harvard University, and a Eugene Higgins Professor of Physics at Princeton University until 1997, when he began serving as Princeton's Thomas Jones Professor of Mathematical Physics Emeritus. He has received many honors, including a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship in 1987, the Dirac Medal in 1988 and the Harvey Prize in 2000.\n\nHe has been a central figure in particle physics and string theory. In 1973, Professor Gross, working with his first graduate student, Frank Wilczek, at Princeton University, discovered asymptotic freedom—the primary feature of non-Abelian gauge theories—led Gross and Wilczek to the formulation of quantum chromodynamics, the theory of the strong nuclear force. Asymptotic freedom is a phenomenon where the nuclear force weakens at short distances, which explains why experiments at very high energy can be understood as if nuclear particles are made of non-interacting quarks. The flip side of asymptotic freedom is that the force between quarks grows stronger as one tries to separate them. Therefore, the closer quarks are to each other, the less the strong interaction (or color charge) is between them; when quarks are in extreme proximity, the nuclear force between them is so weak that they behave almost as free particles. This is the reason why the nucleus of an atom can never be broken into its quark constituents.\n\nQCD completed the Standard Model, which details the three basic forces of particle physics—the electromagnetic force, the weak force, and the strong force. Gross was awarded the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics, with Politzer and Wilczek, for this discovery. He has also made seminal contributions to the theory of Superstrings, a burgeoning enterprise that brings gravity into the quantum framework. With collaborators he originated the \"Heterotic String Theory,\" the prime candidate for a unified theory of all the forces of nature. He continues to do research in this field at the KITP, a world center of physics.\n\nGross, with Jeffrey A. Harvey, Emil Martinec, and Ryan Rohm also formulated the theory of the heterotic string. The four were whimsically nicknamed the \"Princeton String Quartet.\"\n\nIn 2003, Gross was one of 22 Nobel Laureates who signed the Humanist Manifesto. Gross is an atheist.\n\nIn 2015, Gross signed the \"Mainau Declaration 2015 on Climate Change\" on the final day of the 65th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting. The declaration was signed by a total of 76 Nobel Laureates and handed to then-President of the French Republic, François Hollande, as part of the successful COP21 climate summit in Paris.\n\nDavid's first wife was Shulamith (Toaff). They have two children:\n\nHis second wife is Jacquelyn Savani. He has a stepdaughter, Miranda Savani, in Santa Barbara, California. She was born in North Huntingdon, and is an assistant to the chancellor and executive chancellor at the University of California at Santa Barbara, and media consultant for Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics.\n\nHe has three brothers:\n\n\nJournal articles\n\nTechnical reports\n"}
{"id": "20341043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20341043", "title": "Democratic Party of Guinea – African Democratic Rally", "text": "Democratic Party of Guinea – African Democratic Rally\n\nThe Democratic Party of Guinea-African Democratic Rally (\"Parti Démocratique de Guinée-Rassemblement Démocratique Africain\") is a political party in Guinea. The party was founded as a branch of the African Democratic Rally (RDA) in June 1947. On 19 October 1958 the party severed its links with the RDA, other members of which supported a closer union with France. The party's leader, Sékou Touré, became the country's first president. Two years later, he declared the PDG to be the sole legal party in the country. As president of the PDG, Touré was the only candidate for president of the republic, and as such was elected unopposed to four seven-year terms. Every five years, a single list of PDG candidates was returned to the National Assembly. After the fall of the Touré regime in 1984, the PDG was dissolved.\n\nIn 1992 PDG-RDA was revived under the leadership of El Hadj Ismael Mohamed Gassim Gushein. In the parliamentary election held on 30 June 2002, the party won 3.4% of the popular vote and 3 out of 114 seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "38457050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38457050", "title": "Descriptive phenomenological method in psychology", "text": "Descriptive phenomenological method in psychology\n\nThe descriptive phenomenological method in psychology was developed by the American psychologist Amedeo Giorgi in the early 1970s. Giorgi based his method on principles laid out by philosophers like Edmund Husserl and Maurice Merleau-Ponty as well as what he had learned from his prior professional experience in psychophysics. Giorgi was an early pioneer of the humanistic psychology movement, the use of phenomenology in psychology, and qualitative research in psychology, and to this day continues to advocate for the importance of a human science approach to psychological subject matter. Giorgi has directed over 100 dissertations that have used the Descriptive Phenomenological Method on a wide variety of psychological problems, and he has published over 100 articles on the phenomenological approach to psychology.\n\nGiorgi promotes phenomenology as a theoretical movement that avoids certain reductionist tendencies sustained by many contemporary approaches to psychological research. According to the phenomenological psychological perspective espoused by Giorgi, researchers are encouraged to \"bracket\" their own assumptions pertaining to the phenomenon in question by refraining from positing a static sense of objective reality for oneself and the participants whose experiences are being studied. This allows the researchers to attend to the descriptions of the participants without forcing the meaning of the descriptive units into pre-defined categories.\n\nAn important aspect of the descriptive phenomenological method in psychology is the way by which it distinguishes itself from those approaches that are strictly interpretive. In this, Giorgi closely follows Husserl who proposes that \"being given and being interpreted are descriptions of the same situation from two different levels of discourse.\" As such, in the Descriptive Phenomenological Method there are both descriptive and interpretive moments, but the researcher remains careful to attend to each type of act in unique ways. Through a sort of empathic immersion with the subjects and their descriptions, the researchers get a sense of the ways that the experiences given by the participants were actually lived, which is in turn described. During this process, however, theoretical or speculative interpretation should be avoided so as to flesh out the full lived meaning inherent to the descriptions themselves (Giorgi, 2009, p. 127). Interpretation may then occur to various extents during other phases of the research process, but only as it relates to implications of the results rather than the lived meaning of the participants' experiences.\n\nThe Descriptive Phenomenological Method involves neither deduction nor induction in order to find meaning, but instead asks the researcher to intuit what is essential to the phenomenon being studied. Intuition, in this sense (going along with the philosophy of phenomenology), simply means that an object (or state of affairs, structural whole, proposition etc.) becomes presented to consciousness in a certain mode of givenness. In the context of this research method, therefore, intuition is used in order to get a sense of the lived meaning of each description so as to relate them to what is known about the phenomenon of interest in general These types of generalities are not statistical probabilities nor universally posited, but are dependent upon the lived meaning of the descriptions and the meaning of the phenomenon being studied.\n\nThe phenomenological psychological attitude is to be assumed while analyzing the data in order to ensure that \"the results reflect a careful description of precisely the features of the experienced phenomenon as they present themselves to the consciousness of the researcher\" (Giorgi, 2009, pp. 130–131). In the phenomenological psychological attitude, the psychological acts of the participants are affirmed to be real while the objects at which those acts are directed are reduced to what appears as psychologically relevant to the particular experience being attended to. In this sense, the researcher attends to the phenomenon in its \"own appropriate mode of self-givenness, thus [meeting] the demand for scientific objectivity concerning the subjective: the method of phenomenological reduction\" (Scanlon, 1977, xiv) With this method, this is done so as to reach a level of understanding that is appropriate for psychologists, while also helping the researcher to reach a sort of empathically sensed intuition of the experiences, in the sense used by Eugene Gendlin \n\nEach description given by the participants is first read through in its entirety in order to get a better sense of the whole situation in which the experiences occurred. Then each description is attended to individually as the researcher goes through and marks off different units of meaning within the data in order to make the descriptions more manageable. After a single description is broken down into separate units, each unit can then be transformed from the language through which it was given into \"psychologically sensitive\" meaning units, which is done with the help of imaginative variation. This process is meant to flesh out the horizons of the lived meaning more fully in order to expand the possibilities inherent to the phenomenon being studied. Finally, after all the descriptions have undergone these steps, general psychological structures, in the sense described above, are sought. For Giorgi (2009), \"essential psychological structure\" refers to: \"[A depiction] of the lived experience of a phenomenon, which may include aspects of the description of which the experiencer was unaware. The psychological structure is not a definition. It is meant to depict how certain phenomena that get named are lived, which includes experiential and conscious moments seen from a psychological perspective. A psychological perspective means that the lived meanings are based on an individual but get expressed eidetically, which means that they are general.\"\n\nThe final structure is meant to serve as an ideal representation of the phenomenon being studied, based upon actual instantiations of it within concrete lived experiences. It may be the case that such structures turn up many times again, or their relevance may be limited to the cases studied in a particular study. Either way, they have the potential to reveal a lived understanding of a certain phenomenon without first requiring a certain theoretical framework in order to comprehend it.\n"}
{"id": "6826172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6826172", "title": "Dharmadhatu", "text": "Dharmadhatu\n\nDharmadhatu (Sanskrit) is the 'dimension', 'realm' or 'sphere' (dhātu) of the Dharma or Absolute Reality.\n\nIn Mahayana Buddhism, dharmadhātu (; ) means \"realm of phenomena\", \"realm of Truth\", and of the noumenon. It is referred to by several synonymous terms from Mahayana Buddhist philosophy, such as Tathata (Reality \"as-it-is\"), emptiness, dependent co-arising and eternal Buddha. It is the \"deepest nature, or essence\".\n\nDharmadhātu is the purified mind in its natural state, free of obscurations. It is the essence-quality or nature of mind, the fundamental ground of consciousness of the trikaya, which is accessed via the mindstream.\n\nWhen the buddha-nature has been realised, dharmadhātu is also referred to as the Dharmakāya, the \"Body of Dharma Truth\".\n\nIt is associated with Vairocana.\n\nKang-nam Oh traces the origin of dharmadhatu to the Avatamsaka Sutra. It has been further developed by the Hua-yen school:\n\nThe Śrīmālādevī Sūtra (3rd century CE), also named \"The Lion's Roar of Queen Srimala\", centers on the teaching of the tathagatagarbha as \"ultimate soteriological principle\". It states that the tathagata-garbha is the \"embryo\" of the Dharmadhatu and the Dharmakaya:\nIn the Śrīmālādevī Sūtra, there are two possible states for the Tathagatagarbha:\nThe sutra itself states it this way:\nThe \"Dharmadhātustava\" (\"In praise of the Dharmadhatu\"), attributed to Nāgārjuna though questioned, is a treatise on the dharmadhatu. According to the \"Dharmadhātustava\", the dharmadhatu is the ground which makes liberation possible:\nAccording to the \"Dharmadhātustava\", the dharmadhatu is seen when the afflictions are purified:\n\nIn the Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra, the Buddha states of himself that he is the \"boundless Dharmadhatu\" - the Totality itself.\n\nThe Dharmadhatu is comprehended by one of the Five Wisdoms:\n\nIn the Dzogchen text \"Gold refined from ore\" the term Dharmadhatu is translated as 'total field of events and meanings' or \"field of all events and meanings\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16350274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16350274", "title": "Donald Berwick", "text": "Donald Berwick\n\nDonald M. Berwick (born September 9, 1946) is a former Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Prior to his work in the administration, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement a not-for-profit organization. \n\nOn July 7, 2010, President Barack Obama appointed Berwick to serve as the Administrator of CMS through a recess appointment. On December 2, 2011, he resigned because of heavy Republican opposition to his appointment and his potential inability to win a confirmation vote. On June 18, 2013, Berwick declared his candidacy for governor of Massachusetts, but lost the Democratic Party nomination to Attorney General Martha Coakley.\n\nBerwick has studied the management of health care systems, with emphasis on using scientific methods and evidence-based medicine and comparative effectiveness research to improve the tradeoff among quality, safety, and costs. \n\nAmong IHI's projects are online courses for health care professionals for reducing \"Clostridium difficile\" infections, lowering the number of heart failure readmissions or managing advanced disease and palliative care. In March 2012 he joined the Center for American Progress as a Senior Fellow.\n\nBerwick grew up in Moodus, Connecticut. His father, Philip, worked as the town's family doctor. His mother, Rosalind Fine, was the primary caretaker of Berwick and his two younger brothers until she died from ovarian cancer in 1961. Because of Fine's efforts to promote the construction of a new elementary school in Moodus, the school's library was named after her when it was built. \n\nBerwick said that he was motivated by his Jewish upbringing. “The ethical foundations of Judaism speak to me about being proper stewards of society and the world,” said Berwick. “It affects my views and reminds us all we are in this together and really have to help each other,” he said. “I’m worried about the failure to realize progressive issues I care about: healthcare as a human right, poverty and justice. These issues are under siege in America.”\n\nBerwick graduated from Nathan Hale-Ray High School and went on to obtain his B.A. from Harvard College, where he graduated \"summa cum laude\". While at Harvard, Berwick met his future wife, Ann, in his freshman biology class, where they were lab partners. The couple have four children: Ben, Dan, Jessica, and Becca. Berwick earned both an M.D. \"cum laude\" from Harvard Medical School and an M.P.P. from John F. Kennedy School of Government in 1972. He completed his medical residency in pediatrics at Children's Hospital Boston.\n\nBerwick began his career as a pediatrician at Harvard Community Health Plan; in 1983 he became the plan's first Vice President of Quality-of-Care Measurement. In that position, Berwick investigated quality control measures in other industries such as aeronautics and manufacturing, in order to consider their application in health care settings. From 1987 to 1991, Berwick was co-founder and Co-Principal Investigator for the National Demonstration Project on Quality Improvement in Health Care, designed to explore opportunities for quality improvement in health care. Based on this work, Berwick left Harvard Community Health Plan in 1989 and co-founded the IHI (Institute for Healthcare Improvement).\n\nBerwick is Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and Health Care Policy in the Department of Pediatrics at the Harvard Medical School and Professor of Health Policy and Management at the Harvard School of Public Health. He is also a pediatrician, Adjunct Staff in the Department of Medicine at Children's Hospital Boston, and a Consultant in Pediatrics at Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nBerwick has published over 129 articles in professional journals on health care policy, decision analysis, technology assessment, and health care quality management. He is the co-author of several books, including \"Cholesterol, Children, and Heart Disease: an Analysis of Alternatives\" (1980), \"Curing Health Care\" (1990), and \"New Rules: Regulation, Markets and the Quality of American Health Care\" (1996). In February 2013, he participated as a speaker on Voices in Leadership, an original Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health webcast series, in a discussion titled, \"Leadership in the Next Steps on Health Reform,\" moderated by Dr. John McDonough.\n\nOn April 19, 2010, Berwick was nominated to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which oversees the two federal programs.\n\nBerwick said, \"20 percent to 30 percent of health spending is 'waste' that yields no benefit to patients, and that some of the needless spending is a result of onerous, archaic regulations enforced by his agency.\" Berwick's critics have cited his statements about the need for health care to redistribute resources from the rich to the poor and his favorable statements about the British health service. They quote Berwick as saying, \"The decision is not whether or not we will ration care—the decision is whether we will ration with our eyes open.\"\n\nBerwick said Republicans had \"distorted\" his meaning when he said, \"My point is that someone, like your health insurance company, is going to limit what you can get. That's the way it's set up. The government, unlike many private health insurance plans, is working in the daylight. That's a strength.\" For political reasons, the Obama administration didn't want Berwick to defend his past statements on the British health service, spending caps and high-technology care.\n\nBerwick said, \"Any health care funding plan that is just, equitable, civilized and humane must, must redistribute wealth from the richer among us to the poorer and the less fortunate. Excellent health care is by definition redistributional.\" Michael Tanner, senior fellow of the Cato Institute, said that this would lead to \"death panels.\"\n\nAn editorial wrote that his policy ideas could cut health care costs. Conservatives criticized Berwick, based on comments he made about health care being, by definition, redistribution of wealth, rationing care with \"our eyes open\" and complete lives system.\n\nBerwick advocated cutting health costs by adopting some of the approaches of Great Britain's National Health Services (NHS) and its National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE). NICE evaluates the costs and effectiveness of medical therapy that is covered by the NHS as guidance for local authorities to decide what to cover. Mark McClellan, who served in the Bush administration, also advocated adopting some of NICE's methods.\n\nConservative critics claim, \"NICE decides which healthcare people will get and which they won't.\" Philip Klein in \"The American Spectator\" dubbed him \"Obama's Rationing Man\". The chairman of NICE called these statements \"outrageous lies\".\n\nSenator John Kerry defended Berwick against \"phony assertions\" and accused Republicans of trying \"to crank up the attack machine and make his nomination a distorted referendum on reform\". Former Speaker Newt Gingrich has historically been a Republican supporter of Berwick, however, writing an op-ed in \"The Washington Post\" in August 2000 praising Berwick's work.\n\nBerwick was installed by recess appointment on July 7, 2010, before confirmation hearings were scheduled by the Democratic-controlled Senate committee. Berwick could thus serve until the summer of 2011 without a Senate approval. The White House had talked up the possibility of a re-nomination through the fall of 2010; on January 26, 2011, the President re-nominated Berwick. On March 4, 2011, 42 U.S. Senators wrote the White House and asked for the nomination to be withdrawn. The signers of the letter were all Republicans.\n\nBerwick resigned his position at CMS on December 2, 2011. In a speech on Wednesday, December 7, 2011, in Orlando, Florida, at a meeting of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, an organization he once led, the long-time patient-safety advocate gave an account of his time in government service and where he believes the future of healthcare is going.\n\nDonald Berwick was the lead author of the \"Berwick Report\", a seminal report into patient safety in England, following the Stafford Hospital scandal.\n\nBerwick was knighted in 2005 for his work creating new care models in five trusts in the UK’s National Health Service -- acute care hospitals, multi-specialty groups, accident emergency rooms, mental health, and nursing homes.\n\nOn June 17, 2013, Berwick announced his run for the Massachusetts Governor's office. Berwick framed himself as progressive on major issues and said it was crucial that Massachusetts continue to focus on health care reform and the well-being of children, topics he has focused on during his career. Berwick, who holds three degrees from Harvard, repeatedly emphasized his experience in helping health organizations deliver better care to consumers, an asset he said he would bring to being the state’s chief executive.\n\nSome of Berwick's specific goals for the governorship included focusing on job creation and economic development, instituting single-payer healthcare in Massachusetts, and ending child poverty in the state by the year 2024. Following the conviction of former probation commissioner John O'Brien on corruption charges, Berwick added that rooting out corruption would be another priority.\n\nAlthough Berwick was seen as the heir to the Massachusetts trend of electing political outsiders to high offices, like Governor Deval Patrick and Senator Elizabeth Warren, pundits raised concerns in the Summer of 2014 that Berwick had failed to gain the traction he needed to succeed in the primary. However, he outperformed nearly all projections and pollsters in the Democratic primary with 21% of the vote, which prompted the recognition of him being a \"surprise\" in the race.\n\nBerwick conceded the Democratic nomination to Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley on September 9, 2014, who lost to Republican Charlie Baker at the general election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56783470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56783470", "title": "Emna Belhadj Yahia", "text": "Emna Belhadj Yahia\n\nEmna Belhadj Yahia or Emna Belhaj Yahia (Arabic: آمنة بلحاج يحي) was born on September 30, 1945 in Tunis. She is a Tunisian teacher, philosopher and writer in French.\n\nBorn on September 30, 1945 in Tunis, from a family of theologians by her mother as well as from a family of wealthy traders by her father. She studied Philosophy in France, then obtained a diploma of high studies in Philosophy at the faculty of Letters in Paris. She enrolled as PhD student at \"l'École pratique des hautes études\", with Jacques Berque, but she did not finish this course. The events of May '68 took place simultaneously at her university trip.\n\nAfterwards, she taught Philosophy a few years in Tunisia, before being the scientific director at the Tunisian Academy of Sciences, Letters and Arts. She was also a member of a feminist group, and later of the Tunisian League for Human Rights, before devoting herself to writing. After the Tunisian Revolution of 2011, and the years that followed, the rise of conservative religious parties and the questioning by these parties of certain freedoms acquired by women, she decided to formalize her thoughts as well as critics in her book \"\"Tunisie, questions à mon pays\" (Tunisia, questions to my country)\" in 2014\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5416072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5416072", "title": "GRANK", "text": "GRANK\n\nGRANK, or Global Rank is a ranking of the rarity of a species, and is a useful tool in determining conservation needs.\nGlobal Ranks are derived from a consensus of various conservation data centres, natural heritage programmes, scientific experts and The Nature Conservancy.\n\nThey are based on the total number of known, extant populations worldwide, and to what degree they are threatened by destruction. Criteria also include securely protected populations, size of populations, and the ability of the species to persist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6038302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6038302", "title": "Glenn McGee", "text": "Glenn McGee\n\nGlenn E. McGee (1967- ) is a professor of management at the University of New Haven, who focuses on health policy. He has been noted for his work on reproductive technology and genetics and for advancing a theory of pragmatic bioethics, as well as the role of ethicists in society and in local and state settings in particular.\n\nMcGee was raised by adoptive parents on the faculty of Baylor University in Waco, Texas. He earned a master's degree and Ph.D. in philosophy from Vanderbilt University and completed a post-doctoral fellowship in the Human Genome Project.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, McGee was an assistant professor and associate director for education at the University of Pennsylvania Center for Bioethics, where he held joint appointments in philosophy, history and sociology of science, cellular and molecular engineering, and was a Fellow of the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics. In 1999, he founded and became the first editor-in-chief of \"The American Journal of Bioethics\". In 2005, he moved to Union University in Albany, New York, as the John Balint, M.D. Professor of Medical Ethics and became director of the Alden March Bioethics Institute at Albany Medical College which had been founded in 1993 as the Center for Medical Ethics Education and Research by Balint. Three years later, after a legal case arising from the University's attempts to demote him as director and remove his endowed chair, he left the university. In 2009 he was appointed to the John B. Francis chair in bioethics at the Center for Practical Bioethics in Kansas City, succeeding John D. Lantos, inaugural holder of the chair. He is presently a professor of healthcare administration on the faculty of the Department of Health Administration and Policy in the University of New Haven School of Health Sciences in 2014, where he teaches public health and health law.\n\nMcGee has authored many scholarly articles, essays, reviews, three books, and edited a number of books both personally and as senior editor of [The MIT Press] Basic Bioethics book series, which he founded with Arthur Caplan. His proposal for a California cloning policy was reprinted in \"Great American Speeches\", and a number of his articles have been reprinted in textbooks in bioethics, medical and other scientific fields. From 2005 to 2007, he wrote a monthly column for \"The Scientist\", and during the same time a column for the \"Albany Times-Union\". Prior to that, he co-wrote a column on bioethics for MSNBC.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "1298100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298100", "title": "Gérard Encausse", "text": "Gérard Encausse\n\nGérard Anaclet Vincent Encausse (July 13, 1865 – 25 October 1916), whose esoteric pseudonym was Papus, was the Spanish-born French physician, hypnotist, and popularizer of occultism, who founded the modern Martinist Order.\n\nGerard Encausse was born at A Coruña in Spain on July 13, 1865, of a Spanish mother and a French father, Louis Encausse, a chemist. His family moved to Paris when he was four years old, and he received his education there.\n\nAs a young man, Encausse spent a great deal of time at the Bibliothèque Nationale studying the Kabbalah, occult tarot, magic and alchemy, and the writings of Eliphas Lévi. He joined the French Theosophical Society shortly after it was founded by Madame Blavatsky in 1884–1885, but he resigned soon after joining because he disliked the Society's emphasis on Eastern occultism.\n\nIn 1888, he co-founded his own group, the Kabbalistic Order of the Rose-Croix. That same year, he and his friend Lucien Chamuel founded the Librarie du Merveilleux and its monthly revue \"L'Initiation\", which remained in publication until 1914.\n\nEncausse was also a member of the Hermetic Brotherhood of Light and the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn temple in Paris, as well as Memphis-Misraim and probably other esoteric or paramasonic organizations, as well as being an author of several occult books. Outside of his paramasonic and Martinist activities he was also a spiritual student of the French spiritualist healer, Anthelme Nizier Philippe, \"Maître Philippe de Lyon\".\n\nDespite his heavy involvement in occultism and occultist groups, Encausse managed to find time to pursue more conventional academic studies at the University of Paris. He received his Doctor of Medicine degree in 1894 upon submitting a dissertation on Philosophical Anatomy. He opened a clinic in the rue Rodin which was quite successful.\n\nEncausse visited Russia three times, in 1901, 1905, and 1906, serving Tsar Nicholas II and Tsarina Alexandra both as physician and occult consultant. In October 1905, he allegedly conjured up the spirit of Alexander III, the Tsar Nicholas's father, who prophesied that the Tsar would meet his downfall at the hands of revolutionaries. Encausse's followers allege that he informed the Tsar that he would be able to magically avert Alexander's prophesy so long as Encausse was alive; Nicholas kept his hold on the throne of Russia until 141 days after Papus's death.\n\nAlthough Encausse seems to have served the Tsar and Tsarina in what was essentially the capacity of a mediumistic spiritual advisor, he was later curiously concerned about their heavy reliance on occultism to assist them in deciding questions of government. During their later correspondence, he warned them a number of times against the influence of Rasputin.\n\n\nEncausse's early readings in tarot and the lore of the Kabbalah in translation was inspired by the occult writings of Eliphas Lévi, whose translation of the \"Nuctemeron of Apollonius of Tyana\" printed as a supplement to \"Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie\" (1855), provided Encausse with his \"nom de plume.\" \"Papus\" is the name of a Genius of the First Hour in the Nuctemeron, and is translated in the text as \"physician.\"\n\n\nIn 1891, Encausse claimed to have come into the possession of the original papers of Martinez Paschalis, or de Pasqually (c. 1700-1774), and therewith founded an Order of Martinists called l'Ordre des Supérieurs Inconnus. He claimed to have been given authority in the Rite of Saint-Martin by his friend Henri Vicomte de Laage, who claimed that his maternal grandfather had been initiated into the order by Saint-Martin himself, and who had attempted to revive the order in 1887. The Martinist Order was to become a primary focus for Encausse, and continues today as one of his most enduring legacies.\n\n\nIn 1893, Encausse was consecrated a bishop of l'Église Gnostique de France by Jules Doinel, who had founded this Church as an attempt to revive the Cathar religion in 1890. In 1895, Doinel abdicated as Primate of the French Gnostic Church, leaving control of the Church to a synod of three of his former bishops, one of whom was Encausse.\n\n\nIn March 1895, Encausse joined the Ahathoor Temple of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn in Paris.\n\nAlthough Encausse claimed as his \"spiritual master\" the mysterious magician and healer known as \"le Maitre Philippe\" (Philippe Nizier), his first actual teacher in the intellectual aspects of occultism was the marquis Joseph Alexandre Saint-Yves d'Alveydre (1842 - 1910). Saint-Yves had inherited the papers of one of the great founders of French occultism, Antoine Fabre d'Olivet (1762 - 1825), and it was probably Saint-Yves who introduced Papus to the marquis Stanislas de Guaita (1861 - 1897).\n\nIn 1888, Encausse, Saint-Yves and de Guaita joined with Joséphin Péladan and Oswald Wirth to found the Rosicrucian \"Kabbalistic Order of the Rose-Croix\".\n\n\nIn October 1901 Encausse collaborated with Jean Carrère in producing a series of articles in the \"Echo de Paris\" under the pseudonym \"Niet\" (\"no\" in Russian). In the articles Sergei Witte and Pyotr Rachkovsky were attacked, and it was suggested that there was a sinister financial syndicate trying to disrupt the Franco-Russian alliance. Encausse and Carrère predicted that this syndicate was a Jewish conspiracy, and the anti-Semitic nature of these articles, compounded by Encausse's known connection to the Tsar of Russia, may have contributed to the allegation that Papus was the author who forged The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.\n\n\nEncausse never became a regular Freemason. Despite this, he organized what was announced as an \"International Masonic Conference\" in Paris on June 24, 1908, and at this conference he first met Theodor Reuss, and the two men apparently exchanged patents:\n\nReuss elevated Encausse as X° of the Ordo Templi Orientis as well as giving him license to establish a \"Supreme Grand Council General of the Unified Rites of Ancient and Primitive Masonry for the Grand Orient of France and its Dependencies at Paris.\" For his part, Encausse assisted Reuss in the formation of the O.T.O. Gnostic Catholic Church as a child of l'Église Gnostique de France, thus forming the E.G.C. within the tradition of French neo-gnosticism.\n\nWhen John Yarker died in 1913, Encausse was elected as his successor to the office of Grand Hierophant (international head) of the Antient and Primitive Rites of Memphis and Mizraim.\n\nWhen World War I broke out, Encausse joined the French army medical corps. While working in a military hospital, he contracted tuberculosis and died in Paris on October 25, 1916, at the age of 51.\n\nThe written works of Papus (Gerard Encausse) include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3923162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3923162", "title": "Habitability", "text": "Habitability\n\nHabitability is the conformance of a residence or abode to the implied warranty of habitability. A residence that complies is said to be habitable. It is an implied warranty or contract, meaning it does not have to be an express contract, covenant, or provision of a contract. There was no implied warranty of habitability for tenants at common law and the legal doctrine has since developed in many jurisdictions through housing laws and regulations.\nHabitability is synonymous with tenantability.\n\nIn order to be habitable, such housing usually:\n\nSome states, such as New York, have given additional statutory protections in addition to those created by caselaw. These statutes include:\n\nViolation of the warranty of habitability results in constructive eviction, whereby the landlord or lessor has, in effect, evicted the tenant or lessee. The tenant may remedy the problem, or complain to local government authorities for remedies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19142228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19142228", "title": "Hans-Werner Bothe", "text": "Hans-Werner Bothe\n\nHans-Werner Bothe (born 23 September 1952 in Langelsheim, near Goslar) is a German philosopher and neurosurgeon. Bothe is founder of the recent field of research on Neurobionics.\n\nBothe studied Philosophy and Medicine from 1973 until 1981 in Tübingen und Mainz, graduated 1978 in Philosophy with Magister Artium, later working for three years at the Max-Planck-Institute for Neurological Research in Cologne. He received his PhD in 1983 (thesis: \"Artificial Brain Abscess in Cats and Therapy with Antibiotics and Steroids\").\n\nHe specialized in Neurosurgery and completed his residency training at Johannes Gutenberg-University in Mainz. After achieving habilitation in 1991 he taught at Hanover Medical School and worked together with Madjid Samii at Nordstadt Hospital in Hanover. In 1993 he obtained a tenured professor for Neurosurgery at Westfälische Wilhelms-University in Münster.\n\nBothe initiated and organized the \"1st International Workshop on Neurobionics\" in 1992 and founded thereby the recent field of research on Neurobionics, which aims at substitution of impaired functions of brain and spinal cord by neurosurgical implantation of microelectronic systems. For that purpose he brought together an international consortium of scientists covering for mathematics, neuroinformatics, biological basic research, microsystems, and medicine.\n\nIn 1991 he launched the International Neurobionics Foundation together with Daniel Goeudevert, Madjid Samii, and other representatives of science, industry, and policy. From 1991 until 1995 he managed the foundation as executive director of the board. He developed microelectronic implants to treat blind patients suffering from damaged retina (with B. Fischer, J.W. Bartha, et al.), microelectronic therapy to manage urinary incontinence (with B. von Heyden), and paraplegia (with J. Holsheimer).\n\nAlterations of personality traits (antisocial behaviour concomitant to impaired moral decision making) observable after deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (for therapy of Parkinsonian patients) brought him to be engaged in the problem of determinism and free will from both the perspective of neuroscience, and philosophy of mind: He accounts for the conviction that there is merely limited causality on the relationsship between activity of the brain and phenomenological events of the 1st person perspective due to non-linearity of cerebral information processing and supported logically by Gödel's incompleteness theorems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "277440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277440", "title": "Hundred Schools of Thought", "text": "Hundred Schools of Thought\n\nThe Hundred Schools of Thought () were philosophies and schools that flourished from the 6th century to 221 BC, during the Spring and Autumn period and the Warring States period of ancient China.\n\nAn era of great cultural and intellectual expansion in China, it was fraught with chaos and bloody battles, but it was also known as the Golden Age of Chinese philosophy because a broad range of thoughts and ideas were developed and discussed freely. This phenomenon has been called the Contention of a Hundred Schools of Thought (百家爭鳴/百家争鸣; \"bǎijiā zhēngmíng\"; \"pai-chia cheng-ming\"; \"hundred schools contend\"). The thoughts and ideas discussed and refined during this period have profoundly influenced lifestyles and social consciousness up to the present day in East Asian countries and the East Asian diaspora around the world. The intellectual society of this era was characterized by itinerant scholars, who were often employed by various state rulers as advisers on the methods of government, war, and diplomacy.\n\nThis period ended with the rise of the imperial Qin Dynasty and the subsequent purge of dissent.\n\nA traditional source for this period is the \"Shiji\", or \"Records of the Grand Historian\" by Sima Qian. The autobiographical section of the \"Shiji\", the \"Taishigong Zixu\" (太史公自序), refers to the schools of thought described below.\n\nConfucianism (儒家; \"Rújiā\"; \"Ju-chia\"; \"School of scholars\") is the body of thought that arguably had the most enduring effects on Chinese life. Its written legacy lies in the Confucian Classics, which later became the foundation of traditional society. Confucius (551–479 BC), or Kongzi (\"Master Kong\"), looked back to the early days of the Zhou dynasty for an ideal socio-political order. He believed that the only effective system of government necessitated prescribed relationships for each individual: \"Let the ruler be a ruler and the subject a subject\". Furthermore, he contended that a king must be virtuous in order to rule the state properly. To Confucius, the functions of government and social stratification were facts of life to be sustained by ethical values; thus his ideal human was the junzi, which is translated as \"gentleman\" or \"superior person\".\n\nMencius (371–289 BC), or Mengzi, formulated his teachings directly in response to Confucius.\n\nThe effect of the combined work of Confucius, the codifier and interpreter of a system of relationships based on ethical behavior, and Mencius, the synthesizer and developer of applied Confucianist thought, was to provide traditional Chinese society with a comprehensive framework by which to order virtually every aspect of life.\n\nThere were many accretions to the body of Confucian thought, both immediately and over the millennia, from within and without the Confucian school. Interpretations adapted to contemporary society allowed for flexibility within Confucianism, while the fundamental system of modeled behavior from ancient texts formed its philosophical core.\n\nDiametrically opposed to Mencius, in regards to human nature (性), was the interpretation of Xunzi (c. 300–237 BC), another Confucian follower. Xunzi preached that man is not innately good; he asserted that goodness is attainable only through training one's desires and conduct.\n\nThe School of Law or Legalism (法家; \"Fǎjiā\"; \"Fa-chia\"; \"School of law\") doctrine was formulated by Li Kui, Shang Yang (d. 338 BC), Han Feizi (d. 233 BC), and Li Si (d. 208 BC), who maintained that human nature was incorrigibly selfish; accordingly, the only way to preserve the social order was to impose discipline from above, and to see to a strict enforcement of laws. The Legalists exalted the state above all, seeking its prosperity and martial prowess over the welfare of the common people.\n\nLegalism greatly influenced the philosophical basis for the imperial form of government. During the Han Dynasty, the most practical elements of Confucianism and Legalism were taken to form a sort of synthesis, marking the creation of a new form of government that would remain largely intact until the late 19th century.\n\nPhilosophical Taoism or Daoism (道家; \"Dàojiā\"; \"Tao-chia\"; \"School of the Way\") developed into the second most significant stream of Chinese thought. Its formulation is often attributed to the legendary sage Laozi (\"Old Master\"), who is said to predate Confucius, and Zhuangzi (369–286 BC). The focus of Taoism is on the individual within the natural realm rather than the individual within society; accordingly, the goal of life for each individual is seeking to adjust oneself and adapting to the rhythm of the natural (and the supernatural) world, to follow the Way (tao) of the universe, and to live in harmony. In many ways the opposite of rigid Confucian morality, Taoism was for many of its adherents a complement to their ordered daily lives. A scholar serving as an official would usually follow Confucian teachings, but at leisure or in retirement might seek harmony with nature as a Taoist recluse. Politically, Taoism advocates for rule through inaction, and avoiding excessive interference.\n\nMohism or Moism (墨家; \"Mòjiā\";\" Mo-chia\"; \"School of Mo\") was developed by followers of Mozi (also referred to as Mo Di; 470–c.391 BC). Though the school did not survive through the Qin Dynasty, Mohism was seen as a major rival of Confucianism in the period of the Hundred Schools of Thought. Its philosophy rested on the idea of impartial care (Chinese: 兼愛; pinyin: Jian Ai; literally: \"inclusive love/care\"): Mozi believed that \"everyone is equal before heaven\", and that people should seek to imitate heaven by engaging in the practice of collective love. This is often translated and popularized as \"universal love\", which is misleading as Mozi believed that the essential problem of human ethics was an excess of partiality in compassion, not a deficit in compassion as such. His aim was to re-evaluate behavior, not emotions or attitudes. His epistemology can be regarded as primitive materialist empiricism; he believed that human cognition ought to be based on one's perceptions – one's sensory experiences, such as sight and hearing – instead of imagination or internal logic, elements founded on the human capacity for abstraction.\n\nMozi advocated frugality, condemning the Confucian emphasis on ritual and music, which he denounced as extravagant. He regarded offensive warfare as wasteful and advocated pacifism or at the most, defensive fortification. The achievement of social goals, according to Mozi, necessitated the unity of thought and action. His political philosophy bears a resemblance to divine-rule monarchy: the population ought always to obey its leaders, as its leaders ought always to follow the will of heaven. Mohism might be argued to have elements of meritocracy: Mozi contended that rulers should appoint officials by virtue of their ability instead of their family connections. Although popular faith in Mohism had declined by the end of the Qin Dynasty, its views are said to be strongly echoed in Legalist thought.\n\nThe School of Naturalists or Yin-yang (陰陽家/阴阳家; \"Yīnyángjiā\"; \"Yin-yang-chia\"; \"School of Yin-Yang\") was a philosophy that synthesized the concepts of yin-yang and the Five Elements; Zou Yan is considered the founder of this school. His theory attempted to explain the universe in terms of basic forces in nature: the complementary agents of yin (dark, cold, female, negative) and yang (light, hot, male, positive) and the Five Elements or Five Phases (water, fire, wood, metal, and earth). In its early days, this theory was most strongly associated with the states of Yan and Qi. In later periods, these epistemological theories came to hold significance in both philosophy and popular belief. This school was absorbed into Taoism's alchemic and magical dimensions as well as into the Chinese medical framework. The earliest surviving recordings of this are in the Ma Wang Dui texts and \"Huang Di Nei Jing\".\n\nThe School of Names or Logicians (名家; \"Míngjiā\"; \"Ming-chia\"; \"School of names\") grew out of Mohism, with a philosophy that focused on definition and logic. It is said to have parallels with that of the Ancient Greek sophists or dialecticians. The most notable Logician was Gongsun Longzi.\n\nIn addition to the above six major philosophies within the Hundred Schools of Thought, the \"Yiwenzhi\" of the \"Book of Han\" adds four more into the Ten Schools (十家; \"Shijia\").\n\nThe School of Diplomacy or School of Vertical and Horizontal [Alliances] (縱橫家/纵横家; \"Zonghengjia\") specialized in diplomatic politics; Zhang Yi and Su Qin were representative thinkers. This school focused on practical matters instead of any moral principle, so it stressed political and diplomatic tactics, and debate and lobbying skill. Scholars from this school were good orators, debaters and tacticians.\n\nAgriculturalism (農家/农家; \"Nongjia\") was an early agrarian social and political philosophy that advocated peasant utopian communalism and egalitarianism. The philosophy is founded on the notion that human society originates with the development of agriculture, and societies are based upon \"people's natural propensity to farm.\"\n\nThe Agriculturalists believed that the ideal government, modeled after the semi-mythical governance of Shennong, is led by a benevolent king, one who works alongside the people in tilling the fields. The Agriculturalist king is not paid by the government through its treasuries; his livelihood is derived from the profits he earns working in the fields, not his leadership. Unlike the Confucians, the Agriculturalists did not believe in the division of labour, arguing instead that the economic policies of a country need to be based upon an egalitarian self sufficiency. The Agriculturalists supported the fixing of prices, in which all similar goods, regardless of differences in quality and demand, are set at exactly the same, unchanging price.\n\nFor example, Mencius once criticized its chief proponent Xu Xing for advocating that rulers should work in the fields with their subjects. One of Xu's students is quoted as having criticized the duke of Teng in a conversation with Mencius by saying:\n\"A worthy ruler feeds himself by ploughing side by side with the people, and rules while cooking his own meals. Now Teng on the contrary possesses granaries and treasuries, so the ruler is supporting himself by oppressing the people\".\n\nSyncretism, or the School of Miscellany (雜家/杂家; \"Zajia\") integrated teachings from different schools; for instance, Lü Buwei found scholars from different schools to write a book called \"Lüshi Chunqiu\" cooperatively. This school tried to integrate the merits of various schools and avoid their perceived flaws. The (c. 330 BC) \"Shizi\" is the earliest textual example of the Syncretic School.\n\nThe School of \"Minor-talks\" (小說家/小说家; \"Xiaoshuojia\") was not a unique school of thought.\nIndeed, all the thoughts which were discussed by and originated from non-famous people on the street were included in this school. At that time, there were some government officials responsible for collecting ideas from non-famous people on the street and report to their senior. These thoughts formed the origin of this school. This also explains its Chinese name, which literally means \"school of minor-talks\".\n\nThese schools were not listed in the Hanshu but did have substantial influence.\n\nAnother group is the School of the Military (兵家; \"Bingjia\") that often studied and discussed about what westerners called Philosophy of war. Some of them studied warfare and strategy, others focused on kinds and skills of weapons.; Sun Tzu and Sun Bin were influential leaders.Some of their famous works are Sun Tzu's The Art of War and Sun Bin's Art of War. Their theories influenced the later China and even the East Asia greatly. They work well in many ways in the modern day.\n\nYangism was a form of ethical egoism founded by Yang Zhu. It was once widespread but fell to obscurity before the Han dynasty. Due to its stress on individualism, it influenced later generations of Taoists.\n\nSchool of the Medical Skills(方技家;\"Fangjijia\") is a school which studied Medicine and health. Bian Que and Qibo were well-known scholars. Two of the earliest and existing Chinese medical works are Huangdi Neijing and Shanghan Lun.\n\nThe \"Yiwenzhi\" of the \"Hanshu\" claims that the officials working for the government during the early Zhou Dynasty lost their position when the authority of the Zhou rulers began to break down in the Eastern Zhou period. In this way, the officials spread all over the country and started to teach their own field of knowledge as private teachers. In this way the schools of philosophy were born. In particular, the School of Scholars (i.e. the Confucian School) was born from the officials of the Ministry of Education; the Taoists from the historians; the Yin-yang School from the astronomers; the Legalist School from the Ministry of Justice; the School of Names from the Ministry of Rituals; the Mohist School from the Guardians of the Temple; the School of Diplomacy from the Ministry of Embassies; the School of Miscellany from the government counselors; the School of Agriculture from the Ministry of the Soil and Wheat; the School of Minor Talks from the minor officials. Although the details are unclear, the burning of books and burying of scholars during the Qin was the end of the period of open discussion.\n\nIt should be stressed that only the Ru, or Confucians and the Mohists were actual organized schools of teachers and disciples during this period. All the other schools were invented later to describe groups of texts that expressed similar ideas. There was never an organized group of people describing themselves as \"Legalists,\" for example, and the term \"Daoist\" was only coined in the Eastern Han after having succeeded the Western Han's Huang-Lao movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12468475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12468475", "title": "Inevitable discovery", "text": "Inevitable discovery\n\nInevitable discovery is a doctrine in the United States criminal procedure that allows evidence of a defendant's guilt that would otherwise be considered inadmissible under the exclusionary rule to be admitted into evidence in a trial.\n\nThe doctrine was adopted first by the United States Supreme Court in \"Nix v. Williams\" in 1984. It holds that evidence obtained in violation of the defendant's constitutional rights is admissible in court if it can be established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that normal police investigation would have inevitably led to the discovery of the evidence. The rationale for the rule is that police misconduct is sufficiently deterred and the interests of society are better served by putting police in the same position that they would have been in without the rights violation, not a worse position.\n"}
{"id": "1213560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1213560", "title": "James Hartle", "text": "James Hartle\n\nJames Burkett Hartle (August 20, 1939) is an American physicist. He has been a professor of physics at the University of California, Santa Barbara since 1966, and he is currently a member of the external faculty of the Santa Fe Institute. Hartle is known for his work in general relativity, astrophysics, and interpretation of quantum mechanics.\n\nIn collaboration with Murray Gell-Mann and others, Hartle developed an alternative to the standard Copenhagen interpretation, more general and appropriate to quantum cosmology, based on consistent histories.\n\nWith Dieter Brill in 1964, he discovered the Brill–Hartle geon, an approximate solution realizing Wheeler's suggestion of a hypothetical phenomenon in which a gravitational wave packet is confined to a compact region of spacetime by the gravitational attraction of its own field energy.\n\nWorking at the Enrico Fermi Institute at the University of Chicago in 1983, he developed the Hartle–Hawking wavefunction of the Universe in collaboration with Stephen Hawking. This specific solution to the Wheeler–deWitt equation is meant to explain the initial conditions of the Big Bang cosmology.\n\nHartle is the author of the textbook on general relativity entitled \"Gravity: an Introduction to Einstein's General Relativity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3866394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3866394", "title": "Jay Newman", "text": "Jay Newman\n\nJay Newman (February 28, 1948 – June 17, 2007) was a philosopher and Professor at the University of Guelph in Guelph, Ontario.\n\nNewman was born in Brooklyn, New York, the son of Lou Newman and his wife, Kitty. He received his B.A. from Brooklyn College in 1968 before acquiring his master's degree from Brown University in 1969 and his Ph.D. from York University in Toronto, Canada, in 1971.\n\nHe began teaching at the University of Guelph in 1971, where he taught until his death. His fields of study (and his 11 books) included philosophy of religion, philosophy of culture, and the ethics of mass communication. He became a Canadian citizen in 1986. In 1995 he was named a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada and he was past president of the Canadian Theological Society. He received a Distinguished Alumnus Award of Honor from Brooklyn College in 1988 and was recipient of the 2001 University of Guelph's President's Distinguished Professor Award. The University of Guelph has established the Jay Newman Award for Academic Integrity in his memory. In 2009, the Canadian Theological Society inaugurated the Jay Newman Memorial Lecture in the Philosophy of Religion.\n\nNewman was a lifelong fan of the works of Gilbert and Sullivan and wrote several articles about W. S. Gilbert and the Savoy Operas. A lecture about a Gilbert and Sullivan-related topic is given annually in his name, in New York City, by the Gilbert and Sullivan Society of New York.\n\nHe died in 2007 of cancer at age 59.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1082450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082450", "title": "Land law", "text": "Land law\n\nLand law is the form of law that deals with the rights to use, alienate, or exclude others from land. In many jurisdictions, these kinds of property are referred to as real estate or real property, as distinct from personal property. Land use agreements, including renting, are an important intersection of property and contract law. Encumbrance on the land rights of one, such as an easement, may constitute the land rights of another. Mineral rights and water rights are closely linked, and often interrelated concepts.\n\nLand rights are such a basic form of law that they develop even where there is no state to enforce them; for example, the claim clubs of the American West were institutions that arose organically to enforce the system of rules appurtenant to mining. Squatting, the occupation of land without ownership, is a globally ubiquitous phenomenon.\n\nSovereignty, in common law jurisdictions, is often referred to as absolute title, radical title, or allodial title. Nearly all of these jurisdictions have a system of land registration, to record fee simple interests, and a land claim process to resolve disputes.\n\nIndigenous land rights are recognized by international law, as well as the national legal systems of common law and civil law countries. In common law jurisdictions, the land rights of indigenous peoples are referred to as aboriginal title. In customary law jurisdictions, customary land is the predominant form of land ownership.\n\nLand reform refers to government policies that take and/or redistribute land, such as a land grant.\n\nLand rights refer to the inalienable ability of individuals to freely obtain, use, and possess land at their discretion, as long as their activities on the land do not impede on other individuals’ rights. This is not to be confused with access to land, which allows individuals the use of land in an economic sense (i.e. farming). Instead, land rights address the ownership of land which provides security and increases human capabilities. When a person only has access to land, they are in constant threat of expulsion depending on the choices of the land owner, which limits financial stability.\n\nLand rights are an integral part of Land Laws, as they socially enforce groups of individuals’ rights to own land in concurrence with the land laws of a nation. Land Law addresses the legal mandates set forth by a country in regards to land ownership, while land rights refer to the social acceptance of land ownership. Landesa takes the stance that although the law may advocate for equal access to land, land rights in certain countries and cultures may hinder a group’s right to actually own land. Laws are important, but they must be backed up by cultural tradition and social acceptance. Therefore, laws concerning land ownership and land rights of a country must be in agreement.\n\nGlobally, there has been an increased focus on land rights, as they are so pertinent to various aspects of development. According to Wickeri and Kalhan, land ownership can be a critical source of capital, financial security, food, water, shelter, and resources. The UN Global Land Tool organisation has found that rural landlessness is a strong predictor of poverty and hunger, and negatively impacts Empowerment and the realisation of Human rights. In order to home in on this critical problem of inadequate land rights, The Millennium Development Goal 7D strives to improve the lives of 100 million slum dwellers. This includes increased land rights for impoverished people, which will ultimately lead to a higher quality of life.\n\nAlthough land rights are fundamental in achieving higher standards of living, certain groups of individuals are consistently left out of land ownership provisions. The law may provide access to land, however, cultural barriers and poverty traps limit minority groups’ ability to own land. In order to reach equality, these groups must obtain adequate land rights that are both socially and legally recognised.\n\nSeveral scholars argue that women’s lack of sufficient land rights negatively affects their immediate families and the larger community, as well. With land ownership, women can develop an income and allocate this income more fairly within the household. Tim Hanstad claims that providing sufficient land rights for women is beneficial because, once women can exercise those rights the following will be promoted:\n\nIn many parts of the world, women have access to land in order to farm and cultivate the land; however, there are traditions and cultural norms which bar women from inheriting or purchasing land. This puts women in a place of dependence on their husbands, brothers, or fathers for their livelihood and shelter. Should there be an illness, domestic violence, or death in the family, women would be left landless and unable to either grow crops for food, or rent land for profit. Land ownership for women is a crucial form of security and income, increasing Empowerment and decreasing Poverty.\n\nKanakalatha Mukund makes the important point that although women in India have the legal right to own land, very few actually do as a result of the patriarchal practices which dominate the nation. Up until recently, Indian women have been left out of laws regarding the distribution of public land and were forced to rely on the small possibility of obtaining private land from their families. Inheritance laws which cater towards men are one of the key issues behind inequality in land rights. According to Bina Agarwal, land ownership defines social status and political power in the household and in the village, shaping relationships and creating family dynamics. Therefore, inheritance of land automatically puts men above women both in the household, and in the community. Without political pull in the village, and with limited bargaining powers within the household, women lack the voice to advocate for their own rights.\n\nAnother issue with land rights in India is that they leave women completely dependent on the lives of their husbands. A study by Bina Agarwal found that in West Bengal, prosperous families turn destitute when the male head of the household dies, as women are not permitted to take over their husband’s land. Also, due to cultural tradition, the higher the status of the woman, the less likely she is to have any developed skills that would be useful in finding work. These women are forced to beg for food and shelter once their husbands die because they have not been allowed to gain work experience.\n\nBina Agarwal argues that land ownership significantly decreases the chance of domestic violence against Indian women. Owning property elevates women to a higher status within the household, allowing more equality and bargaining power. In addition, owning property separately from their husbands allowed women an opportunity of escape from abusive relationships. Agarwal concluded that the prospect of a safe shelter outside of the main household decreases the longevity of domestic violence.\n\nLand rights are critical for women in India due to the heavily patriarchal society in which they live. Cultural perspectives play a key role in the acceptance of equality within land ownership. Women owning land ultimately benefits the household and society as a whole.\n\nThe most recent advance towards equality in land rights in India was the Hindu Succession Act of 2005. This act aimed to remove the gender discrimination which was present in the Hindu Succession Act, 1956. In the new amendment, daughters and sons have equal rights to obtain land from their parents. This act was both a legally and socially important move for women’s rights to land ownership. Not only did it legally mandate equality in land succession, it also validated women’s roles as equals in society.\n\nUganda’s 1995 Constitution enforces equality between men and women, including the acquisition and ownership of land. However, research from Women’s Land Link Africa reveals that women remain excluded from land ownership due to customs and deeply ingrained cultural habits. Even when women save up enough money to purchase land, the land is signed in their husband’s name, while women sign as the witness. Inheritance practices are a particular obstacle which reduces women empowerment, as well. Land is passed down through male lineage which reinforces women’s exclusion from land ownership. Another detriment to equality, pointed out by Women’s Land Link Africa, is that women lack sufficient knowledge about the rights they have under the law to own land. Rural, illiterate women do not even have access to the new constitution which guarantees them land rights.\n\nAlthough the 1995 Constitution provides for equality between men and women, there are still gaps in the law which affect women’s rights to land. The law protects the rights to land of wives in marriage; however, it does not address the needs of widows or divorcees. Consequentially, these women are left landless and without the protection land offers. Also, women have a difficult time taking cases to court due to corruption and expensive trials. The trials concerning land take so long to process that many women do not even attempt to seek legal assistance.\n\nWomen’s Land Link Africa provides suggestions to alleviate inequality in land ownership. Rural women can be educated about their rights through radio campaigns, community discussions, educational outreach programs, and public forums. The cultural nuances must be addressed in policies and community leaders can be educated about inclusion of minority groups. Also, the law itself can address the rights of widows and divorcees in addition to the rights of married women.\n\n"}
{"id": "22915373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22915373", "title": "Magdalena Środa", "text": "Magdalena Środa\n\nMagdalena Środa (née Magdalena Ciupak, b. January 7, 1957 in Warsaw) is a Polish philosopher, professor of ethics at the University of Warsaw, and a feminist author. She is also a columnist for the \"Gazeta Wyborcza\". She was government's Plenipotentiary for the Equal Status of Women and Men in the cabinet of Marek Belka between August 16, 2004 and November 4, 2005.\n\nIn 1980s Magdalena Środa was active in Solidarność movement. After 1989 she would not be involved in politics until 2004, when she was appointed by PM Marek Belka as the government's Plenipotentiary for the Equal Status of Women and Men. She has been advocating the separation of State and Church, LGBT rights, and more liberal abortion law. She is also known for her consistently anti-war stance on foreign policy.\n\nIn December 2004 there was a controversy over Środa's statement during an international conference on honour killings in Stockholm. When asked about the situation in Poland, she told Reuters: \"Catholicism does not directly support or oppose violence against women. But there are indirect links through culture which is strongly based on religion\". These words were widely quoted in Polish media and sparked a public discussion about violence against women.\n\nAnother controversy blew up in March 2008 when Środa spoke publicly against the idea of protective measures for pregnant women in labour relations. When criticised by parts of feminist movement for neglecting issues of social and economic justice, she responded: \"either we do fight for serious treatment on labour markets or for the role of a holy cow because of an inseminated egg\".\n\nHer academic research is focused on questions of individualism and its different critiques (from postmodern, feminist and communitarian positions) as well as on the ethics and politics of gender relations.\n\nTop candidate to the European Parliament in 2009 from the list of red-orange-green coalition of Social Democracy of Poland-Democratic Party – demokraci.pl-Greens 2004 (recommended by Zieloni 2004) in Łódź region. She received 10 798 votes (2,25% of all votes in her region). Coalition did not pass 5% threshold.\n\n"}
{"id": "1687997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1687997", "title": "Makyo", "text": "Makyo\n\nFor Makyo the band, see - Makyo the Band \nThe term is a Zen term that means “ghost cave” or “devil’s cave.” It is a figurative reference to the kind of self-delusion that results from clinging to an experience and making a conceptual “nest” out of it for oneself. Makyō is essentially synonymous with illusion, but especially in reference to experiences that can occur within meditation practice.\n\nIn Philip Kapleau's \"The Three Pillars of Zen\", Hakuun Yasutani explained the term as the combination of ma meaning devil and kyo meaning the objective world. This character for “devil” can also refer to Mara, the Buddhist “tempter” figure; and the character \"kyo\" can mean simply region, condition or place. Makyō refers to the hallucinations and perceptual distortions that can arise during the course of meditation and can be mistaken by the practitioner as \"seeing the true nature\" or kenshō. Zen masters warn their meditating students to ignore sensory distortions. These can occur in the form of visions and perceptual distortions, but they can also be experiences of blank, trance-like absorption states. In the Zen school, it is understood that neither category of experience – however fascinating they may be – is a true and final enlightenment.\n\nContemplative literature contains numerous descriptions of the perceptual distortion produced by meditation. It is characterized in some schools as \"going to the movies,\" a sign of spiritual intensity but a phenomenon that is considered distinctly inferior to the clear insight of settled practice. In some Hindu schools it is regarded as a product of the \"sukshma sharira\", or \"experience body,\" in its unstable state, and in that respect is seen to be another form of maya, which is the illusory nature of the world as apprehended by ordinary consciousness.[]\n\nTibetan contemplative literature uses the parallel term \"nyam\", which fall into three categories, usually listed as clarity, bliss, and non-conceptuality. Many types of meditation phenomena can be classed under this rubric, and are generally tied to the reorganization of the body's subtle energies that can occur in meditation. See Dudjom Lingpa, (cited in Wallace, \"the Attention Revolution\"), and Padmasambhava (in \"Treasures from the Juniper Ridge\") for more specific examples. Robert Baker Aitken classifies speaking in tongues as \"elaborate makyō\" (\"Taking the Path of Zen\").\n\n"}
{"id": "57563191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57563191", "title": "Menachem Fisch", "text": "Menachem Fisch\n\nMenachem Fisch is an Israeli philosopher, and the Joseph and Ceil Mazer Professor Emeritus of History and Philosophy of Science, and Director of the Center for Religious and Interreligious Studies at Tel Aviv University, and Senior Fellow of the Goethe University Frankfurt's Forschungskolleg Humanwisseschaften.\n\nHe was awarded the Humboldt Research Prize by the Alexander von Humboldt Stiftung in October 2016, and in February 2017 an honorary doctorate in religious philosophy by the Goethe University, Frankfurt in July 2017.\n\nHe has published widely on the history of 19th century British science and mathematics, on confirmation theory and rationality, on the theology of the talmudic literature, and the philosophy of talmudic legal reasoning. His current work explores the limits of normative self-criticism, the Talmud's dispute of religiosity, the possibilities of articulating a pluralist political philosophy from within the assumptions of halakhic Judaism, and the historiography of scientific framework transitions.\n\nA volume dedicated to his work, entitled \"Menachem Fisch: The Rationality of Religious Dispute\", was as Vol. 18 of the \"Library of Contemporary Jewish Philosophers\", (eds. H. Samuelson-Tiroshi and A. W. Hughes), (Brill, 2016).\n"}
{"id": "63375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63375", "title": "Mikhail Lomonosov", "text": "Mikhail Lomonosov\n\nMikhail Vasilyevich Lomonosov (; ; – ) was a Russian polymath, scientist and writer, who made important contributions to literature, education, and science. Among his discoveries were the atmosphere of Venus and the law of conservation of mass in chemical reactions. His spheres of science were natural science, chemistry, physics, mineralogy, history, art, philology, optical devices and others. Lomonosov was also a poet and influenced the formation of the modern Russian literary language.\n\nLomonosov was born in the village of Mishaninskaya (later renamed Lomonosovo in his honor) in Archangelgorod Governorate, on an island not far from Kholmogory, in the far north of Russia. His father, Vasily Dorofeyevich Lomonosov, was a prosperous peasant fisherman turned ship owner, who amassed a small fortune transporting goods from Arkhangelsk to Pustozyorsk, Solovki, Kola, and Lapland. Lomonosov's mother was Vasily's first wife, a deacon's daughter, Elena Ivanovna Sivkova.\n\nHe remained at Denisovka until he was ten, when his father decided that he was old enough to participate in his business ventures, and Lomonosov began accompanying Vasily on trading missions.\n\nLearning was young Lomonosov's passion, however, not business. The boy's thirst for knowledge was insatiable. Lomonosov had been taught to read as a boy by his neighbor Ivan Shubny, and he spent every spare moment with his books. He continued his studies with the village deacon, S.N. Sabelnikov, but for many years the only books he had access to were religious texts. When he was fourteen, Lomonosov was given copies of Meletius Smotrytsky's \"Modern Church Slavonic\" (a grammar book) and Leonty Magnitsky's \"Arithmetic\". On his religious views, Lomonosov was a Russian orthodox all his life, but had close encounters with Old Believers schism in early youth and later in life he became a deist.\n\nIn 1724, his father married for the third and final time. Lomonosov and his stepmother Irina had an acrimonious relationship. Unhappy at home and intent on obtaining a higher education, which Lomonosov could not receive in Mishaninskaya, he was determined to leave the village.\n\nIn 1730, at nineteen, Lomonosov went to Moscow on foot, because he was determined to \"study sciences\". Shortly after arrival, he admitted into the Slavic Greek Latin Academy by falsely claiming to be a son of a Kholmogory nobleman. In 1734 that initial falsehood as well as another lie for him to be son of a priest nearly got him expelled from the academy but the investigation ended without severe consequences.\n\nLomonosov lived on three kopecks a day, eating only black bread and kvass, but he made rapid progress scholastically. It is believed that in 1735, after three years in Moscow he was sent to Kiev to study for short period at the Kyiv-Mohyla Academy. He quickly became dissatisfied with the education he was receiving there, and returned to Moscow to resume his studies there. In five years Lomonosov completed a twelve-year study course and in 1736, among 12 best graduates, was awarded a scholarship at the St. Petersburg Academy. He plunged into his studies and was rewarded with a four-year grant to study abroad, in Germany, first at the University of Marburg and then in Freiberg.\n\nThe University of Marburg was among Europe's most important universities in the mid-18th century due to the presence of the philosopher Christian Wolff, a prominent figure of the German Enlightenment. Lomonosov became one of Wolff's students while at Marburg from November 1736 to July 1739. Both philosophically and as a science administrator, this connection would be the most influential of Lomonosov's life. In 1739–1740 he studied mineralogy, metallurgy, and mining at Bergrat laboratory in Freiberg, Saxony; there he intensified his studies of German literature.\n\nLomonosov quickly mastered the German language, and in addition to philosophy, seriously studied chemistry, discovered the works of 17th century Irish theologian and natural philosopher, Robert Boyle, and even began writing poetry. He also developed an interest in German literature. He is said to have especially admired Günther. His \"Ode on the Taking of Khotin from the Turks\", composed in 1739, attracted a great deal of attention in Saint Petersburg. Contrary to his adoration for Wolff, Lomonosov went into fierce disputes with Henckel over the training and education courses he and his two compatriot students were getting in Freiberg as well as over very limited financial support which Henckel was instructed to provide to the Russians after numerous debts they made in Marburg. As the result, Lomonosov left Freiberg without permission and wandered for quite a while over Germany and Holland unsuccessfully trying to get a permission from Russian envoys to return to the St.Petersburg Academy.\n\nDuring his residence in Marburg, Lomonosov boarded with Catharina Zilch, a brewer's widow. He fell in love with Catharina’s daughter Elizabeth Christine Zilch. They were married in June 1740. Lomonosov found it extremely difficult to maintain his growing family on the scanty and irregular allowance granted him by the Russian Academy of Sciences. As his circumstances became desperate, he resolved and got permission to return to Saint Petersburg.\n\nLomonosov returned to Russia in June 1741, after being abroad 4 years and 8 months. A year later he was named an Adjunct of the Russian Academy of Science in the physics department. In May 1743, Lomonosov was accused, arrested, and held under house arrest for eight months, after he supposedly insulted various people associated with the Academy. He was released and pardoned in January 1744 after apologising to all involved.\n\nLomonosov was made a full member of the Academy, and named Professor of chemistry, in 1745. He established the Academy's first chemistry laboratory. Eager to improve Russia’s educational system, in 1755, Lomonosov joined his patron Count Ivan Shuvalov in founding Moscow University.\n\nIn 1760, he was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. In 1764, he was elected Foreign Member of the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna In 1764, Lomonosov was appointed to the position of the State Councillor which was of Rank V in the Russian Empire's Table of Ranks. He died on 4 April (o.s.), 1765 in Saint Petersburg. He is widely and deservingly regarded as the \"Father of Russian Science\", though many of his scientific accomplishments were relatively unknown outside Russia until long after his death and gained proper appreciation only in late 19th and, especially, in 20th centuries.\n\nIn 1756, Lomonosov tried to replicate Robert Boyle's experiment of 1673. He concluded that the commonly accepted phlogiston theory was false. Anticipating the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier, he wrote in his diary: \"Today I made an experiment in hermetic glass vessels in order to determine whether the mass of metals increases from the action of pure heat. The experiments– of which I append the record in 13 pages– demonstrated that the famous Robert Boyle was deluded, for without access of air from outside the mass of the burnt metal remains the same\".\n\nThat is the Law of Mass Conservation in chemical reaction, which was well-known today as \"in a chemical reaction, the mass of reactants is equal to the mass of the products.\" Lomonosov, together with Lavoisier, is regarded as the one who discovered the law of mass conservation.\n\nHe stated that all matter is composed of corpuscles – molecules that are \"collections\" of elements – atoms. In his dissertation \"Elements of Mathematical Chemistry\" (1741, unfinished), the scientist gives the following definition: \"An element is a part of a body that does not consist of any other smaller and different bodies ... corpuscle is a collection of elements forming one small mass.\" In a later study (1748), he uses term \"atom\" instead of \"element\", and \"particula\" (particle) or \"molecule\" instead of \"corpuscle\".\n\nHe regarded heat as a form of motion, suggested the wave theory of light, contributed to the formulation of the kinetic theory of gases, and stated the idea of conservation of matter in the following words: \"All changes in nature are such that inasmuch is taken from one object insomuch is added to another. So, if the amount of matter decreases in one place, it increases elsewhere. This universal law of nature embraces laws of motion as well, for an object moving others by its own force in fact imparts to another object the force it loses\" (first articulated in a letter to Leonhard Euler dated 5 July 1748, rephrased and published in Lomonosov's dissertation \"Reflexion on the solidity and fluidity of bodies\", 1760).\n\nLomonosov was the first to discover and appreciate atmosphere of Venus during his observation of the transit of Venus of 1761 in a small observatory near his house in Petersburg.\n\nIn June 2012 a group of astronomers carried out experimental reconstruction of Lomonosov's discovery of Venusian atmosphere with antique refractors during the transit of Venus ( 5–6 June 2012). They concluded that Lomonosov's telescope was fully adequate to the task of detecting the arc of light around Venus off the Sun's disc during ingress or egress if proper experimental techniques as described by Lomonosov in his 1761 paper are employed.\n\nIn 1762, Lomonosov presented an improved design of a reflecting telescope to the Russian Academy of Sciences forum. His telescope had its primary mirror adjusted at an angle of four degrees to the telescope's axis. This made the image focus at the side of the telescope tube, where the observer could view the image with an eyepiece without blocking the image. However, this invention was not published until 1827, so this type of telescope has become associated with a similar design by William Herschel, the Herschelian telescope.\n\nIn 1759, with his collaborator, academician Joseph Adam Braun, Lomonosov was the first person to record the freezing of mercury and to carry out initial experiments with it. Believing that nature is subject to regular and continuous evolution, he demonstrated the organic origin of soil, peat, coal, petroleum and amber. In 1745, he published a catalogue of over 3,000 minerals, and in 1760, he explained the formation of icebergs.\n\nIn 1763, he published \"On The Strata of the Earth\" - his most significant geological work.\n\nLomonosov's observation of iceberg formation led into his pioneering work in geography. Lomonosov got close to the theory of continental drift, theoretically predicted the existence of Antarctica (he argued that icebergs of the South Ocean could be formed only on a dry land covered with ice), and invented sea tools which made writing and calculating directions and distances easier. In 1764, he organized an expedition (led by Admiral Vasili Chichagov) to find the Northeast Passage between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans by sailing along the northern coast of Siberia.\n\nLomonosov was proud to restore the ancient art of mosaics. In 1754, in his letter to Leonhard Euler, he wrote that his three years of experiments on the effects of chemistry of minerals on their colour led to his deep involvement in the mosaic art. In 1763, he set up a glass factory that produced the first stained glass mosaics outside of Italy. There were forty mosaics attributed to Lomonosov, with only twenty-four surviving to the present day. Among the best is the portrait of Peter the Great and the \"Battle of Poltava\", measuring .\n\nIn 1755 Lomonosov wrote a grammar that reformed the Russian literary language by combining Old Church Slavonic with the vernacular tongue. To further his literary theories, he wrote more than 20 solemn ceremonial odes, notably the \"Evening Meditation on the God's Grandeur\". He applied an idiosyncratic theory to his later poems – tender subjects needed words containing the front vowel sounds E, I, Y and U, whereas things that may cause fear (like \"anger\", \"envy\", \"pain\" and \"sorrow\") needed words with back vowel sounds O, U and Y. That was a version of what is now called sound symbolism.\n\nIn 1760 Lomonosov published a History of Russia. In addition, he attempted to write a grand epic about Peter the Great, to be based on the \"Aeneid\" by Vergil, but he died before he could finish it.\n\nHis granddaughter Sophia Konstantinova (1769–1844) married Russian military hero and statesman General Nikolay Raevsky. His great-granddaughter was Princess Maria (Raevskaya) Volkonskaya, the wife of the Decembrist Prince Sergei Volkonsky.\n\nThe city of Lomonosov, Russia (former Oranienbaum, Russia from 1710–1948), and a lunar crater bear his name, as does a crater on Mars and the asteroid 1379 Lomonosowa. The Imperial Porcelain Factory, Saint Petersburg was renamed after him from 1925 to 2005. In 1948, the underwater Lomonosov Ridge in the Arctic Ocean was named in his honor. Moscow State University was renamed '’M. V. Lomonosov Moscow State University'’ in his honor in 1940.\n\nThe Lomonosov Gold Medal was established in 1959 and is awarded annually by the Russian Academy of Sciences to a Russian and a foreign scientist.\n\nThe street \"Lomonosova iela\" in the Maskavas Forštate district of Riga is named in honor of Lomonosov. During the Soviet era a main street in Tallinn, Estonia, was named in his honor as \"Lomonossovi M.\", but from 1991 it was renamed Gonsiori after Jakob Johann Gonsior, a 19th-century alderman and lawyer.\n\nThe \"Akademik Lomonosov\", the first of a series of Russian floating nuclear power stations, is named for him. It is expected to be operational at Vilyuchinsk, Kamchatka Peninsula, in 2018.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17539258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17539258", "title": "Mohammed Sabila", "text": "Mohammed Sabila\n\nMohammed Sabila is a Moroccan writer and philosopher who was born in Casablanca. He is the author of several articles and books on politics and culture.\n\nSabila is professor of philosophy at the Mohammed V University of Rabat, chief editor of the magazine \"Madarat\" and president of the \"Societé de Philosophie du Maroc\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1697858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697858", "title": "Music semiology", "text": "Music semiology\n\nMusic semiology (semiotics) is the study of signs as they pertain to music on a variety of levels. Following Roman Jakobson, Kofi Agawu adopts the idea of musical semiosis being introversive or extroversive—that is, musical signs within a text and without. \"Topics,\" or various musical conventions (such as horn calls, dance forms, and styles), have been treated suggestively by Agawu, among others. The notion of gesture is beginning to play a large role in musico-semiotic enquiry.\n\nWriters on music semiology include Kofi Agawu (on topical theory, Schenkerian analysis), Robert Hatten (on topic, gesture), Raymond Monelle (on topic, musical meaning), Jean-Jacques Nattiez (on introversive taxonomic analysis and ethnomusicological applications), Anthony Newcomb (on narrativity), Thomas Turino (applying the semiotics of Charles Sanders Peirce), and Eero Tarasti (generally considered the founder of musical semiotics).\nRoland Barthes, himself a semiotician and skilled amateur pianist, wrote about music in some of the essays collected in \"Image, Music, Text\" and \"The Responsibility of Forms\" , as well as in the essay \"Eiffel Tower\" , though he did not consider music to be a semiotic system.\n\nSigns, meanings in music, happen essentially through the connotations of sounds, and through the social construction, appropriation and amplification of certain meanings associated with these connotations. The work of Philip Tagg (\"Ten Little Tunes\", \"Fernando the Flute\", \"Music’s Meanings\") provides one of the most complete and systematic analysis of the relation between musical structures and connotations in western and especially popular, television and film music. The work of Leonard Meyer in \"Style and Music\" theorizes the relationship between ideologies and musical structures and the phenomena of style change, and focuses on Romanticism as a case study. Fred Lerdahl and Ray Jackendoff analyze how music is structured like a language with its own semiotics and syntax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4698584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4698584", "title": "Neetham", "text": "Neetham\n\nNeetham (Tamil:) are the primary virtues to be followed according to the Akilam the holy text of Ayyavazhi. They are found in Akilam one, which is the first section of the Akilattirattu Ammanai, and in the middle of the meta-narrative events of the . This shows that the society, its people, and the ruling king once lived in absolute harmony with nature, placing the power of God in all their works, deeds, and activities during early ages.\n\nThe Akilam points this out as an example, and describes how the people should live in the world. It also forms a part of Ayyavazhi ethics. The Neethams are split into three. They are,\n\n\nThe Manu Neetham describes how a person should act in society. It also describes the correct moral character of the people, and their way of life in harmony with nature (particularly women) in the early ages.\n\nFollowers believe that all the events and actions that happen in their lives are activated by God. Therefore, they prefer not to seek any individual supremacy for any of their activities or achievements. All faithful followers believe that everyone is equal, in spite of the presence of different castes.\n\nIn addition, they do not find anyone inferior or superior to others with respect to the jobs they do. They neither do any menial jobs nor make others do so. In turn, they live with a mutual understanding of others not unlike the innocence of children.\n\n\nThus the people of the society would live: always striving to be role models for others. This ethical code is considered by followers to have been given by Ayyavazhi scriptures to mankind.\n\nThis Raja Neetham or Arasa Neetham says, how an individual should be to the society or nation, and in turn how the nation should be to a common man. This was derived from the meta-narrative events, one practiced in the society.\n\nThe king ruled the country with great care, by giving more importance to individual needs. He respect each and every individual with equal status. The king consider the comfort of the subjects of the nation as the comfort of himself. In all the 1008 Pathis (The place where God is) the poojas were conducted rightly and in timely manner. The temples, the watermeans such as ponds, wells were supervised and were repaired frequently. Anna Dharmam, the charity on food is conducted frequently at choultries. The people of the nation always respect religious persons and pilgrims, and help them by all possible means, and consider that serving them (religious persons) is like serving God.\n\nThe king collects one-sixth of the means of people as tax. If any one says that they will not be able to give one-sixth of their means, the king don't use to compel them. If any one pays tax without any pending for about twelve years the King use to discount their tax for two years. The judgement from the king for the judicial cases of people will be accurate. He gives more importance for his people than for himself.\n\nThis story tells about a king who follows the Raja Neetham rightly and so his accuracy in judgement.\n\nOnce a hunter choose a bird as his target and points his arrow towards it. The bird notes this and flies away and the hunter follows the bird. The bird flew and fell in front of the Chozha king and asked him to rescue from the hunter. Following this the hunter came in front of the king and demanded the bird. He also says, \"whole of my today's time is wasted behind this bird. I and my family has to fulfill our hunger by this bird.\" On the other hand, the bird demanded the king to save it from the hunter.\n\nThe king feels that both of them are right from their own view point and sensed both the fulfillment of the hunger of hunter and saving the life of the bird is his duty as a king. So taking care the two subjects, the king cut an equal quantity of flesh to the bird from his limb and gave it to the hunter. So he saved the life of the bird and on the other hand saved the hunter's family from being hungry. As king, he treated both of his subjects equally and also fulfilled both of their needs.\n\nThis Deiva Neetham tells about the thought of people about the Almighty and about their religious harmony during that (old) age, and tells the way by which one should be get divinized. The most important point is, this part says that when the other two Neethams are correctly followed the Deiva Neetham will be automatically fall in the right path. This concept was reveals from the mythical narration.\n\nThe reign of the king (above in Raja Neetham) was identified as a good rule by the Devas. Narayana, Brahma, Lekhsmi and all devas appreciated this rule. They went to kayilai to meet Siva to tell about this.\n\nThey met Siva in Kayilai and told that the King chozha is ruling his country genuinely. They also told Siva about the judgement of the king in the matter of the Hunter and the Bird. Also they brought to his attention, other merits of the reign of the king. They also demanded that, since the king is so genuine, talented and accurate in following the principles, he should order the devas to do the duties to his nation correctly. Hearing this Siva ordered the Mayon to order the devas to do all duties timidly. As per this Mayon ordered,\n\n\nAs per the order of Siva all activities were done by devas. Also they made all animals to live in harmony with each other and with the people. They also made the crops of his nation to give good yield for the people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "606880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606880", "title": "Nonfirstorderizability", "text": "Nonfirstorderizability\n\nIn formal logic, nonfirstorderizability is the inability of an expression to be adequately captured in particular theories in first-order logic. Nonfirstorderizable sentences are sometimes presented as evidence that first-order logic is not adequate to capture the nuances of meaning in natural language.\n\nThe term was coined by George Boolos in his well-known paper \"To Be is to Be a Value of a Variable (or to Be Some Values of Some Variables).\" Boolos argued that such sentences call for second-order symbolization, which can be interpreted as plural quantification over the same domain as first-order quantifiers use, without postulation of distinct \"second-order objects\" (properties, sets, etc.).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41061920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41061920", "title": "Peter Comensoli", "text": "Peter Comensoli\n\nPeter Andrew Comensoli (born 25 March 1964) is an Australian prelate of the Catholic Church, who was named the ninth Archbishop of Melbourne on 29 June 2018. He had been serving as the third Bishop of Broken Bay in New South Wales, Australia, since December 2014. From 2011 to 2014 he was an auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Sydney.\n\nComensoli studied at St Paul's (now Holy Spirit) College, Bellambi, New South Wales and studied commerce at the University of Wollongong while working for four years in the banking sector before switching to theology.\n\nComensoli entered St Patrick's Seminary in 1986 and obtained a Bachelor of Theology in 1989 and a Bachelor of Sacred Theology in 1991 from the Catholic Institute of Sydney. He was ordained a priest of the Diocese of Wollongong in 1992 by William Edward Murray. Comensoli obtained a Licentiate in Sacred Theology from the Alphonsian Academy in Rome in 2000, a Master of Letters in Moral Philosophy from the University of St Andrews in 2007 and a Doctor of Philosophy in theological ethics from the University of Edinburgh in 2010.\n\nComensoli was appointed an auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Sydney and titular bishop of Tigisis in Numidia by Pope Benedict XVI on 20 April 2011. He was consecrated as a bishop by Cardinal George Pell at St Mary's Cathedral in Sydney on 8 June 2011, becoming Australia's youngest bishop.\n\nOn 27 February 2014, Comensoli was appointed by Pope Francis as Apostolic Administrator of the Archdiocese of Sydney following Cardinal George Pell's appointment as Prefect of the newly formed Secretariat for the Economy. On 18 September 2014, Pope Francis appointed Anthony Fisher the new Archbishop of Sydney, and Comensoli remained the Apostolic Administrator until Fisher's installation on 12 November.\n\nOn 20 November 2014, Pope Francis appointed Comensoli as the Bishop of Broken Bay. His installation took place on 12 December.\n\nOn 29 June 2018, Comensoli was appointed Archbishop of Melbourne. He was installed on 1 August.\n\n"}
{"id": "2399976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2399976", "title": "Physical universe", "text": "Physical universe\n\nIn religion and esotericism, the term \"physical universe\" or \"material universe\" is used to distinguish the physical matter of the universe from a proposed spiritual or supernatural essence. \n\nIn the Book of Veles, and perhaps in traditional Slavic mythology, the physical universe is referred to as Yav. Gnosticism holds that the physical universe was created by a Demiurge. In Dharmic religions Maya is believed to be the illusion of a physical universe.\n\nPhysicalism, a type of monism, holds that only physical things exist. This is also known as metaphysical naturalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "140651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140651", "title": "Pyrrho", "text": "Pyrrho\n\nPyrrho of Elis (; ; ) was a Greek philosopher of Classical antiquity and is credited as being the first Greek skeptic philosopher.\n\nPyrrho of Elis is estimated to have lived from around 365-360 BC until 275-270 BC. Pyrrho was from Elis, on the Ionian Sea. Diogenes Laërtius, quoting from Apollodorus of Athens, says that Pyrrho was at first a painter, and that pictures by him were exhibited in the gymnasium at Elis. Later he was diverted to philosophy by the works of Democritus, and according to Diogenes Laertius became acquainted with the Megarian dialectic through Bryson, pupil of Stilpo.\n\nWhile little is known for certain about Pyrrho’s philosophy and life, his primary influencers were most likely early philosophers whose work focused on the indeterminacy of the world, such as Plato and the Eleatics. It is thought that he was taught by Anaxarchus of Abdera, and was also influenced by Eastern philosophy he encountered on a trip to India with Alexander the Great.\n\nDiogenes reports that Pyrrho, along with Anaxarchus, travelled with Alexander the Great on his exploration of the East, 'so that he even went as far as the Gymnosophists in India and the Magi' in Persia. This exposure to Eastern philosophy seems to have inspired him to adopt a life of solitude; returning to Elis, he lived in poor circumstances, but was highly honored by the Elians and also by the Athenians, who conferred upon him the rights of citizenship.\n\nPyrrho wrote nothing. His doctrines were recorded in the writings of his pupil Timon of Phlius. Unfortunately these works are mostly lost. Today Pyrrho's ideas are known mainly through the book \"Outlines of Pyrrhonism\" written by Sextus Empiricus.\n\nPyrrho did not produce any written work detailing his philosophical principles. Most of the information on Pyrrho’s principles comes from his most notable follower, Timon, whose summary of Pyrrho's teachings are preserved in the Aristocles passage. However, there are conflicting interpretations of the ideas presented in this passage, each of which leads to a different conclusion as to what Pyrrho meant.\n\nMost biographical information on Pyrrho, as well as some information concerning his demeanor and behavior, come from the works of mid-third century BC biographer Antigonus of Carystus. Biographical anecdotes from Diogenes Laertius are also frequently cited; his work on Pyrrho's life drew primarily from Antigonus' accounts.\n\nAs Pyrrho left no written teachings, the exact details of his philosophy are uncertain. Most sources agree that the primary goal of Pyrrho’s philosophy was the achievement of a state of ataraxia, or freedom from worry, and that he observed that ataraxia could be brought about by eschewing beliefs about thoughts and perceptions. \n\nHowever, Pyrrho’s own philosophy may have differed significantly from the later Pyrrhonists. Most interpretations of the information on Pyrrho’s philosophy suggest that he claimed that reality is inherently indeterminate, which, in the view of Pyrrhonism described by Sextus Empiricus, would be considered a negative dogmatic belief.\n\nA summary of Pyrrho's philosophy was preserved by Eusebius, quoting Aristocles, quoting Timon, in what is known as the \"Aristocles passage.\"\n\n\"Whoever wants to live well (eudaimonia) must consider these three questions: First, how are \"pragmata\" (ethical matters, affairs, topics) by nature? Secondly, what attitude should we adopt towards them? Thirdly, what will be the outcome for those who have this attitude?\" Pyrrho's answer is that \"As for \"pragmata\" they are all adiaphora (undifferentiated by a logical differentia), \"astathmēta\" (unstable, unbalanced, not measurable), and \"anepikrita\" (unjudged, unfixed, undecidable). Therefore, neither our sense-perceptions nor our \"doxai\" (views, theories, beliefs) tell us the truth or lie; so we certainly should not rely on them. Rather, we should be \"adoxastoi\" (without views), \"aklineis\" (uninclined toward this side or that), and \"akradantoi\" (unwavering in our refusal to choose), saying about every single one that it no more is than it is not or it both is and is not or it neither is nor is not.\n\nThe main principle of Pyrrho's thought is expressed by the word \"acatalepsia\", which connotes the ability to withhold assent from doctrines regarding the truth of things in their own nature; against every statement its contradiction may be advanced with equal justification.\n\nIt is uncertain whether Pyrrhonism was a small but continuous movement in antiquity, or whether it died out and was revived. Regardless, several centuries after Pyrrho lived, Aenesidemus lead a revival of the philosophy. Pyrrhonism was one of the two major schools of skeptical thought that emerged during the Hellenistic period, the other being Academic skepticism. \n\nAenesidemus developed ten arguments to be used as justification for suspending all judgement on the true nature of things. A further set of five arguments was developed by Agrippa the Skeptic. These arguments, as well as several other sets of tropes used as justification for suspending judgement, are presented in the texts of Sextus Empiricus, whose works contain the most detailed surviving account of Pyrrhonist practice.\n\nPyrrhonists view their philosophy as a way of life, and view Pyrrho as a model for this way of life. Their main goal is to cure suffering and unhappiness through achieving suspension of judgment. One method Pyrrhonists use to suspend judgment is to gather arguments on both sides of the disputed issue, continuing to gather arguments such that the arguments have the property of isostheneia (equal strength). This leads the Pyrrhonist to the conclusion that there is an unresolvable disagreement on the topic, and so the appropriate reaction is to suspend judgement on the topic. The Pyrrhonist develops suspension of judgment as a habitual response to all matters of dispute, achieving a state of “epoche” – a general suspension of judgement about the real nature of things. Reaching epoche results in ataraxia, or freedom of worry, which relieves the practitioner of the causes of unhappiness.\n\nPyrrhonism flourished among members of the Empiric school of medicine, where it was seen as the philosophic foundation to their approach to medicine, which was opposed to the approach of the Dogmatic school of medicine. Pyrrhonism fell into obscurity in the post-Hellenic period.\n\nPyrrhonism has three styles of practice, or types of practitioners. These are the ephectic (a \"suspension of judgment\"), zetetic (\"engaged in seeking\"), and aporetic (\"engaged in refutation\").\n\nDiogenes Laertius' biography of Pyrrho reports that Pyrrho traveled with Alexander the Great's army to India and based his philosophy on what he learned there:\n\n...he even went as far as the Gymnosophists, in India, and the Magi. Owing to which circumstance, he seems to have taken a noble line in philosophy, introducing the doctrine of incomprehensibility, and of the necessity of suspending one's judgment...\n\nThe sources and the extent of the Indian influences on Pyrrho's philosophy, however, are disputed by some. Some elements of scepticism were already present in Greek philosophy, particularly in the Democritean tradition in which Pyrrho had studied prior to visiting India. Richard Bett heavily discounts any substantive Indian influences on Pyrrho, arguing that on the basis of testimony of Onesicritus regarding how difficult it was to converse with the gymnosophists, as it required three translators, none of whom understood any philosophy, that it is highly improbable that Pyrrho could have been substantively influenced by any of the Indian philosophers.\n\nAccording to Christopher I. Beckwith's analysis of the Aristocles Passage, adiaphora, astathmēta, and anepikrita are strikingly similar to the Buddhist Three marks of existence, indicating that Pyrrho's teaching is based on Buddhism. Beckwith disputes Bett's argument about the translators, as the other reports of using translators in India, involving Alexander the Great and Nearchus, say they needed only one interpreter, and Onesicritus was criticized by other writers in antiquity for exaggerating. Beckwith also contends that the 18 months Pyrrho spent in India was long enough to learn a foreign language, and that the key innovative tenets of Pyrrho's skepticism were only found in Indian philosophy at the time and not in Greece.\n\nIt has been hypothesized that the gymnosophists were Jains, or Ajnanins , and that these are likely influences on Pyrrho.\n\nPyrrhonism regained prominence in the late fifteenth century. The publication of the works of Sextus Empiricus played a major role in Renaissance and Reformation thought. Philosophers of the time used his works to source their arguments on how to deal with the religious issues of their day. Major philosophers such as Michel de Montaigne, Marin Mersenne, and Pierre Gassendi later drew on the model of Pyrrhonism outlined in Sextus Empiricus’ works for their own arguments. This resurgence of Pyrrhonism has been called the beginning of modern philosophy. Pyrrhonism also affected the development of historiography. Historical Pyrrhonism emerged during the early modern period and played a significant role in shaping modern historiography. Historical Pyrrhonism questioned the possibility of any absolute knowledge from the past and transformed later historian's selection of and standard for reliable sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45652", "title": "Ram Mohan Roy", "text": "Ram Mohan Roy\n\nRaja Ram Mohan Roy (22 May 1774– 27 September 1833) was one of the founders of the Brahmo Sabha, the precursor of the Brahmo Samaj, a socio-religious reform movement in the Indian subcontinent. He was given the title of Raja by Akbar II, the Mughal emperor. His influence was apparent in the fields of politics, public administration, education, and religion. He was known for his efforts to abolish the practices of sati and child marriage. Raja Ram Mohan Roy is considered by many historians as the \"Father of the Indian Renaissance.\" In 2004, Roy was ranked number 10 in BBC's poll of the Greatest Bengali of all time.\n\nRam Mohan Roy was born in Radhanagar, Hooghly District, Bengal Presidency. His father Ramkanta was a Vaishnavite, while his mother, Tarini Devi, was from a Shivaite family. Thus one parent prepared him for the occupation of a scholar, the \"Shastri\", the other secured for him all the worldly advantages needed to launch a career in the \"laukik\" or worldly sphere of public administration. Torn between these two parental ideals from early childhood, Ram Mohan vacillated the rest of his life, moving from one to the other and back.\n\nRam Mohan Roy was married thrice. His first wife died early. He had two sons, Radhaprasad in 1800, and Ramaprasad in 1812 with his second wife, who died in 1824. Roy's third wife outlived him.\n\nRam Mohan Roy's early education is disputed. One view is that \"Ram Mohan started his formal education in the village \"pathshala\" where he learned Bengali and some Sanskrit and Persian. Later he is said to have studied Persian and Arabic in a \"madrasa\" in Patna and after that he was sent to Benares (Kashi) to learn the intricacies of Sanskrit and Hindu scripture, including the Vedas and Upanishads. The dates of his time in both these places are uncertain. However, it is believed that he was sent to Patna when he was nine years old and two years later to Benares.\"\n\nThe Persian and Arabic studies influenced his thinking about One God more than studies of European deism, which he didn't know at least while writing his first scriptures as at that stage he didn't speak or understand English.\n\nRam Mohan Roy's impact on modern Indian history was his revival of the pure and ethical principles of the Vedanta school of philosophy as found in the Upnishads. He preached the unity of God, made early translations of Vedic scriptures into English, co-founded the Calcutta Unitarian Society and founded the Brahma Samaj. The Brahma Samaj played a major role in reforming and modernising the Indian society. He successfully campaigned against sati, the practice of burning widows. He sought to integrate Western culture with the best features of his own country's traditions. He established a number of schools to popularise a modern system (effectively replacing Sanskrit based education with English based education) of education in India. He promoted a rational, ethical, non-authoritarian, this-worldly, and social-reform Hinduism. His writings also sparked interest among British and American Unitarians.\n\nDuring these overlapping periods, Ram Mohan Roy acted as a political agitator whilst employed by the East India Company.\n\nIn 1792, the British Baptist shoemaker William Carey published his influential missionary tract, \"An Enquiry of the obligations of Christians to use means for the conversion of heathens\".\n\nIn 1793, William Carey landed in India to settle. His objective was to translate, publish and distribute the Bible in Indian languages and propagate Christianity to the Indian peoples. He realised the \"mobile\" (i.e. service classes) Brahmins and Pundits were most able to help him in this endeavour, and he began gathering them. He learnt the Buddhist and Jain religious works to better argue the case for Christianity in the cultural context.\n\nIn 1795, Carey made contact with a Sanskrit scholar, the Tantric saihardana Vidyabagish, who later introduced him to Ram Mohan Roy, who wished to learn English.\n\nBetween 1796 and 1797, the trio of Carey, Vidyavagish, and Roy created a religious work known as the \"Maha Nirvana Tantra\" (or \"Book of the Great Liberation\") and positioned it as a religious text to \"the One True God\". Carey's involvement is not recorded in his very detailed records and he reports only learning to read Sanskrit in 1796 and only completed a grammar in 1797, the same year he translated part of The Bible from Joshua to Job, a massive task. For the next two decades this document was regularly augmented. Its judicial sections were used in the law courts of the English Settlement in Bengal as Hindu Law for adjudicating upon property disputes of the zamindari. However, a few British magistrates and collectors began to suspect and its usage (as well as the reliance on pundits as sources of Hindu Law) was quickly deprecated. Vidyavagish had a brief falling out with Carey and separated from the group, but maintained ties to Ram Mohan Roy.\n\nIn 1797, Raja Ram Mohan reached Calcutta and became a \"bania\" (moneylender), mainly to lend to the Englishmen of the Company living beyond their means. Ram Mohan also continued his vocation as pundit in the English courts and started to make a living for himself. He began learning Greek and Latin.\n\nIn 1799, Carey was joined by missionary Joshua Marshman and the printer William Ward at the Danish settlement of Serampore.\n\nFrom 1803 till 1815, Ram Mohan served the East India Company's \"Writing Service\", commencing as private clerk \"Munshi\" to Thomas Woodroffe, Registrar of the Appellate Court at Murshidabad (whose distant nephew, John Woodroffe — also a Magistrate — and later lived off the Maha Nirvana Tantra under the pseudonym Arthur Avalon). Roy resigned from Woodroffe's service and later secured employment with John Digby, a Company collector, and Ram Mohan spent many years at Rangpur and elsewhere with Digby, where he renewed his contacts with Hariharananda. William Carey had by this time settled at Serampore and the old trio renewed their profitable association. William Carey was also aligned now with the English Company, then head-quartered at Fort William, and his religious and political ambitions were increasingly intertwined.\n\nWhile being in Murshidabad in 1804 Raja Ram Mohan Roy wrote Tuhfat-ul-Muwahhidin (A Gift to Monotheists) in Persian with an introduction in Arabic. Bengali had not Yet become the language of intellectual discourse. The importance of Tuhfatul Muwahhidin lies only in its being the first known theological statement of one who achieved\nlater fame and notoriety as a vendantin. On its own, it is unremarkable, perhaps of interest only to a social historian because of its amateurish eclecticism. Tuhfat was, after all, available as early as 1884 in the\nEnglish translation of Maulavi Obaidullah EI Obaid, Published by the Adi Brahmo Samaj. Raja Ram Mohan Roy did not know the Upanishad at this stage'in his intellectual development.\n\nIn 1815, he started Atmiya Sabha, a philosophical discussion circle in Kolkata (then Calcutta).\n\nThe East India Company was draining money from India at a rate of three million pounds a year in 1838. Ram Mohan Roy was one of the first to try to estimate how much money was being driven out of India and to where it was disappearing. He estimated that around one-half of all total revenue collected in India was sent out to England, leaving India, with a considerably larger population, to use the remaining money to maintain social well-being. Ram Mohan Roy saw this and believed that the unrestricted settlement of Europeans in India governing under free trade would help ease the economic drain crisis.\n\nDuring the next two decades, Ram Mohan launched his attack at the behest of the church against the bastions of Hinduism of Bengal, namely his own Kulin Brahmin priestly clan (then in control of the many temples of Bengal) and their priestly excesses. The Kulin excesses targeted include sati (the co-cremation of widows), polygamy, child marriage and dowry.\n\nFrom 1819, Rammohun's battery increasingly turned against William Carey, a Baptist Missionary settled in Serampore and the Serampore missionaries. With Dwarkanath's munificence, he launched a series of attacks against Baptist \"Trinitarian\" Christianity and was now considerably assisted in his theological debates by the Unitarian faction of Christianity.\"\n\nIn 1828, he launched Brahmo Sabha with Devendranath Tagore. By 1828, he had become a well known figure in India. In 1830, he had gone to England as an envoy of the Mughal Emperor, Akbar Shah II, who invested him with the title of Raja to the court of King William IV.\n\nThis was Ram Mohan's most controversial period. Commenting on his published works Sivanath Sastri writes:\n\n\"The period between 1820 and 1830 was also eventful from a literary point of view, as will be manifest from the following list of his publications during that period:\n\nHe publicly declared that he would emigrate from the British Empire if Parliament failed to pass the Reform Bill.\n\nIn 1830, Ram Mohan Roy travelled to the United Kingdom as an ambassador of the Mughal Empire to ensure that Lord William Bentinck's Bengal Sati Regulation, 1829 banning the practice of Sati was not overturned. In addition, Roy petitioned the King to increase the Mughal Emperor's allowance and perquisites. He was successful in persuading the British government to increase the stipend of the Mughal Emperor by £30,000. He also visited France. While in England, he embarked on a sort of cultural exchange, meeting with members of Parliament and publishing books on Indian economics and law. Sophia Dobson Collet was his biographer at the time.\n\nHe died at Stapleton, then a village to the north east of Bristol (now a suburb), on 27 September 1833 of meningitis and was buried in Arnos Vale Cemetery in southern Bristol.\n\nThe religious reforms of Roy contained in some beliefs of the Brahmo Samaj expounded by Rajnarayan Basu are:/-\n\n\n\nRoy’s political background and Christian influence influenced his social and religious views regarding reforms of Hinduism. He writes,\n\n\"The present system of Hindus is not well calculated to promote their political interests…. It is necessary that some change should take place in their religion, at least for the sake of their political advantage and social comfort.\"\n\nRam Mohan Roy’s experience working with the British government taught him that Hindu traditions were often not credible or respected by western standards and this no doubt affected his religious reforms. He wanted to legitimise Hindu traditions to his European acquaintances by proving that \"superstitious practices which deform the Hindu religion have nothing to do with the pure spirit of its dictates!\" The \"superstitious practices\", to which Ram Mohan Roy objected, included sati, caste rigidity, polygamy and child marriages. These practices were often the reasons British officials claimed moral superiority over the Indian nation. Ram Mohan Roy’s ideas of religion actively sought to create a fair and just society by implementing humanitarian practices similar to the Christian ideals professed by the British and thus seeking to legitimise Hinduism in the eyes of the Christian world.\n\n\nRam Mohan Roy was originally buried on 18 October 1833, in the grounds of Stapleton Grove where he had died of meningitis on 27 September 1833. Nine and a half years later he was reburied on 29 May 1843 in a grave at the new Arnos Vale Cemetery, in Brislington, East Bristol. A large plot on The Ceremonial Way there had been bought by William Carr and William Prinsep, and the body in its lac and a lead coffin was placed later in a deep brick-built vault, over seven feet underground. Two years after this, Dwarkanath Tagore helped pay for the chattri raised above this vault, although there is no record of his ever visiting Bristol. The chattri was designed by the artist William Prinsep, who had known Ram Mohan in Calcutta.\n\nBristol Arnos Vale cemetery have been holding remembrance services of Raja Ram Mohan Roy every year on a Sunday close to his death anniversary date of 27 September. The Indian High Commission at London often come to Raja's annual commemoration. Bristol's Lord Mayor shall also be in attendance. The commemoration is a joint Brahmo-Unitarian service, in which, prayers and hymns are sung, flowers laid at the tomb, and the life of the Raja is celebrated via talks and visual presentations. In 2013, a recently discovered ivory bust of Ram Mohan was displayed. In 2014, his original death mask at Edinburgh was filmed and its history was discussed. In 2017, Raja's commemoration was held on 24 September and in 2018, it will be held on the 30th of September.\n\nIn 1983, a full-scale Exhibition on Ram Mohan Roy was held in Bristol's Museum and Art Gallery. His enormous 1831 portrait by Henry Perronet Briggs still hangs there and was the subject of a talk by Sir Max Muller in 1873. At Bristol's centre, on College Green, is a full-size bronze statue of the Raja by the modern Kolkata sculptor Niranjan Pradhan. Another bust by Pradhan, gifted to Bristol by Jyoti Basu, sits inside the main foyer of Bristol's City Hall.\n\nA pedestrian path at Stapleton has been named \"Rajah Rammohun Walk\". There is a 1933 Brahmo plaque on the outside west wall of Stapleton Grove, and his first burial place in the garden is marked by railings and a granite memorial stone. His tomb and chattri at Arnos Vale are listed at Grade II* by English Heritage and attract many admiring visitors today.\n\n"}
{"id": "2592809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2592809", "title": "Shambhala Buddhism", "text": "Shambhala Buddhism\n\nThe term Shambhala Buddhism was introduced by Sakyong Mipham in the year 2000 to describe his presentation of the Shambhala teachings originally conceived by Chögyam Trungpa as secular practices for achieving enlightened society, in concert with the Kagyu and Nyingma schools of Tibetan Buddhism. The Shambhala Buddhist sangha considers Sakyong Mipham to be its head and the second in a lineage of Sakyongs; with his father, Chögyam Trungpa, being the first.\n\nShambhala Buddhism partly derives from the teachings of Shambhala, as originally proclaimed by Chögyam Trungpa, which state that \"there is a natural source of radiance and brilliance in the world, which is the innate wakefulness of human beings. This is the basis, in myth and inspiration, of the Kingdom of Shambhala, an enlightened society of fearlessness, dignity and compassion.\" Furthermore, \"Shambhala vision applies to people of any faith, not just people who believe in Buddhism. The Shambhala vision does not distinguish a Buddhist from a Catholic, a Protestant, a Jew, a Moslem, a Hindu. That's why we call it the Shambhala kingdom. A kingdom should have lots of spiritual disciplines in it.\"\n\nThe Shambhala Buddhist sangha expresses this vision largely within Tibetan Buddhist concepts, terms, and practices, continuing its ties to contemporary Kagyu and Nyingma lineage holders, among them the Karmapa (Ogyen Trinley Dorje), Penor Rinpoche (d. March 27, 2009), and other important lamas. Many prominent lamas come and offer teachings to the community on a regular basis. However, certain aspects of Shambhala Buddhism, known as \"Shambhalian\" practices, are unique to the sangha.\n\nIn 1976,at a party, Trungpa Rinpoche began giving teachings, some of which were gathered and presented as Shambhala Training, inspired by his vision (see terma) of the legendary Kingdom of Shambhala. Shambhalian practices focus on using mindfulness/awareness meditation as a means of connecting with one's basic sanity and using that insight as inspiration for one's encounter with the world. The Shambhala of Chögyam Trungpa is essentially a secular approach to meditation, with roots in Buddhism as well as in other traditions, but accessible to individuals of any, or no religion. The greater social vision of Shambhala is that it is possible, moment by moment, for individuals to establish enlightened society. Trungpa's book \"\" provides a concise collection of the Shambhala views.\n\nShambhala Training is administered worldwide by Shambhala International. Shambhala Training is presented in a series of weekend programs, the first five of which are called \"The Heart of Warriorship\", and the subsequent seven \"The Sacred Path\". The Warrior Assembly is the fruition of the Shambhala Training Sacred Path program. During Warrior Assembly, students study the Shambhala terma text, The Golden Sun of the Great East, and receive the ashé practices of stroke and lungta.\n\nAfter the year 2000, with the merging of the secular teachings of Shambhala and the Buddhist teachings of Vajradhatu into Shambhala Buddhism, completion of Shambhala Vajrayana Seminary (which itself requires taking Buddhist refuge and bodhisattva vows, as well as Buddhist vajrayana samaya vows) became a condition for receiving the highest Shambhala teachings, such as those of Werma and the Scorpion Seal Retreat. In turn, Warrior Assembly became a prerequisite for attending the Vajrayana Seminary.\n\nThe Shambhala Seminary is a two-part seminary designed to deepen students' practice and understanding of the Buddhist and Shambhala teachings and to enter them into the vajrayana practices of the Shambhala Buddhist mandala. Part 1, Sutrayana Seminary, is led by a Shambhala acharya and provides in-depth training and study of the Hinayana, Mahayana, and Shambhala teachings. Part 2, Vajrayana Seminary, is led by Sakyong Mipham Rinpoche and authorizes students to begin their Shambhala ngöndro—the preliminary practices for receiving the Rigden Abhisheka.\n\nThe Rigden Abhisheka enters the student into the practice of the Werma Sadhana. It is open to graduates of Shambhala Vajrayana Seminary who have completed their Shambhala ngöndro and to students who have already received the Werma Sadhana and completed their Kagyü Ngöndro.\n\nCertain Shambhala practices derive from specific terma texts of Trungpa Rinpoche's such as \"Letter of the Black Ashe\", \"Letter of the Golden Key that Fulfills Desire\", \"Golden Sun of the Great East\", and the \"Scorpion Seal of the Golden Sun\", in long and short versions. Trungpa Rinpoche is believed by his students to have received these teachings directly from Gesar of Ling, an emanation of Padmasambhava, and the Rigden kings. Their terma status was confirmed by the Nyingma master Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche.\n\nThe Shambhala dharma practices derived entirely or in part from these texts include those of \"werma\", \"drala\", \"Wind Horse\" (Tib. \"lungta\"), and meditations on four \"dignities of Shambhala\": tiger (Tib. \"tak\"), lion (Tib. \"seng\"), garuda (Tib. \"kyung\") and dragon (Tib. \"druk\"). Jamgon Ju Mipham Gyatso, a great 19th century Nyingma lama and the predecessor of Sakyong Mipham Rinpoche, wrote about many of these practices and concepts as well. Some, such as the \"stroke of Ashé\", have no known precedents.\n\nThe Kalachakra tradition is central to Shambhala Buddhism. Trungpa Rinpoche requested that the Kagyu Kalachakra master Kalu Rinpoche perform the initiation for his Vajrayana students, which he did in 1986 in Boulder, Colorado. The Rigden Kings of Shambhala are central figures to the community, and a thangka of the Rigden king is the centerpiece of all public Shambhala Buddhist shrines. Gesar of Ling, a mythical Tibetan king, is also an important figure to Shambhala Buddhists, to whom he represents enlightened wisdom manifesting in the world as a leader. Many of the teachings of the Shambhala lineage derive from the \"Epic of Gesar\" as propagated by Mipham the Great.\n\nTrungpa Rinpoche was deeply influenced by his friend Shunryu Suzuki Roshi, a Japanese Zen master who was one of the first accomplished teachers to present dharma to Westerners. As a result of this influence, certain attributes of form in Shambhala Buddhism are derived from Zen, rather than Tibetan Buddhism. The shrine rooms in Shambhala Buddhism, reflecting the Zen aesthetic of \"Kanso\" (簡素) or simplicity, tend to be sparsely furnished and decorated, whereas traditional Tibetan Buddhist shrine rooms are elaborate, ornate, and colorful. As in Zen but unlike Tibetan Buddhist practice, meditators engage in group practice of shamatha-vipashyana.\n\nIn addition, Shambhala Buddhists have adopted the practices of kyūdō, ikebana (kado), tea ceremony, oryoki, calligraphy, and other traditional Japanese arts as a means of extending the mind of calm-abiding and awareness to more active practices.\n\nTo a lesser extent, Trungpa Rinpoche incorporated other elements into Shambhala tradition that he thought would be beneficial to practitioners. From the Bön religion, the lhasang ceremony is performed; other elements of shamanism play a role. From Confucianism comes a framework of heaven, earth, and man for understanding the proper relationship between different elements of compositions of all kinds. From Taoism comes the use of feng shui and other incorporations.\n\nThe Dorje Kasung is a group that was formed by Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche to support the transmission of the Shambhala teachings by helping create an appropriate environment for them to be taught in. The Dorje Kasung accomplish this by providing a gentle and uplifted presence at teaching events, providing security services, providing driving and personal assistance to the teachers, and working with any issues of conflict or health that may arise in the community.\n\nThe training and model of the Dorje Kasung is based on military forms, such as hierarchy, uniforms, and drills. The purpose of utilizing the military format is not to propagate war, but to take advantage of the discipline and energy of military forms to embody and communicate compassion.The practice of Dorje Kasungship is founded on the mahayana Buddhist principle of compassionate action, and inspired by the vajrayana Buddhist emphasis on working directly with the energy of neurosis and transforming it into wisdom. Thus, through engaging directly with military forms, they aspire to fulfill the vision expressed in their motto, \"Victory Over War\".\n\nThe Dorje Kasung follow the orders of the Sakyong. Once, this involved breaking into a guest's room, forcibly bringing her to a party and then stripping her naked, while onlookers ignored her pleas for help and for someone to call the police.\n\nMaitri is a therapeutic program that works with different styles of neurosis using principles of the Five Buddha Families. Mudra practice, first explored by the Mudra Theater Group, is based on traditional Tibetan monastic dance training and the teachings on mahamudra.\n\nShambhala Art can be seen as a process, a product, and an art-education program. As a process, it brings wakefulness and awareness to the creative and viewing processes through the integration of contemplation and meditation. As a product, it is art that wakes us up. Shambhala Art is also an international nonprofit art-education program based on the Dharma Art teachings of Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche, the founder of Shambhala. Its purpose is to explore, from the viewpoint of a meditative discipline, the creative process and the product called art.\n\nShambhala Buddhism holds various meditation techniques of traditional Tibetan Buddhist lineages, including shamatha/vipashyana, zazen, madhayamaka, mahamudra and Dzogchen, tonglen, Lojong, traditional yidam practices such as Vajrayogini, Chakrasamvara, Vajrakilaya, Jambhala, Gesar, Tara, Manjushri, and Vajrasattva.\n\nThe term \"Shambhala Buddhism\", as used to describe the lineage and community led by Sakyong Mipham Rinpoche, came into use around 2000. \n\nToday, there are over two hundred Shambhala Meditation Centers, Groups and Residential Retreat Centers around the world, mostly in the United States, Canada, Europe and South America, the largest communities being Halifax, Nova Scotia; Boulder, Colorado; northern Vermont; and New York City.\n\n\nThe umbrella organization that encompasses many of the distinct institutions of Shambhala Buddhism is called \"Shambhala International\". Shambhala International, which is based in Halifax, Nova Scotia, links a worldwide mandala of urban Buddhist meditation centers, retreat centers, monasteries, a university, and other ventures, founded by the Tibetan Buddhist teacher the Trungpa Rinpoche under the name Vajradhatu. Sakyong Mipham Rinpoche is the present spiritual and executive head of the organization, which he renamed and reorganized in 1990.\n\n\nThe Shambhala Buddhist sangha has teaching faculty, supporting individual study and practice with mentorship, guidance, personal meditation instruction, junior and senior teachers, and western spiritual teachers (acharyas) who support and guide the Shambhala sangha, including:\n\n\nThe Shambhala \"land centers\" are retreat centers, generally located in more rural settings around the world.\n\n\nMany entities are considered part of the larger Shambhala mandala inspired by Chogyam Trungpa, although they may not be legally part of the Shambhala International organization.\n\n\nChoseng Trungpa, the Twelfth Trungpa Tulku, along with the other tulkus and leaders of Surmang, asked Sakyong Mipham Rinpoche to assume stewardship of Surmang Monastery and its people. Sakyong Mipham has also been asked to assume responsibility for Weyen monastery, the Gesar orphanage, and the Mipham Institute in Golok, and Khamput Monastery in Kham.\n\nShambhala International has inspired or sponsors a number of publications, and others exist in some degree of relationship to the larger Shambhala International/Shambhala Buddhism mandala.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5300398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5300398", "title": "Tarquinia Molza", "text": "Tarquinia Molza\n\nTarquinia Molza (1 November 1542 – 8 August 1617) was an Italian singer, poet, conductor, composer, and natural philosopher. She was considered a great \"virtuosa\". She was involved with the famous \"Concerto delle donne\", although whether she sang with them or coached them is not clear. She also played the viola bastarda.\n\nMolza was born in Modena, the granddaughter of the poet , and the daughter of Camillus and Isabella Colombi. Her father agreed that she should have the same education as her brothers, and she learned Greek, Latin, Hebrew, and philosophy until she was sixteen. She studied with the scientist John Politiano and the poet Francis Patrizio, and learned astronomy from the mathematician Antony Guarini. She married Paolo Porrino in 1560, who supported her returning to school, where she studied with Francesco Patrizi. She was widowed by 1579.\n\nBy 1583 she was living in Ferrara in the official capacity of lady-in-waiting to Duchess Margherita Gonzaga d'Este, where she was a famous performer, conductor, and composer. Molza was dismissed from her position in 1589 and returned to Mantua when she was accused of having an affair with Flemish composer Giaches de Wert. Minor nobility (as ladies-in-waiting to the duchess were considered) were not to involve themselves with members of the servant class (as minor composers such as Wert were considered). She claimed that her relationship with Wert was a friendship, and not sexual.\n\nMolza wrote poetry in Latin and Tuscan dialect; she also wrote essays.\n\nMany artistic works were dedicated to her; Francesco Patrizi wrote about her singing in his treatise \"L'amorosa filosofia\", and she was perhaps the first singer to have a published biography dedicated to her (\"Opuscoli inediti di Tarquinia Molza modenese\" by D. Vandelli).\n\nHer name appears among those on the Heritage Floor of Judy Chicago's \"The Dinner Party.\"\n\nMolza was granted Roman citizenship in 1600, the only woman to have citizenship. The decree stated, \"although the Senate has never accepted women in to the ranks of citizenship…[it is resolved that] Tarquinia Molza of Modena be numbered in the ranks of its most noble citizens with the title \"l'Unica\", never before bestowed on anyone, in recognition of her singular virtues and merits.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31916744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31916744", "title": "The Forgotten Prisoners", "text": "The Forgotten Prisoners\n\n\"The Forgotten Prisoners\" is an article by Peter Benenson published in \"The Observer\" on 28 May 1961. Citing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights articles 18 and 19, it announced a campaign on \"Appeal for Amnesty, 1961\" and called for \"common action\". The article also launched the book \"Persecution 1961\" and its stories of doctor Agostinho Neto, philosopher Constantin Noica, lawyer Antonio Amat and Ashton Jones and Patrick Duncan.\n\nBenenson reputedly wrote his article after having learnt that two Portuguese students from Coimbra were imprisoned in Portugal for raising a toast to freedom. The article was reprinted in newspapers across the world and provoked a flood of responses from the readers, marshalling groups in several countries to examine human rights abuses.\n\nWhile, in 2015, the original story still remains to be verified, the appeal marks the beginning of Amnesty International, founded in London the same year following the publication after Benenson enlisted a Conservative, a Liberal and a Labour MP.\n"}
{"id": "45351671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45351671", "title": "Theory of Basic Human Values", "text": "Theory of Basic Human Values\n\nThe Theory of Basic Human values, developed by Shalom H. Schwartz, is a theory in the field of intercultural research. The author considers the theory as an essential extension of previous approaches to comparative intercultural research theories, such as the Hofstede's cultural dimensions theory, and has been extensively applied in cross-cultural studies of individual values. The Theory of Basic Human Values tries to measure Universal Values that are recognised throughout all major cultures. Schwartz’s theory identifies ten such motivationally distinct values and further describes the dynamic relations amongst them. To better graphically portray these relationships, the theory arranges the ten values in a circular structure.\n\nIn the 2012 article, Schwartz and colleagues presented a refined set of 19 basic individual values that serve as \"guiding principles in the life of a person or group\".\n\nThe Theory of Basic Human Values recognises ten universal values, which can be organised in four higher-order groups. Each of the ten universal values has a central goal that is the underlying motivator.\n\nSelf-Direction Independent thought and action—choosing, creating, exploring.\nStimulation Excitement, novelty and challenge in life.\n\nHedonism Pleasure or sensuous gratification for oneself.\nAchievement Personal success through demonstrating competence according to social standards.\nPower Social status and prestige, control or dominance over people and resources.\n\nSecurity Safety, harmony, and stability of society, of relationships, and of self.\nConformity Restraint of actions, inclinations, and impulses likely to upset or harm others and violate social expectations or norms.\nTradition Respect, commitment, and acceptance of the customs and ideas that one's culture or religion provides.\n\nBenevolence Preserving and enhancing the welfare of those with whom one is in frequent personal contact (the ‘in-group’).\nUniversalism Understanding, appreciation, tolerance, and protection for the welfare of all people and for nature.\n\nSpirituality was considered as an additional eleventh value, however, it was found that it did not exist in all cultures.\n\nIn addition to identifying the ten basic values, the theory also explains how these ten values are interconnected and influence each other, since the pursuit of any of the values results in either an accordance with one another (conformity and security) or a conflict with at least one other value (benevolence and power). Tradition and conformity share particularly similar motivational goals and consequently are consolidated in the same wedge. Values can lightly or more strongly oppose each other, which has led to the organisation of the values in a circular structure along two bipolar dimensions. The first dimension is openness to change versus conservation, which contrasts independence and obedience. The second bipolar dimension is self-enhancement versus self-transcendence and is concerned on the one side with the interests of one-self and on the other side of the welfare of others.\nAlthough the theory distinguishes ten values, the borders between the motivators are artificial and one value flows into the next, which can be seen by the following shared motivational emphases:\n\n\nFurthermore, people are still able to follow opposing values through acting differently in different settings or at different times. The structure of Schwartz's 10-value type model (see graph above) has been supported across over 80 countries, women and men, various methods such as importance ratings of values (using the surveys listed below), direct similarity judgment tasks, pile sorting, and spatial arrangement, and even for how the values of other people, such as family members, are perceived. \n\nSeveral models have been developed to measure the basic values to ensure that the values theory is valid independent of the methodology employed. The main differentiator between the Schwartz Value Survey and the Portrait Values Questionnaire is that the former is explicit, while the latter is implicit.\n\nThe Schwartz Value Survey (SVS) reports values of participants explicitly, by asking them to conduct a self-assessment. The survey entails 57 questions with two lists of value items. The first list consist of 30 nouns, while the second list contains 26 or 27 items in an adjective form. Each item is followed by a brief description for clarification. Out of the 57 questions 45 are used to compute the 10 different value types, of which the number of items to measure a certain value varies according to the conceptual breath. The remaining 12 items are used to allow better standardisation in calculation of an individual’s value.\nThe importance of each of value item is measured on a nonsymmetrical scale in order to encourage the respondents to think about each of the questions.\nThe survey has been conducted so far on more than 60,000 individuals in 64 nations.\n\nThe Portrait Values Questionnaire (PVQ) has been developed as an alternative to the SVS. The PVQ has been created primarily for children from 11–14, however, also has shown to produce coherent results when given to adults. In comparison to the SVS the PVQ relies on indirect reporting. Hereby, the respondent is asked to compare himself/herself (gender-matched) with short verbal portraits of 40 different people. After each portrait the responded has to state how similar he or she is to the portrait person ranging from “very much like me” to “not like me at all”. This way of research allows to how the individual actually acts rather than research what values are important to an individual. Similar to the SVS the portraits for each value varies according to the conceptual breath.\n\nOne of the main limitations of this theory lies in the methodology of the research. The SVS is quite difficult to answer, because respondents have to first read the set of 30 value items and give one value the highest as well as the lowest ranking (0 or -1, depending on whether an item is opposed to their values). Hence, completing one questionnaire takes approximately 12 minutes resulting in a significant amount of only half-filled in forms.\nFurthermore, many respondents have a tendency to give the majority of the values a high score, resulting in a skewed responses to the upper end.\nAnother methodological limitations are the resulting ordinal, ipsatised scores that limit the type of useful analyses researchers can perform.\n\nRecent studies advocate that values can influence the audience’s reaction to advertising appeals. Moreover, in the case that a choice and a value are intervened, people tend to pick the choice that aligns more with their own values. Therefore, models such as the Theory of Basic Human Values could be seen as increasingly important for international marketing campaigns, as they can help to understand values and how values vary between cultures. This becomes especially true as it has been shown that values are one of the most powerful explanations of consumer behaviour. Understanding the different values and underlying defining goals can also help organisations to better motivate staff in an increasingly international workforce and create an according organizational structure.\n\nRecently, Schwartz's work—and that of Geert Hofstede—has been applied to economics research. Specifically, the performance of the economies as it relates to entrepreneurship and business (firm) creation. This has significant implications to economic growth and might help explain why some countries are lagging behind others when labor, natural resources, and governing institutions are equal. This is a relatively new field of study in economics, however the recent empirical results suggest that culture plays a significant role in the success of entrepreneurial efforts across countries—even ones with largely similar governmental structures. Francisco Liñán and José Fernandez-Serrano found that these cultural attributes accounted for 60% of the difference in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) variance per capita in countries within the European Union (EU).\n"}
{"id": "910778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910778", "title": "Views of Lyndon LaRouche and the LaRouche movement", "text": "Views of Lyndon LaRouche and the LaRouche movement\n\nLyndon LaRouche and the LaRouche movement have expressed controversial views on a wide variety of topics. The LaRouche movement is made up of activists who follow LaRouche's views.\n\nAccording to Matko Meštrović, emeritus senior research fellow at the Institute of Economics of Zagreb, Croatia, LaRouche's economic policies, developed from originally Marxist beginnings, call for a program modeled on the economic-recovery program of the Franklin Roosevelt administration, including fixed exchange rates, capital controls, exchange controls, currency controls, and protectionist price and trade agreements among partner-nations. LaRouche also calls for a reorganization of debt world-wide, and a global plan for large-scale, continental infrastructure projects. He rejects free trade, deregulation, and globalization.\n\nLyndon LaRouche began his political career as a Trotskyist and praised Marxism, but he and the National Caucus of Labor Committees abandoned this ideology in the late 1970s. LaRouche no longer opposes private ownership of the means of production, and his analysis of political events is no longer phrased in terms of class.\n\nAccording to Tim Wohlforth, during and after his break with Trotskyism, LaRouche's theory was influenced by what he called his \"Theory of Hegemony\" derived from Vladimir Lenin's view of the role of intellectuals in being a vanguard helping workers develop their consciousness and realize their leading role in society. He was influenced by Antonio Gramsci's concept of a hegemon as an intellectual and cultural elite which directs social thought. LaRouche's theory saw himself and his followers as becoming such a hegemonic force. He rejected Gramsci's notion of \"organic intellectuals\" being developed by the working class itself. Rather, the working class would be led by elite intellectuals such as himself.\n\nLaRouche was influenced by his readings of Rosa Luxemburg's \"The Accumulation of Capital\" and Karl Marx's \"Capital\" developing his own \"theory of reindustrialization\", saying that the West would attempt to industrialize the Third World, particularly India, and attempt to solve the economic crisis both by developing new markets in the Third World and using its cheap and surplus labor to increase profits and minimize costs (see neocolonialism.) To oppose this, LaRouche argued for a \"reindustrialization\" of the United States with himself at the vanguard of the effort allowing him to personally resolve the crisis of capitalism. Though his arguments have since been stripped of their quasi-Marxist language and citations, his core theories have remained essentially the same since the late 1960s.\n\nIn \"Dialectical Economics: An Introduction to Marxist Political Economy\", a book published in 1975 by D. C. Heath and Company under the pen name Lyn Marcus, LaRouche tried to show that numerous Marxists – ranging from the \"Monthly Review\" group to Ernest Mandel, Vladimir Lenin, Leon Trotsky, Joseph Stalin, Mao Zedong, Fidel Castro and the \"Soviet economists\" – had failed to correctly understand and interpret Marx's writing. Marxists he admired – apart from Marx himself – were Rosa Luxemburg and Yevgeni Preobrazhensky.\n\nAccording to a review by Martin Bronfenbrenner in \"The Journal of Political Economy\", about half of the book was devoted to dialectical philosophy, \"with a strong epistemological stress\", with the other half devoted to discussions of economic and general history, anthropology and sociology, and actual economics, including a surprisingly large helping of business administration – Bronfenbrenner noted that LaRouche seemed to have \"more private-business experience than the great majority of academic economists\", including a familiarity with the way speculative overcapitalization, operating at the borders of white-collar crime, creates \"fictitious capitals\" that later do not match their actual earning power. Like Thorstein Veblen, LaRouche subscribed to an overcapitalization theory of economic depression.\n\nAccording to Bronfenbrenner, LaRouche viewed conventional economics as a \"withered arm of philosophy\", which had taken a wrong turn towards reductionism under the influence of British empiricists such as Locke and Hume. LaRouche's definition of reductionism was as follows:\n\nThe fundamental fallacy of ordinary understanding is the delusion that the universe is reducible to simple substance, or—the more Hume-like view—that the content of human knowledge is limited to simple-substance-like, self-evident sense perceptions. This discredited outlook—whether it takes the naive mechanistic [form] or the equivalent mechanistic outlook of empiricism—is termed \"reductionism\". All varieties of reductionism are formally premised on the fallacious assumption of formal logic, that the universe can be represented as discrete points interconnected by formal relations. \n\nFrom this it followed, Bronfenbrenner said, that LaRouche viewed bourgeois economists' concern with \"prices\" as reductionism, versus the Marxian concern with \"values\". The reductionist fallacy then lies in adjusting a value theory like labor theory to fit in with price theory; in LaRouche's view, economists should work in the opposite direction.\n\nAccording to Bronfenbrenner, LaRouche viewed capitalist America as headed for a kind of fascism not much better than that of the Nazis; but he noted that LaRouche's own vision of socialism, and the trade-off between necessity and freedom in a centrally planned economy, seemed apt to result in the justification of a different kind of dictatorship:\n\nJudging from his controversial manner, [LaRouche] impresses at least one reader as a Me-for-Dictator type to whom it would be dangerous to entrust the task of drawing any boundary between the domain of freedom and that of necessity or order.\n\nThe campaign platforms of LaRouche and his followers have included these elements:\n\nAccording to \"China Youth Daily Online\", LaRouche was once a Marxist, but now supports capitalism. He supports public control of financial capital and low-interest loans.\n\nLaRouche said banks should not be bailed out, but be placed in receivership by the state. He said that a \"firewall\" should prevent state aid from being diverted to speculative entities, which should be allowed to fail, and that such failures would clean up the financial markets.\n\nLaRouche believes in the principles of the New Deal of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and favors state intervention in the economy. LaRouche also said that he supported the approach of U.S. Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton, who established a banking system geared to develop production.\n\nItalian Economics Minister Giulio Tremonti said that he had encountered LaRouche at a debate held in 2007 in Rome, and that he appreciates LaRouche's writings. According to an article by Ivo Caizzi in \"Corriere della Sera\", a group of Italian Senators led by Oskar Peterlini asked the Berlusconi government to tackle the financial crisis using legislation developed by LaRouche in 2007. The legislation proposed that public money should save only the commercial infrastructure required for the financing of productive enterprises.\n\nThe \"Triple Curve\", or \"typical collapse function\", is an economic model developed by LaRouche which tries to illustrate the growth of financial aggregates at the expense of the physical economy and how this leads to an inevitably collapsing bubble economy. According to the \"China Youth Daily Online\" interview, LaRouche's main point is that the real economy (production) is dropping while the nominal economy (money and financial instruments) is going up. As the nominal economy greatly overreaches the real economy, an unavoidable economic crisis ensues.\n\nSince 2000, the LaRouche movement has:\n\nLaRouche's philosophy references an old dispute between Plato and Aristotle. Aristotle believed in knowledge through empirical observation and experience. Plato believed in The Forms.\nAccording to LaRouche, history has always been a battle between Platonists—rationalists, idealists and utopians who believe in absolute truth and the primacy of ideas—and Aristotelians—relativists who rely on empirical data and sensory perception. Platonists in LaRouche's worldview include figures such as Beethoven, Mozart, Shakespeare, Leonardo da Vinci, and Leibniz. LaRouche states that many of the world's ills are due to the fact that Aristotelianism, as embraced by British philosophers like Locke, Hume, Hobbes, Bentham and represented by \"oligarchs\", foremost among them wealthy British families, has dominated, leading to a culture that favors the empirical over the metaphysical, embraces moral relativism, and seeks to keep the general population uninformed. LaRouche frames this struggle as an ancient one, and sees himself and his movement in the tradition of the philosopher-kings in Plato's \"Republic\".\n\nLaRouche and his followers use Neoplatonism as the basis for an economic model that posits \"the absolute necessity of progress\". Economies evolve in stages as humanity devises new technologies, stages that LaRouche compares to the hierarchical spheres in Kepler's model of the solar system based on the Platonic solids. The purpose of science, technology and business must be to assist this progress, enabling the Earth to support an ever-growing humanity. Human life is the supreme value in LaRouche's world view; environmentalism and population control are seen as retrogressive steps, promoting a return to the Dark Ages. Rather than curtailing progress, because of dwindling resources, LaRouche advocates using nuclear technology to make more energy available to humanity, freeing humanity to enjoy music and art.\n\nIn LaRouche's view, the people opposing this vision are part of the Aristotelian conspiracy. They may not necessarily be in contact with one another: \"From their standpoint, [the conspirators] are proceeding by instinct,\" LaRouche has said. \"If you're asking how their policy is developed—if there is an inside group sitting down and making plans—no, it doesn't work that way ... History doesn't function quite that consciously.\" Left and right are false distinctions for LaRouche; what matters is the Platonic versus Aristotelian outlook, a position that has led LaRouche to form relationships with groups as disparate as farmers, nuclear engineers, Black Muslims, Teamsters, pro-lifers, and followers of the Ku Klux Klan—even though LaRouche counts the Klan itself among his foes.\n\nGeorge Johnson, in \"Architects of Fear\" (1983), has described LaRouche's Neoplatonist conspiracy theory as a \"distortion of a real philosophical distinction\". He has written that the resulting philosophy can be applied to any number of situations in a manner that becomes plausible once one accepts its basic premise. In his view, it forms the foundation of a conspiracy theory that rationalizes paranoid thinking, an opinion echoed by John George and Laird Wilcox in \"American Extremists: Militias, Supremacists, Klansmen, Communists & Others\" (1996). Writing in \"The New York Times\" in 1989, Johnson described LaRouche as \"a kind of Allan Bloom gone mad\" who seems to \"believe the nonsense he spouts\", a view of the world in which Aristotelians use \"sex, drugs and rock-and-roll\" and \"environmentalism and quantum theory\" to support wealthy oligarchs and create a civilization-destroying \"new Dark Age\".\n\nLaRouche wrote that conspiracy was natural in human beings. In 1998, he responded to critics of his conspiracism, such as Daniel Pipes and said that Pipes wrongly believed that all reports of conspiracy are axiomatically false.\n\nLaRouche's critics, particularly Dennis King and Chip Berlet, characterize his current orientation as being a conspiracist worldview. They say the Marxist concept of the ruling class was converted by LaRouche into a conspiracy theory, in which world capitalism was controlled by a cabal including the Rothschilds, the Rockefellers, Henry Kissinger, and the Council on Foreign Relations. Daniel Pipes said that LaRouche personalizes his conspiracy theories, and associates \"all of his adversaries with the forces of darkness.\"\n\nEIR in 2007 ran an \"investigative report\" titled \"Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy At It Again, With a New Twist.\" It says:\n\nIn 2001, LaRouche said that rogue elements within the American military took part in, or planned, the September 11, 2001 attacks as part of a \"coup d'état\".\n\nLaRouche is known for alleging conspiracies by the British. LaRouche has said that the dominant imperialist strategic force acting on the planet today is not the United States, but the \"Anglo-Dutch liberal system\" of the British Empire, which he asserts is an oligarchic financial consortium like that of medieval Venice, more like a \"financial slime-mold\" than a nation. According to this theory, London financial circles protect themselves from competition by using techniques of \"controlled conflict\" first developed in Venice, and LaRouche attributes many wars in recent memory to this alleged activity by the British.\n\nAccording to Chip Berlet and Dennis King, LaRouche has always been stridently anti-British and has included Queen Elizabeth II, the British Royal Family, and others, in his list of conspirators who are said to control the world's political economy and the international drug trade. According to Jonathan Vankin and John Whalen, LaRouche is the \"most illustrious\" Anglophobe. These views are reflected in three books authored by members of his organization:\n\n\nAccording to book critic and columnist Scott McLemee:\n\nThe emergence of the [LaRouche Youth Movement] is all the more surprising, given that LaRouche himself has long since become the walking punchline to a very strange joke. He is known for some of the most baroque conspiracy theories ever put into circulation. Members of the LYM now deny that he ever accused the Queen of England of drug trafficking—though in fact, he did exactly that throughout the 1980s. At the time, he won admirers on the extreme right wing by denouncing Henry Kissinger as an agent of the KGB and calling for AIDS patients to be quarantined.\n\nIn 2004, in a segment about the death of Jeremiah Duggan during a LaRouche Youth Movement cadre school in Wiesbaden in March 2003, BBC's \"Newsnight\" re-broadcast a BBC interview with LaRouche from 1980, in which he said about the Queen: \"Of course she's pushing drugs. That is, in the sense of a responsibility, the head of a gang that is pushing drugs, she knows it's happening and she isn't stopping it.\"\n\nA 1998 editorial in LaRouche's \"Executive Intelligence Review\" cited a statement by Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in \"The Daily Telegraph\" that described LaRouche as the \"publisher of a book that accuses the Queen of being the world's foremost drug dealer\", characterising it as a \"bit of black propaganda\" and a \"reference to the book Dope, Inc., [...] which laid bare the role of the London-centered offshore financial institutions and allied intelligence services, in running the global drug trade, from the time of Britain's nineteenth-century Opium Wars against China.\" Evans-Pritchard further said LaRouche had claimed that the Queen was involved in the Death of Diana, Princess of Wales. The \"Executive Intelligence Review\" responded that Evans-Pritchard's article was \"pure fiction\", written in response to \"Executive Intelligence Review\" reporter Jeff Steinberg's appearance on a British ITV television program about the Diana controversy. In a brief part of an interview with Steinberg broadcast the following day by Channel 4's \"Dispatches\", Steinberg said that while there was \"no smoking gun proof\" that Prince Philip asked British intelligence to assassinate Diana, he could not \"rule out\" the possibility.\n\nLaRouche's initial essay on the influence of Leo Strauss within Neoconservatism and the George W. Bush administration, \"The Essential Fraud of Leo Strauss\", was written in March 2003. In the same year, a series of pamphlets entitled \"Children of Satan\" later consolidated into a book, began appearing. LaRouche charges that there was a conspiracy dominated by what are called Straussians (followers of Leo Strauss) within the Bush administration, and that the dominant personality in this conspiracy was Dick Cheney (whose photo appears on the cover of the book.) LaRouche claimed that these conspirators deliberately misled the American public and the US Congress in order to initiate the 2003 invasion of Iraq. He writes that the Straussians created the Office of Special Plans in order to fabricate intelligence and bypass traditional intelligence channels. According to LaRouche movement member Tony Papert, an important part of this theory is the LaRouchian analysis of the ideas of Leo Strauss which borrows heavily from the writings of Shadia Drury.\n\nRobert Bartley of the \"Wall Street Journal\" has condemned LaRouche's views on this subject, and says that it may have influenced other commentators who subsequently published a similar analysis, such as Seymour Hersh and James Atlas of the \"New York Times\". Bartley quotes the assertion by LaRouche movement member Jeffrey Steinberg that a \"cabal of Strauss disciples, along with an equally small circle of allied neo-conservative and Likudnik fellow-travelers\" have plotted a \"not-so-silent coup\" using the September 11 attacks as a justification, similar to the Reichstag fire of 1933. Bartley complains that Strauss's \"words are twisted from their meaning\" in order to justify the theory. Canadian journalist Jeet Heer writes that LaRouche's followers \"argue that Strauss is the evil genius behind the Republican Party\". Political science scholars Catherine and Michael Zuckert say that LaRouche's writings were the first to connect Strauss to Neoconservatism and the Bush foreign policy and initiated the discussion of the topic, though the views about it changed as it percolated through to international journalism.\n\nThe \"Executive Intelligence Review\" (EIR) published an article by Anton Chaitkin alleging that Prescott Bush \"had persevered with his comrades in the old Auschwitz gang\" and that \"the smoldering bodies in Auschwitz followed logically upon the race propaganda festival which had been staged by the Harriman-Bush enterprise a decade earlier in New York.\"\n\nEIR published a book, \"George Bush: The Unauthorized Biography\", by Webster Griffin Tarpley and Anton Chaitkin, in 1992, which said that \"virtually all the Nazi trade with the United States was under the supervision of the Harriman-Bush interests\", and that \"Bush’s family had already played a central role in financing and arming Adolf Hitler for his takeover of Germany; in financing and managing the buildup of Nazi war industries for the conquest of Europe and war against the U.S.A.; and in the development of Nazi genocide theories and racial propaganda, with their well-known results. [...] The President’s family fortune was largely a result of the Hitler project. The powerful Anglo-American family associations, which later boosted him into the Central Intelligence Agency and up to the White House, were his father’s partners in the Hitler project.\"\n\nIn 2006, The Larouche Political Action Committee and EIR published “Larouche to Rumsfeld: FDR Defeated the Nazis, While Bushes Collaborated”.\n\nIn 1974, an organisation affiliated to LaRouche predicted that there would be pandemics in Africa. When AIDS was first recognized as a medical phenomenon in the early 1980s, LaRouche activists were convinced that this was the pandemic about which the task force had warned. LaRouche and his followers stated that HIV, the AIDS virus, could be transmitted by casual contact, citing as supporting evidence the high incidence of the disease in Africa, the Caribbean and southern Florida. LaRouche said that the transmission by insect bite was \"thoroughly established\". John Grauerholz, medical director of the BHTF, told reporters that the Soviet Union may have started the epidemic and that U.S. health officials aided the Soviets by not doing more to stop AIDS.\n\nAIDS became a key plank in LaRouche's platform. His slogan was \"Spread Panic, not AIDS!\" LaRouche's followers created \"Prevent AIDS Now Initiative Committee\" (PANIC), which sponsored California Proposition 64, the \"LaRouche Initiative\", in 1986. Mel Klenetsky, co-director of political operations for the Larouche-affiliated National Democratic Policy Committee and LaRouche's campaign director, said that there must be universal testing and mandatory quarantining of HIV carriers. \"Twenty to 30 million out of 100 million people in central Africa have AIDS,\" Klenetsky said. \"It is spreading because of impoverished economic conditions, and that is a direct result of IMF policies that have destroyed people's means of resisting the disease.\" Klenetsky said that LaRouche believed that not only drug users and homosexuals are vulnerable to the disease.\n\nThe measure was met with strong opposition and was defeated. A second AIDS initiative qualified for the ballot in 1988, but the measure failed by a larger margin. In response to a survey which predicted that 72% of voters would oppose the measure, a spokesman called the poll \"an obvious fraud\", saying that pollsters deliberately worded questions to prejudice respondents against the initiative. He additionally said that the poll was part of a \"big lie...witch hunt\" orchestrated by Armand Hammer and Elizabeth Taylor.\n\nAs early as 1985 NDPC members ran for local school boards on a platform of keeping infected students out of school. In 1986 LaRouche supporters traveled from Seattle, Washington to Lebanon, Oregon to urge the school board there to reverse a policy that would allow children with AIDS to enroll. In 1987 followers tried to organize a boycott of an elementary school in the Chicago neighborhood of Pilsen, sending a van with loudspeakers through the district. They disrupted an informational meeting and according to press accounts told parents, \"The blood of your own children will be on your hands if you allow this child with AIDS in your school,\" or shouted at opponents, \"He has AIDS! He has AIDS!\"\n\nLaRouche purchased a national TV spot during his 1988 presidential campaign, in which he summarized his views and proposals with respect to the AIDS epidemic. He said most statements about how AIDS is spread were an \"outright lie\" and that talk of safe sex was just propaganda put out by the government to avoid spending the money required to address the crisis.\n\nLaRouche-affiliated candidates used AIDS as an issue as late as 1994.\n\nOpponents characterized it as an anti-gay measure that would force HIV-positive individuals out of their jobs and into quarantine, or create \"concentration camps for AIDS patients.\" According to newspaper reports, the LaRouche newspaper \"New Solidarity\" said the initiative was opposed by Communist gangs composed of the \"lower sexual classes\" and he warned of the recruitment of millions of Americans into the ranks of \"AIDS-riddled homosexuality\".\n\nMeštrović says LaRouche follows Vladimir Vernadsky in seeing the human mind as a force transforming the biosphere into a higher form, the noösphere. LaRouche favors a highly industrialized civilization reaching for innovation and interplanetary colonization. The movement says that the theory of man-caused global warming prevents the development of emerging economies. It also says the top level organizations in the command structure of the environmental movement include the World Wildlife Fund, headed by Prince Philip, the Aspen Institute, and the Club of Rome.\n\nAccording to Chip Berlet, \"Pro-LaRouche publications have been at the forefront of denying the reality of global warming\". The LaRouche movement's \"21st Century Science & Technology\" magazine has been called \"anti-environmental\" by \"Mother Jones magazine.\" LaRouche publications denounced nuclear winter, the theory that nuclear war could lead to global cooling, as early as 1983, calling it a \"fraud\" and a \"hoax\" popularized by the Soviet Union to weaken the U.S. Some of the movement's ideas were later adopted by the Wise use movement. The LaRouche movement opposed ratification of the Convention on Biological Diversity, which failed in the U.S. Senate in 1994.\n\nLaRouche says that nuclear and especially fusion power is necessary for the continued growth of civilization. He founded the Fusion Energy Foundation, which published the journal \"Fusion\" (later renamed to \"21st Century Science & Technology\"). In his 1980 presidential platform, LaRouche promised 2500 nuclear power plants if elected. In 2007 LaRouche reiterated his position, saying that only the \"massive investment\" in fission and fusion technology could prevent the \"collapse of human existence on this planet\".\n\nThe movement has targeted opponents of nuclear power. Members of the Clamshell Alliance, non-violent protesters at the Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant in New Hampshire, were called \"terrorists\" in 1977. Representatives of LaRouche's U.S. Labor Party gave incriminating information to law enforcement about them, which the FBI later determined had been fabricated, according to King. During a large demonstration against the plant in 1989, an airplane carried a banner overhead which read, \"Free LaRouche! Kill Satan – Open Seabrook\".\n\nThe movement blames cabalists, including then-congressman Dick Cheney, for inciting anti-nuclear sentiments during the late 1970s. LaRouche sources described the incident at the nuclear power plant at Three Mile Island as sabotage, since they considered the control systems too sophisticated to fail by accident.\n\n\"21st Century Science & Technology\"'s managing editor, Marjorie Mazel Hecht, called the campaign against DDT the \"'mother' of all the environmental hoaxes\". Other articles compared anti-DDT campaigner Rachel Carson to Nazi propagandist Joseph Goebbels. \"21st century\", which is produced by LaRouche supporters, has published papers by entomologist J. Gordon Edwards, including one that urged the return of the insecticide DDT because he said it has \"saved more millions of lives than any other man-made chemical\". Rogelio (Roger) Maduro, an associate editor, wrote that the ban on DDT was part of a plan to reduce the population and had caused the deaths of 40 million people via a resurgence of malaria.\n\nLaRouche was part of what was called the \"ozone backlash\". \"21st Century Science & Technology\", which conducted what has been called \"a very effective campaign of misinformation on the issue of ozone depletion\", published \"The Holes in the Ozone Scare\" in 1992. The book, by LaRouche followers Rogelio Maduro and Ralf Schauerhammer, said that chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) were not destroying the ozone layer and opposed the proposal to ban them. It asserted that most chlorine in the atmosphere came from oceans, volcanoes, or other natural sources, and that CFCs were too heavy to reach the ozone layer. It went on to say that even if the ozone layer were depleted there would not be any harmful effects from additional ultraviolet radiation. It predicted that a ban would result in an additional 20 to 40 million deaths due to food spoilage. Lewis DuPont Smith, an heir to the DuPont Chemical fortune and a LaRouche follower, told Maduro that the DuPont Company had schemed to ban CFCs, which they had invented but which had become generic, in order to replace them with more expensive proprietary compounds. It has been called \"probably the best known and most widely quoted text aimed at debunking the concept of ozone depletion\". Its assertions were repeated by Dixie Lee Ray in her 1993 book \"Environmental Overkill\", by Rush Limbaugh, and by Ronald Bailey. Some atmospheric scientists have said that it is based on poor research.\n\nAt a 1994 shareholder's meeting, Smith called on Dupont to continue producing CFCs, saying there was no evidence of their harmfulness and that \"This is nothing less than genocide\". By 1995 LaRouche was noted as calling the ozone hole a \"myth\". Maduro's writings were the basis for the Arizona legislature's passage of a 1995 bill to allow the production of CFCs in the state despite federal and international prohibitions.\n\n\"The \"Greenhouse effect\" hoax: a world federalist plot\", another book by Maduro, says that the theory of anthropogenic global warming (AGW) is a plot by the British royal family and communists to undermine the U.S. It was cited by science writer David Bellamy.\n\nLaRouche followers have promoted the documentary \"The Great Global Warming Swindle\" and attacked Al Gore's \"An Inconvenient Truth\", infiltrating showings to promote their viewpoints. They have stood on street corners proclaiming the falsity of global warming, and have protested Gore's appearances.\n\n\"21st Century Science & Technology\" has published papers by climate change contrarians including Zbigniew Jaworowski, Nils-Axel Mörner, Hugh Ellsaesser, and Robert E. Stevenson. A 2007 article by LaRouche science advisor Laurence Hecht suggested that the varying levels of cosmic rays, whose change is dependent on Earth's motion through the galaxy, has a larger effect on the climate than local factors such as greenhouse gases or solar and orbital cycles. Christopher Monckton was praised as the leading spokesman of the \"global warming swindle\" in the introduction to an \"Executive Intelligence Review\" interview with him in 2009, but he was also considered to have a relatively limited view of the cabal behind the hoax. A movement newsletter says that environmental groups seek to \"force... CO2 emissions agreements down the throats of governments as a way of finishing off the nation-state system\" on behalf of synarchist networks.\n\nLaRouche is fascinated by musical theory, as well as mathematics and physics, and this fascination also translates into his teachings; his followers for example have attempted to link the musical scale to his Neoplatonist model of economic evolution, and study singing and geometry. A common teaser used by the movement is to ask people whether they know how to \"double the square\"—draw a square whose area is twice the size of an existing square. A motto of LaRouche's European Workers' Party is \"Think like Beethoven\"; movement offices typically include a piano and posters of German composers, and members are known for their choral singing at protest events, using satirical lyrics tailored to their targets.\n\nLaRouche and his wife have an interest in classical music up to the period of Brahms. LaRouche abhors contemporary music; holding that rock music is subversive, and was deliberately created to be so by British intelligence interests. LaRouche is quoted as saying that jazz music was \"foisted on black Americans by the same oligarchy which had run the U.S. slave trade\". This dislike for modern music also extends to more recent classical music; LaRouche movement members have protested at performances of Richard Wagner's operas, denouncing Wagner as an anti-Semite who found favor with the Nazis, and called a conductor \"satanic\" because he played contemporary music.\n\nIn 1988 LaRouche advocated that classical orchestras should return to the \"Verdi pitch,\" a pitch that Verdi had enshrined in Italian legislation in 1884. Orchestras' pitches have risen since the 18th century, because a higher pitch produces a more brilliant orchestral sound, while imposing an additional strain on singers' voices. Giuseppe Verdi succeeded in 1884 in having legislation passed in Italy that fixed the reference pitch for A at 432 Hz, but in 1938, the international standard was raised to 440 Hz, with some major orchestras tuning as high as 450 Hz in recent times. LaRouche spoke about the resulting strain on singers' voices in his 1988 presidential campaign videos. By 1989 the initiative had attracted support from more than 300 opera stars, including Joan Sutherland, Plácido Domingo, Luciano Pavarotti and Montserrat Caballé. While many of these singers may or may not have been aware of LaRouche's politics, Renata Tebaldi and Piero Cappuccilli ran for the European Parliament on LaRouche's \"Patriots for Italy\" platform and appeared as featured speakers at Schiller Institute conferences on the topic. The discussions led to debates in the Italian parliament about reinstating Verdi's legislation. LaRouche himself gave an interview to National Public Radio on the initiative in 1989 from prison. Stefan Zucker, the editor of \"Opera Fanatic\" (and, incidentally, the \"world's highest tenor\") opposed the initiative on the grounds that it would result in the establishment of a \"pitch police,\" arguing that the way it presented the history of the tuning pitch was a \"simplification\", and that LaRouche was using the issue to gain credibility. The initiative in the Italian Senate failed to result in corresponding legislation being passed.\n\nLaRouche considers pitch important, believing that the Verdi pitch has a direct relation to the structure of the universe, and that bel canto singing at the correct pitch maximizes the music's impact on both singers and listeners.\n\nLaRouche's organization opposed the Obama administration's health-care reform proposals. Posters of Obama wearing a Hitler-style mustache appeared at a LaRouche movement rally.\n\nAs town-hall meetings on this issue during the summer of 2009 began to attract very large and angry crowds, the comparison of Obama to Hitler began to show up on many signs and banners. \"The Atlantic\" wrote that LaRouche supporters \"patented the Obama-is-Nazi theme\".\n\nIn 1973, LaRouche wrote an article called \"Beyond Psychoanalysis\". He theorized that each culture had characteristic flaws that resulted in blocks to effective political organizing. LaRouche and his colleagues conducted studies of different \"national ideologies,\" including German, French, Italian, English, Latin American, Greek, and Swedish.\n\nIn an article, \"The Sexual Impotency of the Puerto Rican Socialist Party\", LaRouche criticised Machismo. Regarding the role of women, he adds, \"The task of real women's liberation is to generally strengthen women's self-consciousness and their power and opportunities to act upon self-consciousness.\"\n\nCritics say the movement is antisemitic, conspiracist, and anti-LGBT, and that its political and economic proposals are a cover for its actual beliefs.\n\nDuring the 1980s, LaRouche and his supporters made comments that were seen as anti-gay. A LaRouche-affiliated newspaper wrote that demonstrators against the LaRouche-sponsored AIDS initiative in California were from the \"lower sexual classes.\"\n\nBritish journalist Roger Boyes wrote, \"Anti-Semitism is at the core of LaRouche's conspiracy theories, which he adapts to modern events -most recently the war in Iraq.\" Daniel Levitas wrote in 1995 that LaRouche \"has been consistent in creating and elaborating conspiracy theories that contain a strong dose of antisemitism\". As an example of LaRouche's alleged antisemitism, Dennis King cited LaRouche's statement (under the pen name L. Marcus) in \"The Case of Ludwig Feuerbach\" (1973), \"Jewish culture ... is merely the residue left to the Jewish home after everything saleable has been marketed to the Goyim.\"\n\nThe charge of antisemitism in the LaRouche network resurfaced in the media in 2004 in accounts of the death of a young Jewish student, Jeremiah Duggan, who had been attending a Schiller Institute event in Germany. British press reports described LaRouche as \"the American leader of a sect with a fascist and antisemitic ideology\", and said he was \"infamous for his anti-Semitic views and claims the world's governments have been taken over by a Zionist conspiracy.\"\n\nLaRouche has long denied that his movement is antisemitic. In 2006, LaRouche said, \"Religious and racial hatred, such as anti-Semitism [is] the most evil expression of criminality to be seen on the planet today.\" Debra Freeman, a spokesperson for LaRouche, told a newspaper in 2010 that, \"Hitler was a lunatic, but his policies were based principally on economic policy and staying in power. We mourn the loss of six million Jews and countless others.\"\n\nLaRouche's critics have said he is a \"disguised anti-Semite\", in that he takes the classical antisemitic conspiracy theory and substitutes the word \"Zionist\" for the word \"Jew\", and ascribes the classical antisemitic caricature of the \"scheming Jew\" to particular Jewish individuals and groups of Jews, rather than to the Jews as a whole. \"Modern Zionism was not created by Jews, but was a project developed chiefly by Oxford University,\" LaRouche says. He says, \"Zionism is not Judaism.\" In 1978, the same year LaRouche's article cited \"The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion,\" the LaRouche group published \"Dope, Inc.: Britain’s Opium War against the U.S.,\" which cited the Protocols and defended its authenticity, likening the \"Elders of Zion\" to the Rothschild banking family, the British Royal family, and the Italian Mafia, and the Israeli Mossad, General Pike, and the B'nai B'rith. (Dope, Inc.) Later editions left out cites to \"The Protocols\". This is the genesis of the claim that LaRouche has said Queen Elizabeth runs drugs. When asked by an NBC reporter in 1984 about the Queen and drug running, LaRouche replied, \"Of course she's pushing drugs...that is in a sense of responsibility: the head of a gang that is pushing drugs; she knows it's happening and she isn't stopping it.\"\n\nChip Berlet argues that LaRouche indirectly expresses antisemitism through the use of \"coded language\" and by attacking neoconservatives. Dennis King maintains, for example, that words like \"British\" were really code words for 'Jew.'\" Other critics of LaRouche believe that LaRouche’s anti-British statements disparage the British system rather than the Jewish religion. Laird Wilcox and John George write that \"Dennis King goes to considerable lengths to paint LaRouche as a neo-Nazi, even engaging in a little conspiracy-mongering of his own.\"\n\nManning Marable of Columbia University wrote in a 1997 column that LaRouche had a \"long attempted to destroy and manipulate black leaders, political organizations and the black church\".\n\nDuring LaRouche's slander suit against NBC in 1984, Roy Innis, leader of the Congress of Racial Equality, took the stand for LaRouche as a character witness, stating under oath that LaRouche's views on racism were \"consistent with his own.\" Asked whether he had seen any indication of racism in LaRouche's associates, he replied that he had not. Innis received criticism from many blacks for having testified on LaRouche's behalf.\n\nThe African American civil-rights leader James Bevel was LaRouche's running mate in the 1992 presidential election, and in the mid-1990s, the LaRouche movement entered into an alliance with Louis Farrakhan's Nation of Islam. Another LaRouche movement member with a distinguished civil-rights history is Amelia Boynton Robinson, who is vice-president of the Schiller Institute; she has described the movement as following in the footsteps of Martin Luther King: \"Mr. And Mrs. LaRouche built a movement, taking up where Dr. King had left off. They realized ... there must be an universal image of mankind, which transcends all racial differences and barriers.\"\n\nLaRouche's movement has frequently been accused of being fascist. Those making the accusation include Democratic National Committee chairman Paul G. Kirk, a local Texas Democratic district committee., and Democratic activist Bob Hattoy\n\nDennis King, a former Marxist-Leninist and member of the Progressive Labor Party in the 1960s and early 1970s, used this thesis in the title of his book-length study of LaRouche and his movement, \"Lyndon LaRouche and the New American Fascism\" (1989). \",\" which is said to have consisted of violent physical attacks on left-wing meetings, is used as a basis for such accusations.\n\nAndrei Fursov, a Russian historian and academician at the International Academy of Sciences in Innsbruck, Austria, was interviewed in 2012 by the Russian think tank and web portal \"Terra America\" and asked to comment on the characterizations of LaRouche in Western media. He replied that intellectuals who have called LaRouche a fascist do not deserve to be called intellectuals, and that the charge has no basis in any real scientific analysis of politics. According to Fursov, it comes from the fact that LaRouche criticizes the supposedly \"democratic\" but actually \"liberal totalitarian\" system of the West. Fursov said that in Russia not so many people know of LaRouche, although, of course, the important thing is not the quantity, but the quality.\n\nGeorge Johnson, in a review of King's book in \"The New York Times\", said that King's presentation of LaRouche as a \"would-be Führer\" was \"too neat\", and that it failed to take into account that several members of LaRouche's inner circle were themselves Jewish, while acknowledging that LaRouche's \"conspiracy theory is designed to appeal to anti-Semitic right-wingers as well as to Black Muslims and nuclear engineers\". In his 1983 book, \"Architects of Fear\", Johnson described LaRouche's dalliances with radical groups on the right as \"a marriage of convenience\", and less than sincere; as evidence he cited a 1975 party memo that spoke of uniting with the right simply for the purpose of overthrowing the established order: \"Once we have won this battle, eliminating our right-wing opposition will be comparatively easy.\" At the same time, Johnson says, LaRouche also sought contact with the Soviet Union and the Baath Party in Iraq; failing to recruit either the Soviets or right-wingers to his cause, LaRouche attempted to adopt a more mainstream image in the 1980s. Laird Wilcox and John George similarly stated that King had gone too far in trying \"to paint LaRouche as a neo-Nazi\" and that LaRouche's most severe critics, like King and Berlet, came from extreme leftist backgrounds themselves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41274566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41274566", "title": "Walter Samuel Hunter", "text": "Walter Samuel Hunter\n\nWalter Samuel Hunter (March 22, 1889 – August 3, 1954) contributed to psychology by leading an effort to develop psychology as a science. Hunter was one of the first scholars of the time to focus not on the study of subjective mental processes but rather on the observation of animal behavior. In 1912, Hunter completed his doctoral dissertation on Delayed Reaction in Animals and Children. He was a pioneer in the effort of scientific documentation, having created Psychological Abstracts in 1927, which contained documents from psychologists in the U.S. and abroad.\n\nWalter Samuel Hunter was born in Decatur, Illinois, on March 22, 1889. His mother died when he was 12 years old. After his mother’s death, his father, George Hunter, moved him and his brother to Fort Worth, Texas. In January 1913, Hunter married his first wife, Katherine Pratt. The couple had a daughter named Thayer. Katherine Pratt died at the age of 27, shortly after the birth of their daughter. Hunter married his second wife, Alda Grace Barber, in 1917. His second daughter, Helen Barbara, was born in 1920. Hunter had a full career studying psychology before he died suddenly in 1954 from a coronary occlusion.\n\nHunter attended the Preparatory School of the Polytechnic College in 1905 where he was introduced to psychology by his roommate. He then attended the University of Texas, from which he graduated with a concentration in psychology in 1908. After graduation, he began graduate work at the University of Chicago, where he received a PhD. in psychology. Hunter returned to the University of Texas in 1912 as an instructor. In 1916, Hunter accepted a professorship of psychology at the University of Kansas. In 1925, Hunter accepted the position to become the first G. Stanley Hall Professor of Genetic Psychology at Clark University. In 1936, Hunter became the chairman of the Department of Psychology at Brown University.\n\nDuring his time at the University of Kansas in 1919, he produced his first textbook, entitled \"General Psychology\". While at Clark University, Hunter was the editor of the Psychological Index. He also wrote a second textbook entitled Human Behavior, established Psychological Abstracts, and served as president of the American Psychological Association from 1930 to 1931. During his time at Clark he also published 21 experimental papers, five theoretical studies, and four book chapters. While he was American Psychological Association President, he delivered an address on the Psychological Study of Behavior. In 1933, Hunter was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and in 1935, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences. In 1936, Hunter became the chairman of the Department of Psychology at Brown University.\n\nHunter served in the military for sixteen months during World War I. He was the chief psychological examiner in three army camps. During that time he compiled bar graphs with E.S. Jones that showed the predictive value of group psychological tests. His work persuaded government officials to continue the testing program, which ultimately led military officials to order the recording of data on the national origins of the troops tested. The data collected was used in a way that Hunter did not approve; combining the psychological test scores with the location of where the individual grew up supported the notion of Nordic superiority, which was not his intention.\n\nHunter served as chairman of the Division of Anthropology and Psychology of the National Research Council from 1936 to 1938. During this time Hunter's influence contributed to the utilization of psychology by the government and the military during World War II.\n\nFrom 1943-1945, he served as a chairman of the Applied Psychology Panel of the National Defense Research Committee. In 1943, he was unofficially drafted to direct and coordinate research for the military. Little has been publicly documented as to exactly what Hunter did during World War II. However, it was enough for President Truman to award Hunter the President’s Medal for Merit in 1948, for “having recognized that research on the psychological and physiological capacities of man in relation to the new instruments of warfare could contribute materially to the more effective utilization of both military personnel and instruments”.\n\nHunter was interested in studying delayed reaction in animals. Through his research, he developed the idea of symbolic process. According to Hunter, this is the process by which specific animals can change their orientation to a stimulus during a delay and afterward still be able to remember where the stimulus was originally. Hunter believed that his work on the aftereffect of visual motion was some of his best. He was so interested in delayed reaction that he expanded his work to include children after the birth of his first daughter. Hunter observed his daughter between the time she was thirteen months old and sixteen months old. Hunter found that young children could demonstrate the appropriate delayed reaction even when their body orientation changed during the delayed period. Hunter agreed with the behaviorist point of view, however he continued to see consciousness and voluntary actions as problems that still needed to be explained. Hunter did not like the term psychology—he preferred to use the term \"anthroponomy\" to replace psychology. Hunter wanted to avoid misunderstandings that arise when the term psychology is used to describe his work. The term was not widely accepted and Hunter was mocked for his suggestion.\n"}
{"id": "16238055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16238055", "title": "William of Falgar", "text": "William of Falgar\n\nWilliam of Falgar (died 1297 or 1298) was a Franciscan theologian from south-west France, a follower of Bonaventure.\n\nHe entered the Franciscan Order at Toulouse. He became bishop of Viviers in 1296.\n\n"}
{"id": "7480984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7480984", "title": "Wu Kwang", "text": "Wu Kwang\n\nWu Kwang Soen Sa Nim (1950–present), born Richard Shrobe, is head Zen teacher at Chogye International Zen Center of New York, a practice center of the Kwan Um School of Zen. Before coming to Zen practice Richard studied Hinduism under Swami Satchidananda. He is a social worker who incorporates Gestalt therapy in his counseling. In 1975 Wu Kwang began his Zen practice and received Dharma transmission from Seung Sahn in 1993. He is also a jazz musician.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23508012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23508012", "title": "Władysław Heinrich", "text": "Władysław Heinrich\n\nWładysław Heinrich (Warsaw, 1 January 1869 – 30 June 1957, Kraków, Poland) was a Polish historian of philosophy, psychologist, professor at Kraków University and member of the Polish Academy of Learning.\n\nWładysław Heinrich studied mathematics, the natural sciences and philosophy. In philosophy he was a student of Richard Avenarius at the University of Zurich and applied his radical positivism to psychology: Heinrich pointed out that the new experimental psychology of the time was based on metaphysical concepts and premises, on constructions and introjections. In opposition to it, he proposed a psychology based on pure experiment (\"Die moderne physiologische Psychologie in Deutschland\"—Modern Physiological Psychology in Germany, 1897). \n\nSettling in Kraków, Heinrich conducted research in this spirit (\"Teorie i wyniki badań psychologicznych\"—Theories and Results of Psychological Research, 1902). He authored the first report in experimental psychology to be presented to the Academy of Learning, \"O wahaniach natężenia zaledwie dostrzegalnych wrażeń\" (On Fluctuations in the Intensity of Barely Perceptible Sensations, 1898). \n\nHeinrich worked at Kraków University in the physics department, then took over a chair of psychology and philosophy. He was also active in the history of philosophy (proposing the creation, in the Academy of Learning, of the Committee for the History of Philosophy in Poland). Above all, he was the first in Kraków to develop the new radical empiricist philosophy connected with the natural sciences. He was concerned especially with methodological questions, and was the first to present these at the Academy of Learning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "293185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293185", "title": "Yogachara", "text": "Yogachara\n\nYogachara (IAST: \"\"; literally \"yoga practice\"; \"one whose practice is yoga\") is an influential school of Buddhist philosophy and psychology emphasizing phenomenology and ontology through the interior lens of meditative and yogic practices. It was associated with Indian Mahayana Buddhism in about the fourth century, but also included non-Mahayana practitioners of the Dārṣṭāntika school.\n\nYogācāra discourse explains how our human experience is constructed by the mind.\n\n\nThe Yogācāra, along with the Madhyamaka, is one of the two principal philosophical schools of Indian Mahāyāna Buddhism.\n\nThe earliest text of this tradition is the \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\" which might be as early as the first or second century CE. It includes new theories such as the basis-consciousness (\"ālaya-vijñāna\"), and the doctrine of cognition-only (\"vijñapti-mātra\") and the \"three natures\" (\"trisvabhāva\"). However, these theories were not completely new, as they have predecessors in older theories held by previous Buddhist schools, such as the Sautrāntika theory of seeds (\"bīja\") and the Sthavira nikāya's abhidharma theory of an unconscious Bhavanga. Richard King has also noted the similarity of the Sautantrika representationalism and the Yogacara: \nThe \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\", as the doctrinal trailblazer of the Yogācāra, inaugurated the paradigm of the Three Turnings of the Wheel of Dharma, with its own tenets in the \"third turning\". The Yogācāra texts are generally considered part of the third turning along with the relevant sutra. (Some traditions categorize this teaching as within the \"fourth turning\" of the wheel of Dharma.) Moreover, Yogācāra discourse surveys and synthesizes all three turnings and considers itself as the final definitive explanation of Buddhism.\n\nThe orientation of the Yogācāra school is largely consistent with the thinking of the Pāli nikāyas. It frequently treats later developments in a way that realigns them with earlier versions of Buddhist doctrines. One of the agendas of the Yogācāra school was to reorient the complexity of later refinements in Buddhist philosophy to accord with early Buddhist doctrine.\n\nYogācāra, which had its genesis in the \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\", was largely formulated by the brahmin-born half-brothers Asaṅga and Vasubandhu. Asaṅga spent many years in intense meditation, during which time tradition says that he often visited the Tuṣita Heaven to receive teachings from Maitreya. Heavens such as Tuṣita are said to be accessible through meditation and accounts of this are given in the writings of the Indian Buddhist monk Paramārtha, who lived during the 6th century. Xuanzang tells a similar account of these events:\nAsaṅga went on to write many of the key Yogācāra treatises such as the \"Yogācārabhūmi-śāstra\", the \"Mahāyānasaṃgraha\" and the \"Abhidharma-samuccaya\" as well as other works, although there are discrepancies between the Chinese and Tibetan traditions concerning which works are attributed to him and which to Maitreya.\n\nThe Yogācāra school held a prominent position in Indian Buddhism for centuries after the time of Asaṅga and Vasubandhu. Teachings and derivations of this school have influenced and become well-established in East Asian Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nAccording to Tibetan sources, this school was in protracted dialectic with the Madhyamaka. However, there is disagreement among contemporary Western and traditional Buddhist scholars about the degree to which they were opposed, if at all. To summarize the main difference: while the Madhyamaka held that asserting the existence or non-existence of any ultimately real thing was inappropriate, some later exponents of Yogācāra asserted that the mind (or in the more sophisticated variations, primordial wisdom) and only the mind is ultimately real. This is, however, a later interpretation of Yogācāra, and Vasubandhu and Asaṅga in particular did not assert that mind was truly inherently existent.\n\nThe position that Yogācāra and Madhyamaka were in dialectic was expounded by Xuanzang in the 7th century. After a suite of debates with exponents of the Madhyamaka school in India, Xuanzang composed in Sanskrit the no longer extant three-thousand verse treatise \"The Non-difference of Madhyamaka and Yogācāra\".\n\nYogācāra and Madhyamaka philosophers demonstrated two opposing tendencies throughout the history of Buddhist philosophy in India, one which worked to separate and distance the two systems and one tendency which worked towards harmonizing them. The harmonizing tendency can be seen in the work of philosophers like Śāntarakṣita and also the work of the Yogācāra thinker Ratnakaraksanti (c. 1000). These thinkers also saw the Yogācāra Alikākāravāda (\"false aspectarian\", those Yogācāras who believe that mental appearances are false or don't ultimately exist) view as the highest. Śāntarakṣita (8th century), whose view was later called \"Yogācāra-Svatantrika-Madhyamaka\" by the Tibetan tradition, saw the Mādhyamika position as ultimately true and at the same time saw the Yogācāra view as a useful way to relate to conventionalities and progress students more skillfully toward the ultimate. This synthesized view between the two positions, and also incorporated the views of valid cognition (pramana) from Dignāga and Dharmakīrti.\n\nLater Tibetan Buddhist thinkers like Shakya Chokden would also work to show the compatibility of the Alikākāravāda sub-school with Madhyamaka, arguing that it is in fact a form of Madhyamaka. Likewise, the Seventh Karmapa Chödrak Gyamtso has a similar view which holds that the \"profound important points and intents\" of the two systems are one. Ju Mipham is also another Tibetan philosopher whose project is aimed as showing the harmony between Yogacara and Madhyamaka, arguing that there is only a very subtle difference between them, being a subtle clinging by Yogacaras to the existence of an \"inexpressible, naturally luminous cognition\" (\"rig pa rang bzhin gyis ’od gsal ba\").\n\nTranslations of Indian Yogācāra texts were first introduced to China in the early 5th century CE. Among these was Guṇabhadra's translation of the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" in four fascicles, which would also become important in the early history of Chan Buddhism. During the sixth century, the Indian monk and translator Paramārtha widely propagated Yogācāra teachings in China. His translations include the \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\", the \"Madhyāntavibhāga-kārikā\", the \"Triṃśikā-vijñaptimātratā\", and the \"Mahāyānasaṃgraha\". Paramārtha also taught widely on the principles of Consciousness Only, and developed a large following in southern China. Many monks and laypeople traveled long distances to hear his teachings, especially those on the \"Mahāyānasaṃgraha\".\n\nAlthough Yogācāra teachings had been propagated widely in China before the 7th century, most look to Xuanzang as the most important founder of East Asian Yogācāra. At the age of 33, Xuanzang made a dangerous journey to India in order to study Buddhism there and to procure Buddhist texts for translation into Chinese. Dan Lusthaus writes that Xuanzang had come to the conclusion that issues of dispute in Chinese Buddhism could be resolved with the availability of important texts, and especially the \"Yogācārabhūmi Śāstra\".\n\nXuanzang spent over ten years in India traveling and studying under various Buddhist masters. Lusthaus writes that during this time, Xuanzang discovered that the manner in which Buddhists understood and interpreted texts was much richer and more varied than the Chinese materials had previously indicated, and drew meaning from a broad cultural context. Xuanzang's teachers included Śīlabhadra, the abbot of Nālandā, who was then 106 years old. Xuanzang was tutored in the Yogācāra teachings by Śīlabhadra for several years at Nālandā. Upon his return from India, Xuanzang brought with him 657 Buddhist texts, including important Yogācāra works such as the \"Yogācārabhūmi Śāstra\". Upon his return to China, he was given government support and many assistants for the purpose of translating these texts into Chinese.\n\nAs an important contribution to East Asian Yogācāra, Xuanzang composed the treatise \"Cheng Weishi Lun\", or \"Discourse on the Establishment of Consciousness Only.\" This work is framed around Vasubandhu's \"Triṃśikā-vijñaptimātratā\", or \"Thirty Verses on Consciousness Only.\" Xuanzang upheld Dharmapāla's commentary on this work as being the correct one, and provided his own explanations of these as well as other views in the \"Cheng Weishi Lun\". This work was composed at the behest of Xuanzang's disciple Kuiji, and became a central representation of East Asian Yogācāra. Xuanzang also promoted devotional meditative practices toward Maitreya Bodhisattva. Xuanzang's disciple Kuiji wrote a number of important commentaries on the Yogacara texts and further developed the influence of this doctrine in China, and was recognized by later adherents as the first true patriarch of the school.\n\nYogācāra was first transmitted to Tibet by Śāntarakṣita and then later again by Atiśa. Yogācāra terminology (though not necessarily its view) is also employed by the Nyingmapa in attempting to describe the nondenumerable ultimate phenomenon (). Yogācāra is, therefore, an integral part of the history of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nAlthough Je Tsongkhapa (whose reforms to Atiśa's Kadam tradition are generally considered the beginnings of the Gelug school) argued in favour of Yogācāra views (specifically regarding the existence and functioning of Eight Consciousnesses) early in his career, the prevailing Gelug view eventually came to hold Yogācāra views as a matter of interpretable meaning, therefore distinct from Madhyamaka logic which was held to be of definitive meaning in terms of Buddhist two truths doctrine.\n\nFor their part, Jonang teachers, including Taranatha, held their own shentong (\"other-voidness\" ) views expressed in terms of \"Great Madhyamaka\" to be ultimately definitive in meaning, in contrast to the circumstantially definitive rangtong (\"self-voidness\" or prasaṅgika, ) philosophy of what they termed \"general Madhyamaka\", comprising both Svatantrika and Prasaṅgika Madhyamaka.\n\nCurrent discussions between Tibetan scholars regarding the differences between shentong and rangtong views may therefore appear similar to historical debates between Yogācāra and Madhyamaka, but the specific distinctions have, in fact, evolved much further. Although later Tibetan views may be said to have evolved from the earlier Indian positions, the distinctions between the views have become increasingly subtle, especially as Yogācāra has evolved to incorporate the Madhyamaka view of the ultimate. Jamgon Ju Mipham Gyatso, the 19th century Rimé movement commentator, wrote in his commentary on Śāntarakṣita's synthesis, that the ultimate view in both schools is the same, and that each path leads to the same ultimate state of abiding.\n\nPrincipal exponents of Yogācāra categorized and alphabetized according to location:\n\nThe \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\" (\"Sūtra of the Explanation of the Profound Secrets\"; 2nd century CE), was the seminal Yogācāra sutra and continued to be a primary referent for the tradition. The \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" also assumed considerable importance and portions of this text were considered by Étienne Lamotte as being contemporaneous with the Saṃdhinirmocana.\n\nOther texts include the Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra and the \"Ghanavyūha sūtra\" (Secret adornment) both which refer to the doctrine of the \"alaya-vijñana\".\n\nAlso containing Yogācāra elements were the \"Pratyutpanna Samādhi Sūtra\" (1st century CE) and \"Daśabhūmika Sūtra\" (pre-3rd century CE). These two sutras contain statements about the mental character of everything.\n\nAmong the most important texts to the Yogācāra tradition is the \"Five Treatises of Maitreya\". These texts are said to have been related to Asaṅga by the Bodhisattva Maitreya from Tusita Heaven. Some scholars like Erich Frauwallner and Giuseppe Tucci held that Maitreya may have been a historical person and Asanga's teacher. Others like Eric Obermiller are of the opinion that Asanga wrote these five treatises himself. Fyodor Shcherbatskoy likewise doubted the historicity of Maitreya. Whatever the case, the texts are as follows:\n\n\nA commentary on the \"Ornament for Clear Realization\" called \"Clarifying the Meaning\" by Haribhadra is also often used, as is one by Vimuktisena ().\n\nMost of these texts were also incorporated into the Chinese tradition, which was established several centuries earlier than the Tibetan. However, the \"Ornament for Clear Realization\" is not mentioned by Chinese translators up to the 7th century, including Xuanzang, who was an expert in this field. This suggests it may possibly have emerged from a later period than is generally ascribed to it.\n\nAuthorship of critical Yogācāra texts is also ascribed to Asaṅga personally (in contrast to the \"Five Treatises of Maitreya\"). Among them are the \"Mahāyānasaṃgraha\" and the \"Abhidharma-samuccaya\". Sometimes also ascribed to him is the \"Yogacarabhumi-sastra\", a massive encyclopedic work considered the definitive statement of Yogācāra, but most scholars believe it was compiled a century later, in the 5th century, while its components reflect various stages in the development of Yogācāra thought. Asaṅga also composed a commentary to the Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra.\n\nVasubandhu is considered to be the systematizer of Yogacara-thought.\n\nVasubandhu wrote three foundational texts of the Yogācāra:\n\nHe also wrote an important commentary on the \"Madhyantavibhaṅga\". According to Buddhist scholar Jay Garfield:\nDignāga (c. 480 – c. 540 CE) wrote an important Yogacara work, the \"Alambanapariksa\" and its \"vrtti\".\n\nOther important commentaries on various Yogācāra texts were written by Sthiramati (6th century) and Dharmapala of Nalanda (7th century), and an influential Yogācāra-Madhyamaka synthesis was formulated by Śāntarakṣita (8th century).\n\nYogacara is \"meant to be an explanation of experience, rather than a system of ontology\". It uses various concepts in providing this explanation: representation-only, the eight consciousnesses, the three natures, emptiness. They form a complex system, and each can be taken as a point of departure for understanding Yogacara:\n\nYogacara is usually treated as a philosophical system, but it is a school of practice as well:\n\nYogācārins developed an Abhidharma literature set within a Mahāyāna framework. John Keenan, who has translated the \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\" into English, writes:\nOne of the main features of Yogācāra philosophy is the concept of \"vijñapti-mātra\". It is often used interchangeably with the term \"citta-mātra\", but they have different meanings. The standard translation of both terms is \"consciousness-only\" or \"mind-only.\" Several modern researchers object to this translation, and the accompanying label of \"absolute idealism\" or \"idealistic monism\". A better translation for \"vijñapti-mātra\" is \"representation-only\", while an alternative translation for \"citta\" (mind, thought) \"mātra\" (only, exclusively) has not been proposed.\n\nAccording to Dan Lusthaus, this theory is similar in some ways to Western Phenomenological theories and Epistemological Idealism, but it is not a metaphysical idealism because Yogācāra rejects the construction of metaphysical theories. Regarding \"Vijñapti-mātra,\" Lusthaus translates it as \"nothing but conscious construction\" and states it is:A deceptive trick is built into the way consciousness operates at every moment. Consciousness projects and constructs a cognitive object in such a way that it disowns its own creation - pretending the object is \"out there\" - in order to render that object capable of being appropriated. Even while what we cognize is occurring within our act of cognition, we cognize it \"as if\" it were external to our consciousness. Realization of \"vijñapti-mātra\" exposes this trick intrinsic to consciousness's workings, thereby eliminating it. When that deception is removed one's mode of cognition is no longer termed \"vijñāna\" (consciousness); it has become direct cognition (\"jñāna\") (see above). Consciousness engages in this deceptive game of projection, dissociation, and appropriation because there is no \"self.\" According to Buddhism, the deepest, most pernicious erroneous view held by sentient beings is the view that a permanent, eternal, immutable, independent self exists. There is no such self, and deep down we know that. This makes us anxious, since it entails that no self or identity endures forever. In order to assuage that anxiety, we attempt to construct a self, to fill the anxious void, to do something enduring. The projection of cognitive objects for appropriation is consciousness's main tool for this construction. If I own things (ideas, theories, identities, material objects), then \"I am.\" If there are eternal objects that I can possess, then I too must be eternal. To undermine this desperate and erroneous appropriative grasping, Yogācāra texts say: Negate the object, and the self is also negated (e.g., \"Madhyānta-vibhāga\", 1:4, 8).According to Thomas Kochumuttom, Yogācāra is a \"realistic pluralism\". It does not deny the existence of individual beings:\n\"Vijñapti-mātra\" then means \"mere representation of consciousness\":\nThe term \"vijñapti-mātra\" replaced the \"more metaphysical\" term \"citta-mātra\" used in the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\". The \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" \"appears to be one of the earliest attempts to provide a philosophical justification for the Absolutism that emerged in Mahayana in relation to the concept of Buddha\". It uses the term \"citta-mātra\", which means properly \"thought-only\". By using this term it develops an \"ontology\", in contrast to the \"epistemology\" of the term vijñapti-mātra. The \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" equates \"citta\" and the absolute. According to Kochumuttom, this is not the way Yogacara uses the term vijñapti:\nThe term \"citta-mātra\" was used in Tibet and East Asia interchangeably with \"Yogācāra\", although modern scholars believe it is inaccurate to conflate the two terms. Even the uniformity of an assumed \"Yogācāra school\" has been put into question.\n\nYogacara gives a detailed explanation of the workings of the mind and the way it constructs the reality we experience. Vasubandhu used the concept of the six consciousnesses, on which he elaborated in the \"Triṃśikaikā-kārikā\" (Treatise in Thirty Stanzas).\n\nAccording to the traditional interpretation, Vasubandhu states that there are eight consciousnesses: the five sense-consciousnesses, mind (perception), manas (self-consciousness), and the storehouse-consciousness. According to Kalupahana, this classification of eight consciousnesses is based on a misunderstanding of Vasubandhu's Triṃśikaikā-kārikā by later adherents.\n\nAccording to the traditional explanation, the theory of the consciousnesses attempted to explain all the phenomena of cyclic existence, including how rebirth occurs and precisely how karma functions on an individual basis. It addressed questions that had long vexed Buddhist philosophers, such as,\n\nThe answer given by later Yogācārins was the store consciousness (Sanskrit: \"ālayavijñāna\"), also known as the basal, or eighth consciousness. It simultaneously acts as a storage place for karmic latencies and as a fertile matrix of predispositions that bring karma to a state of fruition.\n\nThe likeness of this process to the cultivation of plants led to the creation of the metaphor of seeds (Sanskrit: \"bīja\") to explain the way karma is stored in the eighth consciousness. In the Yogācāra formulation, all experience without exception is said to result from the ripening of karma. The seemingly external world is merely a \"by-product\" (\"adhipati-phala\") of karma. The term \"vāsanā\" (\"perfuming\") is also used, and Yogācārins debated whether vāsāna and bija were essentially the same, the seeds were the effect of the perfuming, or whether the perfuming simply affected the seeds. The type, quantity, quality and strength of the seeds determine where and how a sentient being will be reborn: one's race, gender, social status, proclivities, bodily appearance and so forth. The conditioning of the mind resulting from karma is called \"saṃskāra\".\n\nThe \"Treatise on Action\" (\"Karmasiddhiprakaraṇa\"), also by Vasubandhu, treats the subject of karma in detail from the Yogācāra perspective.\n\nThe traditional interpretation may be discarded on the ground of a reinterpretation of Vasubandhu's works. According to scholar Roger R. Jackson, a \"'fundamental unconstructed awareness' (\"mūla-nirvikalpa-jñāna\")\" is \"described [...] frequently in Yogacara literature.\", According to Kalupahana, instead of positing additional consciousnesses, the Triṃśikaikā-kārikā describes the \"transformations\" of this consciousness:\nThese transformations are threefold:\nThe first transformation results in the \"alaya\":\nThe alaya-vijnana therefore is not an eight consciousness, but the resultant of the transformation of consciousness:\nThe second transformation is \"manana\", self-consciousness or \"Self-view, self-confusion, self-esteem and self-love\". According to the Lankavatara and later interpreters it is the seventh consciousness. It is \"thinking\" about the various perceptions occurring in the stream of consciousness\". The alaya is defiled by this self-interest;\nThe third transformation is \"visaya-vijnapti\", the \"\"concept\" of the object\". In this transformation the \"concept\" of objects is created. By creating these concepts human beings become \"susceptible to grasping after the object\":\nA similar perspective is given by Walpola Rahula. According to Walpola Rahula, all the elements of the Yogācāra storehouse-consciousness are already found in the Pāli Canon. He writes that the three layers of the mind (\"citta\", \"manas\", and \"vijñana\") as presented by Asaṅga are also mentioned in the Pāli Canon:\nThe store consciousness concept developed along with the Buddha nature doctrine and resolved into the concept of mindstream or the \"consciousness-continuity\" (Sanskrit: \"citta-santāna\") to avoid being denounced as running counter to the doctrine of emptiness (\"śūnyatā\") and the tenets of selflessness (\"anātman\").\n\nIt may be ultimately traceable to the \"luminous mind\" mentioned once in the \"Āgamas\", but according to Kalupahana,\nTo account for the notion of Buddha-nature in all beings, Yogacara scholars in China such as Tz'u-en (慈恩, 632-682) the first patriarch in China, advocated two types of nature: the latent nature found in all beings (理佛性) and the Buddha-nature in practice (行佛性). The latter nature was determined by the innate seeds listed above.\n\nThe Yogācārins defined three basic modes by which we perceive our world. These are referred to in Yogācāra as the three natures of perception. They are:\n\nAlso, regarding perception, the Yogācārins emphasized that our everyday understanding of the existence of external objects is problematic, since in order to perceive any object (and thus, for all practical purposes, for the object to \"exist\"), there must be a sensory organ as well as a correlative type of consciousness to allow the process of cognition to occur.\n\nThe doctrine of \"śūnyatā\" is central to Yogācāra, as to any Mahāyāna school. Early Yogācāra texts, such as the \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\" and the \"Yogācārabhūmi Śāstra\", often act as explanations of the Prajñāpāramitā sūtras. Related concepts as dependent origination (\"pratītyasamutpāda\") and the doctrine of two truths are also central in Yogācāra thought and meditation. But the Yogacara-school developed its own insights on the nature of sunyata:\nYogacara has a positive approach of emptiness:\nEach of the three natures has its corresponding \"absence of nature\":\nEach of these \"absences\" is a form of emptiness, i.e. the nature is \"empty\" of the particular qualified quality.\n\nYogācāra gave special significance to the \"Lesser Discourse on Emptiness\" of the \"Āgamas\". It is often quoted in later Yogācāra texts as a true definition of emptiness.\n\nAn important debate about the reality of mental appearances within Yogācāra led to its later subdivision into two systems of Alikākāravāda (Tib. \"rnam rdzun pa\", False Aspectarians) and Satyākāravāda (\"rnam bden pa\", True Aspectarians) or \"Aspectarians\" (\"ākāra\") and \"Non-Aspectarians\" (\"anākāra\"). The core issue is whether appearances or “aspects” (\"rnam pa, ākāra\") of objects in the mind are treated as true (\"bden pa, satya\") or false (\"rdzun pa, alika\"). While this division did not exist in the works of the early Yogācāra philosophers, tendencies similar to these views can be discerned in the works of Yogacara thinkers like Dharmapala (c. 530–561?) and Sthiramati (c. 510–570?). According to Yaroslav Komarovski the distinction is:Although Yogācāras in general do not accept the existence of an external material world, according to Satyākāravāda its appearances or “aspects” (\"rnam pa, ākāra\") reflected in consciousness have a real existence, because they are of one nature with the really existent consciousness, their creator. According to Alikākāravāda, neither external phenomena nor their appearances and/in the minds that reflect them really exist. What exists in reality is only primordial mind (\"ye shes, jñāna\"), described as self-cognition (\"rang rig, svasamvedana/ svasamvitti\") or individually self-cognizing primordial mind (\"so so(r) rang gis rig pa’i ye shes\").\n\nAs the name of the school suggests, meditation practice is central to the Yogācāra tradition. Practice manuals prescribe the practice of mindfulness of body, feelings, thoughts and dharmas in oneself and others, out of which an understanding of the non-differentiation of self and other is said to arise. This process is referred to in the Yogācāra tradition as \"āśraya-parāvṛtti\", \"turning about in the basis\", or \"revolution of the basis\", the basis being the store-house consciousness:\n\nIn this awakening it is realized that observer and observed are not distinct entities, but mutually co-dependent.\n\nOne of the more controversial teachings espoused by the Yogacara school was an extension of the teachings on seeds and store-conscious. Based on the \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\" and the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\", the Yogacara school posited that sentient beings had innate seeds that would make them capable of achieving a particular state of enlightenment and no other. Thus, beings were categorized in 5 ways:\n\nThe fifth class of beings, the Icchantika, were described in various Mahayana sutras as being incapable of achieving Enlightenment, unless in some cases through the aid of a Buddha or Bodhisattva. Nevertheless, the notion was highly criticized by adherents of the Lotus Sutra (e.g. the Tiantai school) and its teaching of universal Buddhahood. This tension appears in East Asian Buddhist history.\n\nAccording to Lusthaus, Étienne Lamotte, a famous student of Louis de La Vallée-Poussin, \"...profoundly advanced Yogācāra studies, and his efforts remain unrivaled among Western scholars.\"\n\nYogācāra has also been identified in the western philosophical tradition as idealism, or more specifically subjective idealism. This equation was standard until recently, when it began to be challenged by scholars such as Kochumuttom, Anacker, Kalupahana, Dunne, Lusthaus, Powers, and Wayman. Buddhist scholar Jay Garfield continues to uphold the equation of Yogācāra and idealism, however. To the same effect, Nobuyoshi Yamabe states that \"Dignāga also clearly inherited the idealistic system of Yogācāra.\" Like many contemporary scholars, Yamabe is aware that the texts considered to be Yogācāra treatises reflect various stages in addressing the issue of mind and matter.\nYogācāra has also been aligned with phenomenalism. In modern western philosophical discourse, Edmund Husserl and Maurice Merleau-Ponty have approached what western scholarship generally concedes to be a standard Yogācāra position.\n\nThere are two important aspects of the Yogācāra schemata that are of special interest to modern-day practitioners. One is that virtually all schools of Mahāyāna Buddhism came to rely on these Yogācāra explanations as they created their own doctrinal systems, including the Zen schools. For example, the early Zen tradition in China was sometimes referred to simply as the \" school\" (Ch. 楞伽宗, \"Léngqié Zōng\"), due to their strong association with the '. This sūtra draws heavily upon Yogācāra theories of the eight consciousnesses, especially the '. Accounts recording the history of this early period are preserved in \"Records of the Masters\" (Ch. 楞伽師資記, \"Léngqié Shīzī Jì\").\n\nThat the scriptural tradition of Yogācāra is not yet well known among the community of western practitioners is perhaps attributable to the fact that most of the initial transmission of Buddhism to the west has been directly concerned with meditation and basic doctrines. However, within Tibetan Buddhism more and more western students are becoming acquainted with this school. Very little research in English has been carried out on the Chinese Yogācāra traditions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "143331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143331", "title": "Zeno of Elea", "text": "Zeno of Elea\n\nZeno of Elea (; ; ) was a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher of Magna Graecia and a member of the Eleatic School founded by Parmenides. Aristotle called him the inventor of the dialectic. He is best known for his paradoxes, which Bertrand Russell has described as \"immeasurably subtle and profound\".\n\nLittle is known for certain about Zeno's life. Although written nearly a century after Zeno's death, the primary source of biographical information about Zeno is Plato's \"Parmenides\" and he is also mentioned in Aristotle's \"Physics\". In the dialogue of \"Parmenides\", Plato describes a visit to Athens by Zeno and Parmenides, at a time when Parmenides is \"about 65\", Zeno is \"nearly 40\", and Socrates is \"a very young man\". Assuming an age for Socrates of around 20 and taking the date of Socrates' birth as 469 BC gives an approximate date of birth for Zeno of 490 BC. Plato says that Zeno was \"tall and fair to look upon\" and was \"in the days of his youth … reported to have been beloved by Parmenides\".\n\nOther perhaps less reliable details of Zeno's life are given by Diogenes Laërtius in his \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\", where it is reported that he was the son of Teleutagoras, but the adopted son of Parmenides, was \"skilled to argue both sides of any question, the universal critic\", and that he was arrested and perhaps killed at the hands of a tyrant of Elea.\n\nAccording to Diogenes Laertius, Zeno conspired to overthrow Nearchus the tyrant. Eventually, Zeno was arrested and tortured. According to Valerius Maximus, when he was tortured to reveal the name of his colleagues in conspiracy, Zeno refused to reveal their names, although he said that he did have a secret that would be advantageous for Nearchus to hear. When Nearchus leaned in to listen to the secret, Zeno bit his ear. He \"did not let go until he lost his life and the tyrant lost that part of his body\". Within \"Men of the Same Name\", Demetrius said that the nose was bit off instead.\n\nZeno may have also interacted with other tyrants. According to Laertius, Heraclides Lembus, within his \"Satyrus\", these events occurred against Diomedon instead of Nearchus. Valerius Maximus recounts a conspiracy against the tyrant Phalaris, but this would be impossible as Phalaris had died before Zeno was even born. According to Plutarch, Zeno attempted to kill the tyrant Demylus. After failing, he had \"with his own teeth bit off his tongue, he spit it in the tyrant’s face\".\n\nAlthough many ancient writers refer to the writings of Zeno, none of his works survive intact. The main sources on the nature of Zeno's arguments on motion, in fact, come from the writings of Aristotle and Simplicius of Cilicia.\n\nPlato says that Zeno's writings were \"brought to Athens for the first time on the occasion of\" the visit of Zeno and Parmenides. Plato also has Zeno say that this work \"meant to protect the arguments of Parmenides\", was written in Zeno's youth, stolen, and published without his consent. Plato has Socrates paraphrase the \"first thesis of the first argument\" of Zeno's work as follows: \"If being is many, it must be both like and unlike, and this is impossible, for neither can the like be unlike, nor the unlike like.\"\n\nAccording to Proclus in his \"Commentary on Plato's Parmenides\", Zeno produced \"not less than forty arguments revealing contradictions\", but only nine are now known.\n\nZeno's arguments are perhaps the first examples of a method of proof called \"reductio ad absurdum\", literally meaning \"to reduce to the absurd\". Parmenides is said to be the first individual to implement this style of argument. This form of argument soon became known as the \"epicheirema\" (). In Book VII of his \"Topics\", Aristotle says that an \"epicheirema\" is \"a dialectical syllogism\". It is a connected piece of reasoning which an opponent has put forward as true. The disputant sets out to break down the dialectical syllogism. This destructive method of argument was maintained by him to such a degree that Seneca the Younger commented a few centuries later: \"If I accede to Parmenides there is nothing left but the One; if I accede to Zeno, not even the One is left.\"\n\nZeno is also regarded as the first philosopher who dealt with the earliest attestable accounts of mathematical infinity.\n\nAccording to Sir William Smith, in Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology (1870)\n\nZeno's paradoxes have puzzled, challenged, influenced, inspired, infuriated, and amused philosophers, mathematicians, and physicists for over two millennia. The most famous are the arguments against motion described by Aristotle in his \"Physics\", Book VI.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6271172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6271172", "title": "Ștefan Bârsănescu", "text": "Ștefan Bârsănescu\n\nȘtefan Bârsănescu (28 March 1895—5 November 1984) was a Romanian academician and educator who gained renown as an essayist and philosopher.\n\nBorn in the village of Viperești in Buzău County, a part of the historical region of Muntenia, Ștefan Bârsănescu was a member of the Romanian Academy and the author of over thirty scholarly volumes and more than five hundred articles and essays. He died in Iași four-and-a-half months before his 90th birthday.\n\n\n"}
