{"id": "444481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=444481", "title": "Aerobiz", "text": "Aerobiz\n\nAs CEO of a budding international airline, the player has a limited amount of time to expand their business to become the industry leader against three other airlines (either AI-controlled or human opponents). The player has an amount of control over how their airline develops, such as the name, investments, what routes to fly, plane purchases, and other various aspects, while at the mercy of world events such as politics (for instance, if the player runs his or her airline out of Moscow, he or she can initially only buy Soviet planes and will have a harder time negotiating with Western nations) and natural disasters. The player can also get the company involved in peripheral businesses such as hotels and shuttle services. Once Perestroika is initiated, then the Cold War restrictions no longer apply in the game.\n\nThe sequel \"Aerobiz Supersonic\" was released in August 1994 for the SNES and Mega Drive/Genesis. The player is presented with a wider variety of options in nearly everything, but the game play is much the same. Another sequel known as \"Air Management '96\" was released only in Japan for the Sega Saturn and PlayStation.\n\nAerobiz features two timeframes to play the game through: 1963 to 1995, and 1983 to 2015. After selecting the timeframe, the players then choose a city for their airline's headquarters. This allows a certain amount of handicapping: some cities, such as New York, London, and Tokyo, start the player with many airplanes and a large amount of money; others, such as Lima, Nairobi, and Honolulu, start the player with only a couple of airplanes and a small amount of money. The players then select a difficulty level, which affects the number of passengers, world events (and the reactions of the passengers to those world events), and the win conditions. A charter system of independent airlines can have their shares bought or sold on the stock market; owning at least 51% of the company makes it eligible to be assimilated into the main airline.\n\nThe gameplay is superficially straightforward: players negotiate for access slots at each airport, buy airplanes, then open routes and start business. After each player has made their desired moves, the game shows any world events that affect the players (for instance, a labor strike will delay shipments of aircraft from that company, while the Olympic Games will boost traffic worldwide, particularly to the host city). The game then shows the results of direct competition between airlines flying the same routes, then the quarterly results of sales, expenses, profits, and passengers flown. After the January–March quarter of every year, it also shows annual results. There are elements of enhancing airline service, such as improving the convenience of arrivals/departures, along with reductions in fare, improving the quality of service along with advertising campaigns.\n\nThe game is won by the first player to achieve the win conditions: link all 22 cities and carry a certain number of passengers (between 2.5 million and 4.5 million, based on difficulty level), all while remaining profitable. If a player goes for four quarters with a negative balance, the company is declared bankrupt and offered reorganization. If the game goes for 32 years (128 turns) without any player meeting the win conditions, the game is called a loss.\n\n\"MegaTech\" magazine said the game had massive potential, and that \"strategy buffs will cream over it\".\n\n\nA remake of this game was made for the Sony PlayStation, Sega Saturn, and Windows PC called . Graphics have been enhanced in this version.\n\n"}
{"id": "23530771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23530771", "title": "Amado Boudou", "text": "Amado Boudou\n\nAmado Boudou (; born 19 November 1962) is an Argentine businessman and politician who served as the Vice President of Argentina from 2011 to 2015. He was previously Minister of the Economy from 2009 to 2011.\n\nIn August 2018, following a lengthy investigation, he was convicted of corruption. He was then sentenced to five years and ten months in prison, and banned for life from holding public office.\n\nAmado Boudou was born in Buenos Aires, in 1962. His father, also named Amado, was born to a French immigrant from Aveyron named \"Aimé\", and this became a nickname for both. He was raised in the ocean-front city of Mar del Plata and enrolled in the National University of Mar del Plata, where he received a degree in economics, in 1986; described by acquaintances as a sociable type and fond of the bass guitar, he helped produce a number of rock concerts in Mar del Plata in his days as a student, including a festival attended by 15,000 spectators.\n\nBoudou attended graduate courses in economics and was awarded a master's degree in economics by a private institution, the Argentine Macroeconomic Studies Center (CEMA), which is well-known locally for its support of neo-liberal and free market policies. Boudou was then brought in as a salesman by Venturino Ehisur S.A. (a local sanitation services company). Following his role in securing a number of lucrative hospital contracts for the company, he was named general manager in 1992 of their government contracts office. The company closed, however, when one of its top municipal clients terminated the contract in 1995. He then co-founded Ecoplata S.A., another sanitation services firm, and acted as its project manager; Ecoplata was awarded sanitation contracts by the resort cities of Villa Gesell and Pinamar. He married Daniela Andriuolo in 1993, but they were divorced five years later; they had no children.\n\nBoudou entered public service in 1998, when he was named to the Comptroller's Office of the National Social Security Administration (ANSES) by Economy Minister Roque Fernández (a fellow CEMA alumnus), and in February 2001, he was named that office's general manager. The election of Justicialist Party candidate Juan Pablo de Jesús as Mayor of the sea-side La Costa District resulted in Boudou's appointment as Finance Secretary for the popular resort district, which the policy maker accepted.\n\nThe Finance Secretary subscribed to the 2005 Federal Housing Plan promulgated by President Néstor Kirchner, a decision which made La Costa eligible for 486 low-income housing units. The contract, awarded to local builder Cantera FC in May 2005 for nearly US$10 million, was followed by Boudou's return to the ANSES, in January 2006. The Cantera FC contract resulted in an administrative debacle, however, when the builder abandoned the works in June 2007, having by then received over US$7 million in payments (for which the Mayor never initiated litigation).\n\nReturned to the ANSES by its Director, Sergio Massa, Boudou was named its Financial Director (a post second only to the director's in importance), and oversaw the voluntary conversion of several million private pension accounts to the ANSES' aegis when this choice was made available in December 2006. He was appointed its Director in October 2008, after Massa's promotion to the powerful post of Presidential Cabinet Chief.\n\nBoudou's appointment coincided with President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner's controversial decision to transfer loss-plagued private pension funds' assets of nearly US$30 billion to the ANSES, citing the cost of subsidizing 77% of the funds' beneficiaries and the effects of the international crisis on the government's ability to obtain financing.\n\nFollowing the ruling Front for Victory's defeat in the June 2009 mid-term elections, Economy Minister Carlos Rafael Fernández tendered his resignation to the President, effective 7 July, and was replaced by the ANSES Director.\n\nFallout from the international, 2008 financial crisis later forced the left-wing Argentine government of President Cristina Kirchner to seek domestic financing for growing public spending, as well as for foreign debt service obligations. These policies and ongoing capital flight put further pressure on the Central Bank's ability to finance debt service obligations, and the president ordered a US$6.7 billion account opened at the Central Bank for the latter purpose in December 2009, implying the use of the Central Bank's foreign exchange reserves, and drawing direct opposition from the institution's President, Martín Redrado; Redrado was ultimately forced to resign.\n\nBoudou presented a debt swap package on 3 May 2010, for the holders of over US$18 billion in bonds who did not participate in the 2005 Argentine debt restructuring prepared by former Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna. These holdouts include numerous vulture funds which had eschewed the 2005 offer, and had instead resorted to the courts in a bid for higher returns on their defaulted bonds. These disputes had led to a number of liens against central bank accounts in New York and, indirectly, to reduced Argentine access to international credit markets.\n\nIn October 2010 Boudou compared Candelaria de la Sota and Martín Kanenguiser, journalists from \"Clarín\" and \"La Nación\", with the people cleaning the gas chambers during the Holocaust. Kanenguiser requested clarification, but Boudou instead defended his statement. His attack was condemned by the FOPEA (an organization of journalists), members of the legislature, and the DAIA. The DAIA accused him of trivializing the holocaust, and Congressman Eduardo Amadeo demanded his resignation; Boudou later stated that this was a badly chosen metaphor.\n\nThe Economy Minister announced his bid for the office of Mayor of Buenos Aires in December 2010 as a candidate in the Front for Victory primaries ahead of the 2011 race; hoping to solidify his base among the country's influential trade unions, he made the announcement at the headquarters of SMATA (the machinists' and auto workers' union). Ultimately, however, Senator Daniel Filmus was nominated in May.\n\nBoudou was nominated as running mate on President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner's Front for Victory ticket for the 2011 elections. Boudou's role in the campaign was noted for his numerous performances at rallies with his bass guitar, and as a DJ. They won the October general election with 54% of the vote. Vice President Boudou assumed presidential duties for twenty days on 4 January 2012, while President Fernández de Kirchner underwent a thyroidectomy and convalesced. Boudou again assumed presidential duties for 42 days on 8 October 2013, while President Fernández de Kirchner underwent surgery to relieve bleeding on her brain and convalesced.\n\nThe vice president faced accusations of influence peddling in 2012 regarding contracts awarded by the Economy Ministry to Ciccone Printing for the supply of 100 peso bills, license plates, and other government issues. The controversy arose following statements made by the ex-wife of Ciccone executive Alejandro Vanderbroele to the effect that Boudou was his silent partner in the firm. It was alleged that César Guido Forcieri, who had previously worked under Boudou, had made the connection between the two men. Pursuant to prosecutor Carlos Rívolo's request and following news that the Puerto Madero condominium rented by Boudou was owned by a friend of Vanderbroele who had, moreover, borrowed funds from Boudou, Judge Daniel Rafecas ordered the residence searched for proof of business associations between Vanderbroele and the vice president; a receipt for one month of homeowner association dues owed by the condominium's owner, Fabián Carosso, and paid instead by Vanderbroele was located in the search on 4 April.\n\nFollowing an August 2013 judicial ruling ordering prosecutors to provide evidence of wrongdoing, and their subsequent failure to do so, on 11 September a Federal Court granted a motion by Boudou's attorneys that would allow them to file for a dismissal of charges. He was, however, indicted on passive bribery and influence peddling charges by Judge Ariel Lijo on 27 June 2014; Boudou appealed the indictment on 10 July, alleging malicious prosecution. Boudou is also being investigated for several other offenses and/or crimes, and is a defendant in a total of ten cases in the Federal Courts.\n\nOn 3 November 2017, Boudou was arrested on charges of money laundering and racketeering, during the ongoing trial. The case was ended in August 2018, and he was sentenced to five years and ten months. He has also been banned for life from holding public office. Nicolás Ciccone, former owner of Ciccone Printing, was also sentenced to four years and six months. He is jailed at a prison in Ezeiza, alongside other inmates also convicted for corruption cases during the Kirchner government, such as José López and Lázaro Báez.\n\nBoudou claims that he is a victim of political persecution. He said that the \"alleged bribe has no basis or link to the evidence because it didn’t exist.\"\n"}
{"id": "4544155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4544155", "title": "Andrew Filipowski", "text": "Andrew Filipowski\n\nAndrew J. \"Flip\" Filipowski is a Polish American technology entrepreneur born in 1950 in Chicago. He is currently the Executive Chairman and CEO of SilkRoad Equity, a private investment firm, and founded Platinum technology in 1987. He is also currently the Co-CEO of Fluree PBC, a blockchain database technology company. He also founded and is the Chairman of VeriBlock a leading technology company that provides Bitcoin security to the world's blockchain. He founded or co-founded Blue Rhino Corporation, Primo Water, SilkRoad technology Inc., DBMS Inc., the House of Blues, SolidSpace Inc., Onramp Branding, MissionMode, Unocoin and InterAct 911. Platinum technology was sold to Computer Associates in 1999 for $4 billion, a record at the time for a software company. Filipowski's personal proceeds from the deal were $290 million.\n\nFilipowski founded or served in an executive capacity in a number of companies including divine, inc., DBMS, Inc. and Cullinet Corp; he also served in various managerial and technical positions with A.B. Dick, Motorola and Time, Inc. Throughout the course of his career, Filipowski, along with his management team, has acquired and integrated nearly 200 public and private companies.\n\nFilipowski was the 1998 recipient of the Anti-Defamation League's Torch of Liberty Award, first for the Silicon Prairie (Chicago), for his support in fighting hate on the Internet.\n\nIn 2000, he was named one of the 100 most influential individuals in the technology field in \"Upside\" magazine’s 2000 Upside Elite 100 list.\n\nFlip is a futurist and renowned speaker on such topics as Bitcoin, Crypto Assets, Blockchain, FinTech, History of Money, Energy, Disruption, Venture Capital, Entrepreneurship, Digital Autonomous Organizations, and Organizational Structures.  Flip is a resource for YPO/WPO and has recently keynoted at Blockchain events in Kenya, Kazakhstan, Toronto and at industry events such as the Blockchain Cruise Asia 2018, North America Bitcoin Conference, Blockchain Nation among others\n"}
{"id": "39657459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39657459", "title": "Association of Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators", "text": "Association of Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators\n\nThe Association of Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators (AECO) is a voluntary cooperative organization of cruise lines largely working in the European arctic, including Greenland and Svalbard. AECO establishes guidelines for its members that cover passenger safety, environmental protection issues and ethical interactions with indigenous populations.\n\n"}
{"id": "48624455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48624455", "title": "British Coffee House", "text": "British Coffee House\n\nThe British Coffee House was a coffeehouse at 27 Cockspur Street, London.\n\nIt is known to have existed in 1722, and was run in 1759 by Bishop Douglas's sister, and then by Mrs. Anderson, and was particularly popular with the Scottish. English coffeehouses in the 17th and 18th centuries acted as public meeting places.\n\nIt was rebuilt by Robert Adam in 1770, and was owned by David Hatton Morley, the father of Atkinson Morley.\n"}
{"id": "48483575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48483575", "title": "Camera di Commercio, Industria, Agricoltura e Artigianato", "text": "Camera di Commercio, Industria, Agricoltura e Artigianato\n\nThe Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Agriculture and Artisanship (, CCIAA) are Italian organizations that promote business activities. Companies are required to register in the chamber of the province they belong to, as well as filing their annual financial accounts to Registro delle Imprese, a division of C.C.I.A.A..\n\nThe chamber also involved in direct investment in company, such as Bologna Chamber of Commerce is the major shareholder of Aeroporto Guglielmo Marconi di Bologna, the operator of Bologna Airport, as well as Tecno Holding, a consortium that owned a minority stake in Società Azionaria Gestione Aeroporto Torino and Autostrade Lombarde.\n\n"}
{"id": "3491079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3491079", "title": "Charles Innes-Ker, Marquess of Bowmont and Cessford", "text": "Charles Innes-Ker, Marquess of Bowmont and Cessford\n\nCaptain Charles Robert George Innes Ker, Marquess of Bowmont and Cessford (born 18 February 1981), is a British aristocrat.\n\nLord Bowmont is the eldest son and heir apparent of the 10th Duke of Roxburghe and his first wife, the former Lady Jane Meriel Grosvenor, daughter of the 5th Duke of Westminster. His uncle was Gerald Grosvenor, 6th Duke of Westminster. He was educated at Eton College and the University of Newcastle upon Tyne. He attended the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, passed out in December 2004, and has served with the Blues and Royals in Windsor and Iraq.\n\nHe will inherit Floors Castle and 60,000 acres around the Cheviot Hills and the River Tweed as well as hotels in the area, leading up to an estimated wealth of £100 million. In February 2003, he was caught travelling on the Tyne and Wear Metro without paying the £1 fare. He chose to pay a £10 fine rather than take the case to court and risk appearing on \"losers' posters\" displayed around the city, naming people who had been caught travelling without tickets.\n\nOn 22 July 2011, he married The Honourable Charlotte Susanna Aitken (b. 15 February 1982), eldest daughter of Maxwell Aitken, 3rd Baron Beaverbrook. The couple split and sued for divorce in June 2012, less than a year after the wedding.\n\nThe present Duke of Roxburghe is heir to the chiefship of the Clan Innes (Clann Innis, not \"Mac Aonghuis\" or Clan MacInnes); however, since he bears the surname Innes-Ker, the Lord Lyon King of Arms will not recognise him as chief of the name Innes.\n"}
{"id": "27142857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27142857", "title": "Cherry Bekaert", "text": "Cherry Bekaert\n\nCherry Bekaert LLP (formerly Cherry, Bekaert & Holland L.L.P.) is the second largest certified public accounting firm headquartered in the Southeast United States and one of the Top 30 accounting firms in the United States. With offices located in Maryland, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Texas, Tennessee, and South Carolina, Cherry Bekaert ranks in the top 30 US accounting firms. Employing nearly 1160 professionals, Cherry Bekaert reported revenues of $173.80 million in 2018.\n\nCherry Bekaert LLP is a founding member of Baker Tilly International, a network of 149 independent firms in 125 countries worldwide.\n\nCherry Bekaert began in 1947 as a small practice in Wilmington, North Carolina, led by Harry Cherry. Charles Bekaert and William Holland joined the Firm in 1952 and 1953 respectively. The Firm moved into the Richmond, Virginia, area in 1988, eventually relocating the corporate headquarters to Richmond from Charlotte in 1991. \n\nBeginning May 1, 2018, Michelle Thompson succeeded Howard Kies as Cherry Bekaert's Firm Managing Partner and Chief Executive Officer.\n\n\nCherry Bekaert LLP is divided into twelve industry groups, including:\n\nCherry Bekaert has been recognized as one of the \"Best Places to Work\" by job search site Vault.com; \"Inside Business\" in Hampton Roads, VA; \"Triangle Business Journal\" in Raleigh, NC; and \"Tampa Bay Business Journal\" in Tampa Bay, FL.\n\n"}
{"id": "14179503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14179503", "title": "Cone Mills Corporation", "text": "Cone Mills Corporation\n\nCone Mills Corporation was a world leader in textile manufacturing of corduroy, flannel, denim and other cotton fabrics for most of the 20th century. The company was based in Greensboro, North Carolina and its mills were mostly in North and South Carolina. The company was known as the world's largest producer of denim. It was disestablished in 2004.\n\nThe Cone family history begins in 1845 when Herman Kahn (1828–1897), a Jewish-German immigrant, and his sister’s family left their home in Bavaria, Germany for a new life in the United States. Herman changed the spelling of his last name from \"Kahn\" to \"Cone\" almost immediately upon arrival in the United States to become more American.\n\nHerman Cone and his brother-in-law Jacob Adler started a dry goods business in the German-speaking Pennsylvania Dutch town of Jonesboro, Tennessee. Cone & Adler sold the usual items like groceries, hats, boots, and shoes. An exception to this was that they also sold ready-to-wear clothing, unusual in the antebellum South where most clothing was made at home.\n\nHerman met Helen Guggenheimer (1838–1898) in one of his business traveling trips to Lynchburg, Virginia in the early part of the 1850s. She was also from Germany and was Jewish. In 1856, when Helen was eighteen, they got married. Their first child was Moses H. Cone, born in 1857, founder of Proximity Manufacturing Company (original name for the Cone Mills enterprises). Their next was Ceasar, born in 1859, the co-founder.\n\nThe family showed in the pre-Civil War 1860 census that their real estate holdings and personal property holdings were an impressive $29,365. By 1861 they closed their business because of the war and put their money instead into real estate. At the end of the war, the family sold some of their real estate to reopen their retail business under the name \"Adler, Cone, and Shipley.\"\n\nThey engaged in the barter system to trade goods, since cash was then very scarce. They traded their goods for textiles and then resold these in the South for cash. Many times they just took credit on personal property and land. They foreclosed on many of the debts owed them, acquiring hundreds of acres of real estate in the process.\n\nIn 1870 the family, who at this point was fairly wealthy, moved to Baltimore, Maryland and started a wholesale grocery business called \"Guggenheimer, Cone & Company.\" The family at this point had seven children, five boys and two girls, Claribel and Etta, who gained a reputation as the art-collecting Cone sisters. This business owned by several relative members was ultimately disbanded in 1873 and Herman went into business with his eldest sons, Moses and Ceasar. This new firm was called \"H. Cone & Sons.\" The two eldest, Moses and Ceasar, worked with their father in his grocery business while in their teens traveling the Southeast as \"drummers\" (traveling salesmen). The brothers took and bartered orders from southern merchants for their father's wares. By 1876 the business had expanded to include tobacco and leather goods.\n\nIn 1887, Moses and Ceasar Cone invested $50,000 in the C. E. Graham Mill Manufacturing Company of Asheville, North Carolina. They manufactured cotton plaids. In 1893 the mill became Asheville Cotton Mills. In 1888, the brothers invested in Salisbury Cotton Mills of Salisbury, North Carolina. They also invested in Minneola Manufacturing Company of Gibsonville, North Carolina. In 1891, Moses and Ceasar Cone established the Cone Export & Commission Company. The selling agent for southern textiles was called a \"plaid trust\" by its competitors. Chartered in New Jersey, the company's headquarters were located in New York City and Moses served as its president. In 1893, the Cone brothers then built one of the first textile finishing plants in the South, called Southern Finishing & Warehouse Company.\n\nMoses Cone built his first denim manufacturing plant in Greensboro in 1895. The plant was called the Proximity Cotton Mills because of its location to the nearby cotton fields. Near the mills \"Brother Moses\" and \"Brother Ceasar\" built a facility to serve as the company's headquarters. Ceasar was its first president.\n\nThe Cone family, many of whom later were involved in Moses and Ceasar's enterprises, included Carrie (1861–1927), Monroe (1862–1891), Claribel (1864–1929), Albert (1866–1867), Solomon (1868–1939), Sydney M. (1869–1939), Etta (1870–1949), Julius W. (1872–1940), Bernard M. (1874–1956), Clarence N. (1876–1929), and Frederick W. (1878-1944).\n\nIn 1899 Moses and Ceasar partnered with Emanuel and Herman Sternberger of South Carolina to build a flannel production plant called Revolution Mills. In 1905 under Proximity Manufacturing Company the Cone brothers built White Oak Cotton Mills in Greensboro. By 1908 it was the world's largest producer of denim. The heavy-duty blue denim manufactured by the mills controlled by Moses gave him the reputation of being \"the Denim King.\" The company has produced the denim fabric for Levi Strauss & Company since 1915. They are the exclusive supplier in recent years of the fabric for Levi's brand 501 jeans.\n\nIn 1912 the company opened Proximity Print Works. This plant was one of the earliest color cloth printing facilities in the Southern United States. In 1927 the company acquired Cliffside Cotton Mills (manufacturer of terry cloth) and Haynes Plant (producer of chambray). By 1929 they had acquired Holt-Granite Puritan Mills Company of Haw River, North Carolina. They then acquired the corduroy producing Tabardrey Manufacturing Company. By 1932 the Cone company had gained controlling stock of Eno Cotton Mills of Hillsborough, North Carolina. They bought the Florence Mills of Forest City, North Carolina in 1941 and also its subsidiary called American Spinning Company of Greenville, South Carolina.\n\nIn 1945 the company merged all its separate mill properties into the Proximity Manufacturing Company. The manufacturing companies, mills, and various subsidiaries owned by the Cones underwent a major reorganization in which the separate business operations of Proximity Manufacturing Company (including Proximity Cotton Mills, Proximity Print Works, White Oak, and Granite), the Cliffside Mills (including the Cliffside and Haynes plants), the Florence Mills (including American Spinning Company), Minneola Manufacturing Company, Salisbury Cotton Mills, Tabardrey Manufacturing Company, and Cone Export & Commission Company, were all reorganized.\n\nThen in 1948 another major merger occurred. Revolution Mills and Proximity Manufacturing Company was consolidated and named Cone Mills Corporation. In 1950 the company announced a merger with the twill and drill manufacturer Dwight Manufacturing Company of Alabama. The following year it purchased the company outright, being the same year the Corporation went public trading on the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nCone Mills Corporation in 1952 purchased the Union Bleachery of Greenville, South Carolina. They then gained the first license for the sanforizing process granted in the United States.\n\nCone Mills Corporation was involved with Cone Memorial YMCA (the White Oak, Proximity, and segregated branches), Camp Herman, night school, and employment of nurses. They built housing near their mills, both boarding houses and single family homes. Stores sold dairy products and meat was produced on company farms. The company built a school and donated land for churches for each village. The company also instituted a Welfare Office.\n\nThey were also involved with state and regional cotton and textile associations, the Mill Workers Mutual Benefit Association, and Summit Avenue Building Company. The company was also associated with the Cone Country Club and founded the Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital.\n\nFrom 1958 to 1969 they were involved with the annual Miss North Carolina Pageant. The company provided fabric for wardrobes that were given to each year's winner. They also provided fabric for the presentation gown that each winner wore to represent North Carolina in the annual Miss America Pageant.\n\nITG (International Textile Group), parent company of Cone Denim, announced in 2017 that after more than 110 years of continuous production its White Oak mill in Greensboro will cease operations. The company worked closely with its White Oak customers to fulfill all orders and meet customer needs over the coming months, including transitioning styles to its other global platforms as ITG continues to be headquartered in Greensboro, NC with ten manufacturing operations across the U.S., Mexico and China. \n\nWhen the mill closed, it was the last large scale denim mill to shut in the USA, meaning you could no longer get American made selvedge denim.\n\nSome of the last denim made at White Oak was given to the artist Ian Berry, who is known for his work with denim, to make the 'Secret Garden' at the Childrens museum of the arts in New York. \n\nThe textile companies and plants owned and operated in full or in part by the Cone family were Revolution Cotton Mills, Asheville Cotton Mills, Minneola Manufacturing Company, Salisbury Cotton Mills, Cliffside Mills, Eno Cotton Mills, Granite Finishing Works, Tabardrey Manufacturing Company, Florence Mills, John Wolf Textiles, Olympic Products, and American Spinning Company.\n\nThe company went private again in 1983 with the threat of a takeover by Western Pacific Industries. At the time the company had twenty-one plants and 10,800 employees. The company then had a value of $385 million. In 2003, Cone Mills Corporation filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. By 2004, all of Cone's assets had been acquired by W. L. Ross and Company and were then combined with what remained of Burlington Industries to form International Textile Group.\n\nMill villages were company-owned towns, built from scratch by textile mills to house their factory workers and their families. In the early 1900s, Cone Mills Inc. built five self-sufficient villages to serve its Greensboro factories. These villages included churches, schools, baseball fields, community centers, and company stores in addition to houses that were leased to mill workers. At their peak, the Cone mill villages covered and housed 2,675 workers in about 1,500 houses. A separate mill village, East White Oak, housed African-American workers. Thousands of workers and their families made their lives in these “towns within a town” until the company began selling the houses (sometimes to workers) in the late 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "42271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42271", "title": "Cost accounting", "text": "Cost accounting\n\nCost accounting is the process of recording, classifying, analyzing, summarizing, and allocating costs associated with a process, and then developing various courses of action to control the costs. Its goal is to advise the management on how to optimize business practices and processes based on cost efficiency and capability. Cost accounting provides the detailed cost information that management needs to control current operations and plan for the future.\n\nSince managers are making decisions only for their own organization, there is no need for the information to be comparable to similar information from other organizations. Instead, information must be relevant for a particular environment. Cost accounting information is commonly used in financial accounting information, but its primary function is for use by managers to facilitate making decisions.\n\nAll types of businesses, whether service, manufacturing or trading, require cost accounting to track their activities. Cost accounting has long been used to help managers understand the costs of running a business. Modern cost accounting originated during the industrial revolution, when the complexities of running a large scale business led to the development of systems for recording and tracking costs to help business owners and managers make decisions.\n\nIn the early industrial age, most of the costs incurred by a business were what modern accountants call \"variable costs\" because they varied directly with the amount of production. Money was spent on labor, raw materials, power to run a factory, etc. in direct proportion to production. Managers could simply total the variable costs for a product and use this as a rough guide for decision-making processes.\n\nSome costs tend to remain the same even during busy periods, unlike variable costs, which rise and fall with volume of work. Over time, these \"fixed costs\" have become more important to managers. Examples of fixed costs include the depreciation of plant and equipment, and the cost of departments such as maintenance, tooling, production control, purchasing, quality control, storage and handling, plant supervision and engineering.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century, these costs were of little importance to most businesses. However, with the growth of railroads, steel and large scale manufacturing, by the late nineteenth century these costs were often more important than the variable cost of a product, and allocating them to a broad range of products led to bad decision making. Managers must understand fixed costs in order to make decisions about products and pricing.\n\nFor example: A company produced railway coaches and had only one product. To make each coach, the company needed to purchase $60 of raw materials and components, and pay 6 laborers $40 each. Therefore, total variable cost for each coach was $300. Knowing that making a coach required spending $300, managers knew they couldn't sell below that price without losing money on each coach. Any price above $300 became a contribution to the fixed costs of the company. If the fixed costs were, say, $1000 per month for rent, insurance and owner's salary, the company could therefore sell 5 coaches per month for a total of $3000 (priced at $600 each), or 10 coaches for a total of $4500 (priced at $450 each), and make a profit of $500 in both cases.\n\n\nThe following are different cost accounting approaches:\n\nBasic cost elements are:\n\n\nThese categories are flexible and sometimes overlapping. For example, in some companies, machine cost is segregated from overhead and reported as a separate element altogether, and payroll costs are sometimes separated form other production costs.\n\nClassification of cost means, the grouping of costs according to their common characteristics. The important ways of classification of costs are:\n\nIn modern cost account of recording historical costs was taken further, by allocating the company's fixed costs over a given period of time to the items produced during that period, and recording the result as the total cost of production. This allowed the \"full cost\" of products that were not sold in the period they were produced to be recorded in inventory using a variety of complex accounting methods, which was consistent with the principles of GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles). It also essentially enabled managers to ignore the fixed costs, and look at the results of each period in relation to the \"standard cost\" for any given product.\n\nThis method tended to slightly distort the resulting unit cost, but in mass-production industries that made one product line, and where the fixed costs were relatively low, the distortion was very minor.\n\nAn important part of standard cost accounting is a variance analysis, which breaks down the variation between actual cost and standard costs into various components (volume variation, material cost variation, labor cost variation, etc.) so managers can understand \"why costs were different from what was planned\" and take appropriate action to correct the situation.\n\nAs business became more complex and began producing a greater variety of products,\nthe use of cost accounting to make decisions to maximize profitability came into question. Management circles became increasingly aware of the Theory of Constraints in the 1980s, and began to understand that \"every production process has a limiting factor\" somewhere in the chain of production. As business management learned to identify the constraints, they increasingly adopted throughput accounting to manage them and \"maximize the \"throughput dollars\"\" (or other currency) from each unit of constrained resource.\nThroughput accounting aims to make the best use of scarce resources(bottle neck) in a (JIT) Just in time environment.\n\nActivity-based costing (ABC) is a system for assigning costs to products based on the activities they require. In this case, activities are those regular actions performed inside a company. \"Talking with customer regarding invoice questions\" is an example of an activity inside most companies.\n\nCompanies may be moved to adopt ABC by a need to improve costing accuracy, that is, understand better the true costs and profitability of individual products, services, or initiatives. ABC gets closer to true costs in these areas by turning many costs that standard cost accounting views as indirect costs essentially into direct costs. By contrast, standard cost accounting typically determines so-called indirect and overhead costs simply as a percentage of certain direct costs, which may or may not reflect actual resource usage for individual items.\n\nUnder ABC, accountants assign 100% of each employee's time to the different activities performed inside a company (many will use surveys to have the workers themselves assign their time to the different activities). The accountant then can determine the total cost spent on each activity by summing up the percentage of each worker's salary spent on that activity.\n\nA company can use the resulting activity cost data to determine where to focus their operational improvements. For example, a job-based manufacturer may find that a high percentage of its workers are spending their time trying to figure out a hastily written customer order. Via (ABC) Activity based costing, the accountants now have a currency amount pegged to the activity of \"Researching Customer Work Order Specifications\". Senior management can now decide how much focus or money to budget for resolving this process deficiency. Activity-based management includes (but is not restricted to) the use of activity-based costing to manage a business.\n\nWhile (ABC) Activity based costing may be able to pinpoint the cost of each activity and resources into the ultimate product, the process could be tedious, costly and subject to errors.\n\nAs it is a tool for a more accurate way of allocating fixed costs into product, these fixed costs do not vary according to each month's production volume. For example, an elimination of one product would not eliminate the overhead or even direct labor cost assigned to it.Activity based costing (ABC) better identifies product costing in the long run, but may not be too helpful in day-to-day decision-making.\n\nRecently, Mocciaro Li Destri, Picone & Minà (2012). proposed a performance and cost measurement system that integrates the Economic Value Added criteria with Process Based Costing (PBC). The EVA-PBC methodology allows us to implement the EVA management logic not only at the firm level, but also at lower levels of the organization. EVA-PBC methodology plays an interesting role in bringing strategy back into financial performance measures.\n\nLean accounting has developed in recent years to provide the accounting, control, and measurement methods supporting lean manufacturing and other applications of lean thinking such as healthcare, construction, insurance, banking, education, government, and other industries.\n\nThere are two main thrusts for Lean Accounting. The first is the application of lean methods to the company's accounting, control, and measurement processes. This is not different from applying lean methods to any other processes. The objective is to eliminate waste, free up capacity, speed up the process, eliminate errors & defects, and make the process clear and understandable.\nThe second (and more important) thrust of Lean Accounting is to fundamentally change the accounting, control, and measurement processes so they motivate lean change & improvement, provide information that is suitable for control and decision-making, provide an understanding of customer value, correctly assess the financial impact of lean improvement, and are themselves simple, visual, and low-waste. Lean Accounting does not require the traditional management accounting methods like standard costing, activity-based costing, variance reporting, cost-plus pricing, complex transactional control systems, and untimely & confusing financial reports. These are replaced by:\n\nAs an organization becomes more mature with lean thinking and methods, they recognize that the combined methods of lean accounting in fact creates a lean management system (LMS) designed to provide the planning, the operational and financial reporting, and the motivation for change required to prosper the company's on-going lean transformation.\n\nThe cost-volume-profit analysis is the systematic examination of the relationship between selling prices, sales, production volumes, costs, expenses and profits. This analysis provides very useful information for decision-making in the management of a company. For example, the analysis can be used in establishing sales prices, in the product mix selection to sell, in the decision to choose marketing strategies, and in the analysis of the impact on profits by changes in costs. In the current environment of business, a business administration must act and take decisions in a fast and accurate manner. As a result, the importance of cost-volume-profit is still increasing as time passes.\n\n\"CONTRIBUTION MARGIN\"\n\nA relationship between the cost, volume and profit is the contribution margin. The contribution margin is the revenue excess from sales over variable costs. The concept of contribution margin is particularly useful in the planning of business because it gives an insight into the potential profits that a business can generate. The following chart shows the income statement of a company X, which has been prepared to show its contribution margin:\n\n\"CONTRIBUTION MARGIN RATIO\"\n\nThe contribution margin can also be expressed as a percentage. The contribution margin ratio, which is sometimes called the profit-volume ratio, indicates the percentage of each sales dollar available to cover fixed costs and to provide operating revenue. For the company Fusion, Inc. the contribution margin ratio is 40%, which is computed as follows:\n\nThe contribution margin ratio measures the effect on operating income of an increase or a decrease in sales volume. For example, assume that the management of Fusion, Inc. is studying the effect of adding $80,000 in sales orders. Multiplying the contribution margin ratio (40%) by the change in sales volume ($80,000) indicates that operating income will increase $32,000 if additional orders are obtained. To validate this analysis the table below shows the income statement of the company including additional orders:\n\nVariable costs as a percentage of sales are equal to 100% minus the contribution margin ratio. Thus, in the above income statement, the variable costs are 60% (100% - 40%) of sales, or $648,000 ($1,080,000 X 60%). The total contribution margin $432,000, can also be computed directly by multiplying the sales by the contribution margin ratio ($1,080,000 X 40%).\n\n\n1. Cost Accounting, 3rd edition - Md. Omar Faruk, Sohel Ahmed, Sharif Hossain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4166850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4166850", "title": "Craig Roberts Stapleton", "text": "Craig Roberts Stapleton\n\nCraig Stapleton was born in Kansas City, Missouri, the son of Katherine Histed Hall and Benjamin Franklin Stapleton Jr. His grandfather, Benjamin F. Stapleton, was a politician who served five terms as mayor of Denver. He received his secondary school education at Phillips Exeter Academy and a B.A. (magna cum laude) from Harvard University. He received his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. His wife, Dorothy Walker Stapleton, is a first cousin of former U.S. president George H.W. Bush.\n\nHe served as President of Marsh and McLennan Real Estate Advisors of New York from 1982 until 2001. From 1989 to 1998 Stapleton co-owned the Texas Rangers baseball team with George W. Bush. He has served on the board of directors for several companies including Allegheny Properties, Metro PCS, TB Woods and Winston Partners. In July 2009, he became a co-owner of the St. Louis Cardinals.\n\nDuring the administration of George H.W. Bush, Stapleton sat on the Board of the Peace Corps. He served as ambassador to the Czech Republic from August 2001 to December 2003. In 2004, he was the Connecticut State Chairman for the Bush-Cheney reelection campaign. In June 2005 he was appointed ambassador to France and served until January 29, 2009. He is a member of CERGE-EI Foundation supporting economic education in transition and developing countries.\n\nIn 2007 he recommended to the Bush administration that they wage a trade war on European crops, due to European resistance to genetically modified foods such as MON 810, thus denying a key US export.\n\n\"Ambassador Stapleton goes on to write, quote, \"Country team Paris recommends that we calibrate a target retaliation list that causes some pain across the EU since this is a collective responsibility, but that also focuses in part on the worst culprits. The list should be measured rather than vicious and must be sustainable over the long term, since we should not expect an early victory,\" he wrote.\"\n\nStapleton made an appearance on the Food Network show, \"The Next Iron Chef\" in 2007. The final three chefs remaining in the competition each prepared a three-course American-themed dinner for the ambassador and 20 guests. The competition took place in the ambassador's official residence.\n\nHe and his wife live in Greenwich, Connecticut and have two adult children; his son Walker Stapleton was elected Colorado State Treasurer in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "43443191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43443191", "title": "David Wallace (executive)", "text": "David Wallace (executive)\n\nDavid Wallace (October 6, 1908 – October 6, 1974 in Taormina, Sicily), was hired in 1955 by Ford Motor Company as manager of product planning and merchandising its protégé car debuting in 1957. At the end the name chosen was Edsel.\n\nGiven the responsibility of researching potential names and being frustrated by conventional research, Wallace secured the aid of poet Marianne Moore who did not disappoint with such suggestions as Mongoose Civique, Resilient Bullet, Andante con Moto and Utopian Turtletop among others. The entire correspondence was later reproduced in \"The New Yorker\" (April 13, 1957, pp 130–136). It was up to Wallace to inform Miss Moore of Ford’s final choice which he did in this pungent letter:\n\n\"November 8, 1956\n\n\"Dear Miss Moore,\n\n\"Because you were so kind to us in our early and hopeful days of looking for a suitable name, I feel a deep obligation to report on events that have ensued.\n\n\"And I feel I must do so before the public announcement of same come Monday, November 19.\n\n\"We have chosen a name out of the more than six thousand-odd candidates that we gathered. It has a certain ring to it. It fails somewhat of the resonance, gaiety, and zest we were seeking. But it has a personal dignity and meaning to many of us here. Our name, dear Miss Moore, is—Edsel.\n\n\"I hope you will understand.\n\n\"Cordially,\n\n\"David Wallace,\"\n\n\"Special Products Division (The New Yorker, April 17, 1957, p 136)\"\n\nWallace later wrote of his experiences with Ford Motor Co. in Automotive Quarterly, \"Something went wrong. History had never witnessed anything like it before. More money was spent in its launching than any other previous product offered upon the consumer market anywhere – a quarter of a billion dollars. It was to be the most perfectly conceived automobile the world had ever seen – every part of its planning guided by public opinion polls, motivational research, Science. It did not work out that way…\" (Automobile Quarterly, 1975, Vol. XIII, No. 2, “Naming the Edsel”, p. 182-191)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40761928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40761928", "title": "Downtown Boise", "text": "Downtown Boise\n\nDowntown Boise is the central business district of Boise, Idaho, located north of the Boise River. It is the largest city center in the state of Idaho.\n\n\nCecil D. Andrus Park is a two-acre park in the Capitol District, just south of the Idaho State Capitol. The park is home to brick walkways, lawns, shrubs, and trees, planting beds, benches and picnic tables.\nThe Golden Garden Club began a beautification project in the park in 2007. In 2008, new streetlights were installed in the park. A central plaza in the park honor servicemen and servicewomen with plaques. The park is home to three statues: \"Lincoln\" created by (Alphonso Pelzer, 1915), \"Steunenberg\" depicting Governor Steunenberg (Gilber Riswold, 1927) and \"Hospitality at the Nez Perce\", which depicts Meriwether Lewis, William Clark, Chief Twisted Hair and his son, Lawyer (Dough Hyde, 2006).\n\nC.W. Moore Park is a small urban park in Old Boise. The land was given to the city in the 1930s by Charles Wilkinson Moore, who once served as president of the First National Bank of Idaho. The land had been used off and on as a park, but it wasn't until 1983 that the park was re-established. The park has segments of old buildings and signs along the walls. The park is also home to a water wheel and an open cut section of the Grove Street Ditch, which was constructed in 1866.\n\nThe Grove is a plaza located in the center of downtown, reached via tree-lined pedestrian ways that are segments of Eighth and Grove Streets. In the middle of the plaza is a fountain. There are a number of public art displays in the Grove. The plaza is also home to regular outdoor events throughout the year, including the local farmer's market.\n\nThe Idaho Anne Frank Human Right Memorial is an educational park dedicated to Anne Frank along the Boise River. The memorial features guided pathways, waterfalls and a 180-foot-long sandstone wall with quotes from various writers.\n\nJulia Davis Park, at over 90 acres is by far, the largest park in downtown Boise. The park is home to a number of cultural and educational sites, including Zoo Boise, the Boise Art Museum, the Julia Davis Rose Garden, the Gene Harris Bandshell, the Idaho State Historical Museum, Discovery Center of Idaho, and the Idaho Black History Museum. The park also has a statue of Abraham Lincoln sitting on a stone bench. Paddleboats, including some shaped like pelicans and swans, can be rented to explore the lagoon and canal in the park. The park is also home to Coston Cabin and Pearce Cabin. Coston Cabin was located seven miles east of its current site originally and was built in 1863 by Isaac Coston from driftwood from the river. Pearce Cabin was also built in 1863 by Ira B. Pearce from logs from the mountains.\n\nKristin's Park is the smallest park downtown, at just over 1700 square feet. A short paved trail passes through the mini-park called the Pioneer Path. The trail ends on the sidewalk near the intersection of Myrtle and 11th Streets to the north. To the south, the path connects with the Boise River Greenbelt.\n\nPioneer Tot Lot is a small playground in the Pioneer District for children from 2 to 12 years of age.\n\nRhodes Park is a small park located at the southern edge of the Linen District and is named for a former Ada County commissioner. In 1992, Glenn Rhodes raised contributions and helped coordinate and build the park in park. The park, which is home to a skate park, basketball courts and picnic tables. The site is located under Interstate 184, often referred to as the \"Connector\".\n\nShoreline Park is a small park located on the Boise River along the Greenbelt. picnic tables, a grass overpass over the beltway, picnic table, and a river overlook. The park also serves as the location for the police volunteer ranger program.\n\nInterstate 184 connects Interstate 84 with downtown. The interstate also carries US 20 and US 26 into downtown, which joins the freeway in Garden City. The freeway ends downtown at 13th Street, where it continues along two five-lane one-way streets. Myrtle Street carries eastbound traffic, while the three center lanes of the westbound Front Street become I-184 westbound. Broadway carries US 20/US 26 south to I-84, where it runs concurrently with the freeway heading east. Downtown is three miles north of the Boise International Airport.\n\nGreyhound has a bus terminal in downtown Boise at Bannock and Thirteenth Streets. Greyhound operates buses to Salt Lake City and points beyond and to Pendleton, where one can continue on to Portland, Seattle or Spokane. ValleyRide offers numerous bus routes downtown that service the rest of the Boise metropolitan area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5703877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5703877", "title": "Drop dead date", "text": "Drop dead date\n\nIn trade and contract law, a drop dead date is a provision added to a legal or trade act, such as a contract or a court order. Such a provision sets a last-delay date (hence the name \"drop dead date\") past which certain consequences will automatically follow, such as cancelling the contract, taking property or entering a judgment.\n\nIn contract law, a typical drop dead date example is the contract for the baking of a birthday cake, where it is implied that a late delivery will constitute a material breach.\n\nIn German and Swiss Law, this is called a \"Fixgeschäft\".\n"}
{"id": "42102855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42102855", "title": "Ella Lyman Cabot", "text": "Ella Lyman Cabot\n\nElla Lyman Cabot (1866–1934) was an educator, author and lecturer. She was born into a prominent Unitarian family in Boston and was the fourth of seven children. Her parents, Ella (Lowell) Lyman and Arthur Theodore Lyman, owned a family estate in Waltham, Massachusetts.\n\nCabot was educated in Boston private schools and attended Radcliffe College as a special student from 1889 to 1891 and took graduate courses at Harvard College from 1897 to 1903.\n\nIn 1897, Cabot began her career as an educator of ethics and applied psychology. She taught at Boston private schools and at Pine Manor Junior College in Wellesley, Massachusetts as well as directed Sunday school at King's Chapel.\n\nCabot served on the governing boards of Radcliffe College from 1902 to 1934, and on the Massachusetts Board of Education from 1905 to 1934. Among the numerous other organizations in which she held office were the Women's Education Association of Massachusetts, the Unitarian Sunday School Association, the Unitarian Temperance Society, and the National Religious Education Association.\n\nCabot also published seven books on ethics and childhood education between 1906 and 1929, a privately printed three-volume biography of her parents, and many articles and pamphlets.\n\nOn October 26, 1894, she married Dr. Richard Clarke Cabot (1868–1939), physician and professor of medicine and social ethics at Harvard. The Cabots made their home first on Marlborough St. in Boston and then on Brattle Street in Cambridge. They also spent time in Cohasset, Massachusetts, and at the Cabot family house in North East Harbor, Maine, and camped on Spruce Island, Saranac, New York, during many summers. They decided to not have children.\n\nRichard Clarke Cabot and Ella Lyman Cabot were both prolific letter-writers. Their lifelong correspondence, from the beginning of their courtship in 1888 through the year of Cabot's death, documents her ambivalent feelings about leaving her own family to accept Richard's proposal of marriage, and their initial disagreement about having children. The letters also clearly show their nearly fifty years of shared religious and philosophical inspiration, and their emotional reliance upon each other. During the last 15 years of Cabot's life the correspondence consists largely of birthday and Christmas letters.\n\nCabot's correspondence with friends attests to the intimate and supportive relationships she had with some women, notably Ada Pierce McCormick, a Radcliffe classmate and god-daughter of Richard who remained a close friend for more than 30 years, and Cabot's cousin Mary Pratt Sears, a lifelong friend with whom Cabot corresponded from the age of 13. This portion of Series III also contains letters, some to both Cabot and Richard, from a wide variety of friends and acquaintances; some are personal, and others are about charitable donations, lecture invitations, and board meetings.\n\nShe died from lung cancer in the fall of 1934.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3295601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3295601", "title": "Enzyme replacement therapy", "text": "Enzyme replacement therapy\n\nEnzyme replacement therapy (ERT) is a medical treatment which replaces an enzyme that is deficient or absent in the body. Usually, this is done by giving the patient an intravenous (IV) infusion of a solution containing the enzyme.\n\nERT is currently available for some lysosomal storage diseases: Gaucher disease, Fabry disease, MPS I, MPS II (Hunter syndrome), MPS VI and Pompe disease. ERT does not correct the underlying genetic defect, but it increases the concentration of the enzyme that the patient is lacking. ERT has also been used to treat patients with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) resulting from an adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID).\n\nOther treatment options for patients with enzyme or protein deficiencies include substrate reduction therapy, gene therapy, and bone-marrow derived stem cell transplantation.\n\nERT was developed in 1964 by Christian de Duve and Roscoe Brady. Leading work was done on this subject at the Department of Physiology at the University of Alberta by Mark J. Poznansky and Damyanti Bhardwaj, where a model for enzyme therapy was developed using rats. ERT was not used in clinical practice until 1991, after the FDA gave orphan drug approval for the treatment of Gaucher disease with Alglucerase. ERTs were initially manufactured by isolating the therapeutic enzyme from human placenta. The FDA has now approved ERTs that are derived from other human cells, animal cells (i.e. Chinese hamster ovary cells, or CHO cells), and plant cells.\n\nLysosomal storage diseases are fatal group of diseases and a main application of ERT. Lysosomes are cellular organelles that are responsible for the metabolism of many different macromolecules and proteins. They use enzymes to break down macromolecules, which are recycled or disposed. As of 2012, there are 50 lysosomal storage diseases, and more are still being discovered. These disorders arise because of genetic mutations that prevent the production of certain enzymes used in the lysosomes. The missing enzyme often leads to a build-up of the substrate within the body. This can result in a variety of symptoms, many of which are severe and can affect the skeleton, brain, skin, heart, and the central nervous system. Increasing the concentration of the missing enzyme within the body has been shown to improve the body's normal cellular metabolic processes and reduce substrate concentration in the body.\n\nERT has also been successful in treating severe combined immunodeficiency caused by an adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID). This is a fatal childhood disease that requires early medical intervention. When the enzyme adenosine deaminase is deficient in the body, the result is a toxic build-up of metabolites that impair lymphocyte development and function. Many ADA deficient children with SCID have been treated with the polyethylene glycol-conjugated adenosine deaminase (PEG-ADA) enzyme. This is a form of ERT that has resulted in healthier, longer lives for patients with ADA-SCID.\nERT is administered by IV infusion. Typically, infusions occur every week or every two weeks. For some types of ERT, these infusions can occur as infrequently as every four weeks.\n\nERT is not a cure for lysosomal storage diseases, and it requires lifelong IV infusions of the therapeutic enzyme. This procedure is expensive; in the United States, it may cost over $200,000 annually. The distribution of the therapeutic enzyme in the body (biodistribution) after these IV infusions is not uniform. The enzyme in less available to certain areas in the body, like the bones, lungs, brain. For this reason, many symptoms of lysosomal storage diseases remain untreated by ERT, especially neurological symptoms. Additionally, the efficacy of ERT is often reduced due to an unwanted immune response against the enzyme, which prevents metabolic function.\n\nSubstrate reduction therapy is another method for treating lysosomal storage diseases. In this treatment, the accumulated compounds are inhibited from forming in the body of a patient suffering from a lysosomal storage disease. The accumulated compounds are responsible for the symptoms of these disorders, and they form via a multi-step biological pathway. Substrate reduction therapy uses a small molecule to interrupt this multi-step pathway and inhibit the biosynthesis of these compounds. This type of treatment is taken orally. It does not induce an unwanted immune response, and a single type of small molecule could be used to treat many lysosomal storage diseases. Substrate reduction therapy is FDA approved and there is at least one treatment available on the market.\n\nGene therapy aims to replace a missing protein in the body through the use of vectors, usually viral vectors. In gene therapy, a gene encoding for a certain protein is inserted into a vector. The vector containing the therapeutic gene is then injected into the patient. Once inside the body the vector introduces the therapeutic gene into host cells, and the protein encoded by the newly inserted gene is then produced by the body's own cells. This type of therapy can correct for the missing protein/enzyme in patients with lysosomal storage diseases.\n\nHematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation is another treatment for lysosomal storage diseases. HSCs are derived from bone-marrow. These cells have the ability to mature into the many cell types that comprise blood, including red blood cells, platelets, and white blood cells. Patients suffering from enzyme deficiencies often undergo HSC transplantations in which HSCs from a healthy donor are injected. This treatment introduces HSCs that regularly produce the deficient enzyme since they have normal metabolic function. This treatment is often used to treat the central nervous system of patients with some lysosomal storage diseases.\n\n"}
{"id": "19649377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19649377", "title": "Fritz Kaiser", "text": "Fritz Kaiser\n\nFritz Kaiser (born 22 March 1955 in Mauren, Liechtenstein) is a wealth management entrepreneur, investor and philanthropist from the Principality of Liechtenstein. He is married to Birgit and has four children. He is co-founder and executive chairman of Kaiser Partner, a wealth management firm that provides family office and wealth management services to private wealth owners and their advisors. Kaiser is an advocate for responsible wealth management and is well known for his innovation in this field. Specifically, in 2011, he won the Spear’s Magazine \"Wealth Management Innovator of the Year\" award for the successful instigation and development of the ‘Liechtenstein Disclosure Facility’ (LDF), a vehicle which promotes tax compliance by assisting UK taxpayers in the declaration of previously untaxed assets. He also co-founded the Mentor Foundation, a leading international NGO voice of drug abuse prevention.\n\nFritz Kaiser is married and has four children. In 1976 he represented Liechtenstein in Judo at the Montreal Olympics and he has retained an interest in sport throughout his life. He is co-founder and trustee of the Mentor Foundation, a drug-prevention organization for children launched 1994 at the United Nations General Assembly in Geneva. The Foundation’s current patron is Queen Silvia of Sweden.\nFritz Kaiser is a member of the World Economic Forum (WEF). He is also an avid collector of Chinese Contemporary Art and has established the virtual museum \"88 Mocca – The Museum of Chinese Contemporary Art on the web\".\n\nFritz Kaiser completed a commerce degree (Handelsakademie) in Feldkirch, Austria and began his business career in 1977 at Präsidial-Anstalt, one of the leading trust firms in Liechtenstein. In 1982 he established his own business, the Fritz Kaiser Group (FKG), providing wealth management services to private wealth owners, entrepreneurs and internationally famous personalities from the worlds of sport and art. Kaiser continued to pursue this interest in financial services through his purchase of the Diners Club credit card business in Liechtenstein and Switzerland. He served as a member of the Diners Club International Strategic Council at its licensor Citibank, who he sold the company to in 1999. \nIn 1995, Fritz Kaiser became co-owner of the Swiss Formula One racing team Sauber, of which he was chairman from 1997-1999. During his F1 partnership time he successfully secured a contract with Red Bull in 1995, negotiated the Malaysian petroleum company PETRONAS as the main sponsor and engineering joint venture partner and developed the engine partnership with Ferrari. In 1999 he sold his share in the team to his partners, Peter Sauber and Dietrich Mateschitz (from Red Bull).\" \nIn more recent years, Kaiser has worked to promote the cause of responsible wealth management with Kaiser Partner.\n\nKaiser Partner, the international wealth management firm of which Fritz Kaiser is currently Executive Chairman, is founded on the principle of responsibility in wealth management. Kaiser Partner comprises several companies which provide integrated wealth management solutions including private banking, fund administration, financial advisory, family office, trust and asset management services. \nAt the heart of the services offered by Kaiser Partner is Fritz Kaiser’s belief that it is the duty of wealth management firms to help families and their advisors responsibly grow and preserve private wealth. To support this mantra, Kaiser Partner runs a Responsible Investing blog which discusses global developments relating to sustainable and ethical investing.\n\nKaiser Partner is also affiliated with the Private Wealth Council which was founded by Fritz Kaiser during the Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum 2004 in Davos. It is an independent, international forum bringing together private wealth owners, experts and thought leaders from across the world to address issues pertaining to the responsible use of private wealth. Since 2008, the Private Wealth Council has published the findings of its work in its international publication Responsible Wealth Review.\nIn the first issue, Al Gore, the former US Vice-President who now champions environmental issues, laid out nine drivers of global change which influence responsible wealth ownership. In an e-Financial News article from 2009, Kaiser commented that ‘If you understand the drivers of change and navigate on the right side of change then you have a better chance of being a successful long-term investor rather than just another gambler in the market’.\n\nWell known for his commitment to compliance and responsibility, in 2008 Fritz Kaiser was invited to join the Liechtenstein Governments' Advisory board for the initiative \"Futuro\" to help set the direction for the future of the Liechtenstein financial centre. He headed the Liechtenstein task force to develop a solution for the financial centre in collaboration with The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the outcome of which was a unique pledge of transparency to the OECD, called the Liechtenstein Declaration. \nWith many clients in the global offshore markets struggling to find fair solutions for untaxed funds, Kaiser instigated a solution with the UK government known as the Liechtenstein Disclosure Facility (LDF). This agreement would assist UK citizens with non-declared assets in their disclosure, making them HMRC compliant for a minimum penalty. This was clearly an attractive offering for those with offshore accounts, but its success could not have been predicted. UK taxpayers recognized that this was a non-discriminatory solution which could facilitate long-term wealth preservation and compliance. \nIt was for this work that Fritz Kaiser and his colleague, former Baker & McKenzie lawyer Philip Marcovici, won the Spear’s Magazine Award for ‘Wealth Management Innovator of the Year 2011’.\n\n\nBilanz-Artikel: \"Der Netzwerker\" (www.kaiserritterpartner.com/uploads/media/Bilanz19_2007.pdf)\n"}
{"id": "238150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238150", "title": "Furnace", "text": "Furnace\n\nA furnace is a device used for high-temperature heating. The name derives from Latin word \"fornax\", which means oven. The heat energy to fuel a furnace may be supplied directly by fuel combustion, by electricity such as the electric arc furnace, or through induction heating in induction furnaces.\n\nIn American English and Canadian English usage, the term \"furnace\" refers to the household heating systems based upon a central furnace, otherwise known either as a boiler, or a heater in British English. \"Furnace\" may also be a synonym for kiln, a device used in the production of ceramics.\n\nIn British English, a \"furnace\" is an industrial furnace used for many things, such as the extraction of metal from ore (smelting) or in oil refineries and other chemical plants, for example as the heat source for fractional distillation columns. The term \"furnace\" can also refer to a direct fired heater, used in boiler applications in chemical industries or for providing heat to chemical reactions for processes like cracking, and is part of the standard English names for many metallurgical furnaces worldwide.\n\nFurnaces can be classified into four general categories, based on efficiency and design.\n\nThe first category of furnaces are natural draft, atmospheric burner furnaces. These furnaces consisted of cast-iron or riveted-steel heat exchangers built within an outer shell of brick, masonry, or steel. The heat exchangers were vented through brick or masonry chimneys. Air circulation depended on large, upwardly pitched pipes constructed of wood or metal. The pipes would channel the warm air into floor or wall vents inside the home. This method of heating worked because warm air rises.\n\nThe system was simple, had few controls, a single automatic gas valve, and no blower. These furnaces could be made to work with any fuel simply by adapting the burner area. They have been operated with wood, coke, coal, trash, paper, natural gas, fuel oil as well as whale oil for a brief period at the turn of the century. Furnaces that used solid fuels required daily maintenance to remove ash and \"clinkers\" that accumulated in the bottom of the burner area. In later years, these furnaces were adapted with electric blowers to aid air distribution and speed moving heat into the home. Gas and oil-fired systems were usually controlled by a thermostat inside the home, while most wood and coal-fired furnaces had no electrical connection and were controlled by the amount of fuel in the burner and position of the fresh-air damper on the burner access door.\n\nThe second category of furnace is the forced-air, atmospheric burner style with a cast-iron or sectional steel heat exchanger. Through the 1950s and 1960s, this style of furnace was used to replace the big, natural draft systems, and was sometimes installed on the existing gravity duct work. The heated air was moved by blowers which were belt driven and designed for a wide range of speeds. These furnaces were still big and bulky compared to modern furnaces, and had heavy-steel exteriors with bolt-on removable panels. Energy efficiency would range anywhere from just over 50% to upward of 65% AFUE. This style furnace still used large, masonry or brick chimneys for flues and was eventually designed to accommodate air-conditioning systems.\n\nThe third category of furnace is the forced draft, mid-efficiency furnace with a steel heat exchanger and multi-speed blower. These furnaces were physically much more compact than the previous styles. They were equipped with combustion air blowers that would pull air through the heat exchanger which greatly increased fuel efficiency while allowing the heat exchangers to become smaller. These furnaces may have multi-speed blowers and were designed to work with central air-conditioning systems.\n\nThe fourth category of furnace is the high-efficiency, or condensing furnace. High-efficiency furnaces can achieve from 89% to 98% fuel efficiency. This style of furnace includes a sealed combustion area, combustion draft inducer and a secondary heat exchanger. Because the heat exchanger removes most of the heat from the exhaust gas, it actually condenses water vapor and other chemicals (which form a mild acid) as it operates. The vent pipes are normally installed with PVC pipe versus metal vent pipe to prevent corrosion. The draft inducer allows for the exhaust piping to be routed vertically or horizontally as it exits the structure. The most efficient arrangement for high-efficiency furnaces include PVC piping that brings fresh combustion air from the outside of the home directly to the furnace. Normally the combustion air (fresh air) PVC is routed alongside the exhaust PVC during installation and the pipes exit through a sidewall of the home in the same location. High efficiency furnaces typically deliver a 25% to 35% fuel savings over a 60% AFUE furnace.\n\nA single-stage furnace has only one stage of operation, it is either on or off. This means that it is relatively noisy, always running at the highest speed, and always pumping out the hottest air at the highest velocity.\n\nOne of the benefits to a single-stage furnace is typically the cost for installation. Single-stage furnaces are relatively inexpensive since the technology is rather simple.\n\nA two-stage furnace has to do two stage full speed and half (or reduced) speed. Depending on the demanded heat, they can run at a lower speed most of the time. They can be quieter, move the air at less velocity, and will better keep the desired temperature in the house.\n\nA modulating furnace can modulate the heat output and air velocity nearly continuously, depending on the demanded heat and outside temperature. This means that it only works as much as necessary and therefore saves energy.\n\nThe furnace transfers heat to the living space of the building through an intermediary distribution system. If the distribution is through hot water (or other fluid) or through steam, then the furnace is more commonly called a boiler. One advantage of a boiler is that the furnace can provide hot water for bathing and washing dishes, rather than requiring a separate water heater. One disadvantage to this type of application is when the boiler breaks down, neither heating nor domestic hot water are available.\n\nAir convection heating systems have been in use for over a century. Older systems rely on a passive air circulation system where the greater density of cooler air causes it to sink into the furnace area below, through air return registers in the floor, and the lesser density of warmed air causes it to rise in the ductwork; the two forces acting together to drive air circulation in a system termed 'gravity-fed'. The layout of these 'octopus’ furnaces and their duct systems is optimized with various diameters of large dampered ducts.\n\nBy comparison, most modern \"warm air\" furnaces typically use a fan to circulate air to the rooms of house and pull cooler air back to the furnace for reheating; this is called forced-air heat. Because the fan easily overcomes the resistance of the ductwork, the arrangement of ducts can be far more flexible than the octopus of old. In American practice, separate ducts collect cool air to be returned to the furnace. At the furnace, cool air passes into the furnace, usually through an air filter, through the blower, then through the heat exchanger of the furnace, whence it is blown throughout the building. One major advantage of this type of system is that it also enables easy installation of central air conditioning, simply by adding a cooling coil at the outlet of the furnace.\n\nAir is circulated through ductwork, which may be made of sheet metal or plastic \"flex\" duct, and is insulated or uninsulated. Unless the ducts and plenum have been sealed using mastic or foil duct tape, the ductwork is likely to have a high leakage of conditioned air, possibly into unconditioned spaces. Another cause of wasted energy is the installation of ductwork in unheated areas, such as attics and crawl spaces; or ductwork of air conditioning systems in attics in warm climates.\n\nA home furnace is a major appliance that is permanently installed to provide heat to an interior space through intermediary fluid movement, which may be air, steam, or hot water. Heating appliances that use steam or hot water as the fluid are normally referred to as a residential steam boiler or residential hot water boiler. The most common fuel source for modern furnaces in North America and much of Europe is natural gas; other common fuel sources include LPG (liquefied petroleum gas), fuel oil and in rare cases coal or wood. In some areas electrical resistance heating is used, especially where the cost of electricity is low or the primary purpose is for air conditioning.\n\nModern high-efficiency furnaces can be up to 98% efficient and operate without a chimney, with a typical gas furnace being about 80% efficient. Waste gas and heat are mechanically ventilated through PVC pipes that can be vented through the side or roof of the house. Fuel efficiency in a gas furnace is measured in AFUE (Annual Fuel Utilization Efficiency).\n\nIn metallurgy, several specialized furnaces are used. These include:\n\nAn industrial furnace or direct fired heater, is an equipment used to provide heat for a process or can serve as reactor which provides heats of reaction. Furnace designs vary as to its function, heating duty, type of fuel and method of introducing combustion air. However, most process furnaces have some common features.\n\nFuel flows into the burner and is burnt with air provided from an air blower. There can be more than one burner in a particular furnace which can be arranged in cells which heat a particular set of tubes. Burners can also be floor mounted, wall mounted or roof mounted depending on design. The flames heat up the tubes, which in turn heat the fluid inside in the first part of the furnace known as the radiant section or firebox. In this chamber where combustion takes place, the heat is transferred mainly by radiation to tubes around the fire in the chamber.\n\n"}
{"id": "35680988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35680988", "title": "Félix Guisard", "text": "Félix Guisard\n\nFélix Guisard (1862–1942) was a Brazilian businessman.\n"}
{"id": "312268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312268", "title": "Huntingdon Life Sciences", "text": "Huntingdon Life Sciences\n\nHuntingdon Life Sciences (HLS) is a contract research organisation (CRO) founded in 1951 in Cambridgeshire, England. It has two laboratories in the United Kingdom and one in the United States. With over 1600 staff, it is now the largest non-clinical CRO in Europe. In September 2015, Huntingdon Life Sciences, Harlan Laboratories, GFA, NDA Analytics and LSR associates merged into Envigo.\n\nIn 2009, HLS was bought outright and is now in private ownership. Prior to this, the latest Annual Report (2008) showed that the company had revenues of $US242.4m and an Operating Profit of 14.8%.\n\nAlthough HLS is the third-largest non-clinical CRO in the world, it is probably better known to the general public as the target of a high-profile animal rights campaign. The campaign, in the main, has been orchestrated by the animal rights group Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (SHAC).\n\nHLS has two facilities in the UK (Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire and Eye, Suffolk), one in the USA (East Millstone, New Jersey) and an office in Japan (Tokyo).\n\nHuntingdon Life Sciences was founded in the UK in 1951 as Nutrition Research Co. Ltd., a commercial organisation that initially focused on nutrition, veterinary, and biochemical research. The original facilities were split over two locations; the main offices were within Cromwell House in the town of Huntingdon, Cambs, UK; and the main laboratories were at the Hartford Field Station (just over a mile away). It then became involved with pharmaceuticals, food additives, and industrial and consumer chemicals. In 1959 it changed its name to Nutritional Research Unit Ltd. The company benefited in the early 1960s from increased government regulatory testing requirements, especially in the pharmaceutical industry. In 1964 it was acquired by the U.S. medical supply firm of Becton Dickinson.\n\nIn April 1983, Becton Dickinson created Huntingdon Research Centre PLC. It then offered four million American depositary receipts (ADRs) for sale at $15 each, representing the company's entire interest in Huntingdon. In 1985, as it began to expand its operations, the company changed its name to Huntingdon International Holdings plc. In that year it established Huntingdon Analytical Services Inc. to conduct business in the United States.\n\nTo augment its CRO business, Huntingdon acquired Minnesota's Twin City Testing Laboratory Inc. and affiliated companies in 1985, followed by the acquisition of Nebraska Testing Corporation in 1986; Travis Laboratories and Kansas City Test Laboratory Inc. in 1989; and Southwestern Laboratories, Inc. in 1990. Huntingdon also diversified its operations, primarily in the United States, becoming involved in engineering and environmental services.\n\nIn 1987, HLS purchased Northern Engineering and Testing, Inc., and then in 1988 bought Empire Soils Investigations Inc., Chen Associates Inc., and Asteco Inc. In 1988 HLS was floated on the London Stock Exchange and in 1989 obtained a listing on the New York Stock Exchange. In 1990 Huntingdon acquired the St. Louis branch of Envirodyne Engineers Inc. and Whiteley Holdings Ltd. And in 1991 it acquired Austin Research Engineers, Inc., followed by Travers Morgan Ltd.\n\nBy the early 1990s, Huntingdon was organised into three business groups: the Life Sciences Group, the Engineering/Environmental Group, and the Travers Morgan Group, which offered engineering and environmental consulting services outside of the United States. However, only the Life Sciences Group showed long-term promise. Travers Morgan was allowed to lapse into insolvency, control passed into other hands, and Huntingdon wrote off the investment. In 1995 the engineering and environmental businesses were sold to Maxim Engineers Inc. of Dallas, Texas.\n\nTo bolster its CRO business and reinforce its U.S. presence, Huntingdon in 1995 acquired the toxicology business of Applied Biosciences International for $32.5 million in cash, plus the Leicester Clinical Research Centre. The deal not only included a U.S. laboratory located near Princeton, New Jersey, it brought with it two British facilities as well. In 1997 Huntingdon International Holdings changed its name to Huntingdon Life Sciences Group. The U.K. subsidiary, Huntingdon Research Centre, changed its name to Huntingdon Life Sciences Ltd., while the U.S. business operated as Huntingdon Life Sciences Inc.\n\nIn 2002, HLS moved its financial centre to the United States and incorporated in Maryland as Life Sciences Research.\n\nIn 2009, HLS was bought outright and once again is in private ownership.\n\nHLS provides Contract Research Organisation services in pre-clinical and non-clinical biological safety evaluation research. As with other major CROs operating in this business area, its major business is serving the pharmaceutical industry. However, more than a third of its business comes from non-pharmaceutical sources, the most important of which is the crop protection industry which accounts for around 60% of their non-pharmaceutical business.\n\nThe latest available public figures from 2008 show that HLS employs more than 1600 staff across all of its facilities. They break down as:\n\n\nHLS uses animals in the biomedical research it conducts for its customers. The most recent numbers released state that in the UK around 60,000 animals are used annually. This number is broken down by species:\n\nHuntingdon is criticised by animal rights and animal welfare groups for using animals in research, for instances of animal abuse and for the wide range of substances it tests on animals, particularly non-medical products. It is claimed by SHAC that 500 animals died every day at HLS (182,500 a year), a figure at odds with HLS' published numbers.\n\nHuntingdon's labs were infiltrated by undercover animal rights activists in 1997 in the UK and in 1998 in the US.\n\nIn 1997, film secretly recorded inside HLS in the UK by BUAV and subsequently broadcast on Channel 4 television as \"It's a Dog's Life\", showed serious breaches of animal-protection laws, including a beagle puppy being held up by the scruff of the neck and repeatedly punched in the face, and animals being taunted.\n\nThe laboratory technicians responsible were suspended from HLS the day after the broadcast. All three were later dismissed. Two of the men seen hitting and shaking dogs were found guilty under the Animals Act of 1911 of \"cruelly terrifying dogs.\" It was the first time laboratory technicians had been prosecuted for animal cruelty in the UK. HLS admitted that the technicians' behaviour was deplorable and a new management team was introduced the following year which, according to \"The Daily Telegraph\", \"introduced greater openness and new training methods.\"\n\nIn 1998, an undercover investigator for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) used a camera hidden in her glasses to make 50 hours of videotape of the HLS laboratories in Princeton, New Jersey. She also made four 90-minute audiotapes, photocopied 8,000 company documents, and copied the company's client list. According to PETA some of the film she shot showed a monkey being dissected while still alive and conscious. The president of HLS in New Jersey, Alan Staple, said the monkey was alive but sedated during the dissection.\n\nHLS obtained a \"gagging order\" in the US that prevents PETA from publicising or talking about any of the information that they discovered. The order also prevented PETA from communicating with the American Department of Agriculture, which had been going to investigate the evidence.\n\nThe Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (SHAC) campaign is based in the UK and US, and has aimed to close the company down since 1999. According to its website, the campaign's methods are restricted to non-violent direct action, as well as lobbying and demonstrations. It targets not only HLS itself, but any company, institution, or person allegedly doing business with the laboratory, whether as clients, suppliers, or even disposal and cleaning services, and the employees of those companies.\n\nDespite its stated non-violent position, SHAC members have been convicted of crimes of violence against HLS employees. On 25 October 2010 five SHAC members received prison sentences for threatening HLS staff. SHAC has also been accused of encouraging arson and violent assault. An HLS director was assaulted in front of his child. HLS managing director Brian Cass was sent a mousetrap primed with razor blades, and in February 2001 was attacked by three men armed with pickaxe handles and CS gas. Another businessman with links to HLS was attacked and knocked unconscious adjacent to a barn his assailants had set alight.\n\nBoth SHAC and Animal Liberation Front activists have engaged in harassment and intimidation, including issuing hoax bomb threats and death threats. \"The Daily Mail\" cites as an example the sending of 500 letters to the neighbours of a company manager who did business with HLS; the letter contained an unsupported allegation that the man was a paedophile, with police having to inform all 500 households that the allegations were false.\n\nIn 2008 seven of SHAC's senior members were described by prosecutors as \"some of the key figures in the Animal Liberation Front\" and found guilty of conspiracy to blackmail HLS.\n\nThe campaign against HLS led to its share price crashing, the Royal Bank of Scotland closing its bank account, and the British government arranging for the Bank of England to give them an account. In 2000, HLS was dropped from the New York Stock Exchange because of its market capitalization had fallen below NYSE limits.\n\nFrom 2006, \"The Daily Telegraph\" reports, the British Government took the decision to tackle \"the problem of animal rights extremism.\" On 1 May 2007, a police campaign called \"Operation Achilles\" was enacted against SHAC, a series of raids involving 700 police officers in England, Amsterdam, and Belgium. In total, 32 people linked to the group were arrested, and seven leading members of SHAC, including Greg Avery, were found guilty of blackmail. Police estimated in 2007 that, as a consequence of the operation, \"up to three quarters of the most violent activists\" were jailed. \"Der Spiegel\" writes that the number of attacks on HLS and their business declined drastically but \"the movement is by no means dead.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28399034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28399034", "title": "Inventory management software", "text": "Inventory management software\n\nInventory management software is a software system for tracking inventory levels, orders, sales and deliveries. It can also be used in the manufacturing industry to create a work order, bill of materials and other production-related documents. Companies use inventory management software to avoid product overstock and outages. It is a tool for organizing inventory data that before was generally stored in hard-copy form or in spreadsheets.\n\nInventory management software is made up of several key components working together to create a cohesive inventory of many organizations' systems. These features include:\n\nShould inventory reach a specific threshold, a company's inventory management system can be programmed to tell managers to reorder that product. This helps companies avoid running out of products or tying up too much capital in inventory.\n\nWhen a product is in a warehouse or store, it can be tracked via its barcode and/or other tracking criteria, such as serial number, lot number or revision number. Systems. for Business, Encyclopedia of Business, 2nd ed. Nowadays, inventory management software often utilizes barcode, radio-frequency identification (RFID), and/or wireless tracking technology.\n\nCompanies that are primarily service-oriented rather than product-oriented can use inventory management software to track the cost of the materials they use to provide services, such as cleaning supplies. This way, they can attach prices to their services that reflect the total cost of performing them.\n\nBarcodes are often the means whereby data on products and orders are inputted into inventory management software. A barcode reader is used to read barcodes and look up information on the products they represent. Radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags and wireless methods of product identification are also growing in popularity. \n\nModern inventory software programs may use QR codes or NFC tags to identify inventory items and smartphones as scanners. This method provides an option for businesses to track inventory using barcode scanning without a need to purchase expensive scanning hardware.\n\nA fully automated demand forecasting and inventory optimization system to attain key inventory optimization metrics such as:\n\nThe Universal Product Code (UPC) was adopted by the grocery industry in April 1973 as the standard barcode for all grocers, though it was not introduced at retailing locations until 1974. This helped drive down costs for inventory management because retailers in the United States and Canada didn't have to purchase multiple barcode readers to scan competing barcodes. There was now one primary barcode for grocers and other retailers to buy one type of reader for.\n\nIn the early 1980s, personal computers began to be popular. This further pushed down the cost of barcodes and readers. It also allowed the first versions of inventory management software to be put into place. One of the biggest hurdles in selling readers and barcodes to retailers was the fact that they didn't have a place to store the information they scanned. As computers became more common and affordable, this hurdle was overcome. Once barcodes and inventory management programs started spreading through grocery stores, inventory management by hand became less practical. Writing inventory data by hand on paper was replaced by scanning products and inputting information into a computer by hand.\n\nStarting in the early 2000s, inventory management software progressed to the point where businesspeople no longer needed to input data by hand but could instantly update their database with barcode readers.\n\nAlso, the existence of cloud based business software and their increasing adoption by businesses mark a new era for inventory management software. Now they usually allow integrations with other business backend processes, like accounting and online sales.\n\nCompanies often use inventory management software to reduce their carrying costs. The software is used to track products and parts as they are transported from a vendor to a warehouse, between warehouses, and finally to a retail location or directly to a customer.\n\nInventory management software is used for a variety of purposes, including:\n\nManufacturers primarily use inventory management software to create work orders and bills of materials. This facilitates the manufacturing process by helping manufacturers efficiently assemble the tools and parts they need to perform specific tasks. For more complex manufacturing jobs, manufacturers can create multilevel work orders and bills of materials, which have a timeline of processes that need to happen in the proper order to build a final product. Other work orders that can be created using inventory management software include reverse work orders and auto work orders. Manufacturers also use inventory management software for tracking assets, receiving new inventory and additional tasks businesses in other industries use it for.\n\nThere are several advantages to using inventory management software in a business setting.\n\nA company's inventory represents one of its largest investments, along with its workforce and locations. Inventory management software helps companies cut expenses by minimizing the amount of unnecessary parts and products in storage. It also helps companies keep lost sales to a minimum by having enough stock on hand to meet demand.\n\nInventory management software often allows for automation of many inventory-related tasks. For example, software can automatically collect data, conduct calculations, and create records. This not only results in time savings, cost savings, but also increases business efficiency.\n\nInventory management software can help distributors, wholesalers, manufacturers and retailers optimize their warehouses. If certain products are often sold together or are more popular than others, those products can be grouped together or placed near the delivery area to speed up the process of picking. \nBy 2018, 66% of warehouses \"are poised to undergo a seismic shift, moving from still prevalent pen and paper processes to automated and mechanized inventory solutions. With these new automated processes, cycle counts will be performed more often and with less effort, increasing inventory visibility, and leading to more accurate fulfillment, fewer out of stock situations and fewer lost sales. More confidence in inventory accuracy will lead to a new focus on optimizing mix, expanding a selection and accelerating inventory turns.\"\nUp-to-date, real-time data on inventory conditions and levels is another advantage inventory management software gives companies. Company executives can usually access the software through a mobile device, laptop or PC to check current inventory numbers. This automatic updating of inventory records allows businesses to make informed decisions.\n\nWith the aid of restricted user rights, company managers can allow many employees to assist in inventory management. They can grant employees enough information access to receive products, make orders, transfer products and do other tasks without compromising company security. This can speed up the inventory management process and save managers' time.\n\nTracking where products are stocked, which suppliers they come from, and the length of time they are stored is made possible with inventory management software. By analysing such data, companies can control inventory levels and maximize the use of warehouse space. Furthermore, firms are more prepared for the demands and supplies of the market, especially during special circumstances such as a peak season on a particular month. Through the reports generated by the inventory management software, firms are also able to gather important data that may be put in a model for it to be analyzed.\n\nThe main disadvantages of inventory management software are its cost and complexity.\n\nCost can be a major disadvantage of inventory management software. Many large companies use inventory management software, but small businesses can find it difficult to afford it. Barcode readers and other hardware can compound this problem by adding even more cost to companies. The advantage of allowing multiple employees to perform inventory management tasks is tempered by the cost of additional barcode readers. Use of smartphones as QR code readers has been a way that smaller companies avoid the high expense of custom hardware for inventory management.\n\nInventory management software is not necessarily simple or easy to learn. A company's management team must dedicate a certain amount of time to learning a new system, including both software and hardware, in order to put it to use. Most inventory management software includes training manuals and other information available to users. Despite its apparent complexity, inventory management software offers a degree of stability to companies. For example, if an IT employee in charge of the system leaves the company, a replacement can be comparatively inexpensive to train compared to if the company used multiple programs to store inventory data.\n\nThe main benefits of a cloud inventory management software include:\n\nFor startups and SMBs, tracking inventory in real time is very important. Not only can business owners track and collect data but also generate reports. At the same time, entrepreneurs can access cloud-based inventory data from a wide range of internet-enabled devices, including smartphones, tablets, laptops, as well as traditional desktop PCs. In addition, users do not have to be inside business premises to use web-based inventory program and can access the inventory software while on the road.\n\nBecause the software resides in the cloud, business owners do not have to purchase and maintain expensive hardware. Instead, SMBs and startups can direct capital and profits towards expanding the business to reach a wider audience. Cloud-based solutions also eliminate the need to hire a large IT workforce. The service provider will take care of maintaining the inventory software.\n\nDeploying web based inventory software is quite easy. All business owners have to do is sign up for a monthly or yearly subscription and start using the inventory management software via the internet. Such flexibility allows businesses to scale up relatively quickly without spending a large amount of money.\n\nCloud inventory management software allows business owners to integrate with their existing systems with ease. For example, business owners can integrate the inventory software with their eCommerce store or cloud-based accounting software. The rise in popularity of 3rd party marketplaces, such as Amazon, eBay and Shopify, prompted cloud-based inventory management companies to include the integration of such sites with the rest of a business owner's retail business, allowing one to view and control stock across all channels.\n\nCloud inventory systems increase efficiency in a number of ways. One is real-time inventory monitoring. A single change can replicate itself company-wide instantaneously. As a result, businesses can have greater confidence in the accuracy of the information in the system, and management can more easily track the flow of supplies and products – and generate reports. In addition, cloud-based solutions offer greater accessibility.\n\nCloud inventory programs also allow departments within a company to work together more efficiently. Department A can pull information about Department B's inventory directly from the software without needing to contact Department B's staff for the information. This inter-departmental communication also makes it easier to know when to restock and which customer orders have been shipped, etc. Operations can run more smoothly and efficiently, enhancing customer experience. Accurate inventory information can also have a huge impact on a company's bottom line. It allows you to see where the bottlenecks and workflow issues are – and to calculate break-even points as well as profit margins.\n\nUsing the cloud means that data is managed by a third party provider and there can be a risk of data being accessed by unauthorized users.\n\nSince maintenance is managed by the vendor, users are essentially fully dependent on the provider.\n\nDepending on the cloud service provider, system and software upgrades will be performed based on their schedule, hence businesses may experience some limitations in flexibility in the process.\n\nNot all on-premises systems or service providers can be synced with the cloud software used.\n\n"}
{"id": "50937280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50937280", "title": "Ismael Sueno", "text": "Ismael Sueno\n\nIsmael \"Mike\" Dres Sueno (born July, 1947 or 1948) is the former Secretary of the Philippine Department of the Interior and Local Government. He was appointed by President Rodrigo Duterte to replace Mel Senen Sarmiento starting June 30, 2016. A member and former national chairman of PDP–Laban, he served as Governor of South Cotabato under President Corazon Aquino. On April 4, 2017, Sueno was dismissed as Secretary of Interior and Local Government by Duterte due to 'loss of trust and confidence'.\n\nSueno was born and raised in Koronadal, then known as Marbel, in the former undivided Province of Cotabato. His parents were Perfecto Sueno Sr., the first municipal vice mayor of Koronadal, and Ma. Neri Dres. He has five brothers (Rolando, Perfecto Jr., Roberto, Leo and Joseph), and one sister (Corazon), some of which have already migrated to the United States. He obtained his associate degree in Arts from Our Lady of Perpetual Help Seminary in Marbel in 1964. He then pursued his bachelor of arts degree in Philosophy from the Regional Major Seminary.\n\nSueno was elected municipal mayor of Koronadal in 1980 during the administration of President Ferdinand Marcos. In 1986 following the People Power Revolution, he was appointed by President Corazon Aquino as officer-in-charge (OIC) governor of the province of South Cotabato. He then served a full term as provincial governor from 1988 to 1992. During his term as governor, he pursued several environmental and reforestation programs integrated with livelihood projects. He imposed a total logging ban in the province and also helped organize and strengthen local cooperatives.\n\nIn 1997, Sueno was appointed to the Southern Philippine Council for Peace and Development (SPCPD) Consultative Assembly by President Fidel Ramos. He was an unsuccessful candidate for Vice President and running mate to Emilio Osmeña on the Probinsya Muna Development Initiative (PROMDI) ticket in the 1998 presidential election.\n\nSueno ran for congressman of South Cotabato's 2nd District in 2001 but lost to Arthur Y. Pingoy, Jr. In 2007, he made another unsuccessful bid for Vice Governor of the province under the administration party.\n\nHe was appointed Secretary of Interior and Local Government by Philippine President Rodrigo Roa Duterte on June 30, 2016. On April 4, 2017, he was reported by Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre as having been fired from his office by the President due to corruption allegations.\n"}
{"id": "48081548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48081548", "title": "John Dowd (CEO)", "text": "John Dowd (CEO)\n\nJohn Dowd (born December 11, 1966) is an American-born executive. He is the CEO and co-founder of Sundance Vacations, a wholesale vacation company based in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, and is also a very active member of the community, serving on the Greater Wilkes-Barre Chamber of Commerce, as the chair of the grants committee for the Luzerne Foundation and the Parent Advisor for the Youth Advisory Committee. He also serves on the board of trustees for Wyoming Seminary.\n\nDowd, with the help of his wife Tina, co-founded Sundance Vacations in 1991 after working in the vacation industry.\n\nDowd purchased a new property and built the current headquarters of his business in 2007.\n\nDowd was born in Sunbury, Pennsylvania and attended Shikellamy High School. Later, he received a Bachelor of Engineering from Penn State University. Dowd also served as an Army Reservist with the United States Army Reserve.\n\nHis career with Sundance Vacations started in 1991 as a small marketing operation with just himself and his wife. The company has since grown to employ over 700 employees and has offices in four states. Dowd began the permission marketing portion of Sundance Vacations in 2003.\n\nIn 2013, Dowd, along with his wife Tina, donated $50,000 to St. Vincent de Paul Soup Kitchen located in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. The company donated $5,000 to the Wyoming Valley Children's Association (WVCA) and was the presenting sponsor for the April 22, 2017 Walk-a-Thon. Sundance Vacations is also a supporter of Volunteers in Medicine. This year, they were the Hulu sponsor at the $5,000 level for the annual fundraiser that they have participated in for over three years. John Dowd is partnering with the United Way of NEPA and NASCAR for the Race for the Kids covered by WNEP. This event held at the Pocono Raceway, also known as the \"tricky triangle\" will raise awareness of, and generate revenue for early childhood education in the community. Derrick Cope, #55 is the sponsored driver for the event .\n\nDowd was named to the Glassdoor list of the Highest Rated CEOs for Small and Medium Businesses in North America on June 10, 2015.\n\nDowd was honored by the Association of Fundraising Professionals, in 2014, as an Outstanding Philanthropist.\n\nDowd, and his wife Tina, were recognized by U.S. Representative of Pennsylvania's 11th congressional district, Lou Barletta, and were awarded the Volunteers of America Spirit of Youth Award.\n"}
{"id": "41586682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41586682", "title": "Kevin Andrews (businessman)", "text": "Kevin Andrews (businessman)\n\nKevin Andrews is a Honolulu-based entrepreneur and inventor. He is the former president of the Waimanalo Chamber of Commerce and heads Plant Research Corp. and Hula Girls Foods, located in Waimanalo, Hawaii. \nPlant Research Corp., which includes subsidiaries Aloha Ardvaark Corp., a wastewater/agriculture waste management business, and Hawai'i Cytogenetics Inc., a biotech company which researches methods for mass production of living plant cells.\n\nAndrews holds patents for novelty sugarcane products, which he manufactures using organic sugarcane and distributes through Hula Girl Foods. Its products are sold and used around the world, including by spirits manufacturer Bacardi and outlets in Hawaii such as ABC Stores. Hula Girl’s products include cane skewers, chopsticks, cocktail sticks, coffee and tea stirrers and pupu skewers.\n\n"}
{"id": "53970485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53970485", "title": "Leopold Stanisław Kronenberg", "text": "Leopold Stanisław Kronenberg\n\nLeopold Stanisław Kronenberg (born 24 March 1812 in Warsaw, died 5 April 1878 in Nice) was a Polish banker, investor, and financier, and a leader of the 1863 January uprising against the Russian Empire.\n\nKronenberg came from a wealthy family of Jewish rabbis. His father Samuel Eleazar Kronenberg (1773–1826) was a native of Wyszogród who led a small bank in Warsaw. His mother was Tekla, \"née\" Levi (1775–1848).\n\nKronenberg had seven siblings: Ludwik, Rozalia, Stanislaw Solomon, Dorota (the mother of Seweryn Loewenstein), Maria, Henryk Andrzej, and Władysław Alfons.\n\nAfter graduating from high school in Warsaw, Kronenberg studied at the University of Technology in Hamburg and at the University of Berlin. Having finished his studies in 1832, he returned to Poland and took up conducting business. In 1846 he converted from Judaism to Protestantism.\n\nHe married Ernestyna Rozalia Leo (1827–93), daughter of Leopold August Leo, a prominent Polish Jew who had converted to Lutheranism. They had six children: Stanisław Leopold (1846–94), entrepreneur; Władysław Edward (1848–92), musician and philanthropist; Leopold Julian (1849–1937), banker; Tekla Julia (1851–52); Maria Róża (1854–1944)—wife of Karol Zamoyski, and subsequently of Gustaw Taube—hostess of a famous Warsaw literary salon; and Rozalia (born 1857), wife of Aleksander Orsetti.\n\nFrom 1839 to 1860, having obtained the concession of the tobacco monopoly in the Kingdom of Poland, Kronenberg amassed a considerable fortune which he used to develop the country's economy: sugar industry, construction of railways, commercial activities, and banking sectors. He was also involved in the rural economy by participating in the work of the Agricultural Society. In 1859, Leopold Kronenberg made his entry into the world of the press by buying the newspaper \"Gazeta Codzienna\", renamed in 1861 as \"Gazeta Polska\". It was a magazine with a liberal-democratic tint, whose editor was Józef Ignacy Kraszewski.\n\nKronenberg financially supported the January uprising of 1863 against the Russians. After the failure of this revolt, he became a representative of the \"white\" faction that favored a compromise with the Russians. In 1870, Kronenberg founded Bank Handlowy, the commercial bank of Warsaw, and in 1875 he founded the Warsaw School of Economics. He also founded the Credit Corporation of Warsaw, Industrial Cashier, Warsaw Fire Insurance Company, Coal Mine Association and Metallurgical Works.\n\nHe was a shareholder in mining, metallurgical and sugar companies. He built many sugar factories, and in 1870 was the initiator of the establishment of the Warsaw Sugar Factory Association. He was a member of the National Debt Relief Commission, the Industrial Council of the Government Commission for Internal Affairs, and the Ministry of the Interior of the Kingdom of Poland. He was a member of the board of the Warsaw Stock Exchange, the Senior Merchants' Assembly, the chairman of the Warsaw-Tiraspol Railway Management Board. He was the president of the Warsaw Philanthropic Society.\n\nBetween 1868 and 1871, he built in Warsaw a monumental home, Kronenberg Palace, which burned in September 1939 and was dismantled in the 1960s.\n\nKronenberg died in 1878 in Nice. He was buried in the Kronenberg family chapel at the Evangelical-Reformed Cemetery in Warsaw.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35281981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35281981", "title": "Max Bergå", "text": "Max Bergå\n\nMax Bergå is a Swedish talent agent and co-founder of Marion Vain.\n\nBergå has been mentioned by magazines such as \"V Magazine\", and for his contributions to Swedish men's fashion and being part of founding the careers of numerous well-known Swedish models. Among them are Charlie Westerberg, , Axel Tiderman, Oscar Spendrup och Kristian Åkergren.\n\nIn 2013, Max featured in episode 6 of the Swedish reality-series '', airing on SVTplay. The show was given the award \"Kristallen\" for \"best reality show 2013\".\n\nSince 2010, Bergå is a member of the Post-pop band Everywhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "27149590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27149590", "title": "Mob Museum", "text": "Mob Museum\n\nThe Mob Museum, officially the National Museum of Organized Crime and Law Enforcement, is a history museum located in Downtown Las Vegas, Nevada. Opened on February 14, 2012, the Mob Museum is dedicated to featuring the artifacts, stories, and history of organized crime in the United States, as well as the actions and initiatives by law enforcement to prevent such crimes. The museum is housed in the former Las Vegas Post Office and Courthouse, which was built in 1933 and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The museum is located on Stewart Avenue, two blocks north of Fremont Street, the main artery of the downtown casino district.\n\nDeveloped under the creative direction of Dennis Barrie, co-creator of the International Spy Museum and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, the museum is governed by a non-profit board, the \"300 Stewart Avenue Corporation,\" in partnership with the City of Las Vegas. The museum is dedicated to the contentious relationship between organized crime and law enforcement within the historical context of Las Vegas and the entire United States.\n\nIn 2000, the federal government sold the former post office and federal courthouse to the city for $1, with stipulations that the building be restored to its original look and be used for a cultural purpose.\n\nThen-Mayor Oscar Goodman, himself a former Mob defense attorney, had the idea for a mob museum in 2002. The idea faced early opposition from Italian-American groups, while being supported by the FBI, including the former head agent in Las Vegas, Ellen Knowlton, who joined as president of the museum's board.\n\nThe project budget was estimated at $50 million, including $26 million for restoring the building. Funding included federal, state, and local grants. Goodman generated controversy by suggesting that federal stimulus money could be used for the museum.\n\nThe museum opened February 14, 2012 to the public at 2:00 PM. (The morning and day before were reserved for press and dignitary ceremonies.) Admission for adults starting at $19.95; starting at $13.95 for Nevada residents. As of July 2018, prices are $26.95 for adults, $20.95 for seniors and $16.95 for children with varying prices for other specific categories, groups and packages. NV Adult is $16.95\n\nThe centerpiece of the Mob Museum is the second floor courtroom, which was the location of one of fourteen national Kefauver Committee hearings to expose organized crime held in 1950 and 1951. The museum also acquired the brick wall where the Saint Valentine's Day Massacre took place. Other exhibits focus on Mob violence, casino money skimming operations, and wiretapping by law enforcement.. In 2018, a new exhibit called Organized Crime Today was added to the first floor following a major renovation. \n\nThe self-guided tour commences on the third floor where the actual wall of the St. Valentine's Day Massacre is on display, accessible by elevator or stairs, and winds its way down to the second and first floors. Visitors can watch a film about the history of Organized Crime (beginning around the time of the passing of Prohibition). The main part of the exhibition consists of Mob-related photos with captions explaining the significance of the particular images, but also what individuals/events they were connected to.\nThe museum offers a wide array of thematically oriented sections addressing the Mob's involvement in illegal activities such as gambling, drugs, prostitution or bootlegging and the efforts of the law enforcement to counteract and eliminate those criminal operations. Additionally the visitor is able to view some uniquely disturbing, otherwise rarely accessible material, for example the photographs of victims of the most famous murders credited to the Mafia (appropriately named \"Mob's Greatest Hits\"; these are quite graphic in nature, because they show the actual corpses of the deceased), as well as pictures and short biographies of the most popular and notorious gangster personalities. A special Wall located near the exit depicts images of all the actors, who portrayed well-known Mobsters in movies or series. A significant number of exhibits are interactive; there are also several stations situated throughout the museum, where relevant film footage is played on a loop.\n\nThere is a gift shop on the first floor. Using photos, text, displays, interactive techniques, hands-on exhibits, and other first-class museum methods, the visitor learns about the history of organized crime, Prohibition and the business opportunity it provided. Visitors learn about Las Vegas' first casinos, Howard Hughes, J. Edgar Hoover, the origins of the FBI, Al Capone, Eliot Ness, and much more. A visitor can sit in a replica electric chair, listen to actual wire taps, train in a use of force training simulator and explore an interactive crime lab exhibit related to forensic science.\n"}
{"id": "12733337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12733337", "title": "NCCU International MBA", "text": "NCCU International MBA\n\nThe International MBA program (; abbreviated IMBA) at National Chengchi University College of Commerce was established in 2001 and was the first International MBA program in Taiwan. It is the first fully accredited English-taught MBA program in Taiwan. The program offers all course instruction in English with a specific focus on Asia-Pacific business dynamics, and cross-cultural understanding. Half of the students and faculty are local Taiwan citizens and the latter half are a diverse mixture of people from more than 35 countries on 5 continents.\n\nThe IMBA program offers full-time or part-time studies. This flexible design of courses allows candidates to decide their workload and schedule to accommodate their busy careers. Most classes are conducted in the evenings and weekends. The program also has ample courses and activities to keep full-time International MBA candidate well involved in their studies.\nThe program is slated for minimum 1 year of instruction, maximum 4 years to fulfill program requirements and requires a minimum of 42 credit hours for completion.\n\nThe program also offers the option of either pursuing a General MBA or a Specialized MBA in one of four concentrations namely, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Management in Asia and Marketing. \n\n\nElective courses fall under four areas of concentration - Entrepreneurship, Finance, Management in Asia and Marketing. Students have an option to complete a number of the courses in the relevant area to obtain a Specialized MBA degree. Students can also take up courses under any area and graduate with a General MBA by fulfilling the credit requirements.\n\nInstructors of the IMBA program are drawn from three equally qualified pools of local and international talent. A third of the instructors hail from faculty members of the College of Commerce at National Chengchi University (NCCUC), most of whom have earned Ph.Ds from prestigious universities around the world. Another third of the faculty are renowned scholars who are visiting instructors from top overseas business schools, and the final third of the faculty are industry senior executives who have long standing real-world business experiences.\n\nTo further assist students in facing challenges in international business environment, International MBA offers students exchange programs with top leading universities in the Americas, Europe, Asia, and Pacific. School's international recognition by AACSB International (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business) and EQUIS (the European Quality Improvement System) has made it possible to establish reciprocal exchange programs with over 100 prestigious schools worldwide. Spending one term abroad at another institution allows students to further enrich studies by experiencing different cultural and business environments.\n\nIn addition to offering business courses within program, the IMBA offers an integrated system of continuing education with the facilities and resources of the college. The program allows for both current IMBA candidates and graduates to enroll in selected courses within program and throughout the College of Commerce on non-matriculating basis to broaden their studies. Also, the IMBA program encourages prospective candidates to audit courses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43210191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43210191", "title": "Nicolaes van Loo", "text": "Nicolaes van Loo\n\nNicolaes van Loo (1607 – 1641), was a Dutch Golden Age brewer from Haarlem, best known today for his portrait by Frans Hals.\n\nHe was born in Haarlem as the oldest son of the brewer Johan Claesz Loo and Margriet Akersloot. Their family brewery was situated in the Vissersbocht on the Spaarne river and was called \"De Drie Lelien\". Nicolaes' brother Cornelis became mayor of Haarlem and his sister Risje married the son of the mayor of Delft, Florens Pieter van der Houff. Nicolaes was destined to inherit the family business, and in expectation of a merger with another local brewery, in 1640 he married Aletta Hannemans, the rich widow of the brewer Jacob Pietersz Olycan, but he died the following year, leaving his widow to carry on the business without him.\n\n"}
{"id": "22061950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22061950", "title": "Paul Decauville", "text": "Paul Decauville\n\nPaul Decauville (1846–1922) was a French engineer and businessman. He was also mayor of Evry-Petit Bourg and senator from Seine-et-Oise.\n\nHe is the founder of a manufacturing company that bears his name (Decauville, established in 1875), producing industrial railways, locomotives, and cars. By extension, the name is also used for his invention of a narrow gauge track railway system, the Decauville system, through the vast business acumen of its promoter. His name was also used for a subsidiary, Voitures automobiles Decauville, producing early automobiles. Decauville's name is further associated with the towns of Corbeil-Essonnes and Evry, Essonne, on whose territories the company Decauville erected its factories, which he directed until 1885.\n\nHe founded a construction company in 1910 to exploit the patents it had obtained. This company, \"Comptoir d'outillage et de matériel à air comprimé\" (\"Commercial establishmen for tools and compressed air equipment\"), survived until the late 1980s. Another of his companies, \"Emidecau\", specializing in hydraulic presses, still exist.\n\nIn politics, Paul Decauville was mayor of Evry-Petit Bourg from 1881 to 1892. He was also Senator of Seine-et-Oise from 1890 to 1900, member of the Board of Customs, Secretary from 1897 to 1899. After leaving Paris, Paul Decauville served as mayor of the town of Saint-Léger (Manche).\n\n"}
{"id": "32115493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32115493", "title": "Pedro Moura Costa", "text": "Pedro Moura Costa\n\nPedro Moura Costa (born 1963, in Brazil) is an entrepreneur involved in environmental finance with a focus on the international efforts for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. Of particular relevance, he was the founder and President of EcoSecurities Group Plc., one of the leading project developers for the international carbon markets, and has written widely about the policy and science of climate change mitigation, including contributions to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reports.\n\nMoura Costa’s involvement with the carbon emission reduction sector started in 1991, with the development of two of the first carbon forestry projects worldwide, namely the Innoprise-Face Foundation Rainforest Rehabilitation Project and the Innoprise-New England Power Reduced Impact Logging Project, both in Sabah, Malaysia. Moura Costa served as Senior Project Officer for Innoprise between 1991 and 1995, involved with both these projects.\n\nWhile the concept of ‘joint implementation’ of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction projects (also called \"carbon offset projects\") was launched at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED, “the Earth Summit”), the early carbon offset projects of the 1990s suffered from a lack of specialised services to support them. One service of particular importance is that of independent verification of carbon offsets, as offsets are dependent on proving a shift of behaviour in relation to a baseline (this shift is referred as \"additionality\", in the sector).\n\nMoura Costa identified the absence of independent verification services as one of the limiting factors to the growth of the carbon market at that time, and in 1996 he developed the first carbon offset verification service worldwide, which was licensed to the Swiss certification company SGS (Société Générale de Surveillance). The first client for this certification service was the Costa Rican National GHG Mitigation Programme, developed by OCIC (Costa Rican Office on Joint Implementation). After the launch of the Kyoto Protocol (see below), independent certification of carbon emission reductions became a mandatory requirement under the rules of the Clean Development Mechanism (i.e., the carbon credits of this mechanism are called CERs, meaning Certified Emission Reductions).\n\nTo pursue the work with SGS and the government of Costa Rica, Moura Costa created EcoSecurities, a company specialised in the development of greenhouse gas mitigation projects.\n\nEcoSecurities was founded in January 1997 by Moura Costa and environmental economist Marc Stuart to provide \"environmental finance solutions\". Twelve months later, in December 1997 the Kyoto Protocol was signed creating binding commitments for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions among industrialised countries. It also created the Flexibility Mechanisms, Joint Implementation and the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), that enabled the creation and use of carbon credits from greenhouse gas emission reduction projects. Carbon trading gradually evolved from being a niche environmental activity to becoming a global market that in 2010 mobilised over €120 billion, including trades under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme and the UN flexibility mechanisms.\n\nAs carbon markets evolved, Moura Costa was particularly interested in making investors and analysts incorporate the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on company valuations. In 1999, he co-ordinated the development of the carbon trading component of Australian Plantation Timber, a forestry investment fund, the first time ‘carbon value’ was included in an investment prospectus. Gradually, investor awareness of climate and environmental issues increased, and as a result of that (and contributing to this trend) a series of companies in the carbon market sector floated on stock exchanges in 2004-2006.\n\nThe adoption of binding emission reduction commitments by the Kyoto Protocol created a positive environment for more carbon offset project development companies to be created worldwide. Benefitting from an early mover advantage, EcoSecurities rapidly expanded and established a significant market share. In December 2005, EcoSecurities listed on the London Stock Exchange (AIM) raising capital for its expansion, one of the first companies in this sector to be listed. As President and COO, Moura Costa coordinated the expansion of the company, from 30 to 300 employees, establishing the firm’s offices in 28 countries worldwide. In 2007, the company raised a second round of capital from the stock markets, and attracted Credit Suisse as a strategic partner.\n\nDuring the period he was involved with EcoSecurities, from 1997 to 2009, the company developed more than 450 CDM projects in over 40 countries and, between them, using over 20 different technologies. The company was a pioneer in many aspects of the sector, including the development of the first project registered by the CDM (the NovaGerar landfill project in Brazil), and the first project to receive CERs (a small-hydro project in Honduras). With a view to broadening its reach, he led the company to develop new divisions focused on specialised technologies related to greenhouse gas abatement. Among them, EcoMethane, a division specialised in the creation of projects for the collection and destruction of methane from landfill sites, and a division for the development of N2O abatement projects, focusing on nitric acid factories. Moura Costa was also the fund manager of the EcoSecurities-Standard Bank Carbon Facility, which invested in projects on behalf of the Government of Denmark and, subsequently, EcoSecurities also run similar funds on behalf of the governments of Austria and Japan.\n\nIn April 2009, Moura Costa resigned from EcoSecurities to conduct a take-over bid to acquire control of the company, together with Brazilian investment group BTG. This resulted in an international competition for the acquisition of the company and in October 2009 EcoSecurities was acquired by JP Morgan.\n\nIn 2011, Pedro and his brother Mauricio Moura Costa founded BVRio Environmental Exchange (Bolsa Verde do Rio de Janeiro), an organisation based in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, with the mission to develop market mechanisms to facilitate compliance with environmental laws. BVRio was developed in partnership with the Rio de Janeiro State Government, and the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro and its board includes the participation of Funbio (), FBDS (Brazilian Foundation for Sustainable Development), and CEBDS (the Brazilian chapter of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development).\n\nThrough BVRio, Pedro has helped to create markets for different environmental assets including Forest Legal Reserve Credits, Consolidation of Conservation Areas, and Reforestation Credits to support compliance with the new Brazilian Forest Law; Reverse Logistics Credits to support the implementation of the Brazilian National Solid Waste Legislation; and traceable responsible commodities, to promote the sourcing of legal and/or sustainably produced forest and agricultural products.\n\nIn recognition for its role in developing innovative mechanisms for environmental objectives, BVRio won the 2013 Katerva Awards and in 2014 BVRio was nominated a \"Climate Action Leader\" by the R20 Regions of Climate Action.\n\nDr Moura Costa has a PhD from University of London and has published widely in the subjects of environmental finance, carbon trading, GHG mitigation science and forestry. In particular, many of his articles have focused on scientific aspects of the design of the Clean Development Mechanism, such as discussions on leakage, additionality, monitoring and verification, permanence, and carbon forestry. He was also a Lead Author to the IPCC Special Report on Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry and other IPCC reports (the work of the IPCC, including the contributions of many scientists, was recognised by the joint award of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize). He has also written on forestry, low impact logging, and innovative financial mechanisms for the environment.\n\nHis work has been covered widely by the international media, including cover features in the \"Wall Street Journal\", Director Magazine, \"Future Fuels\", articles in \"Fortune Magazine\", \"Sunday Times\", \"Forbes\", \"Estado de São Paulo\", and TV and radio interviews with TV Globo, BBC and others. Moura Costa is regular speaker in conferences and universities, promoting innovative solutions for environmental challenges, including climate change mitigation and adaptation, pollution control, and forest protection. Between 1995 and 2005 he frequently lectured at Oxford University and Imperial College of London.\n\nIn 2007, Moura Costa organized the international conference Rio+15, to celebrate 15 years of the UN Conference on Environment and Development (the ‘Earth Summit’). The conference had the participation of over 200 international participants, including introductions by Maurice Strong (organiser of the Earth Summit) and former Brazilian president Fernando Henrique Cardoso, and received wide media coverage.\n\nMoura Costa is a member of the advisory boards of Oxford Climate Policy, the ClimateBonds Initiative, the Brazilian Rural Society (Conselho de Meio Ambiente, Sociedade Rural Brasileira), and the Businesses for Climate (Empresas pelo Clima) initiative, and was formerly a board member of the International Institute for Sustainable Development.\n"}
{"id": "2256643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256643", "title": "Proposed directive on criminal measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights", "text": "Proposed directive on criminal measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights\n\nThe European Union (EU) directive on criminal measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights (2005/0127/COD) was a proposal from the European Commission for a directive aimed \"to supplement Directive 2004/48/EC of 29 April 2004 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights (Civil enforcement)\" (\"Source: Justification for the proposal, COM(2005) 276 final, July 12, 2005\"). The directive was proposed on July 12, 2005 by the Commission of the European Communities.\n\nBeing the second directive on the enforcement of \"intellectual property rights\", it is commonly called IPRED2 (Second Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Directive). The first directive on the enforcement of Intellectual property rights, Directive 2004/48/EC deals with civil enforcement of intellectual property rights (\"IPRED1\"). IPRED1 was hastily passed before the Fifth Enlargement of the European Union of May 1, 2004 and did originally include criminal sanctions provisions, but this rather controversial part was omitted in order to be able to meet the deadline of May 1, 2004.\n\nAs announced in Official Journal C 252 of 18 September 2010 the European Commission decided to withdraw the proposal for a directive. Criminal sanctions for enforcement of intellectual property rights are therefore not currently formally proposed, even if it is part of the EU acquis since the Lisbon Treaty.\n\nThis proposed directive incriminates infringements of intellectual property rights. It deals with intentional infringements on a commercial scale or aiding, abetting or inciting to the infringements.\n\nThe proposed directive applies to \"such intellectual property rights as are provided for in Community legislation and/or national legislation in the Member States\". No definition is provided in the original draft and in that form, the Directive would apply to any intellectual property right. Subsequent readings of the Directive have included clarifications. Examples of such expressly included rights are \"sui generis\" rights of database makers or trademark rights.\n\nThe Directive, in its first draft, includes patent violation, traditionally a civil issue. This would possibly have far-reaching consequences for the EU economy as the risk of criminal prosecution for violating patents when new products or new functions are included is great. Moreover, traditionally, a large majority of all patent disputes are settled out of court before civil infringement disputes continue. The bill also includes a provision which would allow intellectual property holders to assist the police in an investigation, which cedes great power from the state to a patent-holder to threaten rivals with imprisonment, rather than a civil suit alone.\n\nThe Parliament has, in subsequent reading, excluded patents from the scope of the Directive.\n\nThe Directive applies to \"willful, commercial or intentional\" violations of trademark or copyright laws. An amendment that would have limited the directive to commercial activity done with the intent to earn a profit was rejected. Instead, consumers will be criminally liable if their behavior is not for \"personal and not for profits purposes\" and was done for the purpose of obtaining \"an economic advantage\".\n\nAccording to some, IPRED2 does not seem to be a particularly well drafted Directive. The number of amendments passed and adopted in subsequent readings is unusual, as is evident from the drafting process. The definitions, usually contained in the preamble or the beginning articles, were missing until subsequent readings. Originally about commercial piracy and counterfeit goods only, in its present form it includes any violation of Intellectual Property rights.\n\nThe criticism voiced by EFF, FFII, Law Society of England and Wales, the Dutch Parliament, and others includes:\n\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation has pointed out that criminal law is poorly suited for regulation of intellectual property law and that IPRED2 presents a risk to industry and innovation.\n\nAccording to the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (FFII), it is impossible not to violate software patents, and the IPRED 2 directive threatens most of Europe's software developers with imprisonment.\n\nIn July 2006, the Dutch parliament wrote a letter to EU Commissioner Frattini with a thorough legal analysis of the proposed directive, concluding that the subject-matter of the proposed directive definitely falls outside the European Community’s competence (as defined in the EU treaties).\n\n"}
{"id": "1591598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591598", "title": "Regional Railroad of the Year", "text": "Regional Railroad of the Year\n\nThe Regional Railroad of the Year is an annual award given to exemplary North American regional railroads by rail transport industry publication \"Railway Age\". The award recognizes the railroads' commitments to customer service and innovation in the industry.\n\nThe railroads that have received this honor are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1202287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1202287", "title": "Rendition aircraft", "text": "Rendition aircraft\n\nThis page describes several aircraft that are alleged in media reports to have been used in the practice of extraordinary rendition, the extralegal transfer of prisoners from one country to another.\n\nN313P was a tailnumber assigned to a Boeing 737 that the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported on Tuesday, February 6, 2007, flew from Tashkent to Kabul, Afghanistan on September 21, 2003, and then to Szczytno-Szymany International Airport in Poland, landing at 9 p.m. \"It stayed on the ground for 57 minutes before taking off for Baneasa Airport in Bucharest, Romania, an airport that, according to the Marty Report, 'bears all the characteristics of a detainee transfer or drop-off point,'\" states author Tom Hundley on page 14 of the \"Tribune\". The 737 then continued on to Rabat, Morocco, and Guantanamo Bay, the Marty Report said. In 2004 the plane was used to render LIFG leader Abdel Hakim Belhaj and his wife Fatima Bouchar to Libya.\n\n\"The registered owners of both planes [Boeing 737, N313P, and Gulfstream V, N379P] appear to be CIA front companies. Previous attempts by the \"Tribune\" to contact the owners produced a trail of non-existent people at unlikely addresses, or law firms that did not want to discuss the nature of their interest in aviation. Both planes have been involved in rendition cases documented by the \"Tribune\", other media and EU investigators,\" states the Chicago Tribune on page 14.\n\nN379P was a tailnumber assigned to a Gulfstream V executive jet. The aircraft has been reported in several press sources as a U.S. Department of Defense prisoner transport, also known as \"Guantánamo Bay Express\". The craft has been reported to being used to transport suspected terrorists to undisclosed locations for either extraordinary rendition or into the CIA prison system. It has been the subject of criminal complaints and parliamentary inquiries.\n\nAccording to an in-depth investigation into the worldwide network of detention and interrogation facilities employed in the War on Terror, by the British Guardian newspaper, (March 2005):\n\nThe first media mention of N379P was six weeks after September 11, 2001, when, according to the \"Chicago Tribune,\" a Pakistani newspaper reported that a student at the University of Karachi and a citizen of Yemen, had been seen being forced onto the plane at Jinnah International Airport by Pakistani security officers on the morning of October 23, 2001. The \"Chicago Tribune\" reported on the aircraft again on February 6, 2007, stating that N379P departed Washington Dulles International Airport July 27, 2003, and flew to Frankfurt, Germany according to FAA records. The FAA then records the Gulfstream taking off from Tashkent, Uzbekistan on July 31, 2003, bound for Glasgow, Scotland, and then return to Dulles. The \"Tribune\" then states that Polish aviation records indicate that N379P landed at Szczytno-Szymany International Airport, a remote airfield at Szymany, Poland, at 2:58 a.m. on July 30, 2003, after a flight from Afghanistan. How the aircraft moved from Frankfurt to Tashkent remains unreported. The Szymany airport is located southwest of the Stare Kiejkuty intelligence base in northern Poland.\n\nThe executive jet with the tail number N379P was again brought to public attention by Swedish TV4's documentary, \"Det brutna löftet\" (\"The broken promise\"), aired May 17, 2004. The documentary claimed that the expulsion of two men, Ahmed Agiza and Muhammad al-Zery - ordered by the Cabinet - to Egypt on December 18, 2001, was carried out by hooded U.S. agents. The plane booked by the Swedish Security Police (SÄPO) was cancelled when another plane arrived - N379P - a Gulfstream V executive jet supplied by the firm (Premier Executive Transport Services, Inc.) which works exclusively for the U.S. Defense Department.\n\nAgiza and al-Zery were arrested and brought to Bromma airport in Stockholm where Swedish police handed them over to hooded operatives. The two prisoners had their clothes cut from their bodies by scissors, without their hand- and footcuffs being loosened. The naked and chained prisoners were given suppository of unknown kind inserted into their anus, and diapers were put on them. They were forcibly dressed in dark overalls. Their hands and feet are chained to a specially designed harness. On the plane, both men are blindfolded and hooded. The plane took off at 21.49 and set course towards Egypt. \n\nLater on, when the Gulfstream's log books came into a journalist's hands, the wider scope became clear:\n\nN379P appears in the episode \"Hundrede dage\" of the Danish TV series \"Borgen\" which focuses on the problems for the Danish prime-minister caused by the revelation of rendition flights landing at Thule. In addition, a Gulfstream V that is being used to carry out an extraordinary rendition appears in Jason Trask's 2011 novel, \"I'm Not Muhammad\" (Red Wheelbarrow Books).\n\n'N596GA was the tailnumber of a Gulfstream V, which has also been mentioned in print as a possible transport for the CIA program of extraordinary rendition. According to a 2008 article by writer Dave Willis, the plane was ordered in 1999 by the United States Air Force as a C-37A, serial \"99-0405\", and was rolled out as N596GA but only briefly took up its military serial before reverting to the civil registration, issued on September 20, 2001, nine days after the 9-11 attacks. It was registered to National Aircraft Leasing of Greenville, New Castle County in Delaware, \"and is believed to have been used by the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation Systems (JPATS), managed by the U.S. Marshals Service. JPATS is responsible for moving prisoners and non-US citizen criminals around and has its own fleet of aircraft, as well as frequently leasing others. N596GA is also said to have been used in the CIA's programme of extraordinary rendition against terrorist subjects.\"\n\nN85VM was the tail number of a Gulfstream IV which newspaper reports have speculated may have been used as a US Department of Defense or CIA prisoner transport. Plane logs obtained by reporters show that the plane was in Cairo on February 18, 2003, the same day that the radical Egyptian cleric Abu Omar arrived in Cairo after being abducted in Italy, leading reporters to speculate that the Gulfstream IV may have been the plane used to render Abu Omar. American and Italian intelligence officers were later charged with Abu Omar's abduction.\n\nIn addition to the trip to Cairo, between June 2002 and January 2005, the aircraft made 51 trips to Guantánamo Bay, as well as 82 visits to Dulles International Airport and Andrews Air Force Base. It also visited U.S. air bases at Ramstein and Rhein-Main in Germany, Afghanistan, Morocco, Dubai, Jordan, Italy, Japan, Switzerland, Azerbaijan and the Czech Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43252922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43252922", "title": "Reynir Grétarsson", "text": "Reynir Grétarsson\n\nReynir F. Grétarsson (born 29 December 1972) is an Icelandic entrepreneur, philanthropist, Icelandic map collector and author of \"About Mapping Iceland\" Founder and former CEO and current Chairman of the Board of Creditinfo Group, a multinational credit bureau and risk management company. Reynir F. Grétarsson was selected entrepreneur of the year in Iceland in 2008.\n\nGrétarsson was born in Blönduós in 1972 to father Grétar Guðmundsson and mother Ingunn Gísladóttir. After graduating from Menntaskólinn á Akureyri in 1992 he was admitted to the University of Iceland and became a law graduate in 1997, after which graduating with a master's degree in Law.\n\nGrétarsson was a co-founder of Lánstraust hf., the predecessor of Creditinfo Group, in 1997. He co-founded a few other companies, with operations in IT and in real estate. He served as a board member for several companies. Grétarsson has participated in establishing and/or building up Credit Bureaus in approximately 20 countries. He was selected entrepreneur of the year in Iceland in 2008.\n\nGrétarsson has one son, Grétar, and two daughters, Salma Björk and Hildur Ösp. He lives in Kópavogur. Grétarsson in 2014 graduated from the University of Iceland with a BA degree in Anthropology. In 2013, he earned a diploma in International Development. Additionally, Grétarsson is qualified lawyer with a Master of Laws(LL.M.) degree issued by the University of Iceland in 1997.\n"}
{"id": "22192260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22192260", "title": "Saihei Hirose", "text": "Saihei Hirose\n\nSaihei Hirose (June 16, 1828 – 1914) was a Japanese mining businessman and former head of the board of directors of Sumitomo Zaibatsu from 1877 to 1894. Prior to that, he was manager of the Besshi Copper Mine, which he extensively modernised using Western technology.\n\nThere is a museum dedicated to him in Niihama, called the Hirose Memorial Museum.\n"}
{"id": "35103274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35103274", "title": "Saud bin Nayef Al Saud", "text": "Saud bin Nayef Al Saud\n\nSaud bin Nayef (born 1956) () is the former head of the Crown Prince Court and special advisor to the Saudi Crown Prince. He is governor of Eastern Province, Saudi Arabia as well as a member of House of Saud. Prince Saud was once regarded as one of the candidates for king or crown prince when succession passed to the new generation.\n\nPrince Saud was born in 1956. He is the eldest son and one of ten children of the former Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Nayef bin Abdulaziz. His mother is Al Jawhara bint Abdulaziz bin Musaid Al Jiluwi. She was a member of the powerful Jiluwi clan whose members have been intermarried with those of House of Saud, and sister of King Fahd's wife. Prince Mohammed is his younger brother.\n\nSaud bin Nayef received a bachelor of arts degree in economics and management from the University of Portland.\n\nSaud bin Nayef was appointed vice president of the youth welfare presidency in January 1986. However, he resigned after six months. Then he had business dealings. In February 1993, he began to serve as the deputy governor of the Eastern Province and left business activities. His term lasted until 2003. Shortly after, he was appointed Saudi ambassador to Spain on 10 September 2003 and served as ambassador until July 2011. While serving as ambassador he contributed to the organization of interfaith conference in Madrid that brought together Israeli and American rabbis and Wahhabi clerics in July 2008. The conference was an initiative of King Abdullah.\n\nNext, Prince Saud was appointed assistant minister of interior for public affairs and advisor to then-second deputy prime minister, his father late Prince Nayef in July 2011.\n\nSaud bin Nayef was the head of the Crown Prince Court and special advisor to the Crown Prince at the rank of minister from November 2011 to 13 January 2013. He replaced Ali bin Ibrahim Al Hadeethi as head of the court. During his tenure, Prince Saud exercised the power given him through this appointment on behalf of his father rather than on his own authority. His term as the head of the court and special advisor to the Crown Prince continued after Prince Nayef's death in June 2012 for six months.\n\nOn 13 January 2013, Prince Saud was appointed governor of the oil-rich Eastern province at the rank of minister, replacing Mohammed bin Fahd.\n\nOn the death of King Abdullah in 2015, he was passed over in the line of succession in favor of his younger brother Mohammed.\n\nDuring his term as Saudi Ambassador to Spain, Prince Saud had contacts with president of the Madrid Stock Exchange. He is one of the members of the board of trustees of the Arab Thought Foundation that is a Saudi think-tank group, attempting to improve the relations between Arab nations and the Western nations.\n\nSaud bin Nayef is also deputy chairman of the Higher Commission of the Prize of Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud for the Prophetic Sunnah and Islamic Studies and General Supervisor of the Prize.\n\nIn addition to these semi-public roles, in December 2011, Saud bin Nayef was appointed member of the Allegiance Council since his father could not have a seat in the Council due to being then crown prince.\n\nSaud bin Nayef has also some business activities. He has a stake in Danagas corporation. And he is the owner of SNAS trading and contacting company.\n\nSaud bin Nayef was married twice. First, to princess Abeer bint Faisal bin Turki. They have four children: Jawahir, Abdulaziz (born 1983, interior minister since June 2017), Mohammed and Nora. He had another daughter; Sara, with his second wife, but the child died in infancy. His son, Mohammed, is married to a daughter of Sultan bin Abdulaziz. One of Prince Saud's daughters married Faisal bin Saud bin Abdullah Al Faisal in October 2010 and the other married Nayef bin Sultan bin Abdulaziz on 10 December 2010.\n\nHis son, Mohammed bin Saud, has Al Naifat stable. He won the Belgium International championship and World Horse Producers Cup in the US in April 2012. He also won the Di Pietrasanta international B show in May 2012. Two horses from the Al Naifat stable, Diana and Mascot, were chosen as the most beautiful horses among more than 100 Arab origin horses in the same event.\n\nConcerning the business activities of the Al Saud family, Saud bin Nayef argued \"You have to understand one simple fact. Since it (Al Saud Family) is a big family and we cannot all have government jobs, some have to make a living. That's only fair.\"\n"}
{"id": "21560775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21560775", "title": "Sonneborn Building", "text": "Sonneborn Building\n\nSonneborn Building, also known as Paca-Pratt Building, is a historic loft building in Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Designed by Theodore Wells Pietsch, it is a nine-story loft building constructed in 1905 of \"fireproof\" reinforced-concrete construction, faced in buff-colored brick, with a coursed ashlar foundation and stone trim. Its detailing reflects the Neoclassical Revival of the early 20th century. It was built for Henry Sonneborn and Company as a vertical clothing manufactory and was the tallest and largest strictly manufacturing building in the city of Baltimore.\n\nSonneborn Building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982. It is located in the Loft Historic District South.\n\n"}
{"id": "33971107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33971107", "title": "Stanley E. Bogdan", "text": "Stanley E. Bogdan\n\nStanley E. Bogdan (December 16, 1918 – March 27, 2011) was the founder of S.E. Custom Built, a company dedicated to the handmade construction of fly reels. Bogdan was born in Nashua, NH and lived there throughout his entire life. He became interested in fly fishing at an early age when he began receiving outdated copies of a hunting and fishing magazine from a local sports retailer. At age 13, Bogdan was tying his own flies and would then become immersed in the sport. Upon graduating high school, Bogdan began work at Rollins Engine Company, a local engines manufacturer in Nashua. Later on, while working as a machinist, he began constructing some of the first prototypes for his reels. Stanley Bogdan died on March 27, 2011 and is survived by his son Stephen, and his daughter Cheryl Doughty. His wife Phyllis died in 1995. While standing on the shore of one of his favorite rivers; The Grand Cascapedia, Mr Bogdan smiled and said: \"I'd die if I could not fish anymore\" shortly after Mr. Bogdan could no longer fish he succumbed to pancreatic cancer. 2009\n\nS.E. Custom Built fly reels are primarily known for their ability to greatly reduce drag. This is mostly attributed to Bogdan's unique concept of the double-break shoe, known as the hallmark of any Bogdan reel. The company is mostly focused on the production of salmon reels, however there have been a few trout reel models made.\n\nIt wasn't until 1955 that Bogdan sold his first set of reels. At the New England Sportsmen's Show, he received $150 from Julian Crandall for a set of 10 reels (one of which Crandall gave to professional baseball player, Ted Williams). That same year Bogdan would make a deal with Abercrombie & Fitch, one of the day's leading marketers of sport's goods, for a set of 40 reels. The deal provided that:\n\nAt this time, Bogdan would retire work at the factories and begin working entirely on his reel making company. From 1957 to 1977, S.E. Custom Built would have a relationship with Orvis including a deal similar to the one with Abercrombie & Fitch. The Orvis reels differed slightly because they decided to use Bogdan's original aluminum serpentine colors. Bogdan reels have since been marketed by many of the industry's major tackle merchants. Eventually demands came for a trout reel in the Bogdan style, so S.E. Custom Built released a 5-weight single-action, non-adjustable, pawl-drag reel in 1976. Demands would come for similar 3-, 4-, and 6-weight reels as well.\n\nStephen Bogdan, Stanley's son, would join S.E. Custom Built in September 1973. Stephen purchased the company and became the sole owner in 1996.\n\nTwo qualities of Bogdan reels that they are most known for are Bogdan's signature double-brake shoe and the 10 position lever provided that is used to regulate drag. They also have black anodized side plates with a pale gold anodized frame. The prices of a Bogdan reel range from $1,500 to $2,400, depending on the type of fish one plans to catch with it. Each Bogdan reel was handcrafted by either Stanley or Stephen. These reels are in very high demand and it is not uncommon for one to wait several years to receive their order. Avid reel collector and friend of Bogdan's, Douglas Marchant says, \"Since each reel is the product of very intensive hand labor, forecasting delivery is virtually impossible.\"\n\nBogdan's reels are owned and praised by some of fly fishing's most notable figures, such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "54562684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54562684", "title": "Stefano Bandecchi", "text": "Stefano Bandecchi\n\nStefano Bandecchi (born 1961, Livorno, Italy) is an Italian entrepreneur and manager.\n\nBandecchi is the founder and owner of the Università degli Studi Niccolò Cusano, a university founded in 2006.\n\nFrom June 2017 he is also owner of Ternana Calcio.\n\n"}
{"id": "868615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=868615", "title": "Stockholm City Centre", "text": "Stockholm City Centre\n\nStockholm City Centre (\"Stockholms innerstad\", \"Innerstaden\", \"Inre staden\") is the city centre of Stockholm in Sweden. The entire city of Stockholm is also the centre of the Stockholm Metropolitan Area.\n\nSince 2007, Stockholm City Centre is organized into four \"stadsdelsområden\" (sometimes translated to boroughs): Kungsholmen, Södermalm, Norrmalm and Östermalm.\n\nBefore 2007, Stockholm City Centre was organized into five boroughs: Katarina-Sofia borough, Kungsholmen borough, Maria-Gamla stan borough, Norrmalm borough and Östermalm borough.\n\nThe border between the historical provinces of Södermanland and Uppland splits Stockholm City Centre in two parts. 179,185 people live on an area of 28.05 km² in the northern (Uppland) part, which gives a density of 6,388.06/km². The same data for the southern (Södermanland) part is 103,646 people on 7.44 km², giving a density of 13,930.91/km². This border is purely historical and has no administrative significance whatsoever.\n\n"}
{"id": "5634629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5634629", "title": "Talitha Getty", "text": "Talitha Getty\n\nTalitha Getty (18 October 1940 – 11 July 1971) was an actress and model of Dutch extraction, born in the former Dutch East Indies, who was regarded as a style icon of the late 1960s. She lived much of her adult life in Britain and, in her final years, was closely associated with the Moroccan city of Marrakesh. Her husband was the oil heir and subsequent philanthropist John Paul Getty Jr.\n\nTalitha Dina Pol was born in Java, then part of the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia), daughter of the artists (1905–88) and Arnoldine Adriana \"Adine\" Mees (1908–1948).\n\nHer father subsequently married Poppet John (1912–97), daughter of the painter Augustus John (1878–1961), a pivotal figure in the world of Bohemian culture and fashion. She was thus the step-granddaughter of both Augustus John and his muse and second wife, Dorothy \"Dorelia\" McNeil (1881–1969), who was a fashion icon in the early years of the 20th century. By Ian Fleming's widowed mother, Evelyn Ste Croix Fleming née Rose, Augustus John had a daughter and Talitha's aunt, Amaryllis Fleming (1925–1999), who became a noted cellist.\n\nPol spent her early years, during the Second World War, with her mother in a Japanese prison camp. Her father was interned in a separate camp and her parents went their own ways after the war, Pol moving to Britain with her mother, who died in 1948 in The Hague.\n\nPol studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) in London. Writer and journalist Jonathan Meades, who was at RADA several years later, recalled that, after first coming to London in 1964, he saw Pol with her stepmother at Seal House, Holland Park (home of Poppet John's sister, Vivien). Meades thought her \"the most beautiful young woman I had ever seen ... I gaped, unable to dissemble my amazement\". In 1988, a former Labour Member of the British Parliament Woodrow, Lord Wyatt recalled, with reference to the \"success with women\" of Anthony, Lord Lambton, former Conservative Government Minister, that\n\n...there was that Talitha Pol who was very pretty and had a little starlet job in Yugoslavia; and he went and stayed at the hotel and sent her huge bunches of flowers about every two hours and showered her with presents.\n\nAnother to come under Pol's spell was the dancer Rudolf Nureyev, who first met her at a party in 1965. According to Nureyev's biographer, Julie Kavanagh, the two were in thrall to each other, to the extent that Nureyev \"had never felt so erotically stirred by a woman\" and told several friends that he wished to marry Pol. In the event, Nureyev was unable to attend a dinner party given by Claus von Bülow, at which he and Pol were to have been seated next to each other, and so von Bülow invited instead John Paul Getty, son of his employer, the oil tycoon Paul Getty. Pol and Getty Jr forged a relationship that led to their marriage in 1966.\n\nPol became the second wife of John Paul Getty, Jr. on 10 December 1966. She was married in a white miniskirt, trimmed with mink. The Gettys became part of Swinging London's fashionable scene, becoming friends with, among others, singers Mick Jagger of the Rolling Stones and his girl-friend Marianne Faithfull. Faithfull has recounted her apprehension, through \"ingrained agoraphobia\", about an invitation to spend five weeks with the Gettys in Morocco (\"but for Mick this is an essential part of his life\") and how, after splitting from Jagger, she took up with Talitha Getty's lover, Count Jean de Breteuil, a young French aristocrat (1949–1971). Breteuil supplied drugs to musicians such as Jim Morrison of The Doors, Keith Richards, and Marianne Faithfull, who wrote that Breteuil \"saw himself as dealer to the stars\" and has claimed that he delivered the drugs that accidentally killed Morrison less than two weeks before Talitha's own death in 1971. For his part, Richards recalled that John Paul and Talitha Getty \"had the best and finest opium\".\n\nPrint designer Celia Birtwell, who married designer Ossie Clark, recalled Talitha Getty as one of a number of \"beautiful people\" who crossed her threshold in the late 1960s, while couturier Yves Saint Laurent likened the Gettys to the title of a 1922 novel by F Scott Fitzgerald as \"beautiful and damned\". Among other glamorous figures of the Sixties, the fashion designer Michael Rainey, who founded the Hung on You boutique in Chelsea, and his wife Jane Ormsby-Gore, daughter of British ambassador David Ormsby-Gore to the United States during the Kennedy era, \"hung out\" with the Gettys in Marrakesh between their moving from Gozo to the Welsh Marches.\n\nJohn Paul Getty, who has been described as \"a swinging playboy who drove fast cars, drank heavily, experimented with drugs and squired raunchy starlets\", eschewed the family business, Getty Oil, during this period, much to the chagrin of his father. However, in later years, he became a philanthropist and, as a U.S. citizen, received an honorary British knighthood in 1986. His luxury yacht, built in 1927 and renovated in 1994, was the \"MY Talitha G\".\n\nIn July 1968, the Gettys had a son, Tara Gabriel Gramophone Galaxy, who became a noted ecological conservationist in Africa, dropped his third and fourth forenames, and took Irish citizenship in 1999. He and his wife Jessica (a chalet maid he met in Verbier) had three children, including a daughter named Talitha.\n\nTalitha Getty is probably best remembered for an iconic photograph taken on a roof-top in Marrakesh, Morocco in January 1969 by Patrick Lichfield. With her hooded husband in the background, this image, part of the collection of the National Portrait Gallery in London, portrayed her in a crouching pose, wearing a multi-coloured kaftan, white harem pants and white and cream boots.\n\nThe look seemed stylishly to typify the hippie fashion of the time and became a model over the years for what, more recently, has been referred to variously as \"hippie chic\", \"boho-chic\" and \"Talitha Getty chic\".\n\nAs an actress, Pol appeared in several films, including \"Village of Daughters\" (1962) (as a daughter, Gioia Spartaco); an Edgar Wallace mystery, \"We Shall See\" (1964) (as Jirina); \"The System\" (1964) (as Helga); \"Return from the Ashes\" (1965) (as Claudine, alongside Maximilian Schell, Ingrid Thulin and Samantha Eggar); and \"Barbarella\" (1968), a sexually charged science-fiction fantasy starring Jane Fonda, in which she had the minor uncredited role of a girl smoking a pipe.\n\nTalitha Getty is rumored to have died of a heroin overdose in Rome, Italy, on 11 July 1971. However, her death certificate listed the cause as cardiac arrest, with high levels of alcohol and barbiturates found in her blood. Ostensibly, she was in Rome to patch up her marriage. She died within the same 12-month period as Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Edie Sedgwick and, as noted, Jim Morrison, other cultural icons of the 1960s. Her friend Brian Jones of the Rolling Stones, with whom she had spent time in Marrakesh, had predeceased Hendrix by a little over a year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39136062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39136062", "title": "Tengku Rethwan", "text": "Tengku Rethwan\n\nDatuk Dr.Tengku Rethwan bin Tengku Mansor is a prominent Malaysian businessman who ventured into Selangor state politics. Tengku Rethwan is the chairman of President college. He is one of the Barisan Nasional candidates for GE-13.\n\nTengku Rethwan started his tertiary education in UiTM and graduated with Diploma in Science in 1975. He then later obtained his MBBS from University Malaya, Bachelor of Law (LLB-London) and currently he is pursuing his PHD on Social Networking in Entrepreneurship at the University of Amsterdam.\n\nTengku Rethwan was awarded the Darjah Paduka Tuanku Jaafar [DPTJ], Negeri Sembilan in the year 2000 which carries the title Datuk.\n\nAs the Chairman of President College Kuala Lumpur, Tengku Rethwan believes that education lies in the development of industry driven knowledge, practical skills and character development. He is also the founder of the college.\n"}
{"id": "29397744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29397744", "title": "UK India Business Council", "text": "UK India Business Council\n\nThe UK India Business Council (UKIBC) is a membership-based, non-profit organisation founded in 2007 to foster trade and business relations between the United Kingdom and India. The organisation works with businesses in both countries, as well as the UK and Indian governments, to promote and increase bilateral trade. The UK India Business Council supports UK businesses with the insights, networks, policy advocacy, services, and facilities needed to succeed in India.\n\nThey help UK companies achieve success whether they are well-established in India or in the early stages of their engagement.\n\nWorking with the UK Government and other influential and connected partners, they ensure business interests are conveyed to India’s Union and State legislators. The UK India Business Council seek to influence decisions that will make it easier for UK businesses to operate in India.\n\nFor those seeking practical advice, their team provide a range of sector-specific research, market entry and expansion services that help businesses understand – and take – the opportunities.\n\nTheir membership network is at the heart of their support. Through a wide variety of events and member-only Sector Policy Groups, they enable businesspeople to meet each other, identify potential partners, suppliers and customers, and to learn from top business leaders and commentators, including those on the Advisory Council.\n\nUKIBC is a sister organisation to the UK-ASEAN Business Council\n\nThe UK India Business Council is the sole accredited UK Government Overseas Business Network Initiative provider for India. UKIBC is accredited by British Chambers of Commerce and works in partnership with UK Trade & Investment.\n\nUKIBC has its origins in the Indo British Partnership (IBP) initiative, signed by then Prime Ministers John Major and P. V. Narasimha Rao in 1993. In 2005 this evolved into a private limited company called the 'Indo British Partnership Network (IBPN). With the UKIBC receiving increased investment in 2007 from UK Trade & Investment under direction from then UK Chancellor Gordon Brown, Sharon Bamford was appointed CEO to oversee the transition of the organisation.\n\nThe Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt has been Chair of the UK India Business Council since 2009. Lord Karan Bilimoria, is the founding Chairman of the UK-India Business Council.\nLord Mervyn Davies has been appointed as the Chair of UK India Business Council in July 2017.\n\nIn 2010, Richard Heald, former Vice-President of the Indian arm of N M Rothschild & Sons was appointed the new CEO of the organisation.\n\nUKIBC currently deals with nine major sectors, namely:\n\nUKIBC provides business centers in New Delhi, Gurgaon, Bangalore and Mumbai.\n\nUKIBC provides sector-specific research and market entry-related services to help British companies understand the opportunities and make informed choices about their investment\n\nThe UKIBC is partnered with major following companies - \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31823020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31823020", "title": "Valstybė", "text": "Valstybė\n\nValstybė (lith. for Nation, State) is a Lithuanian monthly business and political magazine based in Vilnius. \n\n\"Valstybė\" was launched in 2007. The magazine includes reviews, economical predictions, investment suggestions and interviews. The publisher is VšĮ Demokratijos plėtros fondas. It is based in Vilnius and is published on a monthly basis. The magazine has a liberal stance.\n\nSince 2010 the magazine names the person of the year. It organizes economics conferences. In July 2011, the company announce plans to publish the magazine in Estonian and Latvian. The same year the editor-in-chief of \"Valstybė\", Darius Varanavičius, was fired following his support for a right-wing extremist party in local elections.\n\nIn 2010 \"Valstybė\" sold 10,454 copies.\n"}
{"id": "24511666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24511666", "title": "Vojtěch Sedláček", "text": "Vojtěch Sedláček\n\nVojtěch Sedláček (born 1947 in Prague) is a Czech entrepreneur, who established \"Obsluzna spol.\" (1995) and \"Agentura ProVas\" (1996). Both companies have a mission of creating employment and business opportunities for people with disabilities. In 1973 Vojtech Sedlacek married with Jaroslava Vagnerova (maiden name), they raised four daughters and one son.\n\nIn 1969, Vojtech Sedlacek began working as a technician and programmer of central computers, at Works of Industry Automatization in Cakovice. Subsequently before the Velvet Revolution in 1989, he worked in software department at the Research Institute of Mathematical Machines. Since 1981 until 1989 he also volunteered as an instructor of informational technology in the school of Jedlicka for hadicaped children. In 1990 he became the mayor of city of Roztoky and was elected by the assembly as a representative of the Civic Forum. In 1991, he was appointed as the head of the office of the Czech government. From the year 1992 he worked as the executive director and a member of the board of trustees for a printing company CTK Repro. In 1995 he was elected as the board president and executive director of a Citizen Pension Fund. In 1998 he worked as the deputy minister of internal security.\n\nIn 1977, he was among the first people to sign Charter 77. In 2006, he was the national winner of the competition for the social entrepreneur of the year. In 2007 he was among the first to sign a patition Ligy against antisemitism. In 2008 he became a member of the World Entrepreneurship Forum and he participated at its conference in Evian, France. In 2010 he became a member of the World Economic Forum and he participated at its conference in Brussels, Belgium. Kepler museum in Prague was realised by his Agentura ProVas in 2009. Vojtech Sedlacek is member of Czech Astronomical Society.\nIn 2015 he received Via Bona Award in category The Forging a New Path for innovative support homeless people - project ROOF FIRST.\nSince 2014 is commissioned by Executive Committee of Czech Astronomy Society to lead an Expert Group of Historical Astronomy\nOn the occasion of the 100th anniversary (2018) of its foundation, the Czech Astronomical Society awarded the Honorable Mention for a great merits in the field of astronomy.\n"}
{"id": "5004849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5004849", "title": "Waiariki Institute of Technology", "text": "Waiariki Institute of Technology\n\nWaiariki Institute of Technology () was a tertiary institution based in the city of Rotorua, New Zealand, in the Bay of Plenty region in the central North Island. In May 2016, it merged with Bay of Plenty Polytechnic to form Toi Ohomai Institute of Technology.\n\nRegional campuses existed in Taupo, Tokoroa and Whakatane, and formerly Turangi and Kawerau. These were backed by a variety of specialist campuses and buildings, such as the Waipa Campus just south of Rotorua and the newly established offerings available from Waiariki in the Tauranga suburb of Windermere.\n\nWaiariki was divided into three faculties, which offered masters, graduate, postgraduate and degree qualifications, as well as diplomas and certificates in several subject areas. They were the Faculty of Applied Technology and Primary Industries - Te Kura Takawāo, the Faculty of Business, Information Technology and Creative Arts - Te Kura Taki, and Te Pākaro a Ihenga: Faculty of Health, Education and Humanities.\n\nQualification subject areas included nursing, teaching, social work, art, sustainability, Māori, forestry, business, computing, tourism and hospitality. These were backed by an equally diverse range of trade-based qualifications, in areas such as engineering, agriculture, horticulture, fashion, carpentry and hairdressing.\n\nWaiariki has an on-site marae named Tangatarua, which translates as \"two peoples\" to reflect their bicultural nature. Tangatarua Marae was officially opened on 5 October 1996 and is named after a Túhourangi ancestor, Ihenga, who lived on the land where the Mokoia Campus is today.\n\nThe Waiariki Academy of Sport offered talented athletes the opportunity to prioritise their sporting careers while gaining a tertiary education. Similarly, the Waiariki Academy of Singing and Music supported talented young singers and musicians to reach their musical goals while studying.\n\nWaiariki also offered teenagers interested in trade areas the Bay of Plenty Trades Academy, which allowed secondary students to get a taste of trade subjects and tertiary life while still at high-school.\n\nWaiariki Community College was born in 1976, after the Rotorua Boys’ High School Technical Institute Division was merged with the Rotorua Girls' High School Business College to form a Senior Technical Division under the Rotorua High Schools' Board of Governors. Building on the Mokoia Drive site commenced that year, and the Waiariki Community College was opened two years later on 1 April 1978.\n\nTokoroa's 'outpost' opened in 1973, and subsequently became Waiariki’s first regional campus in 1978.\n\nBy the time Waiariki Community College changed its name to Waiariki Polytechnic in 1987, it was the largest polytechnic outside of the main city centres. The first two degree-level qualifications in tourism management and nursing were launched in 1995, and three years later, the name finally changed to Waiariki Institute of Technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44922692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44922692", "title": "William Dodd (writer)", "text": "William Dodd (writer)\n\nWilliam Dodd (born 18 June 1804) was an Englishman who came to notice when he described his work and growing disability as a child worker during the Industrial Revolution. He was employed by the reformer Earl of Shaftesbury after writing about child workers in the textile industry, but Shaftesbury later sacked him after accusations were made that Dodd was lying and was a disgruntled employee. He wrote one more book on a related subject that was written and published in America.\n\nDodd was born in 1804 in Kendal, Westmorland and by the age of five he was at work. Dodd said that he came from a family that was well remunerated but that had fallen down the class structure by the time he started work. Dodd came to notice in 1840 when he published with the support of the social reformer Lord Ashley a book which described his own and his sisters' experiences as child workers. He described how they all worked in a textile factory and sometimes they would work for 18 hours per day. Dodd blamed this experience for making him a cripple and by the time he wrote his first book he had had one arm amputated as it had swollen; the doctors later reported that the bone was \"honeycomb\" and lacked bone marrow.\n\nDodd was able to write the book as he had learnt to write at evening classes whilst working in Kendal. It was his job at that time to check the ages of young children who were employed at Isaac and William Wilson's textile mill. His first use of his literacy was to become a clerk at the same mill.\n\nIn 1837, Dodd briefly started his own school where he passed on his skills in reading, writing and arithmetic. School teaching was meant to suit his increasing disability but he lost the rooms he was renting and this ended the endeavor. Dodd's disability meant that he said that he was unable to find a wife and he resolved to abandon the idea of marriage and he moved to London.\n\nIn London, he worked as a clerk. After he had his arm amputated, he decided to write his autobiography. The text of \"A Narrative of the Experience and Sufferings of William Dodd a Factory Cripple\" was sent to Lord Ashley, who was well known for his interest in child labour, and it was published. Ashley was a member of parliament and he had campaigned for children to be restricted to a ten-hour day. His motion was defeated but it led to the 1833 Factory Act which created a minimum age of nine for working in a textile factory and introduced maximum hours for all children under 12. Ashley employed Dodd and he wrote \"The Factory System: Illustrated\" to describe the conditions of working children in textile manufacture, which was published in 1842.\n\nThese books and Dodd were attacked by Quaker politician John Bright in a parliamentary committee on the Factories Bill on 15 March 1844. Bright said that he had evidence that the books describing Dodd's mistreatment were in fact created by Dodd's ingratitude as a disgruntled employee. Moreover, he had evidence that Dodd had reported that Lord Ashley was only using him because he was an example of a cripple damaged by work in the textile industry. Ashley sacked Dodd who emigrated to America where he wrote \"The Laboring Classes of England\", which was published in Boston in 1847. It is not known where Dodd lived or died after this date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52876843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52876843", "title": "William John Dyer", "text": "William John Dyer\n\nWilliam John Dyer (1830 – 12 July 1909) was a New Zealand businessman and politician. Born in London, his family moved to Sydney when he was a child. He ran a trading business between Sydney, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands, and moved to New Zealand in 1857. He lived at different times in Dunedin and Milton and entered politics, contesting a number of elections and representing the Tokomairaro electorate in the provincial council.\n\nDyer was born in London in 1830, but moved to Sydney in 1839. In Sydney, he had two sons, including Frederick James Dyer. He moved to New Zealand in 1857. His wife, Emma, died in Dunedin on 18 September 1858 at age 27. On 21 April 1860, Dyer married Annie Maria Redmayne at the Episcopal Church in Dunedin. Their first-born son, Ernest Victor, died on 16 February 1861, aged 24 days. They had a daughter on 6 January 1864, a son on 30 September 1865, and a further son in 1866.\n\nFrom Sydney, Dyer traded with New Zealand and the Pacific Islands. When he resided in New Zealand, he was in business in Otago, firstly in Dunedin and later in Milton (then known as Tokomairaro). During the Otago Gold Rush, he had a ferry at the Taieri River at Henley. He lost a number of buildings in a fire in January 1871.\n\nDyer was a candidate in the 1859 Town of Dunedin by-election against James Macandrew and James Gordon Stuart Grant. However, he did not participate in the poll that occurred after Grant challenged Macandrew. He contested the 1860 election in the electorate, losing to Thomas Dick and Edward McGlashan. He was one of four candidates in the in the electorate and came second, beaten by William Archibald Murray. Dyer also was a candidate in the April 1865 Bruce by-election, getting defeated by Arthur John Burns. He was also discussed as a candidate in the July 1865 Bruce by-election, but eventually decided not to stand.\n\nDyer was several times Mayor of Milton and a member of the Otago Provincial Council. He stood in the Waihola electorate for the Otago Provincial Council in May 1863 and was defeated by Alexander Mollison by a single vote. When John Lillie Gillies resigned from the Tokomairaro electorate (i.e. the area around Milton) of the Otago Provincial Council, Dyer contested the election against Thomas Murray and was successful. He represented the Tokomairaro electorate from 3 September 1864 to 28 July 1866, when he resigned.\n\nDyer moved to Dunedin in his later life and lived in Cumberland Street (now part of State Highway 1). On 12 July 1909, he died suddenly during a stay at his son in law's Queen's Hotel in Oamaru. He was buried at Oamaru Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "56620753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56620753", "title": "Þórunn Jónassen", "text": "Þórunn Jónassen\n\nÞórunn Jónassen, also Þórunn Hafstein Pétursdóttir, (1850–1922) was an Icelandic feminist, the first chair of Thorvaldsensfélagið (Thorvaldsen's Society), Iceland's oldest women's association, a post she maintained for 47 years. She was also one of four pioneering women who were elected to Reykjavik's city council in 1908.\n\nBorn in Ketilsstaðir á Völlum near Vallanes in eastern Iceland, Þórunn Jónassen was the daughter of Pétur Havstein, a magistrate, and Guðrún Hannesdóttir Stephensen. \nFollowing her mother's death when she was only 10 months old, she was raised by foster parents and relatives. She completed her education in Copenhagen at Natalie Zahle's School where she was introduced to the importance of fighting for women's rights and education. On returning to Iceland, in 1871 she married Jónasi Jónassen, a physician at Reykjavik's hospital. They had one daughter, Soffía, born in 1873.\n\nIn 1875, Þórunn was elected the first chair of Thorvaldsensfélag, a women's association dedicated to promoting public health and to assisting those in difficulty. She remained in the post until she died 47 years later. She also served as secretary of the National Health Insurance Board and was elected to the city council of Reykjavik in 1908.\n\nÞórunn Jónassen died in Reykjavik on 18 April 1922.\n"}
