{"id": "22628383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22628383", "title": "Alla Ter-Sarkisiants", "text": "Alla Ter-Sarkisiants\n\nAlla Yervandovna \"Yervandi\" Ter-Sarkisiants (; ) is a preeminent historian and ethnographer of Armenia, doctor of historical sciences, leading specialist of the Caucasus department of N. N. Miklukho-Maklai Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and a corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences.\n\nShe finished her degree in history at Moscow State University in 1959. In 1968 she received her PhD from the N. N. Miklukho-Maklai Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology, and in 1998 she received \"Doctor of Historical Sciences\" title for her \"The Armenians. History and ethno-cultural traditions\" research. In 1978-1989 she was the secretary for science affairs of the N. N. Miklukho-Maklai Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology. Deputy chairman of Russian Humanitary Science Fund expert's council on history, archeology and ethnography.\n\n\nShe is an author of more than 150 academic publications, including:\n"}
{"id": "41267191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41267191", "title": "Ann Taves", "text": "Ann Taves\n\nAnn Taves (born 1952) is a professor of religious studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara. She is a former President of the American Academy of Religion (2010). She holds the chair of Catholic Studies at the university. Taves is especially known for her work \"Religious Experience Reconsidered\", stressing the importance of the findings and theoretical foundations of cognitive science for modern religionists.\n\nTaves was born in 1952.\nTaves received her bachelor's degree from Pomona College on religion in June 1974. She went on to receive her master's and doctorate from the University of Chicago Divinity School in June 1979 and December 1983 respectively.\n\nTaves married Raymond Paloutzian on 29 December 2007, in Santa Barbara.\n\nIn 2013, Taves received a Guggenheim Fellowship in the field of religion.\n\n\n\"Fits, Trances, and Visions\" (1999) charts the experience of Anglo-American Protestants and those who left the Protestant movement beginning with the transatlantic awakening in the early 18th century and ending with the rise of the psychology of religion and the birth of Pentecostalism in the early 20th century. \n\nIt charts the synonymic language of trance in the American Christian traditions: \"power\" or \"presence\" or \"indwelling\" of God, or Christ, or the Spirit, or spirits. Typical expressions include \"the indwelling of the Spirit\" (Jonathan Edwards), \"the witness of the Spirit\" (John Wesley), \"the power of God\" (early American Methodists), being \"filled with the Spirit of the Lord\" (early Adventists; see charismatic Adventism), \"communing with spirits\" (Spiritualists), \"the Christ within\" (New Thought), \"streams of holy fire and power\" (Methodist holiness), \"a religion of the Spirit and Power\" (the Emmanuel Movement), and \"the baptism of the Holy Spirit\" (early Pentecostals).\n\nIt focuses on a class of seemingly involuntary acts alternately explained in religious and secular terminology. These involuntary experiences include uncontrolled bodily movements (fits, bodily exercises, falling as dead, catalepsy, convulsions); spontaneous vocalizations (crying out, shouting, speaking in tongues); unusual sensory experiences (trances, visions, voices, clairvoyance, out-of-body experiences); and alterations of consciousness and/or memory (dreams, somnium, somnambulism, mesmeric trance, mediumistic trance, hypnotism, possession, alternating personality).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2548670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2548670", "title": "Autos sacramentales", "text": "Autos sacramentales\n\nAutos sacramentales (Spanish \"auto\", \"act\" or \"ordinance\"; \"sacramental\", \"sacramental, pertaining to a sacrament\") are a form of dramatic literature which is unique to Spain, though in some respects similar in character to the old Morality plays of England.\nThe \"auto sacramental\" may be defined as a dramatic representation of the mystery of the Eucharist. At least this is the definition that would apply to the \"auto\" of the time of Calderón. It does not so well fit, however, those of the preceding century, many of which were sacramental in character only because they were presented during the feast of Corpus Christi. They are usually allegorical, the characters representing, for example, Faith, Hope, Air, Sin, Death, etc. There were some indeed, in which not a single human character appeared, but personifications of the Virtues, the Vices, the Elements, etc.\n\nThe \"auto sacramental\" was always presented in the streets in connection with the celebration of the feast of Corpus Christi. It was preceded by a solemn procession through the principal streets of the city, the houses along the route being decorated in honor of the occasion. In the procession appeared the priests bearing the Host under a splendid canopy, followed by a devout throng, in which, in Madrid, often appeared the king and his court without distinction of rank, and last of all, in beautiful cars, came the actors from the public theatres who were to take part in the performance. The procession usually halted before the house of some dignitary while the priests performed certain religious ceremonies, the multitude kneeling meanwhile as if in church. At the conclusion of these, the auto was given. These performances, and the procession as well, were given with much splendor and at great expense, being limited only by the resources of the particular town in which they took place.\n\nReligious exhibitions were popular with the public in Spain as early as the 13th century. These typically consisted of simple dialogue, presented at Christmas, Carnival, Good Friday, or Easter during religious festivals. As time progressed, the celebration of the feast day of Corpus Christi became larger and with that came the desire for drama surrounding the feast day and honoring the Eucharist became apparent. The first \"autos\" were derived from religious material that already existed, but by the beginning of the 16th century, the first true \"auto\" \"sacramental\", meaning the theme of the play was the mystery of the Eucharist, was presented. It was \"El Auto de San Martin\", by Gil Vicente.\n\nDuring the 16th and 17th centuries these \"autos\" continued to appear, being gradually improved and elaborated until brought to their highest state of development by Calderón. He has left about seventy \"autos\", the best known of which are \"The Divine Orpheus\", a work of considerable poetic merit, \"The Devotion to the Mass\", and \"The Captivity of the Ark\". His \"autos\" were the most popular and were the only autos performed in Madrid from 1647 to 1681. These \"autos sacramentales\" produced a great effect on the people. From time immemorial, allegory of every kind had powerfully appealed to them, and these autos took a strong hold on the popular favor, coming as they did during religious festivals, with their music and their splendor, coupled with the fact that they were given at public expense and with the sanction of the Catholic church.\n\nCiting disrespect of the Eucharist, Charles III declared the presentation and performance of autos prohibited by royal decree in 1765.\n\nGil Vicente [c.1465 – 1536/1537]: wrote in Portuguese and Spanish; considered joint-father of Spanish Drama with Juan de la Encina; wrote very early \"autos\"\n\nJuan de la Encina [1468 – 1529]: considered joint-father of Spanish Drama with Gil Vicente; in 1496 published book called \"Cancionero\" of eight églogas, the precursor for the \"auto\" \"sacramental\"\n\nJuan de Timoneda [c.1520 – 1583]: wrote six \"autos\", including \"La Oveja Perdida\"; author of the only \"autos\" written in Catalan\n\nLope de Vega [1562 –1635]: wrote around 400 autos; 42 surviving text including “The Harvest” and “The Wolf Turned Shepherd”\n\nJosé de Valdivielso [1565 – 1638]: author of the book \"Doce autos sacramentales y\" \"dos comedias divinas\", published in 1622; precursor of Calderón de la Barca in the use of allegory\n\nPedro Calderón de la Barca [1600 – 1681]: considered most prolific of the writers of \"autos\"; two well-known autos are \"La cena del rey Baltaza,\" or \"Belshazzar's Feast\" and \"El gran teatro del Mundo\", or \"The Great Theater of the World\"\n\nOne of Calderón's \"autos\" that is a popular English translation is \"Belshazzar's\" \"Feast\". It relates directly to the Eucharist, sacrilegious behavior, and punishment exacted on Belshazzar for his sinful behavior.\n\nBelshazzar – based off Biblical character, but allegorical for humanity\n\nDaniel – Biblical historic character, allegoric personification of Wisdom and God’s Judgement\n\nIdolatry – second wife of Belshazzar\n\nVanity – first wife of Belshazzar\n\nDeath – allegoric personification of death; carries out judgement; key player/most important\n\nThought – sometimes Belshazzar’s inner thoughts, sometimes general Human Thought\n\nThe Thought and Daniel meet in Belshazzar’s palace gardens. The Thought informs Daniel that Belshazzar has married Idolatry, even though he is already married to Vanity. Daniel cries woe for God’s people.\n\nBelshazzar enters with Vanity and his new bride, Idolatry. He wants them to embrace each other. They do so and ask him what is on his mind. He relates the story of the Great Flood and also the Tower of Babel. After he tells his stories, his two wives decree that he is their king and god. Belshazzar asks what can break their bond, and Daniel informs him that “The Hand of God,” can break up Belshazzar, Vanity, and Idolatry. Belshazzar gets upset with Daniel and threatens his life. Daniel says that God will save him. Vanity and Idolatry tell Belshazzar that Daniel is annoying them and they want to leave. As they leave, Belshazzar tells Daniel he owes his life to the two queens, not to God. The Thought tells Daniel that he has learned a valuable lesson – by invoking the hand of God, his life can be spared in future situations.\n\nDeath and Daniel enter and discuss Belshazzar and his sins of vanity and idolatry. Death offers to kill Belshazzar for Daniel, as an agent of an angry God. Daniel gives Death permission to visit Belshazzar and scare him, but not kill him. Daniel wants to save his soul. Death is upset about only being allowed to show himself to and warn Belshazzar and not take his soul. He calls for Thought. Thought joins Death and is scared of him. Death asks Thought where Belshazzar is. Thought tells Death that Belshazzar is with his two wives in the garden. Death asks Thought to take him there. Thought does because he doesn’t have the courage to say no.\n\nBelshazzar, Idolatry, and Vanity enter.The ask Belshazzar why he looks so sad and stops talking so suddenly. Belshazzar says he doesn’t know the source of the intense pain he feels. It is Death approaching that none of the trio can see. Death shows himself to Belshazzar who is shocked and terrified. He asks Death who he is; Death tells Belshazzar that he is a creditor here to collect a debt that Belshazzar owes. Thought rethinks his decision to lead Death to Belshazzar. Belshazzar asks what he owes. Death shows him a book that has the debt listed, but Belshazzar states that the book is one he lost. Death says the debt was written down by Belshazzar himself. He reads back what Belshazzar wrote about owing his life to Death. Death tells Belshazzar that today is not the day that he has come to collect the debt, but that the day is coming. Death exits.\n\nBelshazzar, Idolatry, Vanity, and Thought are still together. The two queens want to know what is troubling Belshazzar. He says he is not sure – some phantom visited him. To please Belshazzar, the queens take turns complimenting each other. They all sit down and Idolatry fans Belshazzar with the feather from her hat while Vanity sings to him about his greatness to continue to soothe him.\n\nDeath is angry because the queens have soothed Belshazzar into a sleep. Death says he will haunt Belshazzar in his dream. The queens leave the garden and Thought also falls asleep. Death sees Belshazzar asleep and decides to kill him. He draws his sword, but Daniel enters and says, “No,” while holding back the arms of Death. Death inquires why he cannot kill the king. Daniel says Belshazzar has not lived his whole life and it is not time yet for him to die. Death argues that Belshazzar’s life is a mockery to both God and Death.\n\nWhile Belshazzar is asleep, in his dream the queens enter with a Statue – it is Belshazzar as a god. The queens praise Belshazzar and build him up. The Statue warns Belshazzar in his sleep that he needs to leave Idolatry and Vanity behind or else he will suffer because of them. The Statue tells the dream queens that the great God decrees them gone. Belshazzar wakes up and is troubled by what he saw and felt in his sleep. He starts to question keeping so much stock in Idolatry and Vanity. However, Idolatry seduces him again and he returns to his former self. Thought suggests Belshazzar throw a feast to shake off all of the melancholy. Belshazzar calls for the gold wine glasses and wine reserved for presenting the Eucharist to be used, because he deserves the best. Idolatry and Vanity set the table for the feast while Thought sings.\n\nDeath comes to the feast in a disguise and makes a plea to God to loose his hand in order to kill Belshazzar due to his sacrilegious behavior against the Eucharist on top of his sins of Idolatry and Vanity. Belshazzar demands wine, and Death, being mistaken for a servant, brings him a golden cup of poisoned wine declaring that in the cup is both Life and Death. Belshazzar toasts himself, drinks the wine, and then there are several increasingly loud thunder claps. A hand appears in the clouds and writes nonsense words that neither Idolatry, Vanity, Belshazzar, nor Thought can decipher. Idolatry says Daniel can read them and calls him to do it.\n\nDaniel comes and interrupts the words that translate to mean that: One, God has numbered Belshazzar’s days on earth. Two, Belshazzar has been weighed in the balance and been found wanting. Three, Belshazzar’s kingdom will be a wasteland ravaged by his enemies when Belshazzar dies. All this because Belshazzar has profaned the sacred golden sacramental cups meant only to be used for the Eucharist. Death tells Belshazzar know that there was “death,” or poison, in the cups. Belshazzar cries out for Idolatry to save him, but she cannot. He calls out to Vanity to help him, but she cannot. Belshazzar asks Thought to help him, but Thought reminds him that he did not take heed of the warnings he received. Belshazzar finally calls on Daniel. Daniels says he is God’s agent and Belshazzar must take his punishment. Belshazzar wonders who could save him – Death says no one. Death says “Die, thou sinner,” draws his sword, and stabs Belshazzar in the heart. As Death and Belshazzar wrestle, Belshazzar calls out a warning to all men. Idolatry lays down her worship of all other gods for God Himself, asks for forgiveness for Calderón’s faults, and says that his intentions as the playwright was to point back to God.\n\n"}
{"id": "25430186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25430186", "title": "Aztec influence in Spain", "text": "Aztec influence in Spain\n\nAztec influence in Spain can be seen in both the cuisine of Spain and in its architecture.\n\nGuacamole, an avocado-based dip that was popular in Aztec cuisine as early as the 16th century, was brought back to Spain by the Conquistadors. Its reputation as an aphrodisiac derives from the words that combine to form the word \"ahuaca-molli\" (\"guacamole\" in the Aztec language): \"molli\" meant \"something mashed or pureed into a sauce\" and as well as meaning \"avocado\" \"ahuacatl\" meant \"testicle\".\nThe stone work of sun pattern, snakes, panther and birds above the main entrance to the church of Nuestra Señora de Regla, Pájara, Fuerteventura in the Canary Islands, is thought by some specialists to show Aztec influence.\n"}
{"id": "623244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623244", "title": "Chantal Mouffe", "text": "Chantal Mouffe\n\nChantal Mouffe (; born 17 June 1943) is a Belgian political theorist, currently teaching at University of Westminster.\n\nShe is best known for her contribution to the development—jointly with Ernesto Laclau, with whom she co-authored \"Hegemony and Socialist Strategy\"—of the so-called Essex School of discourse analysis, a type of post-Marxist political inquiry drawing on Gramsci, post-structuralism and theories of identity, and redefining Leftist politics in terms of radical democracy and context free grammars of power relations. Her highest cited publication is \"Hegemony and socialist strategy: Towards a radical democratic politics\" at 15309 times, according to Google Scholar.\n\nChantal Mouffe studied at the Universities of Louvain, Paris and Essex and has worked in many universities throughout the world (in Europe, North America and Latin America). She has also held visiting positions at Harvard, Cornell, Princeton and the CNRS (Paris). During the 1989–1995 period she served as Programme Director at the Collège international de philosophie in Paris. She currently holds a professorship at the Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Westminster in the United Kingdom, where she directs the Centre for the Study of Democracy.\n\nA prominent critic of deliberative democracy (especially in its Rawlsian and Habermasian versions), she is also known for her critical use of the work of Carl Schmitt, mainly the concept of \"the political\", in proposing a radicalization of modern democracy—what she calls \"agonistic pluralism\". She has developed an interest in highlighting the radical potential of artistic practices. Mouffe's \"Agonistics: Thinking the World Politically\" (2013) has been criticised by Timothy Laurie for its strong focus on State institutions, noting that Mouffe's \"professed enthusiasm for (some) non-Western Islamist movements is solely conditional upon their assumption of State instruments\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "571302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=571302", "title": "Compagnons du Devoir", "text": "Compagnons du Devoir\n\nThe Compagnons du Devoir, full name Compagnons du Devoir et du Tour de France, is a French organization of craftsmen and artisans dating from the Middle Ages. Their traditional, technical education includes taking a tour, the \"Tour de France,\" around France and doing apprenticeships with masters. For a young man or young woman today, the \"Compagnonnage\" is a traditional mentoring network through which to learn a trade while developing character by experiencing community life and traveling. The community lives in a Compagnon house known as a \"cayenne\" and managed by a \"mère\" (mother) or \"maîtresse\" (mistress), a woman who looks after the well-being of the residents, of which there are more than 80 in France. The houses vary in size from a small house for five people to a larger one with more than 100 people living together.\n\nUntil recently, the compagnons were all male. Today, they can be found in 49 countries across five continents, practising many different trades.\n\nA similar tradition exists for German \"Wandergesellen\", or journeymen, to set out on the Wanderjahre.\n\n\"Tour de France\" simply refers to the fact that the Compagnons travel throughout France; every six months to a year they are required to change work locations. This is unrelated to the Tour de France cycling competition. The word \"compagnon\" (companion) is derived from the Old French \"compaignon,\" a person with whom one breaks bread.\n\nThe prerequisite to start a Tour de France is possession of a \"Certificat d'aptitude professionelle\" (certificate of professional aptitude). Consisting of classes and an apprenticeship, it is the basic French trade qualification.\n\nA first-year aspiring compagnon, known as a \"stagiaire\" (apprentice), works full-time work in the trade on weekdays and lives in the compagnon house. Dinner is eaten together at the \"siège\" (seat or lodge) of compagnons. Those who want to become compagnons apply for the adoption ceremony.\n\nNext the stagiare undertakes a \"travail d'adoption\", a project that must be submitted to become an \"aspirant\" (aspiring/one who aspires). The aspirant is then given a name according to his or her region or town of origin; for example, someone from Burgundy might be called \"Bourguignon\". The aspirant receives a sash and a ceremonial walking staff representing the itinerant nature of the organisation. The ceremony is private, and includes only compagnons and aspirants.\n\nAn aspirant works full-time on weekdays and stays in the compagnon house. Dinner is eaten together at the house. The aspirant stays or tours in several towns over the next three to five years, working under compagnons, to learn the trade.\n\nEventually, the aspirant presents a masterpiece (\"travail de réception\" or \"chef-d'œuvre\") to the board of compagnons. Masterpieces vary according to the aspirant's trade. If accepted, one may become a \"compagnon itinérant\", receive a compagnon name and be presented with a new walking stick that reaches the height of the heart. Some of the masterpieces are displayed at the \"Musées du Compagnonnage\" in Tours and Paris.\n\nThe compagnon itinérant then does three more years of touring. He or she then becomes a \"compagnon sedentaire\" and can choose where to live and work, and will then begin to teach the trade to apprentices.\n\nA typical weekday for a \"charpentier\" (carpenter) would involve a day on-site working full-time for the company that employs the aspirant. Dinner is usually held between 7:00 and 8:00 with the community living in the house. There are then classes until 10 pm in technical drawing, technology, French, English, mathematics, etc. On Saturdays, classes are from 8 am-12 pm and 1:30 pm–5:30 pm. The carpenters acquire skills through working on different projects and lessons. They create many maquettes. These wooden models of a planned project are conceived first through drawings, then assembled in wood. A carpenter will make many during the aspirant phase. Each piece is expected to demonstrate the progress made in mastering a given skill or lesson. Sundays are spent in exploring the conception of a masterpiece.\n\nThe initiation process has been described as a rite of passage, as defined by Arnold Van Gennep. It illustrates his theory in the early 20th century of the rite of passage, with its successive stages of isolation, marginality, and aggregation into the social body.\n\nThe organization dates to medieval times when the Compagnons built the churches and chateaus of France and were persecuted by kings and the Catholic Church because they refused to live under the rules of either institution.\n\nAs a craftsman's guild, the Compagnonnage was banned by the National Assembly under the Le Chapelier Law in 1791, which was repealed in 1864.\n\nDuring the German occupation of France during World War II, the Compagnons were persecuted by the Nazi occupiers, who thought they were related to the Freemasons.\n\n\n\nThe novel \"Le Compagnon du Tour de France\" was written by George Sand in 1840.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2827381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2827381", "title": "Connivance", "text": "Connivance\n\nConnivance is the act of conniving or conspiring, especially with the knowledge of and active or passive consent to wrongdoing or a twist in truth, to make something appear as something that it is not.\n\nA legal finding of connivance may be made when an accuser has assisted in the act about which they are complaining. In some legal jurisdictions, and for certain behaviors, it may prevent the accuser from prevailing.\n\nFor example, if someone were to entice their spouse to commit adultery, they might be blocked (or estopped) from divorcing their spouse on grounds of that adultery. See \"Sargent v. Sargent\", Court of Chancery of New Jersey, 1920 (Held a man who had not taken active steps to prevent his wife's adultery was not entitled to divorce because he was a participator and consenter to her adultery).\n\n"}
{"id": "1610496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610496", "title": "Economic history of the United States", "text": "Economic history of the United States\n\nThe economic history of the United States is about characteristics of and important developments in the U.S. economy from colonial times to the present. The emphasis is on economic performance and how it was affected by new technologies, especially those that improved productivity, which is the main cause of economic growth. Also covered are the change of size in economic sectors and the effects of legislation and government policy. Specialized business history is covered in American business history.\n\nThe colonial economy differed significantly from that of most other regions in that land and \nnatural resources were abundant in America but labor was scarce.\n\nFrom 1700 to 1775 the output of the thirteen colonies increased 12, giving the colonies an economy about 30% the size of Britain's at the time of independence. Population growth was responsible for over three-quarters of the economic growth of the British American colonies. The free white population had the highest standard of living in the world. There was very little change in productivity and little in the way of introduction of new goods and services.\n\nUnder the colonial system Britain put restrictions on the type of products that could be made in the colonies and put restrictions on trade outside the British Empire.\n\nInitial colonization of North America was extremely difficult and the great majority of settlers before 1625 died in their first year. Settlers had to depend on what they could hunt and gather plus what they brought with them and on uncertain shipments of food, tools and supplies until they could build shelters and forts, clear land and grow enough food and build gristmills, sawmills, iron works and blacksmith shops to be self-supporting. They also had to defend themselves against raids from hostile Indians. After 1829 population growth was very rapid due to high birth rates (8 children per family versus 4 in Europe) and lower death rates than in Europe, and immigration. The long life expectancy of the colonists was due to the abundant supplies of food and firewood and the low population density that limited spread of infectious diseases. The death rate from diseases, especially malaria, was higher in the warm, humid southern colonies than in cold New England.\n\nThe higher birth rate was due to better employment opportunities. Many young adults in Europe delayed marriage for financial reasons. Also there were many servants in Europe who were not permitted to marry.\nThe population of white settlers grew from an estimated 40,000 in 1650 to 235,000 in 1700. In 1690, there were an estimated 13,000 black slaves. The population grew at an annual rate of over 3% throughout the 18th century, doubling every 25 years or less. By 1775 the population had grown to 2.6 million, of which 2.1 million were white, 540,000 black and 50,000 Native American, giving the colonies about one third of the population of Britain. The three most populated colonies in 1775 were Virginia, with a 21% share, and Pennsylvania and Massachusetts with 11% each.\n\nThe colonial economy of what would become the United States was pre-industrial, primarily characterized by subsistence farming. Farm households also were engaged in handicraft production, mostly for home consumption, but with some goods sold.\n\nThe market economy was based on extracting and processing natural resource and agricultural products for local consumption, such as mining, gristmills and sawmills, and the export of agricultural products. The most important agricultural exports were raw and processed feed grains (wheat, Indian corn, rice, bread and flour) and tobacco. Tobacco was a major crop in the Chesapeake Bay region and rice a major crop in South Carolina. Dried and salted fish was also a significant export. North Carolina was the leading producer of naval stores, which included turpentine (used for lamps), rosin (candles and soap), tar (rope and wood preservative) and pitch (ships' hulls). Another export was potash, which was derived from hardwood ashes and was used as a fertilizer and for making soap and glass.\n\nThe colonies depended on Britain for many finished goods, partly because laws prohibited making many types of finished goods in the colonies. These laws achieved the intended purpose of creating a trade surplus for Britain. The colonial balance trade in goods was heavily in favor of Britain; however, American shippers were able to offset roughly half of the goods trade deficit with revenues earned by shipping between ports within the British Empire.\n\nThe largest non-agricultural segment was ship building, which was from 5 to 20% of total employment. About 45% of American made ships were sold to foreigners.\n\nExports and related services accounted for about one-sixth of income in the decade before revolution. Just before the revolution, tobacco was about a quarter of the value of exports. Also at the time of the revolution the colonies produced about 15% of world iron, although the value of exported iron was small compared to grains and tobacco. The mined American iron ores at that time were not large deposits and were not all of high quality; however, the huge forests provided adequate wood for making charcoal. Wood in Britain was becoming scarce and coke was beginning to be substituted for charcoal; however, coke made inferior iron. Britain encouraged colonial production of pig and bar iron, but banned construction of new colonial iron fabrication shops in 1750, but the ban was mostly ignored by the colonists.\n\nSettlement was sparse during the colonial period and transportation was severely limited by lack of improved roads. Towns were located on or near the coasts or navigable inland waterways. Even on improved roads, which were rare during the colonial period, wagon transport was very expensive. Economical distance for transporting low value agricultural commodities to navigable waterways varied but was limited to something on the order of less than 25 miles. In the few small cities and among the larger plantations of South Carolina, and Virginia, some necessities and virtually all luxuries were imported in return for tobacco, rice, and indigo exports.\n\nBy the 18th century, regional patterns of development had become clear: the New England colonies relied on shipbuilding and sailing to generate wealth; plantations (many using slave labor) in Maryland, Virginia, and the Carolinas grew tobacco, rice, and indigo; and the middle colonies of New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware shipped general crops and furs. Except for slaves, standards of living were generally high—higher, in fact, than in England itself.\n\nThe New England region's economy grew steadily over the entire colonial era, despite the lack of a staple crop that could be exported. All the provinces and many towns as well, tried to foster economic growth by subsidizing projects that improved the infrastructure, such as roads, bridges, inns and ferries. They gave bounties and subsidies or monopolies to sawmills, grist mills, iron mills, pulling mills (which treated cloth), salt works and glassworks. Most important, colonial legislatures set up a legal system that was conducive to business enterprise by resolving disputes, enforcing contracts, and protecting property rights. Hard work and entrepreneurship characterized the region, as the Puritans and Yankees endorsed the \"Protestant Ethic\", which enjoined men to work hard as part of their divine calling.\n\nThe benefits of growth were widely distributed in New England, reaching from merchants to farmers to hired laborers. The rapidly growing population led to shortages of good farm land on which young families could establish themselves; one result was to delay marriage, and another was to move to new lands farther west. In the towns and cities, there was strong entrepreneurship, and a steady increase in the specialization of labor. Wages for men went up steadily before 1775; new occupations were opening for women, including weaving, teaching, and tailoring. The region bordered New France, and in the numerous wars the British poured money in to purchase supplies, build roads and pay colonial soldiers. The coastal ports began to specialize in fishing, international trade and shipbuilding—and after 1780 in whaling. Combined with growing urban markets for farm products, these factors allowed the economy to flourish despite the lack of technological innovation.\n\nThe Connecticut economy began with subsistence farming in the 17th century, and developed with greater diversity and an increased focus on production for distant markets, especially the British colonies in the Caribbean. The American Revolution cut off imports from Britain, and stimulated a manufacturing sector that made heavy use of the entrepreneurship and mechanical skills of the people. In the second half of the 18th century, difficulties arose from the shortage of good farmland, periodic money problems, and downward price pressures in the export market. In agriculture there was a shift from grain to animal products. The colonial government from time to time attempted to promote various commodities such as hemp, potash, and lumber as export items to bolster its economy and improve its balance of trade with Great Britain.\n\nHistorian Carl Bridenbaugh examined in depth five key cities: Boston (population 16,000 in 1760), Newport Rhode Island (population 7500), New York City (population 18,000), Philadelphia (population 23,000), and Charles Town (Charlestown, South Carolina), (population 8000). He argues they grew from small villages to take major leadership roles in promoting trade, land speculation, immigration, and prosperity, and in disseminating the ideas of the Enlightenment, and new methods in medicine and technology. Furthermore, they sponsored a consumer taste for English amenities, developed a distinctly American educational system, and began systems for care of people meeting welfare. The cities were not remarkable by European standards, but they did display certain distinctly American characteristics, according to Bridenbaugh. There was no aristocracy or established church, there was no long tradition of powerful guilds. The colonial governments were much less powerful and intrusive than corresponding national governments in Europe. They experimented with new methods to raise revenue, build infrastructure, and solve urban problems. They were more democratic than European cities, in that a large fraction of the men could vote, and class lines were more fluid. Contrasted to Europe, printers (especially as newspaper editors) had a much larger role in shaping public opinion, and lawyers moved easily back and forth between politics and their profession. Bridenbaugh argues that by the mid-18th century, the middle-class businessmen, professionals, and skilled artisans dominated the cities. He characterizes them as \"sensible, shrewd, frugal, ostentatiously moral, generally honest,\" public spirited, and upwardly mobile, and argues their economic strivings led to \"democratic yearnings\" for political power.\n\nNumerous historians have explored the roles of working-class men, including slaves, in the economy of the colonial cities, and in the early Republic.\n\nThere were few cities in the entire South, and Charleston (Charles Town) and New Orleans were the most important before the Civil War. The colony of South Carolina was settled mainly by planters from the overpopulated sugar island colony of Barbados, who brought large numbers of African slaves from that island.\n\nOn the eve of the Revolution, 95 percent of the American population lived outside the cities—much to the frustration of the British, who were able to capture the cities with their Royal Navy, but lacked the manpower to occupy and subdue the countryside. In explaining the importance of the cities in shaping the American Revolution, Benjamin Carp compares the important role of waterfront workers, taverns, churches, kinship networks, and local politics. Historian Gary B. Nash emphasizes the role of the working class, and their distrust of their betters, in northern ports. He argues that working class artisans and skilled craftsmen made up a radical element in Philadelphia that took control of the city starting about 1770 and promoted a radical Democratic form of government during the revolution. They held power for a while, and used their control of the local militia to disseminate their ideology to the working class, and to stay in power until the businessmen staged a conservative counterrevolution.\n\nThe colonial economies of the world operated under the economic philosophy of mercantilism, a policy by which countries attempted to run a trade surplus in order to accumulate gold reserves. The colonial powers of England, France, Spain and the Dutch Republic tried to protect their investments in colonial ventures by limiting trade between each other's colonies.\n\nSpain clung to old style mercantilism, primarily concerned with enriching the Spanish government by accumulating gold and silver. The Dutch and particularly the British approach was more conducive to private business.\n\nA mercantile policy that affected the British American colonies was the Navigation Acts, which were passed by the British Parliament between 1651 and 1673.\n\nImportant features of the Navigation Acts are:\n\nAlthough the Navigation Acts were enforced, they had a negligible effect on commerce and profitability of trade.\n\nOn the eve of independence Britain was in the early stage of the Industrial Revolution, with cottage industries and workshops providing finished goods for export to the colonies. At that time, half of the wrought iron, beaver hats, cordage, nails, linen, silk, and printed cotton produced in Britain were consumed by the British American colonies.\n\nThe domestic economy of the British American colonies enjoyed a great deal of freedom, although some of their freedom was due to lack of enforcement of British regulations on commerce and industry. Adam Smith used the colonies as an example of the benefits of free enterprise. Colonists paid minimal taxes.\n\nSome colonies, such as Virginia, were founded principally as business ventures. England's success at colonizing what would become the United States was due in large part to its use of charter companies. Charter companies were groups of stockholders (usually merchants and wealthy landowners) who sought personal economic gain and, perhaps, wanted also to advance England's national goals. While the private sector financed the companies, the king also provided each project with a charter or grant conferring economic rights as well as political and judicial authority. The colonies did not show profits, however, and the disappointed English investors often turned over their colonial charters to the settlers. The political implications, although not realized at the time, were enormous. The colonists were left to build their own governments and their own economy.\n\nThe colonial governments had few expenses and taxes were minimal.\n\nAlthough the colonies provided an export market for finished goods made in Britain or sourced by British merchants and shipped from Britain, the British incurred the expenses of providing protection against piracy by the British Navy and other military expenses. An early tax was the Molasses Act of 1733.\n\nIn the 1760s the London government raised small sums by new taxes on the colonies. This occasioned an enormous uproar, from which historians date the origins of the American Revolution. The issue was not the amount of the taxes—they were quite small—but rather the constitutional authority of Parliament versus the colonial assemblies to vote taxes. New taxes included the Sugar Act of 1764, the Stamp Act of 1765 and taxes on tea and other colonial imports. Historians have debated back and forth about the cost imposed by the Navigation Acts, which were less visible and rarely complained about. However, by 1995, the consensus view among economic historians and economists was that the \"costs imposed on [American] colonists by the trade restrictions of the Navigation Acts were small.\"\n\nAmericans in the Thirteen Colonies demanded their rights as Englishmen, as they saw it, to select their own representatives to govern and tax them – which Britain refused. The Americans attempted resistance through boycotts of British manufactured items, but the British responded with a rejection of American rights and the Intolerable Acts of 1774. In turn, the Americans launched the American Revolution, resulting in an all-out war against the British and to independence for the new United States of America. The British tried to crush the American economy with a blockade of all ports, but with 90% of the people in farming, and only 10% in cities, the American economy proved resilient and able to support a sustained war, which lasted from 1775 to 1783.\n\nThe American Revolution (1775–1783) brought a dedication to unalienable rights to \"life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness\", which emphasize individual liberty and economic entrepreneurship, and simultaneously a commitment to the political values of liberalism and republicanism, which emphasize natural rights, equality under the law for all citizens, civic virtue and duty, and promotion of the general welfare.\n\nBritain's war against the Americans, French and Spanish cost about £100 million. The Treasury borrowed 40% of the money it needed and raised the rest through an efficient system of taxation. Heavy spending brought France to the verge of bankruptcy and revolution.\n\nCongress and the American states had no end of difficulty financing the war. In 1775 there was at most 12 million dollars in gold in the colonies, not nearly enough to cover existing transactions, let alone on a major war. The British made the situation much worse by imposing a tight blockade on every American port, which cut off almost all imports and exports. One partial solution was to rely on volunteer support from militiamen, and donations from patriotic citizens. Another was to delay actual payments, pay soldiers and suppliers in depreciated currency, and promise it would be made good after the war. Indeed, in 1783 the soldiers and officers were given land grants to cover the wages they had earned but had not been paid during the war. Not until 1781, when Robert Morris was named Superintendent of Finance of the United States, did the national government have a strong leader in financial matters. Morris used a French loan in 1782 to set up the private Bank of North America to finance the war. Seeking greater efficiency, Morris reduced the civil list, saved money by using competitive bidding for contracts, tightened accounting procedures, and demanded the federal government's full share of money and supplies from the states.\n\nCongress used four main methods to cover the cost of the war, which cost about 66 million dollars in specie (gold and silver). Congress made two issues of paper money, in 1775–1780, and in 1780–81. The first issue amounted to 242 million dollars. This paper money would supposedly be redeemed for state taxes, but the holders were eventually paid off in 1791 at the rate of one cent on the dollar. By 1780, the paper money was \"not worth a Continental\", as people said, and a second issue of new currency was attempted. The second issue quickly became nearly worthless—but it was redeemed by the new federal government in 1791 at 100 cents on the dollar. At the same time the states, especially Virginia and the Carolinas, issued over 200 million dollars of their own currency. In effect, the paper money was a hidden tax on the people, and indeed was the only method of taxation that was possible at the time. The skyrocketing inflation was a hardship on the few people who had fixed incomes—but 90 percent of the people were farmers, and were not directly affected by that inflation. Debtors benefited by paying off their debts with depreciated paper. The greatest burden was borne by the soldiers of the Continental Army, whose wages—usually in arrears—declined in value every month, weakening their morale and adding to the hardships suffered by their families.\n\nStarting in 1776, the Congress sought to raise money by loans from wealthy individuals, promising to redeem the bonds after the war. The bonds were in fact redeemed in 1791 at face value, but the scheme raised little money because Americans had little specie, and many of the rich merchants were supporters of the Crown. Starting in 1776, the French secretly supplied the Americans with money, gunpowder and munitions in order to weaken its arch enemy, Great Britain. When France officially entered the war in 1778, the subsidies continued, and the French government, as well as bankers in Paris and Amsterdam loaned large sums to the American war effort. These loans were repaid in full in the 1790s.\n\nBeginning in 1777, Congress repeatedly asked the states to provide money. But the states had no system of taxation either, and were little help. By 1780 Congress was making requisitions for specific supplies of corn, beef, pork and other necessities—an inefficient system that kept the army barely alive.\n\nThe cities played a major role in fomenting the American Revolution, but they were hard hit during the war itself, 1775-83. They lost their main role as oceanic ports, because of the blockade by the British Navy. Furthermore, the British occupied the cities, especially New York 1776-83, and the others for briefer periods. During the occupations they were cut off from their hinterland trade and from overland communication. When the British finally departed in 1783, they took out large numbers of wealthy merchants who resumed their business activities elsewhere in the British Empire.\n\nThe U.S. Constitution, adopted in 1787, established that the entire nation was a unified, or common market, with no internal tariffs or taxes on interstate commerce. The extent of federal power was much debated, with Alexander Hamilton taking a very broad view as the first Secretary of the Treasury during the presidential administration of George Washington. Hamilton successfully argued for the concept of \"implied powers\", whereby the federal government was authorized by the Constitution to create anything necessary to support its contents, even if it not specifically noted in it (build lighthouses, etc.). He succeeded in building strong national credit based on taking over the state debts and bundling them with the old national debt into new securities sold to the wealthy. They in turn now had an interest in keeping the new government solvent. Hamilton funded the debt with tariffs on imported goods and a highly controversial tax on whiskey. Hamilton believed the United States should pursue economic growth through diversified shipping, manufacturing, and banking. He sought and achieved Congressional authority to create the First Bank of the United States in 1791; the charter lasted until 1811.\n\nAfter the war, the older cities finally restored their economic basis; newer growing cities included Salem, Massachusetts (which opened a new trade with China), New London, Connecticut, and Baltimore, Maryland. The Washington administration under the leadership of Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton set up a national bank in 1791, and local banks began to flourish in all the cities. Merchant entrepreneurship flourished and was a powerful engine of prosperity in the cities.\n\nWorld peace lasted only a decade, for in 1793 a two decades of war between Britain and France and their allies broke out. As the leading neutral trading partner the United States did business with both sides. France resented it, and the Quasi-War of 1798-99 disrupted trade. Outraged at British impositions on American merchant ships, and sailors, the Jefferson and Madison administrations engaged in economic warfare with Britain 1807-1812, and then full-scale warfare 1812 to 1815.\n\nThere were very few roads outside of cities and no canals in the new nation. In 1792 it was reported that the cost of transport of many crops to seaport was from one-fifth to one half their cost. The cheapest form of transportation was by water, along the seacoast or on lakes and rivers. In 1816 it was reported that \"A ton of goods could be brought 3000 miles from Europe for about $9, but for that same sum it could be moved only 30 miles in this country\".\n\nIn the mid 1780s Oliver Evans invented a fully automatic mill that could process grain with practically no human labor or operator attention. This was a revolutionary development in two ways: 1) it used bucket elevators and conveyor belts, which would eventually revolutionize materials handling, and 2) it used governors, a forerunner of modern automation, for control.\n\nCotton was at first a small-scale crop in the South. Cotton farming boomed following the improvement of the cotton gin by Eli Whitney. It was 50 times more productive at removing the seeds than with a roller. Soon, large cotton plantations, based on slave labor, expanded in the richest lands from the Carolinas westward to Texas. The raw cotton was shipped to textile mills in Britain, France and New England.\n\nIn the final decade of the 18th century England was beginning to enter the rapid growth period of the Industrial Revolution, but the rest of the world was completely devoid of any type of large scale mechanized industry. Britain prohibited the export of textile machinery and designs and did not allow mechanics with such skills to emigrate.\nSamuel Slater, who worked as mechanic at a cotton spinning operation in England, memorized the design of the machinery. He was able to disguise himself as a laborer and emigrated to the U.S., where he heard there was a demand for his knowledge. In 1789 Slater began working as a consultant to Almy & Brown in Rhode Island who were trying to successfully spin cotton on some equipment they had recently purchased. Slater determined that the machinery was not capable of producing good quality yarn and persuaded the owners to have him design new machinery. Slater found no mechanics in the U.S. when he arrived and had great difficulty finding someone to build the machinery. Eventually he located Oziel Wilkinson and his son David to produce iron castings and forgings for the machinery. According to David Wilkinson: \"all the turning of the iron for the cotton machinery built by Mr. Slater was done with hand chisels or tools in lathes turned by cranks with hand power\". By 1791 Slater had some of the equipment operating. In 1793 Slater and Brown opened a factory in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, which was the first successful water powered roller spinning cotton factory in the U.S. ( See: Slater Mill Historic Site ). David Wilkinson went on to invent a metalworking lathe which won him a Congressional prize.\n\nThe First Bank of the United States was chartered in 1791. It was designed by Alexander Hamilton and faced strenuous opposition from agrarians led by Thomas Jefferson, who deeply distrusted banks and urban institutions. They closed the Bank in 1811, just when the War of 1812 made it more important than ever for Treasury needs.\n\nThe United States was pre-industrial throughout the first third of the 19th century. Most people lived on farms and produced much of what they consumed. A considerable percentage of the non-farm population was engaged in handling goods for export. The country was an exporter of agricultural products. The U.S. built the best ships in the world.\n\nThe textile industry became established in New England, where there was abundant water power. Steam power began being used in factories, but water was the dominant source of industrial power until the Civil War.\n\nThe building of roads and canals, the introduction of steamboats and the first railroads were the beginning of a transportation revolution that would accelerate throughout the century.\n\nThe institutional arrangements of the American System were initially formulated by first Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander Hamilton, who proposed the creation of a government-sponsored bank and increased tariffs to encourage industrial development. Following Hamilton's death at the hands of Aaron Burr, the American school of political economy was championed in the antebellum period by Henry Clay and the Whig Party generally.\n\nSpecific government programs and policies which gave shape and form to the American School and the American System include the establishment of the Patent Office in 1802; the creation of the Coast and Geodetic Survey in 1807 and other measures to improve river and harbor navigation; the various Army expeditions to the west, beginning with Lewis and Clark's Corps of Discovery in 1804 and continuing into the 1870s, almost always under the direction of an officer from the Army Corps of Topographical Engineers, and which provided crucial information for the overland pioneers that followed; the assignment of Army Engineer officers to assist or direct the surveying and construction of the early railroads and canals; the establishment of the First Bank of the United States and Second Bank of the United States as well as various protectionist measures (e.g., the tariff of 1828).\n\nThomas Jefferson and James Madison opposed a strong central government (and, consequently, most of Hamilton's economic policies), but they could not stop Hamilton, who wielded immense power and political clout in the Washington administration. In 1801, however, Jefferson became president and turned to promoting a more decentralized, agrarian democracy called Jeffersonian democracy. (He based his philosophy on protecting the common man from political and economic tyranny. He particularly praised small farmers as \"the most valuable citizens\".) However, Jefferson did not change Hamilton's basic policies. As president in 1811 Madison let the bank charter expire, but the War of 1812 proved the need for a national bank and Madison reversed positions. The Second Bank of the United States was established in 1816, with a 20-year charter.\n\nThomas Jefferson was able to purchase the Louisiana Territory from France in 1803 for $15 million, although the treasury at the time only had $10 million. The Louisiana Purchase greatly expanded the size of the United States, adding extremely good farmland, the Mississippi River and the city of New Orleans.\nWars from 1793 to 1814 caused withdrawal of most foreign shipping from the U.S., leaving trade in the Caribbean and Central and South America open for the U.S. Seizure of U.S. ships by France and Britain during the Napoleonic Wars led to the Embargo Act of 1807 which prohibited most foreign trade. The War of 1812, by cutting off almost all foreign trade, created a home market for goods made in the U.S. (even if they were more expensive), changing an early tendency toward free trade into a protectionism characterized by nationalism and protective tariffs.\n\nStates built roads and waterways, such as the Cumberland Pike (1818) and the Erie Canal (1825), opening up markets for western farm products. The Whig Party supported Clay's American System, which proposed to build internal improvements (e.g. roads, canals and harbors), protect industry, and create a strong national bank. The Whig legislation program was blocked at the national level by the Democrats, but similar modernization programs were enacted in most states on a bipartisan basis.\n\nThe role of the Federal Government in regulating interstate commerce was firmly established by the landmark Supreme Court ruling in \"Gibbons v Ogden\", which decided against allowing states to grant exclusive rights to steamboat companies operating between states.\nPresident Andrew Jackson (1829–1837), leader of the new Democratic Party, opposed the Second Bank of the United States, which he believed favored the entrenched interests of rich. When he was elected for a second term, Jackson blocked the renewal of the bank's charter. Jackson opposed paper money and demanded the government be paid in gold and silver coins. The Panic of 1837 stopped business growth for three years.\n\nAlthough there was relatively little immigration from Europe, the rapid expansion of settlements to the West, and the Louisiana Purchase of 1803, opened up vast frontier lands. The high birth rate, and the availability of cheap land caused the rapid expansion of population. The average age was under 20, with children everywhere. The population grew from 5.3 million people in 1800, living on 865,000 square miles of land to 9.6 million in 1820 on 1,749,000 square miles. By 1840, the population had reached 17,069,000 on the same land.\n\nNew Orleans and St. Louis joined the United States and grew rapidly; entirely new cities were begun at Pittsburgh, Marietta, Cincinnati, Louisville, Lexington, Nashville and points west. The coming of the steamboat after 1810 made upstream traffic economical on major rivers, especially the Hudson, Ohio, Mississippi, Illinois, Missouri, Tennessee, and Cumberland rivers. Historian Richard Wade has emphasized the importance of the new cities in the Westward expansion in settlement of the farmlands. They were the transportation centers, and nodes for migration and financing of the westward expansion. The newly opened regions had few roads, but a very good river system in which everything flowed downstream to New Orleans. With the coming of the steamboat after 1815, it became possible to move merchandise imported from the Northeast and from Europe upstream to new settlements. The opening of the Erie Canal made Buffalo the jumping off point for the lake transportation system that made important cities out of Cleveland, Detroit, and especially Chicago.\n\nThe U.S. economy of the early 19th century was characterized by labor shortages, as noted by numerous contemporary observers. The labor shortage was attributed to the cheapness of land and the high returns on agriculture. All types of labor were in high demand, especially unskilled labor and experienced factory workers. Labor prices in the U.S. were typically between 30 and 50 percent higher than in Britain. Women factory workers were especially scarce. The elasticity of labor was low in part because of lack of transportation and low population density. The relative labor scarcity and high price was an incentive for capital investment, particularly in machinery.\n\nThe U.S. economy was primarily agricultural in the early 19th century. Westward expansion plus the building of canals and the introduction of steamboats opened up new areas for agriculture. Much land was cleared and put into growing cotton in the Mississippi valley and in Alabama, and new grain growing areas were brought into production in the Mid West. Eventually this put severe downward pressure on prices, particularly of cotton, first from 1820 to 1823 and again from 1840 to 1843.\n\nBefore the Industrial Revolution most cotton was spun and woven near where it was grown, leaving little raw cotton for the international marketplace. World cotton demand experienced strong growth due to mechanized spinning and weaving technologies of the Industrial Revolution. Although cotton was grown in India, China, Egypt, the Middle East and other tropical and sub-tropical areas, the Americas, particularly the U.S., had sufficient suitable land available to support large scale cotton plantations, which were highly profitable. A strain of cotton seed brought from Mexico to Natchez, Mississippi in 1806 would become the parent genetic material for over 90% of world cotton production today; it produced bolls that were three to four times faster to pick.The cotton trade, excluding financing, transport and marketing, was 6 percent or less of national income in the 1830s. Cotton became the United States' largest export.\n\nSugar cane was being grown in Louisiana, where it was refined into granular sugar. Growing and refining sugar required a large amount of capital. Some of the nation's wealthiest people owned sugar plantations, which often had their own sugar mills.\n\nSouthern plantations, which grew cotton, sugar cane and tobacco, used African slave labor. Per capita food production did not keep pace with the rapidly expanding urban population and industrial labor force in the Antebellum decades. \n\nThere were only a few roads outside of cities at the beginning of the 19th century, but turnpikes were being built. A ton-mile by wagon cost from between 30 and 70 cents in 1819. Robert Fulton's estimate for typical wagonage was 32 cents per ton-mile. The cost of transporting wheat or corn to Philadelphia exceeded the value at 218 and 135 miles, respectively. To facilitate westward expansion, in 1801 Thomas Jefferson began work on the Natchez Trace, which was to connect Daniel Boone's Wilderness Road, which ended in Nashville, Tennessee, with the Mississippi River.\n\nFollowing the Louisiana Purchase the need for additional roads to the West were recognized by Thomas Jefferson, who authorized the construction of the Cumberland Road in 1806. The Cumberland Road was to connect Cumberland Maryland on the Potomac River with the Wheeling (West) Virginia on the Ohio River, which was on the other side of the Alleghany Mountains. Mail roads were also built to New Orleans.\n\nThe building of roads in the early years of the 19th century greatly lowered transportation costs and was a factor in the deflation of 1819 to 1821, which was one of the most severe in U.S. history.\n\nSome turnpikes were wooden plank roads, which typically cost about $1,500 to $1,800 per mile, but wore out quickly. Macadam roads in New York cost an average of $3,500 per mile, while high-quality roads cost between $5,000 and $10,000 per mile.\n\nBecause a horse can pull a barge carrying a cargo of over 50 tons compared to the typical one ton or less hauled by wagon, and the horse required a wagoner versus a couple of men for the barge, water transportation costs were a small fraction of wagonage costs. Canals' shipping costs were between two and three cents per ton-mile, compared to 17-20 cents by wagon. The cost of constructing a typical canal was between $20,000 and $30,000 per mile.\n\nOnly 100 miles of canals had been built in the U.S. by 1816, and only a few were longer than two miles. The early canals were typically financially successful, such as those carrying coal in eastern Pennsylvania, where canal building was concentrated until 1820.\n\nThe 325-mile Erie Canal, which connected Albany, New York, on the Hudson River with Buffalo, New York, on Lake Erie, began operation in 1825. Wagon cost from Buffalo to New York City in 1817 was 19.2 cents per ton-mile. By Erie Canal c. 1857 to 1860 the cost was 0.81 cents. The Erie Canal was a great commercial success and had a large regional economic impact.\n\nThe Delaware and Raritan Canal was also very successful. Also important was the 2.5-mile canal bypassing the falls on the Ohio River at Louisville, which opened in 1830.\n\nThe success of some of the early canals led to a canal building boom, during which work began on many canals which would prove to be financially unsuccessful. As the canal boom was underway in the late 1820s, a small number of horse railways were being built. These were quickly followed by the first steam railways in the 1830s.\n\nIn 1780 the United States had three major steam engines, all of which were used for pumping water: two in mines and one for New York City's water supply. Most power in the U.S. was supplied by water wheels and water turbines after their introduction in 1840. By 1807 when the \"North River Steamboat\" (unofficially called \"Clermont\") first sailed, there were estimated to be fewer than a dozen steam engines operating in the U.S. Steam power did not overtake water power until sometime after 1850.\n\nOliver Evans began developing a high pressure steam engine that was more practical than the engine developed around the same time by Richard Trevithick in England. The high pressure engine did away with the separate condenser and thus did not require cooling water. It also had a higher power to weight ratio, making it suitable for powering steamboats and locomotives. Evans produced a few custom steam engines from 1801 to 1806, when he opened the Mars Works foundry and factory near Philadelphia, where he produced additional engines. In 1812 he produced his successful Colombian engine at Mars. As his business grew and orders were being shipped inland, Evans and a partner formed the Pittsburgh Steam Engine Company in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Steam engines soon became common in public water supply, sawmills and flour milling, especially in areas with little or no water power.\n\nIn 1828 Paul Moody substituted leather belting for gearing in mills. Leather belting from line shafts was the common way to distribute power from steam engines and water turbines in mills and factories. In the factory boom of the late 19th century it was common for large factories to have many miles of line shafts. Leather belting continued in use until it was displaced by unit drive electric motors in the early decades of the 20th century.\n\nShipbuilding remained a sizable industry. U.S.-built ships were superior in design, required smaller crews and cost between 40 and 60 percent less to build than European ships. The British gained the lead in shipbuilding after they introduced iron-hulled ships in the mid 19th century.\n\nCommercial steamboat operations began in 1807 within weeks of the launch of Robert Fulton's \"North River Steamboat\", often referred to as the \"Clermont\".\n\nThe first steamboats were powered by Boulton and Watt type low pressure engines, which were very large and heavy in relation to the smaller high pressure engines. In 1807 Robert L. Stevens began operation of the \"Phoenix\", which used a high pressure engine in combination with a low pressure condensing engine. The first steamboats powered only by high pressure were the \"Aetna\" and \"Pennsylvania\" designed and built by Oliver Evans.\n\nIn the winter of 1811 to 1812, the \"New Orleans\" became the first steamboat to travel down the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers from Pittsburgh to New Orleans. The commercial feasibility of steamboats on the Mississippi and its tributaries was demonstrated by the \"Enterprise\" in 1814.\n\nBy the time of Fulton's death in 1815 he operated 21 of the estimated 30 steamboats in the U.S. The number of steamboats steadily grew into the hundreds. There were more steamboats in the Mississippi valley than anywhere else in the world.\n\nEarly steamboats took 30 days to travel from New Orleans to Louisville, which was from half to one-quarter the time by keel boat. Due to improvements in steamboat technology, by 1830 the time from New Orleans to Louisville was halved. In 1820 freight rates for keel boats were five cents per ton-mile versus two cents by steamboat, falling to one-half cent per pound by 1830.\n\nThe SS Savannah crossed from Savannah to Liverpool in 1819 as the first trans-Atlantic steamship; however, until the development of more efficient engines, trans-ocean ships had to carry more coal than freight. Early trans-ocean steamships were used for passengers and soon some companies began offering regularly scheduled service.\n\nRailroads were an English invention, and the first entrepreneurs imported British equipment in the 1830s. By the 1850s the Americans had developed their own technology. The early lines in the 1830s and 1840s were locally funded, and connected nearby cities or connected farms to navigable waterways. They primarily handled freight rather than passengers. The first locomotives were imported from England. One such locomotive was the John Bull which arrived in 1831. While awaiting assembly, Matthias W. Baldwin, who had designed and manufactured a highly successful stationary steam engine, was able to inspect the parts and obtain measurements. Baldwin was already working on an experimental locomotive based on designs shown at the Rainhill Trials in England. Baldwin produced his first locomotive in 1832; he went on to found the Baldwin Locomotive Works, one of the largest steam locomotive manufacturers. In 1833 when there were few locomotives in the U.S., three quarters were made in England. In 1838 there were 346 locomotives recorded in the U.S., three-fourths of which were made in the U.S.\n\nOhio had more railroads built in the 1840s than any other state. Ohio's railroads put the canals out of business. A typical mile of railroad cost $30,000 compared to the $20,000 per mile of canal, but a railroad could carry 50 times as much traffic. Railroads appeared at the time of the canal boom, causing its abrupt end, although some canals flourished for an additional half-century.\n\nStarting with textiles in the 1790s, factories were built to supply a regional and national market. The power came from waterfalls, and most of the factories were built alongside the rivers in rural New England and upstate New York.\nBefore 1800, most cloth was made in home workshops, and housewives sewed it into clothing for family use or trade with neighbors. In 1810 the secretary of the treasury estimated that two-thirds of rural household clothing, including hosiery and linen, was produced by households. By the 1820s, housewives bought the cloth at local stores, and continued their sewing chores. The American textile industry was established during the long period of wars from 1793 to 1815, when cheap cloth imports from Britain were unavailable. Samuel Slater secretly brought in the plans for complex textile machinery from Britain, and built new factories in Rhode Island using the stolen designs. By the time the Embargo Act of 1807 cut off trade with Britain, there here were 15 cotton spinning mills in operation. These were all small operations, typically employing fewer than 50 people, and most used Arckwright water frames powered by small streams. They were all located in southeastern New England. In 1809 the number of mills had grown to 62, with 25 under construction. To meet increased demand for cloth several manufacturers resorted to the putting-out system of having the handloom weaving done in homes. The putting-out system was inefficient because of the difficulty of distributing the yarn and collecting the cloth, embezzlement of supplies, lack of supervision and poor quality. To overcome these problems the textile manufacturers began to consolidate work in central workshops shops where they could supervise operations. Taking this to the next level, in 1815 Francis Cabot Lowell of the Boston Manufacturing Company built the first integrated spinning and weaving factory in the world at Waltham, Massachusetts, using plans for a power loom that he smuggled out of England. This was the largest factory in the U.S., with a workforce of about 300. It was a very efficient, highly profitable mill that, with the aid of the Tariff of 1816, competed effectively with British textiles at a time when many smaller operations were being forced out of business.\n\nThe Fall River Manufactory, located on the Quequechan River in Fall River, Massachusetts, was founded 1813 by Dexter Wheeler and cousin David Anthony. By 1827 there were 10 cotton mills in the Fall River area, which soon became the country's leading producer of printed cotton cloth.\n\nThe U.S. began exporting textiles in the 1830s; the Americans specialized in coarse fabrics, while the British exported finer cloth that reached a somewhat different market. Cloth production—mostly cotton but also wool, linen and silk—became the leading American industry. The building of textile machinery became a major driving force in the development of advanced mechanical devices.\n\nThe shoe industry began transitioning from production by craftsmen to the factory system, with division of labor.\n\nLow return freight rates from Europe offered little protection from imports to domestic industries.\n\nStandardization and interchangeability have been cited as major contributors to the exceptional growth of the U.S. economy.\n\nThe idea of standardization of armaments was originated by French General Jean-Baptiste Vaquette de Gribeauval, who in 1765 began instituting the Gribeauval system. Honoré Blanc, who had served as inspector general of the three French arsenals, began producing muskets with interchangeable locks in France when Thomas Jefferson was minister to France. Jefferson wrote a letter to John Jay about these developments in 1785. The idea of armament standardization was advocated by Louis de Tousard, who fled the French Revolution and in 1795 joined the U.S. Corps of Artillerists and Engineers where he taught artillery and engineering he learned in France. At the suggestion of George Washington, Tousard had been working on an artillery manual, which he published as \"The American Artillerist's Companion\" (1809). Tousard's manual, which was a standard textbook for officer training, stressed the importance of developing a system of standardized armaments.\n\nFears of war stemming from the XYZ Affair caused the U.S. to begin offering cash advance contracts for producing small arms to private individuals in 1798. Two notable recipients of these contracts associated with interchangeable parts were Eli Whitney and Simeon North. Although Whitney was not able to make interchangeable parts, he was a proponent of using machinery for gun making; however, he employed only the simplest machines in his factory. North eventually made progress toward some degree of interchangeability and developed special machinery. North's shop used the first known milling machine (), a fundamental machine tool.\n\nThe experience of the War of 1812 led the War Department to issue a request for contract proposals for firearms with interchangeable parts. Previously, parts from each firearm had to be carefully custom fitted; almost all infantry regiments necessarily included an artificer or armorer who could perform this intricate gunsmithing. The requirement for interchangeable parts forced forward the development of modern metal-working machine tools, including milling machines, grinders, shapers and planers. The Federal Armories perfected the use of machine tools by developing fixtures to correctly position the parts being machined and jigs to guide the cutting tools over the proper path. Systems of blocks and gauges were also developed to check the accuracy and precision of the machined parts. Developing the manufacturing techniques for making interchangeable parts by the Federal Armories took over two decades; however, the first interchangeable small arms parts were not made to a high degree of precision. It wasn't until mid century or later that parts for U.S. rifles and handguns could be considered truly interchangeable with a degree of precision. In 1853 when the British Parliamentary Committee on Small Arms questioned gun maker Samuel Colt, and machine tool makers James Nasmyth and Joseph Whitworth, there was still some question about what constituted interchangeability and whether it could be achieved at a reasonable cost.\n\nThe machinists' skills were called armory practice and the system eventually became known as the American system of manufacturing. Machinists from the armories eventually spread the technology to other industries, such as clocks and watches, especially in the New England area. It wasn't until late in the 19th century that interchangeable parts became widespread in U.S. manufacturing. Among the items using interchangeable parts were some sewing machine brands and bicycles.\n\nThe development of these modern machine tools and machining practices made possible the development of modern industry capable of mass production; however, large scale industrial production did not develop in the U.S. until the late 19th century.\n\nThe charter for the First Bank of the United States expired in 1811. Its absence caused serious difficulties for the national government trying to finance the War of 1812 over the refusal of New England bankers to help out.\n\nPresident James Madison reverses earlier Jeffersonian opposition to banking, and secured the opening of a new national bank. The Second Bank of the United States was chartered in 1816. Its leading executive was Philadelphia banker Nicholas Biddle. It collapsed in 1836, under heavy attack from President Andrew Jackson during his Bank War.\nThere were three economic downturns in the early 19th century. The first was the result of the Embargo Act of 1807, which shut off most international shipping and trade due to the Napoleonic Wars. The embargo caused a depression in cities and industries dependent on European trade. The other two downturns were depressions accompanied by significant periods of deflation during the early 19th century. The first and most severe was during the depression from 1818 to 1821 when prices of agricultural commodities declined by almost 50 percent. A credit contraction caused by a financial crisis in England drained specie out of the U.S. The Bank of the United States also contracted its lending. The price of agricultural commodities fell by almost 50 percent from the high in 1815 to the low in 1821, and did not recover until the late 1830s, although to a significantly lower price level. Most damaging was the price of cotton, the U.S.'s main export. Food crop prices, which had been high because of the famine of 1816 that was caused by the year without a summer, fell after the return of normal harvests in 1818. Improved transportation, mainly from turnpikes, significantly lowered transportation costs.\n\nThe third economic downturn was the depression of the late 1830s to 1843, following the Panic of 1837, when the money supply in the United States contracted by about 34 percent with prices falling by 33 percent. The magnitude of this contraction is matched only by the Great Depression. A fundamental cause of the Panic of 1837 was depletion of Mexican silver mines. Despite the deflation and depression, GDP rose 16 percent from 1839 to 1843, partly because of rapid population growth.\n\nIn order to dampen speculation in land, Andrew Jackson signed the executive order known as the Specie Circular in 1836, requiring sale of government land to be paid in gold and silver. Branch mints at New Orleans; Dahlonega, Georgia; and Charlotte, North Carolina, were authorized by congress in 1835 and became operational in 1838.\n\nGold was being withdrawn from the U.S. by England and silver had also been taken out of the country because it had been under valued relative to gold by the Coinage Act of 1834. Canal projects began to fail. The result was the financial Panic of 1837. In 1838 there was a brief recovery. The business cycle upturn occurred in 1843.\n\nEconomic historians have explored the high degree of financial and economic instability in the Jacksonian era. For the most part, they follow the conclusions of Peter Temin, who absolved Jackson's policies, and blamed international events beyond American control, such as conditions in Mexico, China and Britain. A survey of economic historians in 1995 show that the vast majority concur with Temin's conclusion that \"the inflation and financial crisis of the 1830s had their origin in events largely beyond President Jackson's control and would have taken place whether or not he had acted as he did vis-a-vis the Second Bank of the U.S.\"\n\nThe War of 1812 was financed by borrowing, by new issues of private bank notes and by an inflation in prices of 15%. The government was a very poor manager during the war, with delays in payments and confusion, as the Treasury took in money months after it was scheduled to pay it out. Inexperience, indecision, incompetence, partisanship and confusion the main hallmarks. The federal government's management system was designed to minimize the federal role before 1812. The Republicans in power deliberately wanted to downsize the power and roles of the federal government; when the war began, the Federalist opposition worked hard to sabotage operations. Problems multiplied rapidly in 1812, and all the weaknesses were magnified, especially regarding the Army and the Treasury. There were no serious reforms before the war ended. In financial matters, the decentralizing ideology of the Republicans meant they wanted the First Bank of the United States to expire in 1811, when its 20-year charter ran out. Its absence made it much more difficult to handle the financing of the war, and cause special problems in terms of moving money from state to state, since state banks were not allowed to operate across state lines. The bureaucracy was terrible, often missing deadlines. On the positive side, over 120 new state banks were created all over the country, and they issued notes that financed much of the war effort, along with loans raised by Washington. Some key Republicans, especially Secretary of the Treasury Albert Gallatin realized the need for new taxes, but the Republican Congress was very reluctant and only raised small amounts. The whole time, the Federalists in Congress and especially the Federalist-controlled state governments in the Northeast, and the Federalist-aligned financial system in the Northeast, was strongly opposed to the war and refused to help in the financing. Indeed, they facilitated smuggling across the Canadian border, and sent large amounts of gold and silver to Canada, which created serious shortages of specie in the US.\n\nAcross the two and half years of the war, 1812-1815, the federal government took in more money than it spent. Cash out was $119.5 million, cash in was $154.0 million. Two-thirds of the income was borrowing that had to be paid back in later years; the national debt went from $56.0 million in 1812 to $127.3 million in 1815. Out of the GDP (gross domestic product) of about $925 million (in 1815), this was not a large burden for a national population of 8 million people; it was paid off in 1835. A new Second Bank of the United States was set up in 1816, and after that the financial system performed very well, even though there was still a shortage of gold and silver.\n\nThe economy grew every year 1812-1815, despite a large loss of business by East Coast shipping interests. Wartime inflation averaged 4.8% a year. The national economy grew 1812-1815 at the rate of 3.7% a year, after accounting for inflation. Per capita GDP grew at 2.2% a year, after accounting for inflation. Money that would have been spent on imports—mostly cloth—was diverted to opening new factories, which were profitable since British cloth was not available. This gave a major boost to the industrial revolution, as typified by the Boston Associates. The Boston Manufacturing Company built the first integrated spinning and weaving factory in the world at Waltham, Massachusetts, in 1813.\n\nThe mid-19th century was a period of transition toward industrialization, particularly in the Northeast, which produced cotton textiles and shoes. The population of the West (generally meaning from Ohio to and including Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa and Missouri and south to include Kentucky) grew rapidly. The West was primarily a grain and pork producing region, with an important machine tool industry developing around Cincinnati, Ohio. The Southern economy was based on plantation agriculture, primarily cotton, tobacco and sugar, produced with slave labor.\n\nThe market economy and factory system were not typical before 1850, but developed along transportation routes. Steamboats and railroads, introduced in the early part of the century, became widespread and aided westward expansion. The telegraph was introduced in 1844 and was in widespread use by the mid 1850s.\n\nA machine tool industry developed and machinery became a major industry. Sewing machines began being manufactured. The shoe industry became mechanized. Horse drawn reapers became widely introduced, significantly increasing the productivity of farming.\n\nThe use of steam engines in manufacturing increased and steam power exceeded water power after the Civil War. Coal displaced wood as the major fuel.\n\nThe combination of railroads, the telegraph and machinery and factories began to create an industrial economy.\nThe longest economic expansion of the United States occurred in the recession-free period between 1841-1856. A 2017 study attributes this expansion primarily to \"a boom in transportation-goods investment following the discovery of gold in California.\"\n\nThe depression that began in 1839 ended with an upswing in economic activity in 1843.\n\nRailroads opened up remote areas and drastically cut the cost of moving freight and passengers. By 1860 long distance bulk rates had fallen by 95%, less than half of which was due to the general fall in prices. This large fall in transportation costs created \"a major revolution in domestic commerce.\"\n\nAs transportation improved, new markets continuously opened. Railroads greatly increased the importance of hub cities such as Atlanta, Billings, Chicago, and Dallas.\n\nRailroads were a highly capital intensive business, with a typical cost of $30,000 per mile with a considerable range depending on terrain and other factors. Private capital for Railroads during the period from 1830–1860 was inadequate. States awarded charters, funding, tax breaks, land grants, and provided some financing. Railroads were allowed banking privileges and lotteries in some states. Private investors provided a small but not insignificant share or railroad capital. A combination of domestic and foreign investment along with the discovery of gold and a major commitment of America's public and private wealth, enabled the nation to develop a large-scale railroad system, establishing the base for the country's industrialization.\n\nRailroad executives invented modern methods for running large-scale business operations, creating a blueprint that all large corporations basically followed. They created career tracks that took 18-year-old boys and turned them into brakemen, conductors and engineers. They were first to encounter managerial complexities, labor union issues, and problems of geographical competition. Due to these radical innovations, the railroad became the first large-scale business enterprise and the model for most large corporations.\n\nHistorian Larry Haeg argues from the perspective of the end of the nineteenth century: \nThe most important technological innovation in mid 19th century pig iron production was the adoption of hot blast, which was developed and patented in Scotland in 1828. Hot blast is a method of using heat from the blast furnace exhaust gas to preheat combustion air, saving a considerable amount of fuel. It allowed much higher furnace temperatures and increased the capacity of furnaces.\n\nHot blast allowed blast furnaces to use anthracite or lower grade coal. Anthracite was difficult to light with cold blast. High quality metallurgical coking coal deposits of sufficient size for iron making were only available in Great Britain and western Germany in the 19th century, but with less fuel required per unit of iron, it was possible to use lower grade coal.\n\nThe use of anthracite was rather short lived because the size of blast furnaces increased enormously toward the end of the century, forcing the use of coke, which was more porous and did not impede the upflow of the gases through the furnace. Charcoal would have been crushed by the column of material in tall furnaces. Also, the capacity of furnaces would have eventually exceeded the wood supply, as happened with locomotives.\n\nIron was used for a wide variety of purposes. In 1860 large consumers were numerous types of castings, especially stoves. Of the $32 million of bar, sheet and railroad iron produced, slightly less than half was railroad iron. The value added by stoves was equal to the value added by rails.\n\nCoal displaced wood during the mid-nineteenth century. In 1840 wood was the major fuel while coal production was minor. In 1850 wood was 90% of fuel consumption and 90% of that was for home heating. By 1880 wood was only 5% of fuel consumption. Cast iron stoves for heating and cooking displaced inefficient fireplaces. Wood was a byproduct of land clearing and was placed along the banks of rivers for steamboats. By mid century the forests were being depleted while steamboats and locomotives were using enough wood to create shortages along their routes; however, railroads, canals and navigable internal waterways were able to bring coal to market at a price far below the cost of wood. Coal sold in Cincinnati for 10 cents per bushel (94 pounds) and in New Orleans for 14 cents.\n\nCharcoal production was very labor and land intensive. It was estimated that to fuel a typical sized 100 ton of pig iron per week furnace in 1833 at a sustained yield, a timber plantation of 20,000 acres was required. The trees had to be hauled by oxen to where they were cut, stacked on end and covered with earth or put in a kiln to be charred for about a week. Anthracite reduced labor cost to $2.50 per ton compared to charcoal at $15.50 per ton.\n\nManufacturing became well established during the mid 19th century. Labor in the U.S. was expensive and industry made every effort to economize by using machinery. Woodworking machinery such as circular saws, high speed lathes, planers and mortising machines and various other machines amazed the British, as was reported by Joseph Whitworth. See: American system of manufacturing#Use of machinery\n\nIn the early 19th century machinery was made mostly of wood with iron parts. By the mid century machines were being increasingly of all iron, which allowed them to operate at higher speeds and with higher precision. The demand for machinery created a machine tool industry that designed and manufactured lathes, metal planers, shapers and other precision metal cutting tools.\n\nThe shoe industry was the second to be mechanized, beginning in the 1840s. Sewing machines were developed for sewing leather. A leather rolling machine eliminated hand hammering, and was thirty times faster. Blanchard lathes began being used for making shoe lasts (forms) in the 1850s, allowing the manufacture of standard sizes.\n\nBy the 1850s much progress had been made in the development of the sewing machine, with a few companies making the machines, based on a number of patents, with no company controlling the right combination of patents to make a superior machine. To prevent damaging lawsuits, in 1856 several important patents were pooled under the Sewing Machine Combination, which licensed the patents for a fixed fee per machine sold.\n\nThe sewing machine industry was a beneficiary of machine tools and the manufacturing methods developed at the Federal Armories. By 1860 two sewing machine manufacturers were using interchangeable parts.\n\nThe sewing machine increased the productivity of sewing cloth by a factor of 5.\n\nIn 1860 the textile industry was the largest manufacturing industry in terms of workers employed (mostly women and children), capital invest and value of goods produced. That year there were 5 million spindles in the U.S.\n\nThe Treasury Department's steam engine report of 1838 was the most valuable survey of steam power until the 1870 Census. According to the 1838 report there were an estimated 2,000 engines totaling 40,000 hp, of which 64% were used in transportation, mostly in steamboats.\n\nThe Corliss steam engine, patented in 1848, was called the most significant development in steam engineering since James Watt. The Corliss engine was more efficient than previous engines and maintained more uniform speed in response to load changes, making it suitable for a wide variety of industrial applications. It was the first steam engine that was suitable for cotton spinning. Previously steam engines for cotton spinning pumped water to a water wheel that powered the machinery.\n\nSteam power greatly expanded during the late 19th century with the rise of large factories, the expanded railroad network and early electric lighting and electric street railways.\n\nThe number of steamboats on western rivers in the U.S. grew from 187 in 1830 to 735 in 1860. Total registered tonnage of steam vessels for the U.S. grew from 63,052 in 1830 to 770,641 in 1860.\n\nUntil the introduction of iron ships, the U. S. made the best in the world. The design of U.S. ships required fewer crew members to operate. U.S. made ships cost from 40% to 60% as much as European ships, and lasted longer.\n\nThe screw propeller was tested on Lake Ontario in 1841 before being used on ocean ships. Propellers began being used on Great Lakes ships in 1845. Propellers caused vibrations which were a problem for wooden ships. The SS Great Britain, launched in 1845, was the first iron ship with a screw propeller. Iron ships became common and more efficient multiple expansion engines were developed. After the introduction of iron ships, Britain became the leading shipbuilding country. The U.S. tried to compete by building wooden clipper ships, which were fast, but too narrow to carry economic volumes of low value freight.\n\nCongress approved funds for a short demonstration telegraph line from Baltimore to Washington D.C., which was operational in 1844. The telegraph was quickly adopted by the railroad industry, which needed rapid communication to coordinate train schedules, the importance of which had been highlighted by a collision on the Western Railroad in 1841. Railroads also needed to communicate over a vast network in order to keep track of freight and equipment. Consequently, railroads installed telegraphs lines on their existing right-of-ways. By 1852 there were 22,000 miles of telegraph lines in the U.S., compared to 10,000 miles of track.\n\nBy 1860, on the eve of Civil War, 16% of the people lived in cities with 2500 or more people and one third of the nation's income came from manufacturing. Urbanized industry was limited primarily to the Northeast; cotton cloth production was the leading industry, with the manufacture of shoes, woolen clothing, and machinery also expanding. Most of the workers in the new factories were immigrants or their children. Between 1845 and 1855, some 300,000 European immigrants arrived annually. Many remained in eastern cities, especially mill towns and mining camps, while those with farm experience and some savings bought farms in the West.\n\nIn antebellum period the U.S. supplied 80% of Britain's cotton imports. Just before the Civil War the value of cotton was 61% of all goods exported from the U.S.\nThe westward expansion into the highly productive heartland was aided the new railroads, and both population and grain production in the West expanded dramatically. Increased grain production was able to capitalize on high grain prices caused by poor harvests in Europe during the time of the Great Famine in Ireland Grain prices also rose during the Crimean War, but when the war ended U.S. exports to Europe fell dramatically, depressing grain prices. Low grain prices were a cause of the Panic of 1857. Cotton and tobacco prices recovered after the panic.\n\nAgriculture was the largest single industry and it prospered during the war. Prices were high, pulled up by a strong demand from the army and from Britain, which depended on American wheat for a fourth of its food imports.\n\nJohn Deere developed a cast steel plow in 1837 which was lightweight and had a moldboard that efficiently turned over and shed the plowed earth. It was easy for a horse to pull and was well suited to cutting the thick prairie sod of the Midwest. He and his brother Charles founded Deere and Company which continues into the 21st century as the largest maker of tractors, combines, harvesters and other farm implements.\n\nThreshing machines, which were a novelty at the end of the 18th century, began being widely introduced in the 1830s and 1840s. Mechanized threshing required less than half the labor of hand threshing.\n\nThe Civil War acted as a catalyst that encouraged the rapid adoption of horse-drawn machinery and other implements. The rapid spread of recent inventions such as the reaper and mower made the work force efficient, even as hundreds of thousands of farmers were in the army. Many wives took their place, and often consulted by mail on what to do; increasingly they relied on community and extended kin for advice and help.\n\nThe 1862 Homestead Act opened up the public domain lands for free. Land grants to the railroads meant they could sell tracts for family farms (80 to 200 acres) at low prices with extended credit. In addition the government sponsored fresh information, scientific methods and the latest techniques through the newly established Department of Agriculture and the Morrill Land Grant College Act.\n\nIn 1860, there were 4.5 million Americans of African descent, 4 million of which were slaves, worth $3 billion. They were mainly owned by southern planters of cotton and sugar cane. An estimated 60% of the value of farms in Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina was in slaves, with less than a third in land and buildings.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Panic of 1857, which left many northern factory workers unemployed and deprived to the point of causing bread riots, supporters of slavery pointed out that slaves were generally better fed and had better living quarters than many free workers. It is estimated that slaves received 15% more in imputed wages than the free market.\n\nAfter the expiration of the charter of the Second Bank of the United States, federal revenues were handled by the Independent Treasury beginning in 1846. The Second Bank of the U.S. had also maintained some control over other banks, but in its absence banks were only under state regulation.\n\nOne of the main problems with banks was over-issuance of banknotes. These were redeemable in specie (gold or silver) upon presentation to the chief cashier of the bank. When people lost trust in a bank they rushed to redeem its notes, and because banks issued more notes than their specie reserves, the bank couldn't redeem the notes, often causing the bank to fail. In 1860 there were over 8,000 state chartered banks issuing notes. In 1861 the U.S. began issuing United States Notes as legal tender.\n\nBanks began paying interest on deposits and using the proceeds to make short term \"call loans\", mainly to stock brokers.\nNew York banks created a clearing house association in 1853 in which member banks cleared accounts with other city banks at the close of the week. The clearinghouse association also handled notes from banks in other parts of the country. The association was able to detect banks that were issuing excessive notes because they could not settle.\n\nThe recovery from the depression that followed the Panic of 1837 began in 1843 and lasted until the Panic of 1857.\n\nThe panic was triggered by the August 24 failure of the well regarded Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Co. A manager in the New York branch, one of the city's largest financial institutions, had embezzled funds and made excessive loans. The company's president announced suspension of specie redemption, which triggered a rush to redeem banknotes, causing many banks to fail because of lack of specie.\nThe United States had been running a trade deficit, draining gold out of the country. Because of the tariff revenues, the U.S. Treasury held a considerable amount of gold, which kept it out of circulation. On September 12, the SS Central America, which was carrying $1.5 million in gold from California, sank, contributing to the panic. Secretary of the Treasury Howell Cobb came to the aid of New York mercantile interests by buying back some of the national debt. On September 25 the Bank of Pennsylvania suspended specie payment, starting a nationwide bank run.\n\nThe danger of interest bearing deposits became apparent when bankers had to call loans made to stock brokers, many of whom were unable to pay. Banks then had to curtail credit to commercial and industrial customers. Many business were unable to pay workers back wages because they held so many worthless banknotes.\n\nThe Crimean War, which had cut off Russian wheat exports, ended in 1856. The war had caused high wheat prices and overexpansion in the U.S., which had been exporting wheat to Europe. Bountiful western harvests in 1857 caused grain prices to fall. Good harvests in England, France and Russia caused collapse in demand for U.S. grains in 1858 and 1859. This caused railroad shipments from the West to fall, which resulted in the bankruptcy of some railroads.\n\nThe inability of the West to sell its crops hurt businesses in other regions, such as New England, which manufactured shoes sold in the West. Cotton and tobacco prices fell, but unlike grains, soon recovered.\n\nThe panic left many northern wage earners unemployed, most temporarily, but high unemployment lingered for a couple of years.\n\nImmigration to the U.S. surged following the Great Famine (Ireland). There were about 3 million immigrants during the decade of the 1850s. They were mainly from Germany, Ireland and England.\n\nThe wartime devastation of the South was great and poverty ensued; incomes of whites dropped, but income of the former slaves rose. During Reconstruction railroad construction was heavily subsidized (with much corruption), but the region maintained its dependence on cotton. Former slaves became wage laborers, tenant farmers, or sharecroppers. They were joined by many poor whites, as the population grew faster than the economy. As late as 1940 the only significant manufacturing industries were textile mills (mostly in the upland Carolinas) and some steel in Alabama.\n\nThe industrial advantages of the North over the South helped secure a Northern victory in the American Civil War (1861–1865). The Northern victory sealed the destiny of the nation and its economic system. The slave-labor system was abolished; sharecropping emerged and replaced slavery to supply the labor needed for cotton production, but cotton prices plunged during the Depression of 1873, leading Southern plantations to decline in profitability. Northern industry, which had expanded rapidly before and during the war, surged ahead. Industrialists came to dominate many aspects of the nation's life, including social and political affairs.\n\nFrom the 1830s to 1860, Congress repeatedly rejected Whig calls for higher tariffs, and its policies of economic nationalism, which included increased state control, regulation and macroeconomic development of infrastructure. President Andrew Jackson, for example, did not renew the charter of the Second Bank of the United States. The tariff was lowered time and again before the Civil War. Proposals to fund massive western railroad projects, or to give free land to homesteaders, were defeated by Southerners afraid these policies would strengthen the North. The Civil War changed everything.\n\nTerritorial expansion of the United States to the area of the Lower 48 States was essentially completed with the Texas annexation (1845), the Oregon Treaty (1846), the Mexican cession (1848) and the Gadsden Purchase (1853).\n\nIn 1860 the Treasury was a small operation that funded the small-scale operations of the government through the low tariff and land sales. Revenues were trivial in comparison with the cost of a full-scale war, but the Treasury Department under Secretary Salmon P. Chase showed unusual ingenuity in financing the war without crippling the economy. Many new taxes were imposed, and always with a patriotic theme comparing the financial sacrifice to the sacrifices of life and limb. The government paid for supplies in real money, which encouraged people to sell to the government regardless of their politics. By contrast the Confederacy gave paper promissory notes when it seized property, so that even loyal Confederates would hide their horses and mules rather than sell them for dubious paper. Overall the Northern financial system was highly successful in raising money and turning patriotism into profit, while the Confederate system impoverished its patriots.\n\nThe United States needed $3.1 billion to pay for the immense armies and fleets raised to fight the Civil War — over $400 million just in 1862. The largest tax sum by far came from new excise taxes—a sort of value added tax—that was imposed on every sort of manufactured item. Second came much higher tariffs, through several Morrill tariff laws. Third came the nation's first income tax; only the wealthy paid and it was repealed at war's end.\n\nApart from taxes, the second major source was government bonds. For the first time bonds in small denominations were sold directly to the people, with publicity and patriotism as key factors, as designed by banker Jay Cooke. State banks lost their power to issue banknotes. Only national banks could do that, and Chase made it easy to become a national bank; it involved buying and holding federal bonds and financiers rushed to open these banks. Chase numbered them, so that the first one in each city was the \"First National Bank\". Fourth the government printed \"greenbacks\"—paper money—which were controversial because they caused inflation.\n\nSecretary Chase, though a long-time free-trader, worked with Congressman Justin Morrill to pass a second tariff bill in summer 1861, raising rates another 10 points in order to generate more revenues. These subsequent bills were primarily revenue driven to meet the war's needs, though they enjoyed the support of protectionists such as Carey, who again assisted Morrill in the bill's drafting. The Morrill Tariff of 1861 was designed to raise revenue. The tariff act of 1862 served not only to raise revenue, but also to encourage the establishment of factories free from British competition by taxing British imports. Furthermore, it protected American factory workers from low paid European workers, and as a major bonus attracted tens of thousands of those Europeans to immigrate to America for high wage factory and craftsman jobs.\n\nThe U.S. government owned vast amounts of good land (mostly from the Louisiana Purchase of 1803 and the Oregon Treaty with Britain in 1846). The challenge was to make the land useful to people and to provide the economic basis for the wealth that would pay off the war debt. The government did this by breaking it up into smaller plots for private ownership, through various federal laws.\n\nBounty-land warrants were issued to military veterans in the United States from 1775 to 1855. The land grants were used extensively for settlement of pre-Louisiana Purchase lands east of the Mississippi River, including the Ohio Territory, the Northwest Territory, and the Platte Purchase in Missouri.\n\nAbout 180 million acres were granted to railroad construction companies between 1850 and 1871. The Land Grant Act of 1850 provided for 3.75 million acres of land to the states to support railroad projects; by 1857 21 million acres of public lands were used for railroads in the Mississippi River valley, and the stage was set for more substantial Congressional subsidies to future railroads.\n\nThe Pacific Railroad Acts financed several transcontinental railroads by granting land directly to corporations for the first time. In addition to operating revenues, railroads were able to finance networks crossing vast distances by selling granted property adjacent to the tracks; these would become highly desirable plots for new settlers and businesses because of the easy access to long-distance transportation.\n\nMorrill Land-Grant Acts starting in 1860 benefited colleges and universities.\n\nVarious Homestead Acts distributed land nearly for free in return for improvements such as building a house, farming, or planting trees. \nBetween 1862 and 1934, the federal government granted 1.6 million homesteads and distributed of federal land for private ownership. This was a total of 10% of all land in the United States. Eligibility for the last such program, in Alaska, ended in 1986. The Land Office made about 100 million acres of direct sales in the western United States from 1850 to 1900, benefiting cattle ranchers and speculators.\n\nThe economic and military power of the federal government was used to clear Native Americans from land desired by European-American settlers. Land grants creating the Indian Reservation system were used by the Indian Appropriations Act of 1851 to segregate native tribes, but later acts opened some of that land to white settlement, notably including a land run opening the Unassigned Lands in Oklahoma. The Dawes Act of 1887 pressured Native Americans to assimilate to European-American culture, offering former tribal land to individuals separating from their tribes and putting \"surplus\" reservation land up for auction. Overall, about half of Indian Reservation land was sold to white Americans by 1906, about 75 million acres.\n\nThe North's most important war measure was perhaps the creation of a system of national banks that provided a sound currency for the industrial expansion. Even more important, the hundreds of new banks that were allowed to open were required to purchase government bonds. Thereby the nation monetized the potential wealth represented by farms, urban buildings, factories, and businesses, and immediately turned that money over to the Treasury for war needs.\n\nBritish Parliamentary Committee members Joseph Whitworth and George Wallis were very impressed at the educational level of workers in the U.S., commenting that \"... so that everybody reads ... and intelligence penetrates through the lowest grades of society.\" They also remarked that most states had compulsory education laws requiring a minimum of three months per year schooling for child factory workers.\n\nThe Union grew rich fighting the war, as the Confederate economy was destroyed. The Republicans in control in Washington had a Whig vision of an industrial nation, with great cities, efficient factories, productive farms, national banks, and high-speed rail links. The South had resisted policies such as tariffs to promote industry and homestead laws to promote farming because slavery would not benefit; with the South gone, and Northern Democrats very weak in Congress, the Republicans enacted their legislation. At the same time they passed new taxes to pay for part of the war, and issued large amounts of bonds to pay for the most of the rest. (The remainder can be charged to inflation.) They wrote an elaborate program of economic modernization that had the dual purpose of winning the war and permanently transforming the economy. The key policy-maker in Congress was Thaddeus Stevens, as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. He took charge of major legislation that funded the war effort and revolutionized the nation's economic policies regarding tariffs, bonds, income and excise taxes, national banks, suppression of money issued by state banks, greenback currency, and western railroad land grants.\n\nHistorians have debated whether or not the Civil War sped up the rate of economic growth in the face of destruction throughout the South and the diversion of resources to military supplies and away from civilian goods. In any case the war taught new organizational methods, prioritized engineering skills, and shifted the national attention from politics to business.\n\nIn the last third of the 19th century the United States entered a phase of rapid economic growth which doubled per capita income over the period. By 1895, the United States leaped ahead of Britain for first place in manufacturing output. For the first time, exports of machinery and consumer goods became important. For example, Standard Oil led the way in exporting kerosene; Russia was its main rival in international trade. Singer Corporation led the way in developing a global marketing strategy for its sewing machines.\n\nThe greatly expanded railroad network, using inexpensive steel rails produced by new steel making processes, dramatically lowered transportation cost to areas without access to navigable waterways. Low freight rates allowed large manufacturing facilities with great economies of scale. Machinery became a large industry and many types of machines were developed. Businesses were able to operate over wide areas and chain stores arose. Mail order companies started operating. Rural Free Delivery began in the early 1890s, but it was not widely implemented for a decade.\nCompanies created a new management systems to carry out their operations on a large scale. Companies integrated processes to eliminate unnecessary steps and to eliminate middlemen.\n\nAn explosion of new discoveries and inventions took place, a process called the Second Industrial Revolution. The electric light, telephone, steam turbine, internal combustion engine, automobile, phonograph, typewriter and tabulating machine were some of the many inventions of the period. New processes for making steel and chemicals such as dyes and explosives were invented. The pneumatic tire, improved ball bearings, machine tools and newly developed metal stamping techniques enabled the large scale production of bicycles in the 1890s. Another significant development was the widespread introduction of electric street railways (trams, trolleys or streetcars) in the 1890s.\n\nImprovements in transportation and other technological progress caused prices to fall, especially during the so-called long depression, but the rising amount of gold and silver being mined eventually resulted in mild inflation during the 1890s and beyond.\n\nRailroads saw their greatest growth in new track added in the last three decades of the 19th century. (See Table 2) Railroads also enjoyed high productivity growth during this time, mainly because of the introduction of new processes that made steel inexpensive. Steel rails lasted roughly ten times longer than iron rails. Steel rails, which became heavier as steel prices fell, enabled heavier, more powerful locomotives that could pull longer trains. Rail cars made of steel on steel rails could be made longer cars and had a load carrying to car weight ratio of 2:1 compared to cars made of iron at 1:1.\n\nIn 1890 David Ames Wells estimated wagon transport at 16 cents per ton-mile compared to railroads at less than one cent per ton-mile.\n\nRailroads competed fiercely for passengers and freight by expanding their routes, too often into increasingly marginal ones. The high capital required for expansion plus the low rates, driven by competition and by what the market would bear, resulted in a large percentage of railroad track in bankruptcy.\n\nA practical refrigerated (ice cooled) railcar was introduced in 1881. This made it possible to ship cattle and hog carcasses, which weighed only 40% as much as live animals. Gustavus Franklin Swift developed an integrated network of cattle procurement, slaughtering, meat-packing and shipping meat to market. Up to that time cattle were driven great distances to railroad shipping points, causing the cattle to lose considerable weight. Swift developed a large business, which grew in size with the entry of several competitors.\n\nIn the last three decades of the 19th century iron and steel became a leading industry, in second place by value added, with machinery being in first place. The Bessemer process was the first large scale process for producing steel, which it was able to do at low cost. The first U.S. licensed Bessemer plant began operation in 1865. Bessemer steel was used mostly for rails. Due to difficulty in controlling quality and embrittlement with aging, Bessemer steel was not suitable for structural purposes.\n\nThe Siemens-Martin process, or open hearth process, produced a suitable grade structural steel. Open hearth steel displaced wrought iron as a structural material in the 1880s. Open hearth steel began being used in a wide variety of applications including high rise buildings, ships, machinery, pipelines, rails and bridges.\n\nEarly electrification was too limited to have a big impact on the late 19th century economy. Electricity was also very expensive because of the low conversion efficiency of fuel to power, the small scale of power plants and the fact that most utilities offered only nighttime service. Daytime service became common during the early 20th century after the introduction of the AC motor, which tended to be used more during the day, balancing the load. Until that time a large share of power was self-generated by the user, such as a factory, hotel or electric street railway (tram or streetcar).\n\nElectric street railways were introduced in the U.S. in 1888 when Frank J. Sprague designed and built the first practical system, the Richmond Union Passenger Railway in Richmond, Virginia. Electric street railways rapidly spread to cities around the country in the following years.\n\nThe early electric street railways typically generated their own power and also operated as electric utilities, which served to even out daily load because the main use of power for lighting was after the peak usage by railways.\nUntil the early 1880s electricity had been used mainly in telegraphy and electroplating. Efficient dynamo's were introduced in the 1870s and began being used to power electric carbon arc lamps after 1879. In 1880 Thomas Edison patented his invention of a long lasting incandescent light bulb and a system for distributing electrical power. In 1882 he opened the Pearl Street Station in Manhattan, which was the first central power station in the U.S.\n\nUsing DC placed severe restrictions on the distance power could be transmitted due to power losses. With DC there was no way to transform power to high voltages, which would have reduced the current and lowered the transmission losses. Power can be safely generated to about 2000 volts, but this is a dangerous voltage for household use. With alternating current voltage can be changed up or down using a transformer. AC power began being widely introduced in the 1890s.\n\nFollowing the failure of the first short lived Transatlantic telegraph cable of 1858, a second, more durable cable was completed in 1865, connecting Nova Scotia to England. By 1890 there was an international telegraph network.\n\nAfter invention of the telephone in 1876 additional development work was required to make it commercially viable. The first telephones were for local calls. Long distance calling came into being in the 1890s, but the technology to make transcontinental calls took until 1915 to be operational.\n\nAutomatic telephone switching, which eliminated the need for telephone operators to manually connect local calls on a switchboard, was introduced in 1892; however it did not become widespread for several decades.\n\nBefore railroads most businesses were run by a sole proprietor or were a partnership. The owners typically ran the daily operations. The railroad industry was the first to adopt modern business management practices in response to the need to operate over vast areas, to maintain continuous long distance communications, to manage a complex network, to track trains and freight. Railroads hired professional managers and divided work into various corporate departments, and developed the organization diagram.\n\nAnother modern business innovation was vertical integration, by which companies expanded to encompass all stages of a business, from producing the raw materials, processing them into saleable products and selling the finished products. Notable examples occurred in the steel and petroleum industries.\n\nA dramatic expansion in farming took place. The number of farms tripled from 2.0 million in 1860 to 6.0 million in 1905. The number of people living on farms grew from about 10 million in 1860 to 22 million in 1880 to 31 million in 1905. The value of farms soared from $8.0 billion in 1860 to $30 billion in 1906.\n\nThe federal government issued tracts virtually free to settlers under the Homestead Act of 1862. Even larger numbers of settlers purchased lands at very low interest from the new railroads, which were trying to create markets. The railroads advertised heavily in Europe and brought over, at low fares, hundreds of thousands of farmers from Germany, Scandinavia and Britain.\n\nDespite their remarkable progress and general prosperity, 19th-century U.S. farmers experienced recurring cycles of hardship, caused primarily by falling world prices for cotton and wheat.\n\nAlong with the mechanical improvements which greatly increased yield per unit area, the amount of land under cultivation grew rapidly throughout the second half of the century, as the railroads opened up new areas of the West for settlement. The wheat farmers enjoyed abundant output and good years from 1876 to 1881 when bad European harvests kept the world price high. They then suffered from a slump in the 1880s when conditions in Europe improved. The farther west the settlers went, the more dependent they became on the monopolistic railroads to move their goods to market, and the more inclined they were to protest, as in the Populist movement of the 1890s. Wheat farmers blamed local grain elevator owners (who purchased their crop), railroads and eastern bankers for the low prices.\nSales of various types of horse pulled harvesting machines increased dramatically between the Civil war and the end of the century. Harvesting machine improvements included automatic rakers, which eliminated the manual raker, allowing operation by a single man, and combination harvester and binders.\n\nTo modernize traditional agriculture reformers founded the Grange movement, in 1867. The Granges focused initially on social activities to counter the isolation most farm families experienced. Women's participation was actively encouraged. Spurred by the Panic of 1873, the Grange soon grew to 20,000 chapters and 1.5 million members. The Granges set up their own marketing systems, stores, processing plants, factories and cooperatives. Most went bankrupt. The movement also enjoyed some political success during the 1870s. A few Midwestern states passed \"Granger Laws\", limiting railroad and warehouse fees.\n\nFederal land grants helped each state create an agricultural college and a network of extension agents who demonstrated modern techniques to farmers. Wheat and cotton farmers in the 1890s supported the Populist movement, but failed in their demands for free silver and inflation. Instead the 1896 election committed the nation to the gold standard and a program of sustained industrialization. Farmers in the Midwest and East gave verbal support to the Populists. They focused on the nearby urban markets, rather than on highly fluctuating European markets for weaving cotton. \n\nIn the 1850s an advance in lighting was the use of kerosene lamps with glass chimneys, which produced a good quality light at a relatively affordable price. Kerosene lighting effectively extended the day and made it easier to read at night. An industry developed to produce coal oil, as kerosene was then called. Kerosene was also being distilled from Pennsylvania crude oil by Samuel Kier.\n\nGeorge Bissell paid a visit Dartmouth College, which he had attended, and saw a sample of \"rock oil\" from Pennsylvania. Suspecting that the oil may have potential as an illuminant and lubricant, he organized an investor group. In 1853 Bissell's group, which became the Pennsylvania Rock Oil Co., hired Yale chemistry professor Benjamin Silliman, Jr. to perform an analysis of \"rock oil\". Silliman's report of April 1864 stated that \"rock oil\" could yield an excellent illuminating oil. However, there was no economical means for producing sufficient commercial quantities of oil. Bissell had a chance insight when he saw a picture of oil derricks used to produce an oil based patent medicine obtained as a byproduct of a brine well.\n\nFollowing a shareholder disagreement, Bissell and fellow investor Jonathan Eveleth investor split with Pennsylvania Rock Oil Co. and formed Seneca Oil in 1858. Edwin Drake, a shareholder, was hired by the company to drill for oil. The site chosen to drill the well was on Oil Creek near Titusville, PA, where a water well was producing oil. Drake chose to use brine well drilling technology based on the technique used in China since ancient times that reached the West in the late 1820s, except that Drake used iron cable, an iron well casing and a steam engine. The Drake Well hit oil at a depth of 69.55 feet on August 27, 1858, starting a drilling boom in the region.\n\nAmong the numerous refineries that were started were several along a new rail link to Cleveland, Ohio, where John D. Rockefeller and his partner Maurice Clark owned a grocery produce shipping business. Rockefeller and Clark also got in the refining business, and in 1865 the partners decided to hold a private auction between the two, with Rockefeller being the successful bidder. The refining industry was intensely competitive, and by 1869 there was three times the capacity needed, a situation which lasted many years, with the number of refineries reaching 6000.\n\nIn 1870 John D. Rockefeller, his brother William Rockefeller, Henry Flagler, Oliver Burr Jennings and silent partner Stephen V. Harkness formed Standard Oil. John D. Rockefeller was the master planner and organizer of the systematic plan to form combinations with or acquire competitors and enter all phases of the oil industry from production to transportation, refining and distribution, a concept called vertical integration. Standard Oil sought every possible advantage over its competitors. One method was using Standard's high shipping volume to secure discounts and drawbacks (payments from railroads for transporting competitors products) from railroads. By 1879 Standard oil controlled 90% of U.S. refining capacity. Producers in the Pennsylvania oil region tried to counter Standard Oil's transportation arrangements buy building the first long distance pipeline, the 110 mile long Tidewater Pipeline to Williamsport, Pennsylvania, which was on the Reading Railroad. Standard Oil fought back by building four pipelines of its own. Standard continued to monopolize the oil industry in the U.S. until it was broken up by the 1911 supreme court case Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey v. United States.\n\nEfficient gas mantles and electric lighting were eroding the illuminating oil market beginning in the 1880s; however a previously low value byproduct of refining was gasoline, which more than offset the role of kerosene in the early 20th century.\n\nCoal was found in abundance in the Appalachian Mountains from Pennsylvania south to Kentucky.\n\nLarge iron ore mines opened in the Lake Superior region of the upper Midwest. Steel mills thrived in places where these coal and iron ore could be brought together to produce steel. Large copper and silver mines opened, followed by lead mines and cement factories.\n\nDuring the period, a series of recessions happened. \nThe recession of 1869 resulted from a stock market panic, which lowered stock prices 20% and briefly cut wheat prices in half. It was one of the shortest and mildest recessions in American economic history.\n\nPanic of 1873 created one of the worst and longest depressions in American history, seriously affecting every aspect of the economy and bringing the railroad expansion to a halt. The New York Stock Exchange closed for ten days. Of the country's 364 railroads, 89 went bankrupt, a total of 18,000 businesses failed between 1873 and 1875, unemployment reached 14% by 1876, during a time which became known in Britain as the Long Depression. Politically, the Democrats took control of Congress in 1874, the election of 1876 was deadlocked.\n\nThe end of the Gilded Age coincided with the Panic of 1893, a deep depression that lasted until 1897. Wheat and cotton farmers in the West and South were especially hard hit, and moved toward radicalism. President Grover Cleveland was forced to ask the Wall Street bankers help keep the Treasury liquid. Agrarian spokesmen William Jennings Bryan called for an inflationary policy of using cheap silver to effectively replace expensive gold. Bryan lost in a major political realignment in favor of the conservative pro-gold Republicans in the election of 1896.\n\nEurope had a substantial amount of water supply and sewer infrastructure installed by the mid 1870s. In 1880 only 0.3% of urban households had filtered water, with this figure rising to 1.5% in 1890 and 6.3% in 1900.\n\nThe American labor movement began with the first significant labor union, the Knights of Labor in 1869. The Knights collapsed in the 1880s and were displaced by strong international unions that banded together as the American Federation of Labor under Samuel Gompers. Rejecting socialism, the AFL unions negotiated with owners for higher wages and better working conditions. Union growth was slow until 1900, then grew to a peak during World War I.\n\nConcern over railroads' unfair practices, such as freight rates favoring certain shippers, led to the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 which created the nation's first regulatory agency, the Interstate Commerce Commission.\n\nThe period from 1890 to 1910 was one of rapid economic growth of above 4%, in part due to rapid population growth. However, a sharp break in the growth rate to around 2.8% occurred from 1910 to 1929. Economists are uncertain what combination of supply and demand factors caused the break, but productivity growth was strong, enabling the labor cost per unit of output to decline from 1910 to 1929. The growth rate in hours worked fell 57% compared to the decline in the growth rate of output of 27%. It is generally accepted that the new technologies and more efficient business methods permanently shifted the supply and demand relationship for labor, with labor being in surplus (except during both world wars when the economy was engaged in war-time production and millions of men served in the armed forces). The technologies that became widespread after 1910, such as electrification, internal powered transportation and mass production, were capital saving. Total non-residential fixed business fell after 1910 due to the fall of investment in structures.\n\nTwo of the most transformative technologies of the century were widely introduced during the early decades: electrification, powered by high pressure boilers and steam turbines and automobiles and trucks powered by the internal combustion engine.\nChain stores experienced rapid growth.\n\nStandardization was urged by Dept. of Commerce for consumer goods such as bedspreads and screws. A simplified standardization program was issued during World War I.\n\nElectrification was one of the most important drivers of economic growth in the early 20th century. The revolutionary design of electric powered factories caused the period of the highest productivity growth in manufacturing. There was large growth in the electric utility industry and the productivity growth of electric utilities was high as well.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century electricity was used primarily for lighting and most electric companies did not provide daytime service. Electric motors that were used in daytime, such as the DC motors that powered street railways, helped balance the load, and many street railways generated their own electricity and also operated as electric utilities. The AC motor, developed in the 1890s, was ideal for industrial and commercial power and greatly increased the demand for electricity, particular during daytime.\n\nElectrification in the U.S. started in industry around 1900, and by 1930 about 80% of power used in industry was electric. Electric utilities with central generating stations using steam turbines greatly lowered the cost of power, with businesses and houses in cities becoming electrified. In 1900 only 3% of households had electricity, increasing to 30% by 1930. By 1940 almost all urban households had electricity. Electrical appliances such as irons, cooking appliances and washing machines were slowly adopted by households. Household mechanical refrigerators were introduced in 1919 but were in only about 8% of households by 1930, mainly because of their high cost.\n\nThe electrical power industry had high productivity growth. Many large central power stations, equipped with high pressure boilers and steam turbine generators began being built after 1913. These central stations were designed for efficient handling of coal from the layout of the rail yards to the conveyor systems. They were also much more fuel efficient, lowering the amount of fuel per kilowatt-hour of electricity to a small fraction of what it had been. In 1900 it took 7 lbs coal to generate one kilowatt hour. In 1960 it took 0.9 lb/kw hr.\n\nRapid economic growth in the early decades of the 20th century were largely due to productivity growth in manufacturing.\n\nFactory electrification revolutionized manufacturing. Unit drive, which means using a single electric motor for powering a single machine, eliminated line shafts previously used to transmit power from a small number of steam engines or hydraulic turbines. Line shafts created constraints on building arrangement that impeded the efficient flow of materials because they presented traffic barriers and required multi-story buildings for economy. It was not uncommon for large manufacturing sites to have many miles of line shafts. Electric motors were much more economical to operate than steam engines in terms of energy efficiency and operator attention. Electric motors were also lower in capital cost.\n\nFrederick W. Taylor was the best known pioneer in the field of scientific management in the late 19th century, carefully timing and plotting the functions of various workers and then devising new, more efficient ways for them to do their jobs. Ford Motor Co. used techniques of scientific management although Henry Ford claimed not to know of the Taylor's system. Ford Motor used every practical means to reduce the effort and movement of workers in order to reduce the time involved in making parts, moving parts and assembling parts into automobiles. Ford used electric powered factories and in 1913 Ford introduced the assembly line, a step in the process that became known as \"mass-production\". The price of a Ford Model T fell from $900 in 1908-9 to $360 in 1916, despite the fact that wages doubled to $5 per day in 1914. Production grew from 13,840 in 1909 to 132,702 in 1916. Productivity for this period, measured in output of Model T's per worker, rose 150%.\n\nTaking his cue from developments during the progressive era, Ford offered a very generous wage—$5 a day—to his workers, arguing that a mass production enterprise could not survive if average workers could not buy the goods. However, the wage increase did not extend to women, and Ford expanded the company's Sociological Department to monitor his workers and ensure that they did not spend their newfound bounty on \"vice and cheap thrills\".\n\nGasoline powered tractors were introduced. The Fordson began mass production in 1917.\n\nElectric street railways developed into a major mode of transportation, and electric inter-urban service connected many cities in the Northeast and Midwest. Electric street railways also carried freight, which was important before trucks became widely introduced. The widespread adoption of the automobile and motor bus halted the expansion of the electric street railways during the 1920s.\n\nElectrochemicals are chemicals and metals produced by an electrolytic process. Important examples include aluminum made by the Hall–Héroult process and chlorine and caustic (sodium and potassium compounds). Chlorine and caustic had been produced by chemical processes but producing aluminum this way was prohibitively expensive. A large plant using Hall–Héroult process was opened in Pittsburgh, USA in 1888 and others opened around the world. Falling electricity prices in the early 20th century greatly lowered the cost of making electrochemicals. There was high demand for aluminum for aircraft during World War I and afterward for commercial aviation.\n\nSome other electrochemicals are chromium, manganese and tungsten.\n\nChlorine began being used for treating household water to kill microorganisms.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century the railroad network had over-expanded with many miles of unprofitable routes. In 1906 Congress gave the Interstate Commerce Commission the power to regulate freight rates and the industry was unable to increase revenue enough to cover rising costs. By 1916, the peak year of track mileage, one-sixth of the nations railroad trackage was in bankruptcy.\n\nThe railroads proved inadequate to the increased freight volume created by World War I. There were major traffic jams in the system and critical supplies were experiencing delays. In December 1917 the railroads were taken over by the government and put under control of the United States Railroad Administration (USRA). The USRA ordered 1,930 new standardized steam locomotives and over 100,000 railcars. The USRA's control over the railroads ended in March 1920.\n\nBy the dawn of the 20th century, automobiles had begun to replace horse-drawn carriages. Numerous companies were building cars, but car manufacturing was challenging. Consequently, prices were high and production was low. Mass production techniques of the mid 1910s brought down the cost of automobiles and sales grew dramatically. By 1919 automobile registrations were 6.6 million and truck registrations were 898,000.\n\nReplacing horses with cars and trucks eliminated enormous quantities of horse manure and urine from city streets, greatly reducing the labor for street cleaning and also improving sanitation and living conditions. Reducing the number of horses for transportation freed up between one- sixth and one-quarter of all farm land.\n\nIn 1900 there were only 200 miles of paved roads outside of cities in the U.S. By the late 1920s automobiles were becoming common, but there were few highways connecting cities. The Federal road building program ended in 1818, leaving states to build roads until the Federal Road act of 1916. A national highway system was agreed on in 1926, at which time there were 23.1 million cars and 3.5 million trucks.In 1926, when an interstate program (not to be confused with the Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways) began, there were 23.1 million cars and 3.5 million trucks. The system was nearly complete when the U. S. entered World War II in December, 1941.\n\nAt the turn of the century approximately one-third of urban households had running water; however, most of it was untreated and carried disease causing microorganisms. The widespread building of water treatment plants and piping of water to and sewage from urban households occurred in the early decades of the century. The number of urban households supplied with running filtered water increased from 6.3% in 1900 to 25% in 1910 and 42% in 1925. In 1908 the Jersey City Water Works in New Jersey was the first to sterilize water using sodium hypochlorite (chlorine bleach). Chlorination of drinking water became common in urban water supplies by the 1930s and contributed to a sharp reduction in many diseases such as hepatitis A, typhoid fever, cholera and dysentery.\n\nTractors appeared on farms and farmers began using automobiles and trucks to haul produce. Combined harvester-threshers reduced labor cost 85% compared to using binders and stationary threshers.\n\nBefore 1900 telephones were used primarily by businesses. The number of telephones per 100 households was approximately 2 in 1900, but the number steadily grew until it peaked at 45 in 1929, then declined to 33 in 1933. Automatic telephone switching, which was introduced in 1892, eliminated the need for telephone operators to manually connect local calls on a switchboard. By 1929, 31.9% of the Bell system was automatic.\n\nRadio communications using Morse code were introduced in the first decade of the 20th century. Their main use was for communicating with ships. Ship radio became more widely used after the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\" in 1912.\n\nRadio technology advanced rapidly. The triode vacuum tube made it possible to build amplifiers for broadcasting and for receivers. Radio circuit design also advanced, allowing better signals with less noise. By the early 1920s radios began being mass-produced and commercial broadcast stations were set up around the country.\n\nA major economic downturn in 1906 ended the expansion from the late 1890s. This was followed by the Panic of 1907. The Panic of 1907 was a factor in the establishment of the Federal Reserve Bank in 1913.\n\nThe mild inflation of the 1890s, attributed to the rising gold supply from mining, continued until World War I, at which time inflation rose sharply with wartime shortages including labor shortages. Following the war the rate of inflation fell, but prices remained above the prewar level.\n\nThe U.S. economy prospered during World War I, partly due to sales of war goods to Europe. The stock market had its best year in history in 1916. The U.S. gold reserves doubled between 1913 and 1918, causing the price level to rise. Interest rates had been held low to minimize interest on war bonds, but after the final war bonds were sold in 1919, the Federal Reserve raised the discount rate from 4% to 6%. Interest rates rose and the money supply contracted. The economy entered the Depression of 1920-21, which was a sharp decline financially. By 1923, the economy had returned to full employment.\n\nA debt-fueled boom developed following the war. Jerome (1934) gives an unattributed quote about finance conditions that allowed the great industrial expansion of the post World War I period:\n\nProbably never before in this country had such a volume of funds been available at such low rates for such a long period.\n\nThere was also a real estate and housing bubble in the 1920s, especially in Florida, which burst in 1925. Alvin Hansen stated that housing construction during the 1920s decade exceeded population growth by 25%. See also:Florida land boom of the 1920s\n\nDebt reached unsustainable levels. Speculation in stocks drove prices up to unpresented valuation levels. The stock market crashed in late October 1929.\n\nThe Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 was the first of a series of legislation that led to the establishment of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Another such act passed the same year was the Federal Meat Inspection Act. The new laws helped the large packers, and hurt small operations that lacked economy of scale or quality controls.\n\nThe Sixteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which allowed the Federal Government to tax all income, was adopted in 1913.\n\nThe Emergency Quota Act (1921) established a quota system on immigrants by country of origin, with the maximum number of annual immigrants from a country limited to 3% of the number of that national background living in the U.S. according to the 1910 United States Census. The Immigration Act of 1924 reduced the quota from 3% to 2% and added additional restrictions on certain nationalities.\n\nIn the early years of American history, most political leaders were reluctant to involve the federal government too heavily in the private sector, except in the area of transportation. In general, they accepted the concept of laissez-faire, a doctrine opposing government interference in the economy except to maintain law and order. This attitude started to change during the latter part of the 19th century, when small business, farm, and labor movements began asking the government to intercede on their behalf.\n\nBy the start of the 20th century, a middle class had developed that was leery of both the business elite and the somewhat radical political movements of farmers and laborers in the Midwest and West. Known as Progressives, these people favored government regulation of business practices to, in their minds, ensure competition and free enterprise. Congress enacted a law regulating railroads in 1887 (the Interstate Commerce Act), and one preventing large firms from controlling a single industry in 1890 (the Sherman Antitrust Act). These laws were not rigorously enforced, however, until the years between 1900 and 1920, when Republican President Theodore Roosevelt (1901–1909), Democrat President Woodrow Wilson (1913–1921), and others sympathetic to the views of the Progressives came to power. Many of today's U.S. regulatory agencies were created during these years, including the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Federal Trade Commission. Ida M. Tarbell wrote a series of articles against the Standard Oil monopoly. The series helped pave the way for the breakup of the monopoly.\n\nMuckrakers were journalists who encouraged readers to demand more regulation of business. Upton Sinclair's \"The Jungle\" (1906) showed America the horrors of the Chicago Union Stock Yards, a giant complex of meat processing that developed in the 1870s. The federal government responded to Sinclair's book with the new regulatory Food and Drug Administration.\nWhen Democrat Woodrow Wilson was elected President with a Democrat controlled Congress in 1912 he implemented a series of progressive policies. In 1913, the Sixteenth Amendment was ratified, and the income tax was instituted in the United States. Wilson resolved the longstanding debates over tariffs and antitrust, and created the Federal Reserve, a complex business-government partnership that to this day dominates the financial world.\n\nThe World War involved a massive mobilization of money, taxes, and banking resources to pay for the American war effort and, through government-to-government loans, most of the Allied war effort as well.\n\nUnder Republican President Warren G. Harding, who called for normalcy and an end to high wartime taxes, Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon raised the tariff, cut other taxes, and used the large surplus to reduce the federal debt by about a third from 1920 to 1930. Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover worked to introduce efficiency, by regulating business practices. This period of prosperity, along with the culture of the time, was known as the Roaring Twenties. The rapid growth of the automobile industry stimulated industries such as oil, glass, and road-building. Tourism soared and consumers with cars had a much wider radius for their shopping. Small cities prospered, and large cities had their best decade ever, with a boom in construction of offices, factories and homes. The new electric power industry transformed both business and everyday life. Telephones and electricity spread to the countryside, but farmers never recovered from the wartime bubble in land prices. Millions migrated to nearby cities. However, in October 1929, the Stock market crashed and banks began to fail in the Wall Street Crash of 1929.\n\nThe early decades of the 20th century was remarkable for the improvements of the quality of life in the U.S. The quality of housing improved, with houses offering better protection against cold. Floor space per occupant increased. Sanitation was greatly improved by the building of water supply and sewage systems, plus the treatment of drinking water by filtration and chlorination. The change over to internal combustion took horses off the streets and eliminated horse manure and urine and the flies they attracted.\nFederal regulation of food products and processing, including government inspection of meat processing plants helped lower the incidence of food related illness and death.\n\nInfant mortality, which had been declining dramatically in the last quarter of the 19th century, continued to decline.\n\nThe workweek, which averaged 53 hours in 1900, continued to decline. The burden of household chores lessened considerably. Hauling water and firewood into the home every day was no longer necessary for an increasing number of households.\n\nElectric light was far less expensive and higher quality than kerosene lamp light. Electric light also eliminated smoke and fumes and reduced the fire hazard.\n\nDespite the Great Depression and World War II, the middle decades of the 20th century were among the highest for productivity growth.\nThe research developed through informal cooperation between U.S. industry and academia grew rapidly and by the late 1930s exceeded the size of that taking place in Britain (although the quality of U.S. research was not yet on par with British and German research at the time).\n\nProductivity growth in manufacturing slowed from the electrification era of the early century, but remained moderate. Automation of factories became widespread during the middle decades as industry invested in newly developed instruments and controls that allowed fewer workers to operate vast factories, refineries and chemical plants with fewer workers.\n\nFollowing the stock market crash, the worldwide economy plunged into the Great Depression. The U.S. money supply began to contract by one-third. The protectionist Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act incited retaliation by Canada, Britain, Germany and other trading partners. Congress, in 1932, worried about the rapidly growing deficit and national debt, and raised income tax rates. Economists generally agree that these measures deepened an already serious crisis. By 1932, the unemployment rate was 25%. Conditions were worse in heavy industry, lumbering, export agriculture (cotton, wheat, tobacco), and mining. Conditions were not quite as bad in white collar sectors and in light manufacturing.\n\nFranklin Delano Roosevelt was elected President in 1932 without a specific program. He relied on a highly eclectic group of advisors who patched together many programs, known as the New Deal.\n\nGovernment spending increased from 8.0% of GNP under Hoover in 1932 to 10.2% of GNP in 1936. Roosevelt balanced the \"regular\" budget the emergency budget was funded by debt, which increased from 33.6% of GNP in 1932 to 40.9% in 1936. Deficit spending had been recommended by some economists, most notably John Maynard Keynes in Britain. Roosevelt met Keynes but did not pay attention to his recommendations. After a meeting with Keynes, who kept drawing diagrams, Roosevelt remarked that \"He must be a mathematician rather than a political economist\".\n\nIn 1929–33 the economy was destabilized by bank failures. The initial reasons were substantial losses in investment banking, followed by bank runs. Bank runs occurred when a large number of customers lost confidence in their deposits (which were not insured) and rushed to withdraw their deposits. Runs destabilized many banks to the point where they faced bankruptcy. Between 1929 and 1933 40% of all banks (9,490 out of 23,697 banks) went bankrupt. Much of the Great Depression's economic damage was caused directly by bank runs.\n\nHoover had already considered a \"bank holiday\" to prevent further bank runs, but rejected the idea because he was afraid to trip a panic. Roosevelt acted as soon as he took office; he closed all the banks in the country and kept them all closed until he could pass new legislation. On March 9, Roosevelt sent to Congress the Emergency Banking Act, drafted in large part by Hoover's top advisors. The act was passed and signed into law the same day. It provided for a system of reopening sound banks under Treasury supervision, with federal loans available if needed. Three-quarters of the banks in the Federal Reserve System reopened within the next three days. Billions of dollars in hoarded currency and gold flowed back into them within a month, thus stabilizing the banking system. By the end of 1933, 4,004 small local banks were permanently closed and merged into larger banks. Their deposits totalled $3.6 billion; depositors lost a total of $540 million, and eventually received on average 85 cents on the dollar of their deposits; it is a common myth that they received nothing back. The Glass–Steagall Act limited commercial bank securities activities and affiliations between commercial banks and securities firms to regulate speculations. It also established the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which insured deposits for up to $250,000, ended the risk of runs on banks.\n\nUnemployment reached 25 percent in the worst days of 1932–33, but it was unevenly distributed. Job losses were less severe among women than men, among workers in nondurable industries (such as food and clothing), in services and sales, and in government jobs. The least skilled inner city men had much higher unemployment rates, as did young people who had a hard time getting their first job, and men over the age of 45 who if they lost their job would seldom find another one because employers had their choice of younger men. Millions were hired in the Great Depression, but men with weaker credentials were never hired, and fell into a long-term unemployment trap. The migration that brought millions of farmers and townspeople to the bigger cities in the 1920s suddenly reversed itself, as unemployment made the cities unattractive, and the network of kinfolk and more ample food supplies made it wise for many to go back.\n\nCity governments in 1930–31 tried to meet the depression by expanding public works projects, as president Herbert Hoover strongly encouraged. However tax revenues were plunging, and the cities as well as private relief agencies were totally overwhelmed by 1931 men were unable to provide significant additional relief. They fell back on the cheapest possible relief, soup kitchens which provided free meals for anyone who showed up. After 1933 new sales taxes and infusions of federal money helped relieve the fiscal distress of the cities, but the budgets did not fully recover until 1941.\n\nThe federal programs launched by Hoover and greatly expanded by president Roosevelt's New Deal used massive construction projects to try to jump start the economy and solve the unemployment crisis. The alphabet agencies ERA, CCC, FERA, WPA and PWA built and repaired the public infrastructure in dramatic fashion, but did little to foster the recovery of the private sector. FERA, CCC, and especially WPA focused on providing unskilled jobs for long-term unemployed men.\n\nThe extent to which the spending for relief and public works provided a sufficient stimulus to revive the U.S. economy, or whether it harmed the economy, is also debated. If one defines economic health entirely by the gross domestic product, the U.S. had gotten back on track by 1934, and made a full recovery by 1936, but as Roosevelt said, one third of the nation was ill fed, ill-housed and ill-clothed. See Chart 3. GNP was 34% higher in 1936 than 1932, and 58% higher in 1940 on the eve of war. The economy grew 58% from 1932 to 1940 in 8 years of peacetime, and then grew another 56% from 1940 to 1945 in 5 years of wartime. The unemployment rate fell from 25.2% in 1932 to 13.9% in 1940 when the draft started. During the war the economy operated under so many different conditions that comparison is impossible with peacetime, such as massive spending, price controls, bond campaigns, controls over raw materials, prohibitions on new housing and new automobiles, rationing, guaranteed cost-plus profits, subsidized wages, and the draft of 12 million soldiers.\n\nIn 1995 economist Robert Whaples stated that measuring the effect of the New Deal remains a thorny issue for economists because it is so difficult to measure the effects it had on the country. A survey of academic specialists by Whaples showed that 49% of those economists surveyed felt that the New Deal lengthened and deepened the depression, while 51% disagreed. The same survey also showed that only 5% of professional historians and 27% of professional economists felt the same way. However, economist Eric Rauchway of the University of California stated \"very few people disapprove of most of the New Deal reforms\", which include Social Security, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and Fannie Mae. Regardless, unemployment peaked in 1932 at 25% and was reduced to 13.9% by 1940.\n\nAs Broadus Mitchell summarized, \"Most indexes worsened until the summer of 1932, which may be called the low point of the depression economically and psychologically\". Economic indicators show the American economy declined until February 1933. After Roosevelt took office, there began a steady, sharp upward recovery that persisted until the brief Recession of 1937–1938 (see graph) after which they continued their upward climb. Thus the Federal Reserve Index of Industrial Production bottomed at 52.8 on July 1, 1932 and was practically unchanged at 54.3 on March 1, 1933; however by July 1, 1933, it had climbed to 85.5 (with 1935–39 = 100, and for comparison 2005 = 1,342).\n\nA 2017 review of the published scholarship summarized the findings of researchers as follows:\n\nThe studies find that public works and relief spending had state income multipliers of around one, increased consumption activity, attracted internal migration, reduced crime rates, and lowered several types of mortality. The farm programs typically aided large farm owners but eliminated opportunities for share croppers, tenants, and farm workers. The Home Owners' Loan Corporation's purchases and refinancing of troubled mortgages staved off drops in housing prices and home ownership rates at relatively low ex post cost to taxpayers. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation's loans to banks and railroads appear to have had little positive impact, although the banks were aided when the RFC took ownership stakes.\n\nUnemployment dropped to 2%, relief programs largely ended, and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers, and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service.\n\nAll economic sectors grew during the war. Farm output went from an index (by volume) of 106 in 1939 to 128 in 1943. Coal output went from 446 million tons in 1939 to 651 in 1943; oil from 1.3 billion barrels to 1.5 billion. Manufacturing output doubled, from a volume index of 109 in 1939 to 239 in 1943. Railroads strained to move it all to market, going from an output of 13.6 billion loaded car miles in 1939 to 23.3 in 1943.\n\nThe War Production Board coordinated the nation's productive capabilities so that military priorities would be met. Converted consumer-products plants filled many military orders. Automakers built tanks and aircraft, for example, making the United States the \"arsenal of democracy\". In an effort to prevent rising national income and scarce consumer products from causing inflation, the newly created Office of Price Administration rationed and set prices for consumer items ranging from sugar to meat, clothing and gasoline, and otherwise tried to restrain price increases. It also set rent in war centers.\n\nSix million women took jobs in manufacturing and production; most were newly created temporary jobs in munitions. Some were replacing men away in the military. These working women were symbolized by the fictional character of Rosie the Riveter. After the war many women returned to household work as men returned from military service. The nation turned to the suburbs, as a pent-up demand for new housing was finally unleashed.\n\nBy 1940 nearly 100% of urban homes had electricity, 80% had indoor flush toilets, 73% had gas heating or cooking, 58% central heating, 56% had mechanical refrigerators.\n\nThe period from the end of World War II to the early 1970s was a golden era of economic growth. $200 billion in war bonds matured, and the G.I. Bill financed a well-educated work force. The middle class swelled, as did GDP and productivity. This growth was distributed fairly evenly across the economic classes, which some attribute to the strength of labor unions in this period—labor union membership peaked historically in the U.S. during the 1950s, in the midst of this massive economic growth. Much of the growth came from the movement of low income farm workers into better paying jobs in the towns and cities—a process largely completed by 1960.\n\nCongress created the Council of Economic Advisors, to promote high employment, high profits and low inflation. The Eisenhower administration (1953–1961) supported an activist contracyclical approach that helped to establish Keynesianism as a bipartisan economic policy for the nation. Especially important in formulating the CEA response to the recession—accelerating public works programs, easing credit, and reducing taxes—were Arthur F. Burns and Neil H. Jacoby. \"\"I am now a Keynesian in economics\", proclaimed Republican President Richard Nixon in 1969.\nAlthough this period brought economic expansion to the country as a whole, it was not recession proof. The recessions of 1945, 1949, 1953, 1958, and 1960 saw a drastic decline in GDP.\n\nThe \"Baby Boom\" saw a dramatic increase in fertility in the period 1942–1957; it was caused by delayed marriages and childbearing during depression years, a surge in prosperity, a demand for suburban single-family homes (as opposed to inner city apartments) and new optimism about the future. The boom crested about 1957, then slowly declined.\n\nAmmonia from plants built during World War II to make explosives became available for making fertilizers, leading to a permanent decline in real fertilizer prices. The early 1950s was the peak period for tractor sales in the U.S. as the few remaining horses and mules were phased out. The horsepower of farm machinery underwent a large expansion. A successful cotton picking machine was introduced in 1949. The machine could do the work of 50 men picking by hand.\n\nResearch on plant breeding produced varieties of grain crops that could produce high yields with heavy fertilizer input. This resulted in the Green revolution, beginning in the 1940s. By the century's end yields of corn (maize) rose by a factor of over four. Wheat and soybean yields also rose significantly.\n\nThe New Deal era farm programs were continued into the 1940s and 1950s, with the goal of supporting the prices received by farmers. Typical programs involved farm loans, commodity subsidies, and price supports. The rapid decline in the farm population led to a smaller voice in Congress. So the well-organized Farm Bureau and other lobbyists, worked in the 1970s to appeal to urban Congressman through food stamp programs for the poor. By 2000, the food stamp program was the largest component of the farm bill. In 2010, the Tea Party movement brought in many Republicans committed to cutting all federal subsidies, including those agriculture. Meanwhile, urban Democrats strongly opposed reductions, pointing to the severe hardships caused by the 2008-10 economic recession. The Agricultural Act of 2014 saw many rural Republican Congressman voting against the program despite its support from farmers; it passed with urban support.\n\nAir transport was a major beneficiary of the war. The United States was the leading producer of combat aircraft during World War II and had a large surplus of machine tools and manufacturing facilities for airplanes at the end of the war. There were also experienced airplane manufacturing and maintenance personnel. Additionally, radar had been developed just before the war.\n\nThe aircraft industry had the highest productivity growth of any major industry, growing by 8.9% per year from 1929-1966.\n\nVery little housing had been built during the Great Depression and World War, except for emergency quarters near war industries. Overcrowded and inadequate apartments was the common condition. Some suburbs had developed around large cities where there was rail transportation to the jobs downtown. However, the real growth in suburbia depended on the availability of automobiles, highways, and inexpensive housing. The population had grown, and the stock of family savings had accumulated the money for down payments, automobiles and appliances. The product was a great housing boom. Whereas an average of 316,000 new housing non-farm units had been constructed from the 1930s through 1945, there were 1,450,000 units built annually from 1946 through 1955.\n\nThe G.I. Bill guaranteed low cost loans for veterans, with very low down payments, and low interest rates. With 16 million eligible veterans, the opportunity to buy a house was suddenly at hand. In 1947 alone, 540,000 veterans bought one; their average price was $7300. The construction industry kept prices low by standardization – for example standardizing sizes for kitchen cabinets, refrigerators and stoves, allowed for mass production of kitchen furnishings. Developers purchased empty land just outside the city, installed tract houses based on a handful of designs, and provided streets and utilities, or local public officials race to build schools. The most famous development was Levittown, in Long Island just east of New York City. It offered a new house for $1000 down, and $70 a month; it featured three bedrooms, fireplace, gas range and gas furnace, and a landscaped lot of 75 by 100 feet, all for a total price of $10,000. Veterans could get one with a much lower down payment.\n\nConstruction of the Interstate Highway System began in 1956.\n\nMainframe business computer systems were introduced in the 1950s following the manufacture of transistors. Mainframe computers\nwere in widespread use by the 1960s. These computers handled a variety of accounting, billing an payroll applications.\n\nOne highly significant application was the Sabre airline reservations system, which first went into operation in 1960. With Sabre reservations could be placed remotely using teleprinters and all functions were done automatically, including ticket printing. This eliminated manually handling file cards.\n\nFederal taxes on incomes, profits and payrolls had risen to high levels during World War II and had been cut back only slowly; the highest rates for individuals reached the 90% level. Congress cut tax rates in 1964. President Lyndon B. Johnson (1963–69) dreamed of creating a \"Great Society\", and began many new social programs to that end, such as Medicaid and Medicare.\n\nAfter the Cold War began in 1947, and especially after the Korean War began in 1950, the government adopted a strategy in NSC 68 military spending. Economists examined how much this \"military Keynesianism\" stimulated the economy.\n\nPresident Eisenhower feared that excessive military spending would damage the economy, so he downsized the Army after Korea and shifted priorities to missiles and nuclear weapons (which were much less expensive than army divisions). He also promoted the Interstate Highway system as necessary for national defense, and made space exploration a priority. His successor John F. Kennedy made a manned mission to the moon a national priority. Much of the new spending went to California and the West, a continuation of wartime spending.\n\nAn even greater impact came in the South, where it stimulated a modernization of the economy away from cotton towards manufacturing and high technology. For example, there were new, large technologically sophisticated installations at the Atomic Energy Commission's Savannah River Site in South Carolina; the Redstone Arsenal at Huntsville in Alabama; nuclear research facilities at Oak Ridge, Tennessee; and space facilities at Cape Canaveral, Florida, at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center in Houston, and at the John C. Stennis Space Center in Mississippi.\n\nThe Defense Department financed some of private industry's research and development throughout these decades, most notably ARPANET (which would become the Internet).\n\nManufacturing employment and nominal value added shares of the economy have been in a steady decline since World War II. In the late 1960s manufacturing's share of both employment and nominal value added was about 26%, falling to about 11% and 12% respectively by the end of the century.\n\nPer-capita steel consumption in the U.S. peaked in 1977, then fell by half before staging a modest recovery to levels well below the peak.\n\nThe decline in the relative size of manufacturing coincided with a rise in the size of the service sector.\n\nTechnological innovations of the final third of the 20th century were significant, but were not as powerful as those of the first two-thirds of the century. Manufacturing productivity growth continued at a somewhat slower rate than in earlier decades, but overall productivity was dragged down by the relative increase in size of the government and service sectors.\n\nThe postwar boom ended with a number of events in the early 1970s:\n\nIn the late 1960s it was apparent to some that this juggernaut of economic growth was slowing down, and it began to become visibly apparent in the early 1970s. The United States grew increasingly dependent on oil importation from OPEC after peaking production in 1970, resulting in oil supply shocks in 1973 and 1979. Stagflation gripped the nation, and the government experimented with wage and price controls under President Nixon.\nThe Bretton Woods Agreement collapsed in 1971–1972, and President Nixon closed the gold window at the Federal Reserve, taking the United States entirely off the gold standard.\n\nPresident Gerald Ford introduced the slogan, \"Whip Inflation Now\" (WIN). In 1974, productivity shrunk by 1.5%, though this soon recovered. In 1976, Jimmy Carter won the Presidency. Carter would later take much of the blame for the even more turbulent economic times to come, though some say circumstances were outside his control. Inflation continued to climb skyward. Productivity growth was small, when not negative. Interest rates remained high, with the prime reaching 20% in January 1981; Art Buchwald quipped that 1980 would go down in history as the year when it was cheaper to borrow money from the Mafia than the local bank.\n\nUnemployment dropped mostly steadily from 1975 to 1979, although it then began to rise sharply.\n\nThis period also saw the increased rise of the environmental and consumer movements, and the government established new regulations and regulatory agencies such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and others.\n\nDeregulation gained momentum in the mid-1970s, spurred by slow productivity growth and increasing operation and capital costs in several key sectors. It was not until 1978 that the first meaningful deregulation legislation, the Airline Deregulation Act, was cleared by Congress. Transportation deregulation accelerated in 1980, with the deregulation of railroads and trucking. Deregulation of interstate buses followed in 1982. In addition to transportation deregulation, savings and loan associations and banks were partially deregulated with the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act in 1980 and the Garn–St. Germain Depository Institutions Act in 1982.\n\nOn a broader front, the economy initially recovered at a brisk pace from the 1973–75 recession. Incoming president Jimmy Carter instituted a large fiscal stimulus package in 1977 in order to boost the economy. However, inflation began a steep rise beginning in late 1978, and rose by double digits following the 1979 energy crisis. In order to combat inflation, Carter appointed Paul Volcker to the Federal Reserve, who raised interest rates and caused a sharp recession in the first six months of 1980. In March 1980, Carter introduced his own policies for reducing inflation, and the Federal Reserve brought down interest rates to cooperate with the initiatives.\n\nDuring the 1980 recession, manufacturing shed 1.1 million jobs, while service industries remained intact. Employment in automotive manufacturing in particular suffered, experiencing a 33% reduction by the end of the recession. Collectively these factors contributed to the election of Ronald Reagan in 1980. The Federal Reserve once again began to raise interest rates in 1981, which plunged the economy back into recession. Unemployment rose to a peak of 10.8% in December 1982, a post-war high.\n\nIn 1981, Ronald Reagan introduced Reaganomics. That is, fiscally expansive economic policies, cutting marginal federal income tax rates by 25%. Inflation dropped dramatically from 13.5% annually in 1980 to just 3% annually in 1983 due to a short recession and the Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker's tighter control of the money supply and interest rates. Real GDP began to grow after contracting in 1980 and 1982. The unemployment rate continued to rise to a peak of 10.8% by late 1982, but dropped well under 6% unemployment at the end of Reagan's presidency in January 1989.\n\n20 million jobs were created under Reagan's presidency – which were made up of 82 percent high-paying and long-term jobs. From 1982 to 1987 the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained over 1900 points from 776 in 1982 to 2722 in 1987 – about a 350% increase. An economic boom took place from 1983 until a recession began in 1990. Between 1983 and 1989 the number of people below the poverty line decreased by 3.8 million.\n\nThe boom saw the increasing popularity of electronic appliances like computers, cell phones, music players and video games. Credit cards were a symbol of the boom. The Reagan tax cuts seemed to work and Americans were able to shrug off the crash of 1987 by the beginning of 1988. The growth ended by 1990 after seven years of stock market growth and prosperity for the upper and middle class. The federal debt spawned by his policies tripled (from $930 billion in 1981 to $2.6 trillion in 1988), reaching record levels.\n\nThough debt almost always increased under every president in the latter half of the 20th century, it declined as a percentage of GDP under all Presidents after 1950 and prior to Reagan. In addition to the fiscal deficits, the U.S. started to have large trade deficits. Also it was during his second term that the Tax Reform Act of 1986 was passed. Vice President George H. W. Bush was elected to succeed Reagan in 1988. The early Bush Presidency's economic policies were sometimes seen as a continuation of Reagan's policies, but in the early 1990s, Bush went back on a promise and increased taxes in a compromise with Congressional Democrats. He ended his presidency on a moderate note, signing regulatory bills such as the Americans With Disabilities Act, and negotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement. In 1992, Bush and third-party candidate Ross Perot lost to Democrat Bill Clinton.\n\nThe advent of deindustrialization in the late 1960s and early 1970s saw income inequality increase dramatically to levels never seen before. But at the same time, most orthodox economists, and most policy makers, pointed to the fact that consumers could buy so many goods, even with the inflation of the 1970s, as evidence that the general shift away from manufacturing and into services was creating widespread prosperity. In 1968, the U.S. Gini coefficient was 0.386. In 2005, the American Gini coefficient had reached 0.469.\n\nCritics of economic policies favored by Republican and Democratic administrations since the 1960s, particularly those expanding \"free trade\" and \"open markets\" (see Neoliberalism) say that these policies, though benefiting trading as well as the cost of products in the U.S., could have taken their own on the prosperity of the America middle-class. But in this period, consumers were buying as never before with so many products and goods at such low costs and in high quantities. Critics however argued that this consumer behavior was giving a false reading of the health of the economy, because it was being paid for by taking on rapidly increasing levels of indebtedness, thus covering up the stagnating wages and earnings of most of the workforce.\n\nDuring the 1990s, government debt increased by 75%, GDP rose by 69%, and the stock market as measured by the S&P 500 grew more than threefold.\n\nFrom 1994 to 2000 real output increased, inflation was manageable and unemployment dropped to below 5%, resulting in a soaring stock market known as the dot-com boom. The second half of the 1990s was characterized by well-publicized initial public offerings of high-tech and \"dot-com\" companies. By 2000, however, it was evident a bubble in stock valuations \"had\" occurred, such that beginning in March 2000, the market would give back some 50% to 75% of the growth of the 1990s.\n\nThe economy worsened in 2001 with output increasing only 0.3% and unemployment and business failures rising substantially, and triggering a recession that is often blamed on the September 11 attacks.\n\nAn additional factor in the fall of the US markets and in investor confidence included numerous corporate scandals.\n\nFrom 2001-07, the red-hot housing market across the United States fueled a false sense of security regarding the strength of the U.S. economy.\n\nThe Great Recession was a sharp decline in the United State's economy. In 2008, a series of related economic disasters hit the American and European financial systems. The bursting of a worldwide bubble in housing set the recession in motion. The end of housing bubbles in California, Florida and Arizona led to the collapse of housing prices and the shrinkage of construction sector. Millions of mortgages (averaging about $200,000 each) had been bundled into securities called collateralized debt obligations that were resold worldwide. Many banks and hedge funds had borrowed hundreds of billions of dollars to buy these securities, which were now \"toxic\" because their value was unknown and no one wanted to buy them.\n\nA series of the largest banks in the U.S. and Europe collapsed; some went bankrupt, such as Lehman Brothers with $690 billion in assets; others such as the leading insurance company AIG, the leading bank Citigroup, and the two largest mortgage companies were bailed out by the government. Congress voted $700 billion in bailout money, and the Treasury and Federal Reserve committed trillions of dollars to shoring up the financial system, but the measures did not reverse the declines. Banks drastically tightened their lending policies, despite infusions of federal money. The government for the first time took major ownership positions in the largest banks. The stock market plunged 40%, wiping out tens of trillions of dollars in wealth; housing prices fell 20% nationwide wiping out trillions more. By late 2008 distress was spreading beyond the financial and housing sectors, especially as the \"Big Three\" of the automobile industry (General Motors, Ford and Chrysler) were on the verge of bankruptcy, and the retail sector showed major weaknesses. Critics of the $700 billion Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) expressed anger that much of the TARP money that has been distributed to banks is seemingly unaccounted for, with banks being secretive on the issue.\n\nPresident Barack Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 in February 2009; the bill provides $787 billion in stimulus through a combination of spending and tax cuts. The plan is largely based on the Keynesian theory that government spending should offset the fall in private spending during an economic downturn; otherwise the fall in private spending may perpetuate itself and productive resources, such as the labor hours of the unemployed, will be wasted. Critics claim that government spending cannot offset a fall in private spending because government must borrow money from the private sector in order to add money to it. However, most economists do not think such \"crowding out\" is an issue when interest rates are near zero and the economy is stagnant. Opponents of the stimulus also point to problems of possible future inflation and government debt caused by such a large expenditure.\n\nIn the U.S., jobs paying between $14 and $21 per hour made up about 60% those lost during the recession, but such mid-wage jobs have comprised only about 27% of jobs gained during the recovery through mid-2012. In contrast, lower-paying jobs constituted about 58% of the jobs regained.\n\nThe share of national income going to employees is at approximately the same level now as it was in 1970. \n\nMuch of the apparent divergence between pay and productivity stems from using different surveys and formulas to calculate inflation.\n\n\n\n\"This article contains public domain text from the United States Department of State from\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4777038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4777038", "title": "Elizabeth French", "text": "Elizabeth French\n\nElizabeth B. French (born 1931) is a former warden of Ashburne Hall, Manchester, former director of the British School at Athens and an authority in Mycenaean archaeology, especially pottery and terracotta figurines.\n\nElizabeth B. French was born in 1931.\n\nFrench developed a detailed classification scheme for a series of Mycenaean terra cotta figurines dating from the Late Helladic period (c.1500 - 1100 B.C.). She coined the term \"\" for a particular class of these artifacts depicting a woman holding a child. She has been involved in excavation and publication of archaeological excavation at Mycenae for many years and recently completed a survey of the remains around Mycenae in collaboration with the Archaeological Society of Athens. She wrote an account of the monuments and history of Mycenae itself. Her joint publication with P.S. Stockhammer, 'Correlating recent research: the pottery of Mycenae and Tiryns in the second half of the 13th Century BC', Annual of the British School at Athens, 106 (2009) 175-232 is the first attempt to align discoveries at the two most important Mycenaean sites.\n"}
{"id": "10033919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10033919", "title": "Feminist art", "text": "Feminist art\n\nFeminist art is a category of art associated with the late 1960s and 1970s feminist movement. Feminist art highlights the societal and political differences women and those of other gender identity experience within their lives. The hopeful gain from this form of art is to bring a positive and understanding change to the world, in hope to lead to equality. Media used range from traditional art forms such as painting to more unorthodox methods such as performance art, conceptual art, body art, craftivism, video, film, and fiber art. Feminist art has served as an innovative driving force towards expanding the definition of art through the incorporation of new media and a new perspective.\n\nHistorically speaking, female artists, when they existed, have largely faded into obscurity: there is no female Michelangelo or Da Vinci equivalent. In \"Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists\" Linda Nochlin wrote, \"The fault lies not in our stars, our hormones, our menstrual cycles, or our empty internal spaces, but in our institutions and our education\". Because of women's historical role as caregiver, most women were unable to devote time to creating art. In addition women were rarely allowed entry into schools of art, and almost never allowed into live nude drawings classes for fear of impropriety. Therefore, women who were artists were largely wealthy women with leisure time who were trained by their fathers or uncles and produced still lives, landscapes, or portrait work. Examples include Anna Claypoole Peale and Mary Cassatt. \n\nFeminist art can be contentious to define as it holds different personal and political elements, different to each individual. Is all art made by a feminist then feminist art? Can art that is not made by a feminist be feminist art? Lucy R. Lippard stated in 1980 that feminist art was \"neither a style nor a movement but instead a value system, a revolutionary strategy, a way of life.\" Emerging at the end of the 1960s, the feminist art movement was inspired by the 1960s student protests, the civil rights movement, and Second-wave feminism. By critiquing institutions that promote sexism and racism students, people of color, and women were able to identify and attempt to fix inequity. Women artists used their artwork, protests, collectives, and women's art registries to shed light on inequities in the art-world. \n\nBefore the 1960s the majority of woman-made artwork did not portray feminist content, in the sense that it neither addressed nor criticized the conditions that women have historically faced. Women were more often the subjects of art, rather than artists themselves. Historically, the female body was regarded as an object of desire existing for the pleasure of men. In the early 20th century, works that flaunted female sexuality – the pin-up girl being a prime example – began to be produced. By the late 1960s there was a plethora of feminine artwork that broke away from the tradition of depicting women in an exclusively sexualized fashion.\n\nIn order to gain recognition, many female artists struggled to \"de-gender\" their work in order to compete in a dominantly male art world. If a work did not \"look\" like it was made by a woman, then the stigma associated with women would not cling to the work itself, thus giving the work its own integrity. In 1963 Yayoi Kusama created \"Oven-Pan\" – part of a larger collection of works she referred to as the \"aggregation sculptures\". As with other works from that collection, \"Oven-Pan\" takes an object associated with women's work – in this case a metal pan – and completely covers it with bulbous lumps of the same material. This is an early feminist example of female artists finding ways to break from the traditional role of women in society. Having the lumps made from the same color and material as the metal pan completely takes away the pan's functionality, and – in a metaphorical sense – its association with women. The protrusions remove the item's gender by not only removing its function of being a metal pan women would use in the kitchen, but by also making it ugly. Before this era, common female work consisted of pretty and decorative things like landscapes and quilts, whereas more contemporary artwork by women was becoming bold or even rebellious.\n\nTowards the end of the decade, progressive ideas criticizing social values began to appear in which the mainstream ideology that had come to be accepted was denounced as not being neutral. It was also suggested that the art world as a whole had managed to institutionalize within itself the notion of sexism. During this time there was a rebirth of various media that had been placed at the bottom of the aesthetic hierarchy by art history, such as quilting. To put it simply, this rebellion against the socially constructed ideology of a woman's role in art sparked the birth of a new standard of the female subject. Where once the female body was seen as an object for the male gaze, it then became regarded as a weapon against socially constructed ideologies of gender.\n\nWith Yoko Ono's 1965 work, \"Cut Piece\", performance art began to gain popularity in feminist artwork as a form of critical analysis on societal values on gender. In this work, Yoko Ono is seen kneeling on the ground with a pair of scissors in front of her. One by one, she invited the audience to cut a piece of her clothing off until she was eventually left kneeling in the tattered remains of her clothing and her underwear. This intimate relationship created between the subject (Ono) and the audience addressed the notion of gender in the sense that Ono has become the sexual object. By remaining motionless as more and more pieces of her clothing are cut away, she reveals a woman's social standing where she is regarded as an object as the audience escalates to the point where her bra is being cut away.\n\nDuring the 1970s, feminist art continued to provide a means of challenging women's position in the social hierarchy. The aim was for women to reach a state of equilibrium with their male counterparts. Judy Chicago's work, \"The Dinner Party\", emphasizes this idea of a newfound female empowerment through the use of turning a dinner table – an association to the traditional female role – into an equilateral triangle. Each side has an equal number of plate settings dedicated to a specific woman in history. Each plate contains a dish. This served as a way of breaking the idea of women being subjugated by society. Looking at the historical context, the 1960s and 1970s served as a prominent era where women began to celebrate new forms of freedom. More women joining the work force, legalization of birth control, fight towards equal pay, civil rights, and the \"Roe v. Wade\" decision to legalize abortion, were reflected in artwork. Such freedoms, however, were not limited to politics.\n\nTraditionally, being able to expertly capture the nude on canvas or in a sculpture reflected a high level of achievement in the arts. In order to reach that level, access to nude models was required. While male artists were given this privilege, it was considered improper for a woman to see a naked body. As a result, women were forced to focus their attention to the less professionally acclaimed \"decorative\" art. With the 1970s, however, the fight towards equality extended to the arts. Eventually more and more women began to enroll in art academies. For most of these artists, the goal was not to paint like the traditional male masters, but instead to learn their techniques and manipulate them in a way that challenged traditional views of women.\n\nPhotography became a common medium used by feminist artists. It was used, in many ways, to show the \"real\" woman. For instance, in 1979 Judith Black took a self-portrait depicting her body in such a light. It showed the artist's aging body and all her flaws in an attempt to portray herself as a human being rather than an idealized sex symbol. Hannah Wilke also used photography as her way of expressing a non-traditional representation of the female body. In her 1974 collection called \"S.O.S - Stratification Object Series\", Wilke used herself as the subject. She portrayed herself topless with various pieces of chewed gum in the shape of vulvas arranged throughout her body, metaphorically demonstrating how women in society are chewed up and then spit out.\n\nAt this time, there was a large focus on rebelling against the \"traditional woman\". With this came the backlash of both men and women who felt their tradition was being threatened. To go from showing women as glamorous icons to showing the disturbing silhouettes of women (an artistic demonstration of the 'imprint' left behind by the victims of rape) in the case of Ana Mendieta, underscored certain forms of degradation that popular culture failed to fully acknowledge.\n\nWhile Ana Mendieta's work focused on a serious issue, other artists, like Lynda Benglis, took a more satirical stance in the fight towards equality. In one of her photographs published in \"Artforum\", she is depicted naked with a short haircut, sunglasses, and a dildo positioned in her pubic region. Some saw this radical photo as \"vulgar\" and \"disturbing\". Others, however, saw an expression of the uneven balance between the genders in the sense that her photo was critiqued more harshly than a male counterpart, Robert Morris, who posed shirtless with chains around his neck as a sign of submission. At this time, the depiction of a dominant woman was highly criticized and in some cases, any female art depicting sexuality was perceived as pornographic.\n\nUnlike Bengalis' depiction of dominance to expose inequality in gender, Marina Abramovic used subjugation as a form of exposing the position of women in society that horrified rather than disturbed the audience. In her performance work \"Rhythm 0\" (1974), Ambramovic pushes not only her limits, but her audience's limits as well, by presenting the public with 72 different objects ranging from a feathers and perfume to a rifle and a bullet. Her instructions are simple; She is the object and the audience may do whatever they want with her body for the next six hours. Her audience has complete control while she lays motionless. Eventually they become wilder and begin violating her body – at one point a man threatens her with a rifle – yet when the piece ends the audience gets into a frenzy and run away in fear, as if they cannot come to terms with what just happened. In this emotional performance piece, Ambramovic depicts the powerful message of the objectification of the female body while at the same time unraveling the complexity of human nature.\n\nIn 1975, Barbara Deming founded The Money for Women Fund to support the work of feminist artists. Deming helped administer the Fund, with support from artist Mary Meigs. After Deming's death in 1984, the organization was renamed as The Barbara Deming Memorial Fund. Today, the foundation is the \"oldest ongoing feminist granting agency\" which \"gives encouragement and grants to individual feminists in the arts (writers, and visual artists)\".\n\nAlthough feminist art is fundamentally any field that strives towards equality among the genders, it is not static. It is a constantly changing project that \"is itself constantly shaped and remodeled in relation to the living processes of women's struggles\". It not a platform but rather a \"dynamic and self-critical response\". The feminist spark from the 1960s and 1970s helped to carve a path for the activist and identity art of the 1980s. In fact, The meaning of feminist art evolved so quickly that by 1980 Lucy Lippard curated a show where \"all the participants exhibited work that belonged to 'the full panorama of social-change art,' though in a variety of ways that undercut any sense that 'feminism' meant either a single political message or a single kind of artwork. This openness was a key element to the future creative social development of feminism as political and cultural intervention.\"\n\nIn 1985, the Museum of Modern Art in New York opened a gallery that claimed to exhibit the most-renowned works of contemporary art of the time. of the 169 artists chosen, only 13 were women. As a result of this, an anonymous group of women investigated the most-influential museums of art only to find out that they barely exhibited women's art. With that came the birth of the Guerrilla Girls who devoted their time to fighting sexism and racism in the art world through the use of protest, posters, artwork and public speaking. Unlike the feminist art before the 1980s, the Guerrilla Girls introduced a bolder more in-your-face identity and both captured attention and exposed sexism. Their posters aim to strip the role that women played in the art world prior to the feminist movement. In one case, the painting \"La Grande Odalisque\" by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres was used in one of their posters where the female nude portrayed was given a gorilla mask. Beside it was written \"Do women have to be naked to get into the Met. Museum? Less than 5% of the artists in the Modern Art Sections are women, but 85% of the nudes are female\". By taking a famous work and remodeling it to remove its intended purpose for the male gaze, the female nude is seen as something other than a desirable object.\n\nThe critique of the male gaze and the objectification of woman can also be seen in Barbara Kruger's \"Your gaze Hits the side of my face\". In this work we see a marble bust of a woman turned to its side. The lighting is harsh, creating sharp edges and shadows to emphasize the words \"your gaze hits the side of my face\" written in bold letters of black red and white down the left side of the work. In that one sentence, Kruger is able to communicate her protest on gender, society, and culture through language designed in a way that can be associated with a contemporary magazine, thus capturing the viewer's attention.\n\nIn the 1970s, society started to become open to change and people started to realize that there was a problem with the stereotypes of each gender. Feminist art became a popular way of addressing the social concerns of feminism that surfaced in the late 1960s to 1970s. The creation and publication of the first feminist magazine was published in 1972. \"Ms. Magazine\" was the first national magazine to make feminist voices prominent, make feminist ideas and beliefs available to the public, and support the works of feminist artists. Like the art world, the magazine used the media to spread the messages of feminism and draw attention to the lack of total gender equality in society. The co-founder of the magazine, Gloria Steinem, coined the famous quote, \"A woman needs a man like a fish needs a bicycle\", which demonstrates the power of independent women; this slogan was frequently used by activists.\n\nLucy R. Lippard argued in 1980 that feminist art was \"neither a style nor a movement but instead a value system, a revolutionary strategy, a way of life.\" This quote supports that feminist art effected all aspects of life. The women of the nation were determined to have their voices heard above the din of discontent, and equality would enable them to obtain jobs equal to men and gain rights and agency to their own bodies. Art was a form of media that was used to get the message across; this was their platform. Feminist art support this claim because the art began to challenge previously conceived notions of the roles of women. The message of gender equality in feminist artworks resonates with the viewers because the challenging of the social norms made people question, should it be socially acceptable for women to wear men's clothing?\n\nThe magazine and the rise of feminism occurred during the same time feminist artists became more popular, and an example of a feminist artist is Judy Dater. Starting her artistic career in San Francisco, a cultural hub of different kinds of art and creative works, Dater displayed feminist photographs in museums and gained a fair amount of publicity for her work. Dater displayed art that focused on women challenging stereotypical gender roles, such as the expected way women would dress or pose for a photograph. To see a woman dressed in men's clothing was rare and made the statement of supporting the feminist movement, and many people knew of Dater's passionate belief of equal rights. Dater also photographed nude women, which was intended to show women's bodies as strong, powerful, and as a celebration. The photographs grabbed the viewers attention because of the unusualness and never-before-seen images that do not necessarily fit into society.\n\n"}
{"id": "26424116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26424116", "title": "Geniscus", "text": "Geniscus\n\nGeniscus is a deity who appears in a sermon of Saint Eligius along with Neptune, Orcus, Minerva and Diana. These are all, the Christian homilist says, \"demons\" who should not be believed in or invoked. The warning implies cult activity for these deities in the northern parts of Merovingian Gaul into the 7th century.\n\nGeniscus may be a form of reference to the Genius, the Roman tutelary deity; in Gaul, the Genius is often hooded (\"Genius Cucullatus\") and appears either singly or in a group of three.\n\nIn another sermon in the same period, the Geniscus appears in the company of witches (\"striae\") and other entities in whom \"rustics\" believe:\n\nThe 19th-century fascination for folklore, antiquarianism, the supernatural, and lost religions drew attention to even the obscure Geniscus. The Irish folklorist Thomas Crofton Croker accepted a derivation of \"geniscus\" from Latin \"genius\" and in his chapter on elves declared the \"geniscus\" \"a real Elf, or spirit of light.\" Croker further connected \"geniscus\" to the \"geniciales feminae\" named by Hincmar, a 9th-century archbishop of Reims, who identified the \"geniciales\" as \"lamiae\". During the same period Jacob Grimm classed the \"geniciales\" among the \"daemonic elvish beings, who appeared in woman's shape and did men kindnesses,\" and who participated in elf-dance: \"To christian zealots all \"dancing\" appeared sinful and heathenish, and sure enough it often was derived from pagan rites, like other harmless pleasures and customs of the common people, who would not easily part with their diversion at great festivals.\" Grimm connects these dances to bonfires.\n\nGeniscus is mentioned in the 1876 historical fiction \"Dante and Beatrice from 1282 to 1290: A Romance\" by Elizabeth Kerr Coulson, writing under the pseudonym Roxburghe Lothian. Coulson recounts at length the Christian prohibitions that a friar called The Hermit must enforce, then segues into practices deemed tolerable:\n\nWhether she used the \"Vita\" of St. Eligius directly or another source such as Croker, Coulson preserves the collocation of Geniscus with Minerva and Orcus (here Ouragus). She either innovates or draws on traditions pertaining to the cult of the \"Genii\" by making Geniscus the \"helper\" of Orcus.\n"}
{"id": "230172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230172", "title": "Henry Fynes Clinton", "text": "Henry Fynes Clinton\n\nHenry Fynes Clinton (14 January 1781 – 24 October 1852) was an English classical scholar, chronologist and Member of Parliament.\n\nHe was born in Gamston, Nottinghamshire, the eldest son of Rev. Charles Fynes, prebendary of Westminster and perpetual curate of St. Margaret’s, Westminster. For some generations his family bore the name of Fynes, but his father resumed the older family name of Clinton in 1821. Henry was educated at Southwell Grammar School, Westminster School and Christ Church, Oxford, where he studied classical literature and history. He entered Lincoln's Inn in 1808 to study law.\n\nFrom 1806 to 1826 he was Member of Parliament (MP) for Aldborough.\n\nHe died at Welwyn, Herts, where he had purchased the residence and estate of the poet Edward Young. He had married twice; firstly Harriott, the daughter of Rev. Charles Wylde of Nottingham\nand secondly Katherine, the daughter of Rt. Rev. Henry William Majendie, Bishop of Bangor. They had 2 sons who predeceased their father and 9 daughters.\n\nHis reading was methodical (see his \"Literary Remains\"). His \"Fasti\", on classical chronology, has required correction on the basis of later research.\n\nHis major works are: \n\n\nIn 1851 and 1853 respectively he published epitomes of the above. \"The Literary Remains of H. F. Clinton\" (the first part of which contains an autobiography written in 1818) were edited by Clinton James Fynes Clinton in 1854.\n\n"}
{"id": "1710903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1710903", "title": "Jaakko Hintikka", "text": "Jaakko Hintikka\n\nKaarlo Jaakko Juhani Hintikka (12 January 1929 – 12 August 2015) was a Finnish philosopher and logician.\n\nHintikka was born in Helsingin maalaiskunta (now Vantaa).\n\nIn 1953, he received his doctorate from the University of Helsinki for a thesis entitled \"Distributive Normal Forms in the Calculus of Predicates\".\n\nAfter teaching for a number of years at Florida State University, Stanford, the University of Helsinki, and the Academy of Finland, he ended his career as a Professor of Philosophy at Boston University. The prolific author or co-author of over 30 books and over 300 scholarly articles, Hintikka contributed to mathematical logic, philosophical logic, the philosophy of mathematics, epistemology, language theory, and the philosophy of science. His works have appeared in over nine languages.\n\nHintikka is regarded as the founder of formal epistemic logic and of game semantics for logic. Early in his career, he devised a semantics of modal logic essentially analogous to Saul Kripke's frame semantics, and discovered the now widely taught semantic tableau, independently of Evert Willem Beth. Later, he worked mainly on game semantics, and on independence-friendly logic, known for its \"branching quantifiers\", which he believed do better justice to our intuitions about quantifiers than does conventional first-order logic. He did important exegetical work on Aristotle, Immanuel Kant, Ludwig Wittgenstein, and Charles Sanders Peirce. Hintikka's work can be seen as a continuation of the analytic tendency in philosophy founded by Franz Brentano and Peirce, advanced by Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell, and continued by Rudolf Carnap, Willard Van Orman Quine, and by Hintikka's teacher Georg Henrik von Wright. For instance, in 1998 he wrote \"The Principles of Mathematics Revisited\", which takes an exploratory stance comparable to that Russell made with his \"The Principles of Mathematics\" in 1903.\n\nProfessor Hintikka was a student of G. H. von Wright, a Junior Fellow at Harvard (1956–9), and held several professorial appointments at the University of Helsinki, the Academy of Finland, Florida State University and finally Boston University from 1990 until his death.\n\nHintikka edited the academic journal \"Synthese\" from 1962 to 2002, and was a consultant editor for more than ten journals. He was the first vice-president of the Fédération Internationale des Sociétés de Philosophie, the Vice-President of the Institut International de Philosophie (1993–1996), as well as a member of the American Philosophical Association, the International Union of History and Philosophy of Science, Association for Symbolic Logic, and a member of the governing board of the Philosophy of Science Association. In 2005, he won the Rolf Schock prize in logic and philosophy \"for his pioneering contributions to the logical analysis of modal concepts, in particular the concepts of knowledge and belief\". In 1985, he was president of the Florida Philosophical Association.\n\nHe was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. On \nMay 26, 2000\nHintikka \nreceived an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of History and Philosophy at Uppsala University, Sweden \n\nFor a bibliography, see Auxier and Hahn (2006).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44932959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44932959", "title": "Jordanian political satire", "text": "Jordanian political satire\n\nIn a country that has not enjoyed complete freedom of speech; political satire in Jordan has been a way to criticize and make claims on the political authorities. Be it expressed in press as in weekly satirical newspapers, cartoons, prose, or as in recent times, on online social media platforms, satire in Jordan represents a unique genre that has reflected a local mode and attitude towards local and global issues. While it is not meant entirely to entertain, political satire in Jordan has been used as a way to poke fun at elected governments and their failure to tend to local issues. Like satirists worldwide, the Jordanian satirists aim to use pun and indirect references to tackle taboos, defy the restrictive laws that inhibit the freedom of speech, and convey public grievances.\n\nWhile some might argue that the early accounts of political satire in Jordan can be traced in the works of Jordan’s most well-known poet Mustafa Wahbi al-Tal nicknamed ‘Arar’, as he was cynical of the social life during the formative years of Transjordan, satirical writings in Jordan were only made available to the public in the 1960s.\nAccording to rare accounts on the history of the Jordanian political satire as found in the diaries of a Jordanian journalist named Faisal Mohammad Awkal, the writings of Fakhri Qawar were the first satirical accounts published in the old newspaper of Amman in the Evening in Arabic (عمان المساء). Qawar's writings included short essays that mainly leveled light criticism at the government. The newspaper, which inspired the later satirical journalism, came to clash with the Jordanian authorities in 1964, after publishing the diaries of Wasfi al-Tal on the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, followed by the diaries of Ahmad Shukeiri resulting in its final shutdown in 1975.\nLater in early 1980s, Qawar published the first satirical works including Farhan Farah Sae’ed’s Diaries (which was adapted as a script for a soap-opera that had the same name mid-1980s), published in 1982, and “I am the Patriarch,” published in 1981.\n\nPolitical satire in Jordan started to develop in the 1980s in the writings of Mohammad Tomaliah, who introduced new elements to the genre in his column in Ad-Dustour, entitled “Eyewitness”. He employed a narrative style borrowed from prose using simplistic realism, cynical discrepancies, and a wide array of unusual similes.\n\nMoreover, Tomaliah used brief sentences that drew clear images of reality and candid portrayals, allowing Jordanian specificities to stand out. He was unconventional and his articles were free of flowery language and clichés. According to critics, Tomaliah was a literary figure and not only a columnist.\n\nIn one of his articles, 'The Third Bullet\", Tomaliah talks about his life saying:\n\n\"\"I personally have not lived yet, and my life is not yet worthy to write about: All my experiences are trivial although I consider growing up in the southern villages and moving during my adolescence years to live in \"Al-Hussein Camp\" an experience that gave me a special status: on one hand I am a Jordanian of a Palestinian descent, while on the other, I am Palestinian from a Jordanian origin. Therefore, I frame my political stance within this experience, more specifically within the \"Catholic\" relationship that govern the two peoples. Also, I do tend to think that my education in Baghdad and my father's death and burial in the beloved 'occupied' capital (in reference to Baghdad) made me an Iraqi: Sunni and Shia at the time time, and a Christian like a cross\".\"\n\nFor more than 28 years (until his death in 2008), Tomaliah published hundreds of articles, and several books, which mainly talked and described the miseries of the destitute and the marginalized groups, including the people in his neighborhood in east Amman. Talking about the marginalized groups, Tomaliah breached the norms of the Jordanian journalism, which was formal and conservative when tackling social issues. Tomaliah did what many Jordanian writers would not have done at the time; namely criticizing the society, its norms, its traditions and even himself. It is widely argued among Jordanian critics that Tomaliah’s satirical writings and the way they were received encouraged more Jordanian daily newspapers to assign a space for this genre.\n\nIn addition to Tomaliah’s column, other satire appeared in the Jordanian satirical newspaper of Shihan (newspaper), founded in 1984. The newspaper assigned pages for the editor's satirical writings under the Pseudonym of \"Shiho\". The newspaper rose to become one of Jordan's most read publications, and despite its satirical nature, it was regarded as one of the most valuable forums for news and public affairs. In 2006, Shihan (newspaper) republished Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons resulting in a public fury that culminated in the dismissal of the paper's editor-in-chief, Jihad al-Momani.\n\nIn early 1990s, Jordan held its first parliamentary elections in 22 years, annulled the martial law in effect for 33 years and allowed for the political parties to exist and operate. The new era promised the emergence of liberal media and art represented in a theatrical boom in the country which coincided with the arrival of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians who fled Kuwait after the Gulf War in 1991.\n\nIn 1993,Nabil Sawalha and Hisham Yanes, who returned to Jordan from Kuwait after the war, established Nabil &Hisham theater where they staged several successful plays including Ahlan Barlman (Welcome, Parliament), Ahlan Nizam A'lami Jadid (Welcome, New World Order), Ahaln Mo'tamar Qimma Arabyia (Welcome, Arab Summit) and Ahlan Tatbee' (Welcome, Normalization).\n\nNabil and Hisham's plays established the phenomenon in Jordanian satire of being able to escape state censorship and being the first Jordanian comedians to ridicule and imitate Arab leaders on an Arab stage. The two comedians viewed their career as being free of dangers, believing there was a margin of freedom at the time, and that they needed to filter their language on certain occasions.\n\nIn one of their plays: “Welcome, New World Order”, which came in the aftermath of the Gulf War in 1990, the duo presented a rare Arab perspective at what the new order promised back then. Both Hisham Yanes and Nabil Sawalha used symbolism and implicit language, which at times lacked clarity, when referring to sensitive issues. They were mainly attempting to test the limits of tolerance provided after Jordan’s abolition of the martial law in 1989. The play which continued for 20 months attracted late King Hussein whose attendance limited future censorship.\n\nUnder the democratic opening-up, a satirical newspaper was published mid-1990s. In 1996, \"Abed Rabbo\" weekly newspaper was launched by the satirist Yousef Ghishan and sold in the first weeks thousands of copies. In 1997 and after an amended version of the press and publication law was endorsed, the paper closed, unable to meet the requirements and fines stipulated by the law.\n\nAfter the short-lived period of media freedom, the cabinet of Abdelsalam al-Majali introduced to the 1993 press and publication law new censorship measures. Under the new amendments, the Press and Publication Department (PPD) was given more powers to regulate the publications and the press, and the PPD was authorized to exercise censorship over the publications allowing it and the government to have an ultimate control over all media bodies.\n\nThe law also increased the minimum capital required to issue newspapers. The law also prohibited the publication of rumors or false information and any news or material that might be harmful to national unity and any material that encouraged public strikes and dissent.\n\nIn 1998, the Parliament endorsed the Press and Publications Law No. 18 of 1998, which was viewed as almost identical to the law of 1997. In 1999, the government, presented a draft amendment to the Press and Publications Law of 1998 to the Parliament. The amended law of 1999 annulled several restrictions provided for in the law of 1998, reduced the required minimum capital required for weekly newspapers.\n\nThis law led to the suspension of several leading privately owned newspapers, the majority of which were law-budgeted, such as Abed Rabbo, Hawadeth Al-Sa'a, among others that failed to comply with this prerequisite. Despite the subsequent amendments, the law remained largely the same, and under it only official media dominated the scene.\n\nCartoons in Jordan serve as powerful tool to express political views. Emad Hajjaj, is considered a pioneer in drawing satirical cartoons portraying Jordanian political figures, including the King himself. Hajjaj's most famous cartoon character (Abu Mahjoob) made its first debut in 1993 portraying an angry Jordanian man hanging a promotional sign for the elections, which read \"No to foreign labor\" while at the same time yelling at an Egyptian worker to help him fix it.\n\nIn 1999, Hajjaj drew an unprecedented cartoon when he portrayed King Abdullah II disguised as an ordinary citizen, in a way to show Jordanians to be aware of the new monarch’s way of watching things over. Being the first time to depict the monarch, the cartoon raised questions about the extent to which can Hajjaj push the boundaries of satire in Jordan. And While it is a criminal offence to insult the king and the royal family in Jordan, Hajjaj's cartoons were not seen as ridiculing the monarch.\" \n\nThrough thousands of his cartoons, Hajjaj has tackled numerous political as well as social problems in Jordan. He has also critiqued several Jordanian prime ministers and poked fun at the parliament. Several of Hajajj’s cartoons were banned, including many controversial depictions of the post-Arab Spring demonstrations, one of them was published online under the headline of the \"Dabkeh Al-Islah\" or the Reform Dance, in which Abu Mahjoob warns dabkeh dancers against performing the Ali Baba dance and instead to choose any other mythical characters, such as Sinbad or Scheherazade. Ali Baba is a nickname that activists in the post-Arab spring demonstrations used to refer to King Abdullah II who, according to them, along with forty thieves, stole the country’s assets.\n\nAnother cartoon by Hajjaj that raised controversy was about the escape of a convicted businessman from jail. In 2011 and as the Jordanian public was pressing for a serious corruption fight, officials helped facilitate the escape of a Jordanian official and a businessman, Khaled Shaheen, who was detained over involvement in corruption cases. On that's subject, Hajjaj drew a cartoon in which his main characters discuss the escape of Shaheen, saying the government opens corruption files but the same time opens the prison doors.\n\nSatirical columns instead of newspapers\n\nWith the introduction of laws restricting media freedoms and that forced weekly newspaper to halt publication, Jordanian satirists found their way into daily columns published in Jordan's leading daily newspapers, such as \"Al Ra'i\", \"Ad-Dustor\", and \"Al Arab Al Yawm (newspaper)\". Among the most prominent names that became popular in Jordan since 2000 are Ahmad Hasan Al Zoubi, Kamel Nusairat, Yousef Ghishan, and Ahmad Abu Khalil, among others.\n\nGiven the rapid dissemination of their articles via social media, Jordanian columnists have become effective in shaping the public opinion in a subtle way. For instance, Ahmad Hasan Al Zoubi, who writes for Al Ra'i newspaper, has gained fame for his sarcastic writings that have attracted the attention of Jordanians. His style can be best characterized as simple but indirect, hiding bitter criticism of the political, economic and social scene in the country.\n\nIn one of Al Zoubi’s most famous articles that raised awareness on a local issue that has not yet been resolved, Jordanians found a voice of reason that employed simple language with a cynical tone to address a serious topic: The establishment of a nuclear reactor. In an article titled \"Why do we reject the nuclear reactor?\", Al Zoubi refutes the government’s narrative on the guaranteed success of the nuclear reactor as a new energy source. He addresses the officials in charge of project by simply telling them that Jordanians do not have faith in them. Al Zoubi refers to the statements of president of the Jordan Atomic Energy Commission defending the scheme and trying to assure Jordanians that what happened to Japan’s nuclear reactor of Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant cannot happen in Jordan as it was a ‘Japanese’ administrative mistake. Al Zoubi cunningly argues that if the Japanese given their long expertise in the field committed mistakes, why would Jordanians, given their zero experience, be immune? Al Zoubi's argument was widely circulated via Facebook and played a role in shedding light on the potential danger of the reactor. The wide circulation of his articles encouraged Al Zoubi to publish two collections of articles in books. The first was \"Sawaleif\" (Stories) in 2006 and the second was \"Al-Mam'out\" (The Featherless Bird) in 2008.\n\nPrior to Al Zoubi’s collections of articles published in form of a book, Jordan's leading satirist Mohammad Tomaliah published two collections in 2004 and 2007. The first was \"Yahduth Le Doun Sa'r Al Nas\" (“Happens to me among all people”) and contained selected cartoons drawn by Emad Hajjaj. The second was \"Ilayhā bi-ṭabī’at al-ḥāl - nuṣūṣ khādishah lil-ḥiyād al-‘āmm\" (“To her as a matter of course -- texts that breach public neutrality”).\n\nBy choosing the sub-title Nusus Khadishah lil-hiyad al-‘amm (texts that breach public neutrality) (a play on words, instead of the familiar combination ‘public modesty’), Tomaliah, attempted to deviate from the Jordanian mainstream literature. In his book, which takes the form of short articles and stories, Tomaliah alludes to local and Arab political failures. In one of the book's articles titled “Fig Leaf”, Tomaliah reduces the vast areas of the Arab lands to a fig leaf that does not hide the Arab countries' defects. He crtiques the fake borders that separate the 'one Arab homeland' as ones that result in 'border' grudges that disturb the brotherly ties, adding that:\n\n\"\"The borders are often located in the desert, which in case of chaos, issues such as \"sovereignty\", expulsion of ambassadors, closure of checkpoints and demands to re-draft borders result in the arrival of scientists wearing khaki shorts and caps accompanied by beautiful women on top of Jeep cars. Those who drafted the borders in the past come from all over to draw them again. Each country strives to acquire a new piece of 'wilderness' and you will never understand why those are so keen to expand their area in a 'homeland' where humans cannot afford a piece of cloth to patch their robes, not even with a 'fig leaf'\"\" \n\nAl'an Fahimtkum\n\nThe title of the play is inspired by the famous statement of the deposed Tunisian president: Now I Understand You. It is written by Ahmad Hasan Al Zoubi and Musa Hijazeen takes the leading role in the play as Abu Saqer, a dictator Jordanian father whose wife and children decide to rebel against him in the wake of the Arab Spring. The play includes scenes that shed light on pressing Jordanian issues such as corruption, public land acquisition by the regime, the way cabinets are formed in Jordan, national unity, and the outcomes of the national dialogue committee (formed in 2011 to undertake constitutional amendments). The play is a hallmark in the post-2011 Jordanian political satire, as it has crossed red-lines on things that are not usually talked about in Jordanian public arena.\n\nKharabeesh animations and stand-up comedies\n\nKharabeesh, a Jordanian company that has produced animated cartoons since 2008, increased its productions after 2011. The company based in Jabal Amman hosted dozens of Jordanian and Arab amateur stand-comedians who performed in videos that addressed social and political issues. Kharabeesh introduced new young names to the Jordanian satire including Rajae Qawas, Nicolas Khouri and Laith Al Abbadi, who made notable appearance on Kharabeesh YouTube channel of N2O comedy.\n\nRoya TV\nAfter the establishment of Roya TV, a liberal TV channel, young Jordanian comedians found a new platform and space to speak about their opinions on local and regional political issues. The recently banned TV show \"7aki Jarayed\" or “The talk of newspapers” discussed the issues of refugees, elections, poverty, Israel and peace process, Jordanian identity, reform and citizenship. The show distinguished itself by broadcasting reports that interview ordinary Jordanian people asking them about their opinion regarding rising political issues. The show was recently banned due to use of profanity, according to the administration of Roya TV.\n"}
{"id": "6635710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6635710", "title": "Joub Jannine", "text": "Joub Jannine\n\nJoub Jannine ( / ALA-LC: \"Jub Jannīn\") is located in the Beqaa Valley in Lebanon.\n\nJoub Jannine is the capital of West Beqaa. It is a town and the center of the Western Beqaa District, hosting the Serail, which is a main governmental building serving the area. Joub Jannine is surrounded by a number of villages. To the south there is the village of Lala, Ghazze to the north, Kamid al lawz to the east, and Kefraya, known for its wine grape vineyards, to the west.\n\nJoub Jannine I is a small surface site brought to the surface through erosional activity of a stream. It is 8 km northeast of Qaraoun in a range of foothills, 1 km north of a small village called Jebel Gharbi, between two tracks, west of cote 878 by about 200 m. The site was found by Dubertret with a collection made by Henri Fleisch and Maurice Tallon that is now in the Museum of Lebanese Prehistory at the Saint Joseph University. Flint tools found on the site included bifaces and rough pieces that were suggested to date to the Acheulean.\n\nJoub Jannine II was first discovered by M. Billaux in 1957. It was described by Henri Fleisch as Neolithic in 1960. It is located on the right bank of the Litani River northwest of the village, 100 m from the river and 100 m east of cote 861. An abundant amount of flint was collected including nine hundred and forty four tools and one hundred and fifty two cores. This was first reported to be a paleolithic industry by Lorraine Copeland and Peter Wescombe. A highly specialized archaeological industry of striking spheroid and trihedral flint tools was found at the site and published by Fleisch in 1960, termed by Copeland and Wescombe as the Trihedral Neolithic. Little has been said about this industry or the ancient people that would have used these huge rock mauls (i.e. hammers) in this area, at the dawn of agriculture, or what they would have been using them for.\n\nThe material from Joub Jannine II was described by Lorraine Copeland as \n\nJoub Jannine III (The Gardens) is a Heavy Neolithic site of the Qaraoun culture, south of the village along steep slopes and around the houses. It was discovered by Henri Fleisch and Maurice Tallon in 1957. An abundant amount of material was recovered, which included several large flakes and blades along with a finer series of rabots and scrapers that is now held in the Museum of Lebanese Prehistory at the Saint Joseph University. No large bifaces were found at this site. The site may extend through the areas now turned into gardens. It was covered in crops in 1966.\n\nJoub Jannine is not really known for tourism. However, it is home to one of the oldest bridges in Lebanon, called The Roman Bridge of Joub Jannine (built in 704 AD). Sadly, the bridge collapsed in 1943, but it was rebuilt with the same rocks and is currently identical to the bridge the Romans built. It is located at the entrance of Joub Jannine on Joub Jannine-Chtoura Rd.\n\nBasically doesn't exist due to its majority of conservative Sunni Muslims, nightlife is limited to some operating cafeterias and restaurants around the town which serve non-alcoholic drinks and HALAL plates and barley stay late until midnight, thus bars, nightclubs and amusement centers(cinemas, theaters, casinos...) don't exist in the town or in the nearby villages\n\n"}
{"id": "3416499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3416499", "title": "Legal advice", "text": "Legal advice\n\nLegal advice is the giving of a professional or formal opinion regarding the substance or procedure of the law in relation to a particular factual situation. The provision of legal advice will often involve analyzing a set of facts and advising a person to take a specific course of action based on the applicable law.\n\nLegal advice is ordinarily provided in exchange for financial or other tangible compensation. Advice given without remuneration is normally referred to as being \"pro bono publico\" (in the public good), or simply \"pro bono\".\n\nIn the common law systems it is usually received from a solicitor, barrister or lawyer; in civil law systems it is given by advocates, lawyers or other professionals (such as tax experts, professional advisors, atc.).\n\nIn some countries, legal advice is subject to the possession of a specific licence; in others, it is simply subject to the general regulation of professional obligation and can be provided by any person, who will usually be legally responsible for the provided advice. The UK's Legal Services Act 2007 includes the giving of legal advice within the definition of unreserved legal activities, which means that it can be provided by any person not just an officer of the court. However, if it is provided by a lawyer or another person authorised by one of the front line legal services regulators, then this activity is included within their regulatory reach.\n\nWith the advent of the internet, many services have been established to provide individuals the power to conduct their own legal research or prepare their own legal documents. As well, some companies offer answers to legal questions directly through their web services.\n\nLegal advice is distinguished from legal information which is the reiteration of legal fact. Legal information can be conveyed by a parking meter, sign or by other forms of notice such as a warning by a law enforcement officer.\n\nPrinted legal materials, such as directions and how-to manuals, are generally not considered legal advice. Accordingly, instructions on how to meet court requirements for the submission of forms and other court documents do not constitute legal advice. Thus, a non-lawyer may sell legal forms, provide general instructions for filling out the forms, and provide typing services for the entry of information into forms, provided no legal advice is given.\n\nBasic instruction on how to complete a legal form, where to place information on the form, and the definition of legal terms used on a form constitute the provision of legal information. Instructing a person on how to phrase information in a legal document or form, or advising the person as to what he or she should say in court, is the provision of legal advice. Similarly, application of legal rules and principles to a specific set of facts and advising a course of conduct is almost always held to constitute legal advice.\n\n"}
{"id": "58407392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58407392", "title": "Liberal democratic basic order", "text": "Liberal democratic basic order\n\nThe liberal democratic basic order ( (FDGO)) is a fundamental term in German constitutional law. It determines the unalienable, invariable core structure of the German commonwealth. As such, it is the core substance of the German constitution.\n\nThe FDGO touches on the political order and the societal and political values on which German democracy rests. According to the German constitutional court, the free democratic order is defined thus:\n\nThe concept of the liberal democratic basic order has been and is being rejected by parts of the left spectrum, the Antifa as well as people on the extreme right.\n\nParties as well as groups can be banned if they strive to abolish the FDGO, which has been done so successfully in regard to the Communist Party (1956) and the Socialist Reich Party (1952). In 2003 as well as in 2017, attempts to ban the National Democratic Party (NPD) failed. The willingness of a democracy to ban parties that endanger democracy itself has been termed \"militant democracy\", or \"wehrhafte Demokratie\" in German.\n\n"}
{"id": "2636119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2636119", "title": "List of authors banned in Nazi Germany", "text": "List of authors banned in Nazi Germany\n\nThis list includes both authors whose entire literary production was officially banned in Nazi Germany and authors who were only partially banned. These authors are from the prohibitions lists in Nazi Germany and come from the following lists and others:\n\nThe official list was published by the \"Reichsministerium für Volksaufklärung und Propaganda\". Authors, living and dead, were placed on the list because of Jewish descent, or because of pacifist or communist sympathies or suspicion thereof. \n\nIn May and June 1933, in the first year of the Nazi government, there were book burnings. These book bans compose a part of the history of censorship and a subset of the list of banned books.\n\nAfter World War II started, Germans created indexes of prohibited books in countries they occupied, of works in languages other than German. For example, in occupied Poland, an index of 1,500 prohibited authors was created.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49207153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49207153", "title": "List of comic science fiction", "text": "List of comic science fiction\n\nThis is current list of comic science fiction, mixing science fiction or science fantasy with comedy.\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are also any number of animated Japanese series which use a scifi-comedy or scifi-fantasy-comedy setting. \"Urusei Yatsura\", \"Dr. Slump\", \"FLCL\",\"Irresponsible Captain Tylor\" and \"Tenchi Muyo!\" are examples.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55617869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55617869", "title": "Living with the Gods", "text": "Living with the Gods\n\nLiving with the Gods is a 30-part BBC Radio 4 series presented by Neil MacGregor, a former director of the British Museum. It explores human societies and what MacGregor describes as \"the connections between structures of belief, and the structures of society\".\nThe series examines artefacts from the 40,000 year-old Lion-man sculpture to the contemporary Lampedusa cross created by Francisco Tuccio in response to the 2013 drowning of refugees off the island of Lampedusa.\n\nIn the episode \"Living with Many Gods\", MacGregor explained: \"Choosing a title for this series turned out to be extremely difficult, because although some societies have many gods there are others that acknowledge only one, and for whom even the idea of 'gods' in the plural is offensive. And then there are some communities that share the world around them with spirits, or shifting supernatural beings, which wouldn't match our understanding of a god. And a few societies like Soviet Russia have tried to live officially with no god at all. In every case the consequences for society are profound.\"\n\nThe series accompanied an exhibition at the British Museum, running until 8 April 2018.\n\nWriting in the \"New Statesman\", Antonia Quirke asked, \"What makes Neil MacGregor the best presenter on BBC radio? His new 30-part series \"Living With the Gods\", about objects connected to belief, ceremony and ritual, begins on 23 October (BBC Radio 4, 9.45am), and listening to the first few episodes it’s clear that it is every bit the equal of Kenneth Clark's \"Civilisation\" or Jacob Bronowski's \"The Ascent of Man\". None of them could hope to find a place on television now\".\n"}
{"id": "56319452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56319452", "title": "Maja Gunn", "text": "Maja Gunn\n\nMaja Margita Gunn (born 1978) is a Swedish fashion designer, design researcher and academic who has specialized in lesbian and gender clothing. In December 2017, she was appointed Professor of Crafts at the Gothenburg University Design School.\n\nBorn in Hallsberg, central Sweden, on 31 January 1978, Maja Margita Gunn was brought up in Ludvika. After studying fashion at Stockholm University and at the Utrecht School of the Arts in the Netherlands, she graduated in fashion and costume design at Stockholm's Konstfack in 2005. In 2016, she earned a doctorate from the Swedish School of Textiles in Borås with a dissertation on \"Body acts queer: Clothing as a performative challenge to heteronormativity\".\n\nGunn has worked as a costume designer for SVT Swedish Television and in fashion at H&M. She worked for a couple of years designing items for the ladies collections at Marc Jacobs in New York. While in the United States, she also designed costumes for television and theatre. More recently, she has created items for the lesbian and gay community, exhibiting her work at Liljevalchs in Stockholm (2015) and at the Textile Museum in Borås (2017). In an interview with Cecilia Ekebjär of the Swedish \"dt\", she summed up her approach as follows: \"I am interested in materiality, the relationship between body, clothes and gender.\"\n\nIn December 2017, Maja Gunn was appointed professor of arts and crafts at Gothenburg University's Steneby Design School, providing special focus on fashion design.\n\n"}
{"id": "455405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455405", "title": "Marcel Janco", "text": "Marcel Janco\n\nMarcel Janco (, , common rendition of the Romanian name Marcel Hermann Iancu , last name also Ianco, Janko or Jancu; May 24, 1895 – April 21, 1984) was a Romanian and Israeli visual artist, architect and art theorist. He was the co-inventor of Dadaism and a leading exponent of Constructivism in Eastern Europe. In the 1910s, he co-edited, with Ion Vinea and Tristan Tzara, the Romanian art magazine \"Simbolul\". Janco was a practitioner of Art Nouveau, Futurism and Expressionism before contributing his painting and stage design to Tzara's literary Dadaism. He parted with Dada in 1919, when he and painter Hans Arp founded a Constructivist circle, \"Das Neue Leben\".\n\nReunited with Vinea, he founded \"Contimporanul\", the influential tribune of the Romanian avant-garde, advocating a mix of Constructivism, Futurism and Cubism. At \"Contimporanul\", Janco expounded a \"revolutionary\" vision of urban planning. He designed some of the most innovative landmarks of downtown Bucharest. He worked in many art forms, including illustration, sculpture and oil painting.\n\nJanco was one of the leading Romanian Jewish intellectuals of his generation. Targeted by antisemitic persecution before and during World War II, he emigrated to British Palestine in 1941. He won the Dizengoff Prize and Israel Prize, and was a founder of Ein Hod, a utopian art colony, controversially built over a depopulated Palestinian Arab village (itself relocated to Ein Hawd).\n\nMarcel Janco was the brother of Georges and Jules Janco, who were his artistic partners during and after the Dada episode. His brother-in-law and fellow Constructivist promoter was the writer Jacques G. Costin, known as a survivor of 1940s antisemitism.\n\nMarcel Janco was born on May 24, 1895 in Bucharest to an upper middle class Jewish family. His father, Hermann Zui Iancu, was a textile merchant. His mother, Rachel née Iuster, was from Moldavia. The couple lived outside Bucharest's Jewish quarter, on Decebal Street. He was the oldest of four children. His brothers were Iuliu (Jules) and George. His sister, Lucia, was born in 1900. The Iancus moved from Decebal to Gândului Street, and then to Trinității, where they built one of the largest home-and-garden complexes in early 20th century Bucharest. In 1980, Janco revisited his childhood years, writing: \"Born as I was in beautiful Romania, into a family of well-to-do people, I had the fortune of being educated in a climate of freedom and spiritual enlightenment. My mother, [...] possessing a genuine musical talent, and my father, a stern man and industrious merchant, had created the conditions favorable for developing all of my aptitudes. [...] I was of a sensitive and emotional nature, a withdrawn child who was predisposed to dreaming and meditating. [...] I grew up [...] dominated by a strong sense of humanity and social justice. The existence of disadvantaged, weak, people, of impoverished workers, of beggars, hurt me and, when compared to our family's decent condition, awoke in me a feeling of guilt.\"\n\nJanco attended Gheorghe Șincai School and studied drawing art with the Romanian Jewish painter and cartoonist Iosif Iser. In his teenage years, the family traveled widely, from Austria-Hungary to Switzerland, Italy and the Netherlands. At Gheorghe Lazăr High School, he met several students who would become his artistic companions: Tzara (known then as \"S. Samyro\"), Vinea (\"Iovanaki\"), writers Jacques G. Costin and Poldi Chapier. Janco also became friends with pianist Clara Haskil, the subject of his first published drawing, which appeared in \"Flacăra\" magazine in March 1912.\n\nAs a group, the students were under the influence of Romanian Symbolist clubs, which were at the time the more radical expressions of artistic rejuvenation in Romania. Marcel and Jules Janco's first moment of cultural significance took place in October 1912, when they joined Tzara in editing the Symbolist venue \"Simbolul\", which managed to receive contributions from some of Romania's leading modern poets, from Alexandru Macedonski to Ion Minulescu and Adrian Maniu. The magazine nevertheless struggled to find its voice, alternating modernism with the more conventional Symbolism. Janco was perhaps the main graphic designer of \"Simbolul\", and he may even have persuaded his wealthy parents to support the venture (which closed down in early 1913). Unlike Tzara, who refused to look back on \"Simbolul\" with anything but embarrassment, Janco proudly regarded it as his first participation in artistic revolution.\n\nAfter the \"Simbolul\" moment, Marcel Janco worked at \"Seara\" daily, where he took further training in draftsmanship. The newspaper took him in as illustrator, probably as a result of intercessions from Vinea, its literary columnist. Their \"Simbolul\" colleague Costin joined them as \"Seara\"s cultural editor. Janco was also a visitor of the literary and art club meeting at the home of controversial politician and Symbolist poet Alexandru Bogdan-Pitești, who was for a while the manager of \"Seara\".\n\nIt is possible that, during those years, Tzara and Janco first came to hear and be influenced by the absurdist prose of Urmuz, the lonesome civil clerk and amateur writer who would later become the hero of Romanian modernism. Years later, in 1923, Janco drew an ink portrait of Urmuz. In maturity, he also remarked that Urmuz was the original rebel figure in Romanian literature. In the 1910s, Janco was also interested in the parallel development of French literature, and read passionately from such authors as Paul Verlaine and Guillaume Apollinaire. Another immediate source of inspiration for his attitude on life was provided by Futurism, an anti-establishment movement created in Italy by poet Filippo Tommaso Marinetti and his artists' circle.\n\nJanco eventually decided to leave Romania, probably because he wanted to attend international events such as the \"Sonderbund\" exhibit, but also because of quarrels with his father. In quick succession after the start of World War I, Marcel, Jules and Tzara left Bucharest for Zurich. According to various accounts, their departure may have been either a search for new opportunities (abundant in cosmopolitan Switzerland) or a discreet pacifist statement. Initially, the Jancos were registered with the University of Zurich, where Marcel took Chemistry courses, before applying to study Architecture at the Federal Institute of Technology. His real ambition, later confessed, was to pursue more training in painting. The two brothers were soon joined by younger Georges Janco, but all three were left without any financial support when the war began hampering Europe's trade routes; until October 1917, both Jules and Marcel (who found it impossible to sell his paintings) earned a living as cabaret performers. Marcel was noted for performing selections from Romanian folklore and playing the accordion, as well as for his rendition of \"chansons\". It was during this time that the young artist and his brothers began using the consecrated version of the surname \"Iancu\", probably in hopes that it would sound more familiar to foreigners.\n\nIn this context, the Romanians came into contact with Hugo Ball and the other independent artists plying their trade at the Malerei building, which soon after became known as Cabaret Voltaire. Ball later recalled that four \"Oriental\" men introduced themselves to him late after a show—the description refers to Tzara, the older Jancos and, probably, the Romanian painter Arthur Segal. Ball found the young painter especially pleasant, and was impressed that, unlike his peers, Janco was melancholy rather than ironic; other participants remember him as a very handsome presence in the group, and he allegedly had the reputation of a \"lady-killer\".\n\nAccounts of what happened next differ, but it is presumed that, shortly after the four new participants were accepted, the performances became more daring, and the transition was made from Ball's Futurism to the virulent anti-art performances of Tzara and Richard Huelsenbeck. With help from Segal and others, Marcel Janco was personally involved in decorating the Cabaret Voltaire. Its hectic atmosphere would inspire Janco to create an eponymous oil painting, dated 1916 and believed to have been lost. He was a major contributor to the cabaret's events: he notably carved the grotesque masks worn by performers on stilts, gave \"hissing concerts\" and, in unison with Huelsenbeck and Tzara, improvised some of the first (and mostly onomatopoeic) \"simultaneous poems\" to be read on stage.\n\nHis work with masks became especially influential, opening up a new field of theatrical exploration for the Dadaists (as the Cabaret Voltaire crew began calling themselves), and earning special praise from Ball. Contrary to Ball's later claim of authorship, Janco is also credited with having tailored the \"bishop dress\", another one of the iconic products of early Dadaism. The actual birth of \"Dadaism\", at an unknown date, later formed the basis of disputes between Tzara, Ball, and Huelsenbeck. In this context, Janco is cited as a source for the story according to which the invention of the term \"Dada\" belonged exclusively to Tzara. Janco also circulated stories according to which their shows were attended for informative purposes by communist theorist Vladimir Lenin and psychiatrist Carl Jung.\n\nHis various contributions were harnessed by Dada's international effort of self-promotion. In April 1917, he welcomed the Dada affiliation of Switzerland's own Paul Klee, calling Klee's contribution to the Dada exhibit a \"great event\". His mask designs were popular beyond Europe, and inspired similar creations by Mexico's Germán Cueto, the \"Stridentist\" painter-puppeteer. The Dadaist popularization effort received lukewarm responses in Janco's native country, where the traditionalist press expressed alarm at being confronted with Dada precepts. Vinea himself was ambivalent about the activities of his two friends, preserving a link with poetic tradition which made his publication in Tzara's press impossible. In a letter to Janco, Vinea spoke about having personally presented one of Janco's posters to modernist poet and art critic Tudor Arghezi: \"[He] said, critically, that you cannot say whether a person is talented or not on the basis of only one drawing. Rubbish.\"\n\nExhibited at the Dada group shows, Janco also illustrated the Dada advertisements, including an April 1917 program which features his sketches of Ball, Tzara and Ball's actress wife Emmy Hennings. The event featured his production of Oskar Kokoschka's farce \"Sphinx und Strohmann\", for which he was also the stage designer, and which was turned into one of the most notorious among Dada provocations. Janco was the director and mask designer for the Dada production for another one of Kokoschka's plays, \"Job\". He also returned as Tzara's illustrator, producing the linocuts to \"The First Heavenly Adventure of Mr. Antipyrine\", having already created the props for its theatrical production.\n\nAs early as 1917, Marcel Janco began taking his distance from the movement he had helped to generate. His work, in both woodcut and linocut, continued to be used as the illustration to Dada almanacs for another two years, but he was more often than not in disagreement with Tzara, while also trying to diversify his style. As noted by critics, he found himself split between the urge to mock traditional art and the belief that something just as elaborate needed to take its place: in the conflict between Tzara's nihilism and Ball's art for art's sake, Janco tended to support the latter. In a 1966 text, he further assessed that there were \"two speeds\" in Dada, and that the \"spiritual violence\" phase had eclipsed the \"best Dadas\", including his fellow painter Hans Arp.\n\nJanco recalled: \"We [Janco and Tzara] couldn't agree any more on the importance of Dada, and the misunderstandings accumulated.\" There were, he noted, \"dramatic fights\" sparked by Tzara's taste for \"bad jokes and scandal\". The artist preserved a grudge, and his retrospective views on Tzara's role in Zurich are often sarcastic, depicting him as an excellent organizer and vindictive self-promoter, but not truly a man of culture; a few years into the scandal, he even started a rumor that Tzara was illegally trading in opium. As noted in 2007 by Romanian literary historian Paul Cernat: \"All the efforts by Ion Vinea to reunite them [...] would be in vain. Iancu and Tzara would ignore (or banter) each other for the rest of their lives\". With this split, there came a certain classicization in Marcel Janco's discourse. In February 1918, Janco was even invited to lecture at his \"alma mater\", where he spoke about modernism and authenticity in art as related phenomena, drawing comparisons between the Renaissance and African art. However, having decided to focus on his other projects, Janco nearly abandoned his studies, and failed his final exam.\n\nIn this context, he moved closer to the cell of post-Dada Constructivists exhibiting collectively as \"Neue Kunst\" (\"New Art\")—Arp, Fritz Baumann, Hans Richter, Otto Morach. As a result, Janco was made a member of \"Das Neue Leben\" faction, which supported an educational approach to modern art, coupled with socialist ideals and Constructivist aesthetics. In its art manifesto, the group declared its ideal of \"rebuild[ing] the human community\" in preparation for the end of capitalism. Janco was even affiliated with \"Artistes Radicaux\", a more politically inclined section of \"Das Neue Leben\", where his colleagues included other former Dadas: Arp, Hans Richter, Viking Eggeling. The \"Artistes Radicaux\" were in touch with the German Revolution, and Richter, who worked for the short-lived Bavarian Soviet Republic, even offered Janco and the others virtual teaching positions at the Academy of Fine Arts under a workers' government.\n\nJanco made his final contribution to the Dada adventure in April 1919, when he designed the masks for a major Dada event organized by Tzara at the Saal zur Kaufleutern, and which degenerated into an infamous mass brawl. By May, he was mandated by \"Das Neue Leben\" to create and publish a journal for the movement. Although this never saw print, the preparations placed Janco in contact with the representatives of various modernist currents: Arthur Segal, Walter Gropius, Alexej von Jawlensky, Oscar Lüthy and Enrico Prampolini. This period also witnessed the start of a friendly relationship between Janco and the Expressionist artists who published in Herwarth Walden's magazine \"Der Sturm\".\n\nA little more than a year after the end of war, in December 1919, Marcel and Jules left Switzerland for France. After passing through Paris, the painter was in Béthune, where he married Amélie Micheline \"Lily\" Ackermann, in what was described as a gesture of fronde against his father. The girl was a Swiss Catholic of lowly condition, who had first met the Jancos at \"Das Neue Leben\". Janco was probably in Béthune for a longer while: he was listed as one of those considered for helping to rebuild war-affected French Flanders, redesigned the Chevalier-Westrelin store in Hinges, and was perhaps the co-owner of an architectural enterprise, \"Ianco & Déquire\". It is not unlikely that Janco followed with curiosity the activities of Dada's Parisian cell, which were overseen by Tzara and his pupil André Breton, and he is known to have impressed Breton with his own architectural projects. He was also announced, with Tzara, as a contributor to the post-Dada magazine \"L'Esprit Nouveau\", published by Paul Dermée. Nevertheless, Janco was invited to exhibit elsewhere, rallying with \"Section d'Or\", a Cubist collective.\n\nLate in 1921, Janco and his wife left for Romania, where they had a second marriage to seal their union in front of familial disputes. Janco was soon reconciled with his parents, and, although still unlicensed as an architect, began receiving his first commissions, some of which came from within his own family. His first known design, constructed in 1922 and officially registered as the work of one I. Rosenthal, is a group of seven alley houses, 3 pairs and corner residence, on his father Hermann Iancu's property, at 79 Maximilian Popper Street (prev Trinității Street 29); one of these became his new home. Essentially traditional in style, they are also somewhat stylised, recalling the plainness of the English Arts & Crafts or the Czech 'Cubist' style.\n\nSoon after making his comeback, Marcel Janco reconnected himself with the local avant-garde salons, and had his first Romanian exhibits, at the \"Maison d'Art\" club in Bucharest. His friends and collaborators, among them actress Dida Solomon and journalist-director Sandu Eliad, would describe him as exceptionally charismatic and knowledgeable. In December 1926, he was present at the Hasefer Art Show in Bucharest. Around that year, Janco took commissions as an art teacher at his studio in Bucharest—in the words of his pupil, the future painter Hedda Sterne, these were informal: \"We were given easels, etc. but nobody looked, nobody advised us.\"\n\nFrom his position as Constructivist mentor and international artist, Janco proceeded to network between Romanian modernist currents, and joined up with his old colleague Vinea. Early in 1922, the two men founded a political and art magazine, the influential \"Contimporanul\"—historically, the longest-lived venue of the Romanian avant-garde. Janco was abroad that year, as one of guests at the First Constructivist Congress, convened by Dutch artist Theo van Doesburg in Düsseldorf. He was in Zurich around 1923, receiving the visit of a compatriot, writer Victor Eftimiu, who declared him a hard-working artist able to reconcile the modern with the traditional.\n\n\"Contimporanul\" followed Janco's Constructivist affiliation. Initially a venue for socialist satire and political commentary, it reflected Vinea's strong dislike for the ruling National Liberal Party. However, by 1923, the journal became increasingly cultural and artistic in its revolt, headlining with translations from van Doesburg and Breton, publishing Vinea's own homage to Futurism, and featuring illustrations and international notices which Janco may have handpicked himself. Some researchers have attributed the change exclusively to the painter's growing say in editorial policy. Janco was at the time in correspondence with Dermée, who was to contribute the \"Contimporanul\" anthology of modern French poetry, and with fellow painter Michel Seuphor, who collected Janco's Constructivist sculptures. He maintained a link between \"Contimporanul\" and \"Der Sturm\", which republished his drawings alongside the contributions of various Romanian avant-garde writers and artists. The reciprocal popularization was taken up by \"Ma\", the Vienna-based tribune of Hungarian modernists, which also published samples of Janco's graphics. Owing to Janco's resentments and Vinea's apprehension, the magazine never covered the issuing of new Dada manifestos, and responded critically to Tzara's new versions of Dada history.\n\nMarcel Janco also took charge of \"Contimporanul\"s business side, designing its offices on Imprimerie Street and overseeing the publication of postcards. Over the years, his own contributions to \"Contimporanul\" came to include some 60 illustrations, some 40 articles on art and architectural topics, and a number of his architectural designs or photographs of buildings erected from them. He oversaw one of the journal's first special issues, dedicated to \"Modern Architecture\", and notably hosting his own contributions to architectural theory, as well as his design of a \"country workshop\" for Vinea's use. Other issues also featured his essay on film and theater, his furniture designs, and his interview with the French Cubist Robert Delaunay. Janco was also largely responsible for the \"Contimporanul\" issue on Surrealism, which included his interviews with writers such as Joseph Delteil, and his inquiry about the publisher Simon Krà.\n\nTogether with Romanian Cubist painter M. H. Maxy, Janco was personally involved in curating the \"Contimporanul\" International Art Exhibit of 1924. This event reunited the major currents of Europe's modern art, reflecting \"Contimporanul\"s eclectic agenda and international profile. It hosted samples of works by leading modernists: the Romanians Segal, Constantin Brâncuși, Victor Brauner, János Mattis-Teutsch, Milița Petrașcu, alongside Arp, Eggeling, Klee, Richter, Lajos Kassák and Kurt Schwitters. The exhibit included samples of Janco's work in furniture design, and featured his managerial contribution to a Dada-like opening party, co-produced by him, Maxy, Vinea and journalist Eugen Filotti. He was also involved in preparing the magazine's theatrical parties, including the 1925 production of \"A Merry Death\", by Nikolai Evreinov; Janco was the set and costume designer, and Eliad the director. An unusual echo of the exhibit came in 1925, when \"Contimporanul\" published a photograph of Brâncuși's \"Princess X\" sculpture. The Romanian Police saw this as a sexually explicit artwork, and Vinea and Janco were briefly taken into custody. Janco was a dedicated admirer of Brâncuși, visiting him in Paris and writing in \"Contimporanul\" about Brâncuși's \"spirituality of form\" theories.\n\nIn their work as cultural campaigners, Vinea and Janco even collaborated with \"75 HP\", a periodical edited by poet Ilarie Voronca, which was nominally anti-\"Contimporanul\" and pro-Dada. Janco was also an occasional presence in the pages of \"Punct\", the Dadaist-Constructivist paper put out by the socialist Scarlat Callimachi. It was here that he notably published articles on architectural styles and a lampoon, in French and German, titled \"T.S.F. Dialogue entre le bourgeois mort et l'apôtre de la vie nouvelle\" (\"Cablegram. The Dialogue between a Dead Bourgeois and the Apostle of New Living\"). In addition, his graphic work was popularized by Voronca's other magazine, the Futurist tribune \"Integral\". Janco was also called upon by authors Ion Pillat and Perpessicius to illustrate their \"Antologia poeților de azi\" (\"The Anthology of Present-Day Poets\"). His portraits of the writers included, drawn in sharply modernist style, were received with amusement by the traditionalist public. In 1926, Janco further antagonized the traditionalists by publishing sensual drawings for Camil Baltazar's book of erotic poems, \"Strigări trupești lîngă glezne\" (\"Bodily Exhortations around the Ankles\").\n\nSome time in the late 1920s, Ianco set up an architectural studio \"Birou de Studii Moderne\" (Office of Modern Studies), a partnership with his brother Jules (Iulius), a venture often identified by the name \"Marcel Iuliu Iancu\", combining the two brothers as one. Heralding the change of architectural tastes with his articles in \"Contimporanul\", Marcel Janco described Romania's capital as a chaotic, inharmonious, backward town, in which the traffic was hampered by carts and trams, a city in need of Modernist revolution.\n\nProfiting from the building boom of Greater Romania, and the rising popularity of functionalism, Janco's \"Birou\" received commissions from 1926 onwards that were occasional and small-scale. Compared with mainstream functionalist architects like Horia Creangă, Duiliu Marcu or Jean Monda, the Jancos had a decisive role in popularizing the functionalist versions of Constructivism or Cubism, designing the first examples of this new stylistic approach to be built in Romania. The first clear, though unheralded, expression of Modernism in Romania, was the construction in 1926 of a small apartment building near his earlier houses, also built for his father Herman, with an apartment for Herman, one for Marcel as well as his rooftop studio. The structure simply follows the curved line of the corner lot, the severe elevations devoid of decoration, enlivened only by a triangular bay window and balcony above, and a scheme of different colours (now lost) applied to the three wall areas differentiated by slight variations on depth.\n\nA major breakthrough was his Villa Jean Fuchs, built in 1927 on Negustori Street. Its cosmopolitan owner allowed the artist complete freedom in designing the building, and a budget of 1 million lei, and he created what is often described as the first Constructivist (and therefore Modernist) structure in Bucharest. The design was quite unlike anything seen in Bucharest before, the front facade composed of complex overlapping, projecting and receding rectangular volumes, horizontal and corner windows, three circular porthole windows, and stepped flat roof areas including a rooftop lookout. The result caused a stir in the neighborhood, and the press found it to be reminiscent of a \"morgue\" and a \"crematorium\". The architect and his patrons were undeterred by such reactions, and the Janco firm received commissions to build similar villas.\n\nUntil 1933, when Marcel Janco finally received his certification, his designs continued to be officially recorded under different names, most usually attributed to a Constantin Simionescu. This had little effect on the \"Birou\"s output: by the time of his last known design in 1938, Janco and his brother are thought to have designed some 40 permanent or temporary structures in Bucharest, all the remaining projects located in the northern residential districts of Aviatorilor and Primaverii, and with by far the largest concentration in or to the north of the Jewish Quarter, just the east of the old town centre, reflecting the family and community ties of many of his commissions.\n\nThese and other projects also involved the 1924 exhibit's Milița Petrașcu, who is herself better known as a modernist sculptor. Several other Bucharest homes result from this creative collaboration: the Maria Lambru Villa of 1928, on Popa Savu Street; the Florica Chihăescu house on Șoseaua Kiseleff (1930); the Jean Juster and Paul Wexler Villas, on Silvestru and Grigore Mora streets, respectively (1931). Janco also designed a house for his \"Simbolul\" friend Poldi Chapier. Located on Ipătescu Alley and finished in 1929, this was occasionally described as \"Bucharest's first Cubist lodging\", even though the Villa Fuchs was two year earlier. These projects are joined by a private sanatorium of Predeal, Janco's only surviving Constructivist designs outside of Bucharest. Built in 1937 at the base of a wooded hill, it has the sweeping horizontals of international streamlined Modernism, with Janco's innovation of diagonally placed rooms creating a striking zigzag effect.\n\nJanco had one daughter from his marriage to Lily Ackermann, who signed her name Josine Ianco-Starrels (b. 1926), and was raised a Catholic. Her sister Claude-Simone had died in infancy. By the mid-1920s, Marcel and Lily Janco were estranged: already by the time of their divorce (1930), she was living by herself in a Brașov home designed by Janco. The artist remarried to Clara \"Medi\" Goldschlager, the sister of his old friend Jacques G. Costin. The couple had a girl, Deborah Theodora (\"Dadi\" for short).\n\nWith his new family, Janco lived a comfortable life, traveling throughout Europe and spending his summer vacations in the resort town of Balcic. In 1931, Janco built himself a new family home, the blockhouse known as \"Clara Iancu Building\", on Caimatei. The Jancos and the Costins also shared ownership of a country estate: known as \"Jacquesmara\", it was located in Budeni-Comana, Giurgiu County. The house is especially known for hosting Clara Haskil during one of her triumphant returns to Romania.\n\nJanco was still active as the art editor of \"Contimporanul\" during its final and most eclectic series of 1929, when he took part in selecting new young contributors, such as publicist and art critic Barbu Brezianu. At that junction, the magazine triumphantly published a \"Letter to Janco\", in which the formerly traditionalist architect George Matei Cantacuzino spoke about his colleague's decade-long contribution to the development of Romanian functionalism. Beyond his \"Contimporanul\" affiliation, Janco rallied with the Bucharest collective \"Arta Nouă\" (\"New Art\"), also joined by Maxy, Brauner, Mattis-Teutsch, Petrașcu, Nina Arbore, Cornelia Babic-Daniel, Alexandru Brătășanu, Olga Greceanu, Corneliu Michăilescu, Claudia Millian, Tania Șeptilici and others.\n\nJanco and some other regulars of \"Contimporanul\" also reached out to the Surrealist faction at \"unu\" review—Janco is notably mentioned as a \"contributor\" on the cover of \"unu\", Summer 1930 issue, where all 8 containing pages were purposefully left blank. Janco prepared woodcuts for the first edition of Vinea's novel \"Paradisul suspinelor\" (\"The Paradise of Sobs\"), printed with Editura Cultura Națională in 1930, and for Vinea's poems in their magazine versions. His drawings were used in illustrating two volumes of interviews with writers, compiled by \"Contimporanul\" sympathizer Felix Aderca, and Costin's only volume of prose, the 1931 \"Exerciții pentru mâna dreaptă\" (\"Right-handed Exercises\").\n\nJanco attended the 1930 reunion organized by \"Contimporanul\" in honor of the visiting Futurist Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, and gave a welcoming speech. Marinetti was again praised by the \"Contimporanul\" group (Vinea, Janco, Petrașcu, Costin) in February 1934, in an open letter stating: \"We are soldiers of the same army.\" These developments created a definitive split in Romania's avant-garde movement, and contributed to \"Contimporanul\"s eventual fall: the Surrealists and socialists at \"unu\" condemned Vinea and the rest for having established, through Marinetti, a connection with the Italian fascists. After the incidents, Janco's art was openly questioned by \"unu\" contributors such as Stephan Roll.\n\nAlthough \"Contimporanul\" went bankrupt, an artistic faction of the same name survived until 1936. During the interval, Janco found other backers in the specialized art and architecture magazines, such as \"Orașul\", \"Arta și Orașul\", \"Rampa\", \"Ziarul Științelor și al Călătoriilor\". In 1932, his villa designs were included by Alberto Sartoris in his guide to modern architecture, \"Gli elementi dell'architettura razionale\". The early 1930s also witnessed Janco's participation with the literary and art society \"Criterion\", whose leader was philosopher Mircea Eliade. The group was mostly a venue Romania's intellectual youth, interested in redefining the national specificity around modernist values, but also offered a venue for dialogue between the far right and the far left. With Maxy, Petrașcu, Mac Constantinescu, Petre Iorgulescu-Yor, Margareta Sterian and others, Janco represented the art collective at \"Criterion\", which, in 1933, exhibited at Dalles Hall, Bucharest. The same year, Janco erected a blockhouse for Costin (Paleologu Street, 5), which doubled as his own working address and the administrative office of \"Contimporanul\".\n\nFrom 1929, Janco's efforts to reform the capital received administrative support from Dem. I. Dobrescu, the left-wing Mayor of Bucharest. 1934 was the year when Janco returned as architectural theorist, with \"Urbanism, nu romantism\" (\"Urbanism, Not Romanticism\"), an essay in the review \"Orașul\". Janco's text restated the need and opportunity for modernist urban planning, especially in Bucharest. \"Orașul\", edited by Eliad and writer Cicerone Theodorescu, introduced him as a world-famous architect and \"revolutionary\", praising the diversity of his contributions. In 1935, Janco published the pamphlet \"Către o arhitectură a Bucureștilor\" (\"Toward an Architecture of Bucharest\"), which recommended a \"utopian\" project to solve the city's social crisis. Like some of his \"Contimporanul\" colleagues, he was by then collaborating with \"Cuvântul Liber\", the self-styled \"moderate left-wing review\" and with Isac Ludo's modernist magazine, \"Adam\".\n\nHe was at the time completing work on the Bazaltin Company headquarters on Jianu Square, the Solly Gold tenement on Hristo Botev Avenue, the Frida Cohen tower on Stelea Spătarul Street (the tallest among Janco's buildings) and the highrise on Ștefan Luchian Street (Janco's largest), the Iluță Laboratory on Olari Street, the Florica Reich Villa on Grigore Mora, and another home for Poldi Chapier. Probably commissioned by Mircea Eliade, Janco also began work on the \"Alexandrescu Building\", a tenement for Eliade's sister and her family. Together with Margareta Sterian, who became his disciple, Janco was working on artistic projects involving ceramics and fresco. In 1936, some works by Janco, Maxy and Petrașcu represented Romania at the Futurist art show in New York City. Throughout the period, Janco was still on demand as a draftsman: in 1934, his depiction of poet Constantin Nissipeanu opened the first print of Nisspeanu's \"Metamorfoze\"; in 1936, he published a posthumous portrait of writer Mateiu Caragiale, to illustrate the Perpessicius edition of Caragiale's poems. His prints also served to illustrate \"Sadismul adevărului\" (\"The Sadism of Truth\"), written by \"unu\" founder Sașa Pană.\n\nBy that time, the Janco family was faced with the rise of antisemitism, and alarmed by the growth of fascist movements such as the Iron Guard. In the 1920s, the \"Contimporanul\" leadership had sustained a xenophobic attack from the traditionalist review \"Țara Noastră\". It cited Vinea's Greek origins as a cause for concern, and described Janco as the \"painter of the cylinder\", and an alien, cosmopolitan, Jew. That objection to Janco's work, and to \"Contimporanul\" in general, was also taken up in 1926 by the anti-modernist essayist I. E. Torouțiu. \"Criterion\" itself split in 1934, when some of its members openly rallied with the Iron Guard, and the radical press accused the remaining ones of promoting pederasty through their public performances. Josine was expelled from Catholic school in 1935, the reason invoked being that her father was a Jew.\n\nFor Marcel Janco, the events were an opportunity to discuss his own assimilation into Romanian society: in one of his conferences, he defined himself as \"an artist who is a Jew\", rather than \"a Jewish artist\". He later confessed his dismay at the attacks targeting him: \"nowhere, never, in Romania or elsewhere in Europe, during peacetime or the cruel years of [World War I], did anyone ask me whether I was a Jew or... a kike. [...] Hitler's Romanian minions managed to change this climate, to turn Romania into an antisemitic country.\" The ideological shift, he recalled, destroyed his relationships with the \"Contimporanul\" poet Ion Barbu, who reportedly concluded, after admiring a 1936 exhibit: \"Too bad you're a kike!\" At around that time, pianist and fascist sympathizer Cella Delavrancea also assessed that Janco's contribution to theater was the prime example of \"Jewish\" and \"bastard\" art.\n\nWhen the antisemitic National Christian Party took power, Janco was coming to terms with the Zionist ideology, describing the Land of Israel as the \"cradle\" and \"salvation\" of Jews the world over. At Budeni, he and Costin hosted Betar paramilitaries, who were attempting to organize a Jewish self-defense movement. Janco subsequently made his first trip to British Palestine, and began arranging his and his family's relocation there. Although Jules and his family emigrated soon after the visit, Marcel returned to Bucharest and, shortly before Jewish art was officially censored, had his one last exhibit there, together with Milița Petrașcu. He was also working on one of his last, and most experimental, contributions to Romanian architecture: the Hermina Hassner Villa (which also hosted his 1928 painting of the \"Jardin du Luxembourg\"), the Emil Petrașcu residence, and a tower behind the Atheneum.\n\nIn 1939, the Nazi-aligned Ion Gigurtu cabinet enforced racial discrimination throughout the land, and, as a consequence, \"Jaquesmara\" was confiscated by the state. Many of the Bucharest villas he had designed, which had Jewish landlords, were also taken over forcefully by the authorities. Some months after, the National Renaissance Front government prevented Janco from publishing his work anywhere in Romania, but he was still able to find a niche at \"Timpul\" daily—its anti-fascist manager, Grigore Gafencu, gave imprimatur to sketches, including the landscapes of Palestine. He was also finding work with the ghettoized Jewish community, designing the new Barașeum Studio, located in the vicinity of Caimatei.\n\nDuring the first two years of World War II, although he prepared his documents and received a special passport, Janco was still undecided. He was still in Romania when the Iron Guard established its National Legionary State. He was receiving and helping Jewish refugees from Nazi-occupied Europe, and hearing from them about the concentration camp system, but refused offers to emigrate into a neutral or Allied country. His mind was made up in January 1941, when the Iron Guard's struggle for maintaining power resulted in the Bucharest Pogrom. Janco himself was a personal witness to the violent events, noting for instance that the Nazi German bystanders would declare themselves impressed by the Guard's murderous efficiency, or how the thugs made an example of the Jews trapped in the Choral Temple. The Străulești Abbatoir murders and the stories of Jewish survivors also inspired several of Janco's drawings. One of the victims of the Abbatoir massacre was Costin's brother Michael Goldschlager. He was kidnapped from his house by Guardsmen, and his corpse was among those found hanging on hooks, mutilated in such way as to mock the Jewish \"kashrut\" ritual.\nJanco later stated that, over the course of a few days, the pogrom had made him a militant Jew. With clandestine assistance from England, Marcel, Medi and their two daughters left Romania through Constanța harbor, and arrived in Turkey on February 4, 1941. They then made their way to Islahiye and French Syria, crossing through the Kingdom of Iraq and Transjordan, and, on February 23, ended their journey in Tel Aviv. The painter found his first employment as architect for Tel Aviv's city government, sharing the office with a Holocaust survivor who informed him about the genocide in occupied Poland. In Romania, the new regime of \"Conducător\" Ion Antonescu planned a new series of antisemitic measures and atrocities (\"see Holocaust in Romania\"). In November 1941, Costin and his wife Laura, who had stayed behind in Bucharest, were among those deported to the occupied region of Transnistria. Costin survived, joining up with his sister and with Janco in Palestine, but later moved back to Romania.\n\nDuring his years in British Palestine, Marcel Janco became a noted participant in the development of local Jewish art. He was one of the four Romanian Jewish artists who marked the development of Zionist arts and crafts before 1950—the others were Jean David, Reuven Rubin, Jacob Eisenscher; David, who was Janco's friend in Bucharest, joined him in Tel Aviv after an adventurous trip and internment in Cyprus. In particular, Janco was an early influence on three Zionist artists who had arrived to Palestine from other regions: Avigdor Stematsky, Yehezkel Streichman and Joseph Zaritsky. He was soon recognized as a leading presence in the artist community, receiving Tel Aviv Municipality's Dizengoff Prize in 1945, and again in 1946.\n\nThese contacts were not interrupted by the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, and Janco was a figure of prominence in the art scene of independent Israel. The new nation enlisted his services as planner, and he was assigned to the team of Arieh Sharon, being tasked with designing and preserving the Israeli national parks. As a result of his intervention, in 1949 the area of Old Jaffa was turned into an artist-friendly community. He was again a recipient of the Dizengoff Prize in 1950 and 1951, resuming his activity as an art promoter and teacher, with lectures at the \"Seminar HaKibbutzim\" college (1953). His artwork was again on show in New York City for a 1950 retrospective. In 1952 he was one of three artists whose work was displayed at the Israeli pavilion at the Venice Biennale, the first year Israel had its own pavilion at the Biennale. The other two artists were Reuven Rubin and Moshe Mokady.\n\nMarcel Janco began his main Israeli project in May 1953, after he had been mandated by the Israeli government to prospect the mountainous regions and delimit a new national park south of Mount Carmel. In his own account (since disputed by others), he came across the deserted village of Ein Hod, which the Palestinian Arabs had largely discarded during the 1948 exodus. Janco felt that the place should not be demolished, obtaining a lease on it from the authorities, and rebuilt the place with other Israeli artists who worked there on weekends; Janco's main residence continued to be in the neighborhood of Ramat Aviv. His plot of land in Ein Hod was previously owned by the Arab Abu Faruq, who died in 1991 at the Jenin refugee camp. Janco became the site's first mayor, reorganizing it into a utopian society, art colony and tourist attraction, and instituted the strict code of requirements for one's settlement in Ein Hod.\nAlso in the 1950s, Janco was a founding member of \"Ofakim Hadashim\" (\"New Horizons\") group, comprising Israeli painters committed to abstract art, and headed by Zaritsky. Although he shared the artistic vision, Janco probably did not approve of Zaritsky's rejection of all narrative art and, in 1956, left the group. He continued to explore new media, and, together with artisan Itche Mambush, he created a series of reliefs and tapestries. Janco also drew in pastel, and created humorous illustrations to \"Don Quixote\".\n\nHis individual contributions received further praise from his peers and his public: in 1958, he was honored with the Histadrut union's prize. Over the next two decades, Marcel Janco had several new personal exhibits, notably in Tel Aviv (1959, 1972), Milan (1960) and Paris (1963). Having attended the 1966 Venice Biennale, he won the Israel Prize of 1967, in recognition of his work as painter.\n\nIn 1960, Janco's presence in Ein Hod was challenged by the returning Palestinians, who tried to reclaim the land. He organized a community defense force, headed by sculptor Tuvia Iuster, which guarded Ein Hod until Israel Police intervened against the protesters. Janco was generally tolerant of those Palestinians who set up the small rival community of Ein Hawd: he notably maintained contacts with tribal leader Abu Hilmi and with Arab landscape artist Muin Zaydan Abu al-Hayja, but the relationship between the two villages was generally distant. Janco has also been described as \"disinterested\" in the fate of his Arab neighbors.\n\nFor a second time, Janco reunited with Costin when the latter fled Communist Romania. The writer was a political refugee, singled out at home for \"Zionist\" activities, and implicated in the show trial of Milița Petrașcu. Costin later left Israel, settling in France. Janco himself made efforts to preserve a link with Romania, and sent albums to his artist friends beyond the Iron Curtain. He met with folklorist and former political prisoner Harry Brauner, poet Ștefan Iureș, painter Matilda Ulmu and art historian Geo Șerban. His studio was home to other Jewish Romanian emigrants fleeing communism, including female artist Liana Saxone-Horodi. From Israel, he spoke about his Romanian experience at length, first in an interview with writer Solo Har and then in a 1980 article for \"Shevet Romania\" magazine. A year later, from his home in Australia, the modernist promoter Lucian Boz headlined a selection of his works with Janco's portrait of the author.\n\nAlso in 1981, a selection of Janco's drawings of Holocaust crimes was issued with the Am Oved album \"Kav Haketz/On the Edge\". The following year, he received the \"Worthy of Tel Aviv\" distinction, granted by the city government. One of the last public events to be attended by Marcel Janco was the creation of the Janco-Dada Museum at his home in Ein Hod. By then, Janco is said to have been concerned about the overall benefits of Jewish relocation into an Arab village. Among his final appearances in public was a 1984 interview with Schweizer Fernsehen station, in which he revisited his Dada activities.\n\nThe earliest works by Janco show the influence of Iosif Iser, adopting the visual trappings of Postimpressionism and illustrating, for the first time in Janco's career, the interest in modern composition techniques; Liana Saxone-Horodi believes that Iser's manner is most evident in Janco's 1911 work, \"Self-portrait with Hat\", preserved at the Janco-Dada Museum. Around 1913, Janco was in more direct contact with the French sources of Iser's Postimpressionism, having by then discovered on his own the work of André Derain. However, his covers and vignettes for \"Simbolul\" are generally Art Nouveau and Symbolist to the point of pastiche. Researcher Tom Sandqvist presumes that Janco was in effect following his friends' command, as \"his own preferences were soon closer to Cézanne and cubist-influenced modes of expression\".\n\nFuturism was thrown into the mix, a fact acknowledged by Janco during his 1930 encounter with Marinetti: \"we were nourished by [Futurist] ideas and empowered to be enthusiastic.\" A third major source for Janco's imagery was Expressionism, initially coming to him from both \"Die Brücke\" artists and Oskar Kokoschka, and later reactivated by his contacts at \"Der Sturm\". Among his early canvasses, the self-portraits and the portraits of clowns have been discussed as particularly notable samples of Romanian Expressionism.\n\nThe influence of Germanic Postimpressionism on Janco's art was crystallized during his studies at the Federal Institute of Technology. His more important teachers there, Sandqvist observes, were sculptor Johann Jakob Graf and architect Karl Moser—the latter in particular, for his ideas on the architectural \"Gesamtkunstwerk\". Sandqvist suggests that, after modernizing Moser's ideas, Janco first theorized that Abstract-Expressionistic decorations needed to an integral part of the basic architectural design. In paintings from Janco's \"Cabaret Voltaire\" period, the figurative element is not canceled, but usually subdued: the works show a mix of influences, primarily from Cubism or Futurism, and have been described by Janco's colleague Arp as \"zigzag naturalism\". His series on dancers, painted before 1917 and housed by the Israel Museum, moves between the atmospheric qualities of a Futurism filtered through Dada and Janco's first experiments in purely abstract art.\n\nHis assimilation of Expressionism has led scholar John Willett to discuss Dadaism as visually an Expressionist sub-current, and, in retrospect, Janco himself claimed that Dada was not as much a fully-fledged new artistic style as \"a force coming from the physical instincts\", directed against \"everything cheap\". However, his own work also features the quintessentially Dada found object art, or everyday objects rearranged as art—reportedly, he was the first Dadaist to experiment in such manner. His other studies, in collage and relief, have been described by reviewers as \"a personal synthesis which is identifiable as his own to this day\", and ranked among \"the most courageous and original experiments in abstract art.\"\n\nThe \"Contimporanul\" years were a period of artistic exploration. Although a Constructivist architect and designer, Janco was still identifiable as an Expressionist in his ink-drawn portraits of writers and in some of his canvasses. According to scholar Dan Grigorescu, his essays of the time fluctuate away from Constructivism, and adopt ideas common in Expressionism, Surrealism, or even the Byzantine revival suggested by anti-modernist reviews. His \"Rolling the Dice\" piece is a meditation on the tragedy of human existence, which reinterprets the symbolism of zodiacs and probably alludes to the seedier side of urban life. The Expressionist transfiguration of shapes was especially noted in his drawings of Mateiu Caragiale and Stephan Roll, created from harsh and seemingly spontaneous lines. The style was ridiculed at the time by traditionalist poet George Topîrceanu, who wrote that, in \"Antologia poeților de azi\", Ion Barbu looked \"a Mongolian bandit\", Felix Aderca \"a shoemaker's apprentice\", and Alice Călugăru \"an alcoholic fishwife\". Such views were contrasted by Perpessicius' publicized belief that Janco was \"the purest artist\", his drawings evidencing the \"great vital force\" of his subjects. Topîrceanu's claim is contradicted by literary historian Barbu Cioculescu, who finds the \"Antologia\" drawings: \"exquisitely synthetic—some of them masterpieces; take it from someone who has seen from up close many of the writers portrayed\".\n\nAs a Dada, Janco was interested in the raw and primitive art, generated by \"the instinctive power of creation\", and he credited Paul Klee with having helped him \"interpret the soul of primitive man\". A distinct application of Dada was his own work with masks, seen by Hugo Ball as having generated fascination with their unusual \"kinetic power\", and useful for performing \"larger-than-life characters and passions.\" However, Janco's understanding of African masks, idols and ritual was, according to art historians Mark Antliff and Patricia Leighten, \"deeply romanticized\" and \"reductive\".\n\nAt the end of the Dada episode, Janco also took his growing interest in primitivism to the level of academia: in his 1918 speech at the Zurich Institute, he declared that African, Etruscan, Byzantine and Romanesque arts were more genuine and \"spiritual\" than the Renaissance and its derivatives, while also issuing special praise for the modern spirituality of Derain, Vincent van Gogh, Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse; his lecture rated all Cubists above all Impressionists. In his contribution to \"Das Neue Leben\" theory, he spoke about a return to the handicrafts, ending the \"divorce\" between art and life. Art critic Harry Seiwert also notes that Janco's art also reflected his contact with various other alternative models, found in Ancient Egyptian and Far Eastern art, in the paintings of Cimabue and El Greco, and in Cloisonnism. Seiwert and Sandqvist both propose that Janco's work had other enduring connections with the visual conventions of Hassidism and the dark tones often favored by 20th-century Jewish art.\n\nAround 1919, Janco had come to describe Constructivism as a needed transition from \"negative\" Dada, an idea also pioneered by his colleagues Kurt Schwitters and Theo van Doesburg, and finding an early expression in Janco's plaster relief \"Soleil jardin clair\" (1918). In part, Janco's post-Dadaism responded to the socialist ideals of Constructivism. According to Sandqvist, his affiliation to \"Das Neue Leben\" and his sporadic contacts with the Art Soviet of Munich meant that he was trying to \"adjust to the spirit of the age.\" Historian Hubert F. van der Berg also notes that the socialist ideal of \"a new life\", implicitly adopted by Janco, was a natural peacetime development of Dada's discourse about \"the new man\".\n\nThe activity at \"Contimporanul\" cemented Janco's belief in primitivism and the values of outsider art. In a 1924 piece, he argued: \"The art of children, folk art, the art of psychopaths, of primitive people are the liveliest ones, the most expressive ones, coming to us from organic depths, without cultivated beauty.\" He ridiculed, like Ion Vinea before him, the substance of Romania's academic traditionalism, notably in a provocative drawing which showed a grazing donkey under the title \"Tradition\". Instead, Janco was publicizing the idea that Dada and various other strands of modernism were the actual tradition, for being indirectly indebted to the absurdist nature of Romanian folklore. The matter of Janco's own debt to his country's peasant art is more controversial. In the 1920s, Vinea discussed Janco's Cubism is a direct echo of an old abstract art that is supposedly native and exclusive to Romania—an assumption considered exaggerated by Paul Cernat. Seiwert suggests that virtually none of Janco's paintings show a verifiable contact with Romanian primitivism, but his opinion is questioned by Sandqvist: he writes that Janco's masks and prints are homages to traditional Romanian decorative patterns.\n\nFor a while, Janco rediscovered himself in abstract and semi-abstract art, describing the basic geometrical shapes as pure forms, and art as the effort to organize these forms—ideas akin with the \"picto-poetry\" of Romanian avant-garde writers such as Ilarie Voronca. After 1930, when Constructivism lost its position of leadership on Romania's artistic scene, Janco made a return to \"analytic\" Cubism, echoing the early work of Picasso in his painting \"Peasant Woman and Eggs\". This period centered on semi-figurative cityscapes, which, according to critics such as Alexandru D. Broșteanu and Sorin Alexandrescu, stand out for their objectification of the human figure. Also then, Janco worked on seascape and still life canvasses, in brown tones and Cubist arrangements. Diversification touched his other activities. His theory of set design still mixed Expressionism into Futurism and Constructivism, calling for an actor-based Expressionist theater and a mechanized, movement-based, cinema. However, his parallel work in costume design evidenced a toning down of avant-garde tendencies (to the displeasure of his colleagues at \"Integral\" magazine), and a growing preoccupation with \"commedia dell'arte\".\n\nIn discussing architecture, Janco described himself and the other \"Artistes Radicaux\" as the mentors of Europe's modernist urban planners, including Bruno Taut and the \"Bauhaus\" group. The ideals of collectivism in art, \"art as life\", and a \"Constructivist revolution\" dominated his programmatic texts of the mid-1920s, which offered as examples the activism of \"De Stijl\", \"Blok\" and Soviet Constructivist architecture. His own architectural work was entirely dedicated to functionalism: in his words, the purpose of architecture was a \"harmony of forms\", with designs as simplified as to resemble crystals. His experiment on Trinității Street, with its angular pattern and multicolored facade, has been rated one of the most spectacular samples of Romanian modernism, while the buildings he designed later came with Art Deco elements, including the \"ocean liner\"-type balconies. At the other end, his Predeal sanatorium was described by Sandqvist as \"a long, narrow white building clearly signaling its function as a hospital\" and \"smoothly adapting to the landscape.\" Functionalism was further illustrated by Janco's ideas on furniture design, where he favored \"small heights\", \"simple aesthetics\", as well as \"a maximum of comfort\" which would \"pay no tribute to richness\".\n\nScholars have also noted that \"the breath of humanitarianism\" unites the work of Janco, Maxy and Corneliu Michăilescu, beyond their shared eclecticism. Cernat nevertheless suggests that the \"Contimporanul\" group was politically disengaged and making efforts to separate art from politics, giving positive coverage to both Marxism and Italian fascism. In that context, a more evidently Marxist form of Constructivism, close to Proletkult, was being taken up independently by Maxy. Janco's functionalist goal was still coupled with socialist imagery, as in \"Către o arhitectură a Bucureștilor\", called an architectural \"tikkun olam\" by Sandqvist. Indebted to Le Corbusier's \"New Architecture\", Janco theorized that Bucharest had the \"luck\" of not yet being systematized or built-up, and that it could be easily turned into a garden city, without ever repeating the West's \"chain of mistakes\". According to architecture historians Mihaela Criticos and Ana Maria Zahariade, Janco's creed was not in fact radically different from mainstream Romanian opinions: \"although declaring themselves committed to the modernist agenda, [Janco and others] nuance it with their own formulas, away from the abstract utopias of the International Style.\" A similar point is made by Sorin Alexandrescu, who attested a \"general contradiction\" in Janco's architecture, that between Janco's own wishes and those of his patrons.\n\nSoon after his first visit to Palestine and his Zionist conversion, Janco began painting landscapes in optimistic tones, including a general view over Tiberias and bucolic watercolors. By the time of World War II, however, he was again an Expressionist, fascinated with the major existential themes. The war experience inspired his 1945 painting \"Fascist Genocide\", which is also seen by Grigorescu as one of his contributions to Expressionism. Janco's sketches of the Bucharest Pogrom are, according to cultural historian David G. Roskies, \"extraordinary\" and in complete break with Janco's \"earlier surrealistic style\"; he paraphrases the rationale for this change as: \"Why bother with surrealism when the world itself has gone crazy?\" According to the painter's own definition: \"I was drawing with the thirst of one who is being chased around, desperate to quench it and find his refuge.\" As he recalled, these works were not well received in the post-war Zionist community, because they evoked painful memories in a general mood of optimism; as a result, Janco decided to change his palette and tackle subjects which related exclusively to his new country. An exception to this self-imposed rule was the motif of \"wounded soldiers\", which continued to preoccupy him after 1948, and was also thematically linked to the wartime massacres.\n\nDuring and after his \"Ofakim Hadashim\" engagement, Marcel Janco again moved into the realm of pure abstraction, which he believed represented the artistic \"language\" of a new age. This was an older idea, as first illustrated by his 1925 attempt to create an \"alphabet of shapes\", the basis for any abstractionist composition. His subsequent preoccupations were linked to the Jewish tradition of interpreting symbols, and he reportedly told scholar Moshe Idel: \"I paint in \"Kabbalah\"\". He was still eclectic beyond abstractionism, and made frequent returns to brightly colored, semi-figurative, landscapes. Also eclectic is Janco's sparse contribution to the architecture of Israel, including a Herzliya Pituah villa that is entirely built in the non-modernist \"Poble Espanyol\" style. Another component of Janco's work was his revisiting of earlier Dada experiments: he redid some of his Dada masks, and supported the international avant-garde group \"NO!art\". He later worked on the \"Imaginary Animals\" cycle of paintings, inspired by the short stories of Urmuz.\n\nMeanwhile, his Ein Hod project was in various ways the culmination of his promotion of folk art, and, in Janco's own definition, \"my last Dada activity\". According to some interpretations, he may have been directly following the example of Hans Arp's \"Waggis\" commune, which existed in 1920s Switzerland. Anthropologist Susan Slyomovics argues that the Ein Hod project as a whole was an alternative to the standard practice of Zionist colonization, since, instead of creating new buildings in the ancient scenery, it showed attempts to cultivate the existing Arab-style masonry. She also writes that Janco's landscapes of the place \"romanticize\" his own contact with the Palestinians, and that they fail to clarify whether he thought of Arabs as refugees or as fellow inhabitants. Journalist Esther Zanberg describes Janco as an \"Orientalist\" driven by \"the mythology surrounding Israeli nationalistic Zionism.\" Art historian Nissim Gal also concludes: \"the pastoral vision of Janco [does not] include any trace of the inhabitants of the former Arab village\".\n\nAdmired by his contemporaries on the avant-garde scene, Marcel Janco is mentioned or portrayed in several works by Romanian authors. In the 1910s, Vinea dedicated him the poem \"Tuzla\", which is one of his first contributions to modernist literature; a decade later, one of the Janco exhibits inspired him to write the prose poem \"Danțul pe frânghie\" (\"Dancing on a Wire\"). Following his conflict with the painter, Tzara struck out all similar dedications from his own poems. Before their friendship waned, Ion Barbu also contributed a homage to Janco, referring to his Constructivist paintings as \"storms of protractors\". In addition, Janco was dedicated a poem by Belgian artist Émile Malespine, and is mentioned in one of Marinetti's poetic texts about the 1930 visit to Romania, as well as in the verse of neo-Dadaist Valery Oisteanu. Janco's portrait was painted by colleague Victor Brauner, in 1924.\n\nAccording to Sandqvist, there are three competing aspects in Janco's legacy, which relate to the complexity of his profile: \"In Western cultural history Marcel Janco is best known as one of the founding members of Dada in Zurich in 1916. Regarding the Romanian avant-garde in the interwar period Marcel Hermann Iancu is more known as the spider in the web and as the designer of a great number of Romania's first constructivist buildings [...]. On the other hand, in Israel Marcel Janco is best known as the 'father' of the artists' colony of Ein Hod [...] and for his pedagogic achievements in the young Jewish state.\" Janco's memory is principally maintained by his Ein Hod museum. The building was damaged by the 2010 forest fire, but reopened and grew to include a permanent exhibit of Janco's art. Janco's paintings still have a measurable impact on the contemporary Israeli avant-garde, which is largely divided between the abstractionism he helped introduce and the neorealistic disciples of Michail Grobman and Avraham Ofek.\n\nThe Romanian communist regime, which cracked down on modernism, reconfirmed the confiscation of villas built by the \"Birou de Studii Moderne\", which it then leased to other families. One of these lodgings, the Wexler Villa, was assigned as the residence of communist poet Eugen Jebeleanu. The regime tended to ignore Janco's contributions, which were not listed in the architectural who's who, and it became standard practice to generally omit references to his Jewish ethnicity. He was however honored with a special issue of \"Secolul 20\" literary magazine, in 1979, and interviewed for \"Tribuna\" and \"Luceafărul\" journals (1981, 1984). His architectural legacy was affected by the large-scale demolition program of the 1980s. Most of the buildings were spared, however, because they are scattered throughout residential Bucharest. Some 20 of his Bucharest structures were still standing twenty years later, but the lack of a renovation program and the shortages of late communism brought steady decay.\n\nAfter the Romanian Revolution of 1989, Marcel Janco's buildings were subject to legal battles, as the original owners and their descendants were allowed to contest the nationalization. These landmarks, like other modernist assets, became treasured real estate: in 1996, a Janco house was valued at 500,000 United States dollars. The sale of such property happened at a fast pace, reportedly surpassing the standardized conservation effort, and experts noted with alarm that Janco villas were being defaced with anachronistic additions, such as insulated glazing and structural interventions, or eclipsed by the newer highrise. In 2008, despite calls from within the academic community, only three of his buildings had been inscribed in the National Register of Historic Monuments.\n\nJanco was again being referenced as a possible model for new generations of Romanian architects and urban planners. In a 2011 article, poet and architect August Ioan claimed: \"Romanian architecture is, apart from its few years with Marcel Janco, one that has denied itself experimentation, projective thinking, anticipation. [...] it is content with imports, copies, nuances or pure and simple stagnation.\" This stance is contrasted by that of designer Radu Comșa, who argues that praise for Janco often lacks \"the recoil of objectivity\". Janco's programmatic texts on the issue were collected and reviewed by historian Andrei Pippidi in the 2003 retrospective anthology \"București – Istorie și urbanism\" (\"Bucharest. History and Urban Planning\"). Following a proposal formulated by poet and publicist Nicolae Tzone at the Bucharest Conference on Surrealism, in 2001, Janco's sketch for Vinea's \"country workshop\" was used in designing Bucharest's ICARE, the Institute for the Study of the Romanian and European Avant-garde. The Bazaltin building was used as the offices of TVR Cultural station.\n\nIn the realm of visual arts, curators Anca Bocăneț and Dana Herbay organized a centennial Marcel Janco exhibit at the Bucharest Museum of Art (MNAR), with additional contributions from writer Magda Cârneci. In 2000, his work was featured in the \"Jewish Art of Romania\" retrospective, hosted by Cotroceni Palace. The local art market rediscovered Janco's art, and, in June 2009, one of his seascapes sold in auction for 130,000 Euro, the second largest sum ever fetched by a painting in Romania. There was a noted increase in his overall market value, and he became interesting to art forgers.\n\nOutside Romania, Janco's work has been reviewed in specialized monographs by Harry Seiwert (1993) and Michael Ilk (2001). His work as painter and sculptor has been dedicated special exhibits in Berlin, Essen (Museum Folkwang) and Budapest, while his architecture was presented abroad with exhibitions at the Technical University Munich and Bauhaus Center Tel Aviv. Among the events showcasing Janco's art, some focused exclusively on his rediscovered Holocaust paintings and drawings. These shows include \"On the Edge\" (Yad Vashem, 1990) and \"Destine la răscruce\" (\"Destinies at Crossroads\", MNAR, 2011). His canvasses and collages went on sale at Bonhams and Sotheby's.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2246245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2246245", "title": "Motya", "text": "Motya\n\nMotya was an ancient and powerful city on San Pantaleo Island off the west coast of Sicily, in the Stagnone Lagoon between Drepanum (modern Trapani) and Lilybaeum (modern Marsala). It is within the present-day commune of Marsala, Italy. The remarkable and exquisite marble Motya Charioteer, found in 1979, is world famous and is on display at the local Giuseppe Whitaker museum.\nThe Carthaginian settlement was written in their abjad as (). The name seems to derive from the Phoenician triliteral root , which would give it the meaning of \"a wool-spinning center\".\n\nMotya is the latinization of the island's Greek name, variously written \"Motýa\" () or \"Motýē\" (. The Greeks claimed the place was named for a woman named Motya whom they connected with the myths around Hercules. The town's Italian name appears as both and ; its Sicilian name is .\n\nThe island first received the name in the 11th century from Basilian monks.\n\nThe island is nearly long and wide, and about (six stadia) from the mainland of Sicily. It was joined to the mainland in ancient times by a causeway, over which chariots with large wheels could reach the town.\n\nThe foundation of the city probably dates from the eighth centuryBC, about a century after the foundation of Carthage in Tunisia. It was originally a colony of the Phoenicians, who were fond of choosing similar sites, and probably in the first instance merely a commercial station or emporium, but gradually rose to be a flourishing and important town. The Phoenicians transformed the inhospitable island into one of the most affluent cities of its time, naturally defended by the lagoon as well as high defensive walls. Ancient windmills and salt pans were used for evaporation, salt grinding and refinement, and to maintain the condition of the lagoon and island itself. Recently the mills and salt pans (called the \"Ettore Infersa\") have been restored by the owners and opened to the public.\n\nIn common with the other Phoenician settlements in Sicily, it passed under the government or dependency of Carthage, whence Diodorus calls it a Carthaginian colony; but it is probable that this is not strictly correct.\n\nAs the Greek colonies in Sicily increased in numbers and importance the Phoenicians gradually abandoned their settlements in the immediate neighbourhood of the newcomers, and concentrated themselves in the three principal colonies of Soluntum, Panormus (modern Palermo), and Motya. The last of these, from its proximity to Carthage and its opportune situation for communication with North Africa, as well as the natural strength of its position, became one of the chief strongholds of the Carthaginians, as well as one of the most important of their commercial cities in the island. It appears to have held, in both these respects, the same position which was attained at a later period by Lilybaeum.\n\nNotwithstanding these accounts of its early importance and flourishing condition, the name of Motya is rarely mentioned in history until just before the period of its memorable siege. It is first mentioned by Hecataeus of Miletus, and Thucydides notices it among the chief colonies of the Phoenicians in Sicily which existed at the time of the Athenian expedition, 415 BC. A few years later (409 BC) when the Carthaginian army under Hannibal Mago landed at the promontory of Lilybaeum, that general laid up his fleet for security in the gulf around Motya, while he advanced with his land forces along the coast to attack Selinus. After the fall of the latter city, we are told that Hermocrates, the Syracusan exile, who had established himself on its ruins with a numerous band of followers, laid waste the territories of Motya and Panormus; and again during the second expedition of the Carthaginians under Hamilcar (407 BC), these two cities became the permanent station of the Carthaginian fleet.\n\nIt was the important position to which Motya had thus attained that led Dionysius I of Syracuse to direct his principal efforts to its reduction, when in 397 BC he in his turn invaded the Carthaginian territory in Sicily. The citizens on the other hand, relying on succour from Carthage, made preparations for a vigorous resistance; and by cutting off the causeway which united them to the mainland, compelled Dionysius to have recourse to the tedious and laborious process of constructing a mound or mole of earth across the intervening space. Even when this was accomplished, and the military engines of Dionysius (among which the formidable catapult on this occasion made its appearance for the first time) were brought up to the walls, the Motyans continued a desperate resistance; and after the walls and towers were carried by the overwhelming forces of the enemy, still maintained the defence from street to street and from house to house. This obstinate struggle only increased the previous exasperation of the Sicilian Greeks against the Carthaginians; and when at length the troops of Dionysius made themselves masters of the city, they put the whole surviving population, men, women, and children, to the sword.\n\nAfter this, the Syracusan despot placed it in charge of a garrison under an officer named Biton, while his brother Leptines of Syracuse made it the station of his fleet. But the next spring (396 BC) Himilcon, the Carthaginian general, having landed at Panormus with a very large force, recovered possession of Motya with comparatively little difficulty. Motya, however, was not destined to recover its former importance; for Himilcon, being apparently struck with the superior advantages of Lilybaeum, founded a new city on the promontory of that name, to which he transferred the few remaining inhabitants of Motya.\n\nFrom this period the latter altogether disappears from history; and the little islet on which it was built, has probably ever since, as now, been inhabited only by a few fishermen. By the time the Romans conquered Sicily, during the First Punic War (264–241 BC), Motya had been eclipsed by Lilybaeum.\n\nIt is a singular fact that, though we have no account of Motya having received any Greek population, or fallen into the hands of the Greeks before its conquest by Dionysius, there exist coins of the city with the Greek legend \"ΜΟΤΥΑΙΟΝ\". They are, however, of great rarity, and are apparently imitated from those of the neighboring city of Segesta.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Basilian monks settled on the island and renamed it San Pantaleo, and in 1888 was rediscovered by Joseph Whitaker.\n\nThe site of Motya, on which earlier geographers were in much doubt, has been clearly identified and described by William Henry Smyth. Between the promontory of Lilybaeum (Capo Boéo) and that of Aegithallus (San Teodoro), the coast forms a deep bight, in front of which lies a long group of low rocky islets, called the Stagnone. Within these, and considerably nearer to the mainland, lies the small island formerly called San Pantaleo, on which the remains of an ancient city may still be distinctly traced. Fragments of the walls, with those of two gateways, still exist, and coins as well as pieces of ancient brick and pottery – the never failing indications of an ancient site – were found scattered throughout the island. The circuit of the latter does not exceed 2.5 km, and it is inhabited only by a few fishermen; but is not devoid of fertility. The confined space on which the city was built agrees with the description of Diodorus that the houses were lofty and of solid construction, with narrow streets () between them, which facilitated the desperate defence of the inhabitants.\n\nThe island of Mozia is owned and operated by the Whitaker Foundation (Palermo), famous for Marsala wines. Tours are available for the small museum, and the well-preserved ruins of a crossroads civilisation: in addition to the cultures mentioned above, Motian artifacts display Egyptian, Corinthian, Attic, Roman, Punic and Hellenic influences. The Tophet, a type of cemetery for the cremated remains of children, possibly (but not entirely proven) as sacrifice to Tanit or Ba‘al Hammon, is also well known. Many of the ancient residences are open to the public, with guided tours in English and Italian.\n\nThe beautiful Motya Charioteer sculpture found in 1979 is on display at the Giuseppe Whitaker museum. It is a rare example of a victor of a chariot race who must have been very wealthy in order to commission such a work. It was found built into Phoenician fortifications which were quickly erected before Dionysios I of Syracuse invaded and sacked Motya in 397 BC.\n\nIts superb quality implies that it was made by a leading Greek artist in the period following their defeat of the Persians, but its style is unlike any other of this period. It is believed it must have been looted from a Greek city conquered by Carthage in 409-405 BC.\n\nIn March 2006, archaeological digs uncovered rooms of a previously undiscovered house at one of the town's siege walls. The finds have shown that the town had a \"thriving population long after it is commonly believed to have been destroyed by the Ancient Greeks.\" Discovered items include cooking pans, Phoenician-style vases, altars, and looms.\n\nThe 399 BC Battle of Motya, part of the war of Syracuse's tyrant Dionysios I against Carthage is a major event in the 1965 historical novel \"The Arrows of Hercules\" by L. Sprague de Camp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23608122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23608122", "title": "Muqarnas (journal)", "text": "Muqarnas (journal)\n\nMuqarnas is an annual academic journal of the Aga Khan Program for Islamic Architecture at Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The journal was established in 1983 and focuses on Islamic architecture and visual arts, and has become established as \"perhaps the leading journal\" in English in the field. Oleg Grabar was among the founders.\n\nThe journal's name, muqarnas, is a decorative device in traditional Islamic and Persian architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "33408172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33408172", "title": "Museum architecture", "text": "Museum architecture\n\nMuseum architecture has been of increasing importance over the centuries, especially more recently.\n\nA challenge for museum architecture is the differing purposes of the building. The museum collection must be preserved, but it also needs to be made accessible to the public. Climate control may be very important for the objects in the collection.\n\nAn early example of architecture for a purpose-built museum is the Museum of the History of Science building in Oxford, England, originally built to house the Ashmolean Museum.\n\nIn the 20th century, museums have been combined with war memorials to serve multiple purposes. The Australian War Memorial in Canberra, for example, is a place of commemoration as well as for collection and display. It contains a museum, an archive and a shrine. It was designed by Emil Sodersten and John Crust in a contemporary neoclassical style reminiscent of Lutyens with detailing influenced by Art Deco.\n\nThe Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City, USA (opened in 1959), by Frank Lloyd Wright is an important architectural landmark and icon of the 20th century. Another classic 20th century example of iconic museum architecture is the titanium-covered Guggenheim Museum Bilbao in Spain by Frank Gehry (opened in 1997). Gehry has undertaken many major museum architecture projects, including the Experience Music Project in Seattle, USA, the Weisman Art Museum in Minneapolis, USA, the Vitra Design Museum and MARTa Museum in Germany, and the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto, Canada.\n\nSuccessful examples of modern architecture being married with existing museum buildings include the Louvre Pyramid by I. M. Pei in Paris, France (1989), and more recently the Queen Elizabeth II Great Court by Norman Foster at the British Museum, London, England (2000).\n\nDavid Chipperfield designed many notable museums, including the award-winning River and Rowing Museum in Henley-on-Thames, England, in 1997. This won in 1999 the RIBA \"Architecture in Arts and Leisure Award\" and the Royal Fine Art Commission Trust/British Sky Broadcasting \"Best Building Award (England)\". Chipperfield also designed the Figge Art Museum in Davenport, Iowa, USA (2005), the Museum of Modern Literature in Marbach, Germany (2006), and the reconstructed Neues Museum in Berlin, Germany (2009).\n\nMuseum architecture sometimes involves the conversion of old buildings that have outlived their usefulness but that are still of historic interest. A notable example is the Dalí Theatre and Museum or the conversion of the Bankside Power Station designed by Sir Giles Gilbert Scott into the Tate Modern in 2000, based on design by Herzog & de Meuron. Information about the conversion was the basis for a 2008 documentary \"Architects Herzog and de Meuron: Alchemy of Building & Tate Modern\".\n\nFinegold Alexander + Associates Inc, an architecture firm based in Boston, Massachusetts, USA, established in 1962, has undertaken museum architecture projects including Ellis Island National Monument and Museum (Associated Architects with Beyer Blinder Belle Architects) and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (Associated Architects with Pei Cobb Freed & Partners).\n\nAs well as the architects mentioned above, other architects notable for their contributions to museum architecture include:\n\n"}
{"id": "32284256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32284256", "title": "Myron Weiner", "text": "Myron Weiner\n\nMyron Weiner (11 March 1931 – 3 June 1999) was an American political scientist and renowned scholar on India, South Asia, internal and international migration, ethnic conflict, child labor, democratization, political demography, and the politics and policies of developing countries.\n\nWeiner was born in New York City in 1931. He received a BSS degree from the City College of New York in 1951 and MA and PhD degrees from Princeton University in 1953 and 1955. He taught at Princeton and the University of Chicago before coming to MIT as an associate professor in 1961, where he worked for 38 years before retiring in April 1999. He was promoted to the rank of full professor in 1965 and served as head of the Department of Political Science From 1974-77. He was named the Ford International Professor of Political Science at MIT in 1977. He was also director of MIT's Center for International Studies from 1987–92, and acting director in 1995-96.\n\n\"Myron Weiner was a brilliant scholar, and an inspiring teacher and colleague, who had a large impact on the world, in particular on the lives of children,\" said Professor Joshua Cohen, then-head of the MIT Department of Political Science.\n\nProfessor Weiner served as a consultant to the World Bank, the Agency for International Development, the US State Department, and the U.S. National Security Council. He was elected to the American Philosophical Society, and was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Council on Foreign Relations, and a past president of the New England Association of Asian Studies. He held visiting appointments at Oxford University's Balliol College, Harvard University, Delhi University, Hebrew University and the University of Paris. Dr. Weiner was chair of the External Research and Advisory Committee of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees from 1996 until his death.\n\nHe was the author or editor of 32 scholarly books and numerous peer-reviewed articles. His most recent research involved three projects: child labor and education policy in India and other developing countries; comparing immigration, refugees and citizenship policies in Japan, Germany, South Africa and the USA; and analyzing the causes and effects of migration and refugee flows.\n\nDr. Weiner's 1991 book \"The Child and the State in India: Child Labor and Education Policy in Comparative Perspective\" (Princeton University Press, 4th ed., ) had a major impact in Indian debates on how to end child labor, and was perhaps his \"magnum opus\". \"It was his crowning achievement. It made all of us think about the question of illiteracy,\" according to Jagdish Bhagwati, a Columbia University economist and colleague since the mid-1950s. Dr. Bhagwati said the book prompted economists to recommend more investments in education for the poor, and policies to help poor people recognize education as a valuable investment.\n\nPrior to his book, the prevailing view of many was that countries like India were too poor to do much about child labor or access to education by the poor, because parents needed working-children to support the family and only when incomes rose would this change. Using impassive data and scholarly language, Weiner's work reversed the causal direction, showing that historically (e.g. in Scotland) and cross-nationally (e.g. in even-poorer Africa and China), the reforms which expanded education preceded higher incomes. The 1991 book showed how India had fared worse on illiteracy and education than China. Joshua Cohen said the book had a profound impact in India: \"Here was a work, written by a friend of India, which presented irrefutable facts. It presented comparative statistics, and while it raised moral issues, it was not written as a moral diatribe.\"\n\nHis contrarian views sometimes caused controversy, e.g., showing that democratization can exacerbate ethnic conflict, or the perverse effects of well-intentioned affirmative-action or child labor policies. With Samuel P. Huntington and Lucian Pye, he was a co-founder and co-director for many years of the Harvard-MIT Joint Seminar on Political Development (JOSPOD) research project. Critics associated him, fairly or not, with the Modernization school of thought, and with certain US policies during the Vietnam War.\n\nHis most recent books were \"The Global Migration Crisis: Challenge to States and to Human Rights\" (HarperCollins, 1995 ); \"Threatened Peoples, Threatened Borders: World Migration and US Policy\" (co-editor, W. Norton, 1995); \"The New Geopolitics of Central Asia and its Borderlands\" (co-editor, Indiana University Press, 1994); \"The State and Social Transformation in Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan\" (co-editor, Syracuse University Press, 1994); and \"International Migration and Security\" (editor, Westview Press, 1993).\n\nOther books include \"Sons of the Soil: Migration and Ethnic Conflict in India\" (Princeton Univ Pr 1978 ; reprinted 1988 by Oxford University Press\n\nAmong his many former-students are Ashutosh Varshney, and Steven Wilkinson.\n\nWeiner died of brain cancer on June 3, 1999, at his home in Moretown, Vermont, at age 68. He was married to Sheila Leiman Weiner. They had two children, Saul Weiner of Chicago and a daughter, Beth Weiner Datskovsky, of Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "56030641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56030641", "title": "National Digital Preservation Program", "text": "National Digital Preservation Program\n\nKeeping the foresight of rapidly changing technologies and rampant digital obsolescence, in 2008, the R & D in IT Group, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India envisaged to evolve Indian digital preservation initiative. In order to learn from the experience of developed nations, during March 24–25, 2009, an Indo-US Workshop on International Trends in Digital Preservation was organized by C-DAC, Pune with sponsorship from Indo-US Science & Technology Forum, which lead to more constructive developments towards formulation of the national program.\n\nDuring April 2010, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India entrusted the responsibility of preparing National Study Report on Digital Preservation Requirements of India with Human-Centred Design & Computing Group, C-DAC, Pune, which was already active in the thematic area of heritage computing. The objective of this project was to present a comprehensive study of current situation in India versus the international trends of digital preservation along with the recommendations for undertaking the National Digital Preservation Program by involving all stakeholder organizations.\n\nTechnical experts from around 24 organizations representing diverse domains such as e-governance, government and state archives, audio, video and film archives, cultural heritage repositories, health, science and education, insurance and banking, law, etc. were included in the national expert group. Major institutions represented in the expert group were Centre for Development of Advance Computing (C-DAC), National Informatics Centre (NIC), Unique Identity Program, National Archives of India, National Film Archive of India, Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, Information and Broadcasting (Doordarshan and All India Radio), National Remote Sensing Center (NRSC) / ISRO, Controller of Certifying Authorities (CCA), National e-Governance Division (NeGD), Life Insurance Corporation, Reserve Bank of India (RBI), National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Indian Institute of Public Administration, Defense Scientific Information & Documentation Centre (DSIDC) and several other organizations. The expert group members were asked to submit position papers highlighting the short term and long term plans for digital preservation with respect to their domain. The study report was presented before Government of India in two volumes as under -\nThe report included an overview of international digital preservation projects, study of legal imperatives (Information Technology ACT 2000/2008), study of technical challenges and standards, consolidated recommendations given by the national expert group for the National Digital Preservation Program.\n\nOne of the key recommendations given in this report was to harmonize Public Records Act, Right to Information Act, Indian Evidence Act, Copyright Act and other related Acts with the Information Technology Act in order to address the digital preservation needs. The foresight of this recommendation has proved right, as in 2018, the Indian judiciary has initiated the drafting of electronic evidence rules to be introduced under the Indian Evidence Act. In this context, the Joint Committee of High Court Judges visited C-DAC, Pune on 10 March 2018 to examine the technical aspects of the proposed electronic evidence rules in terms of extraction, encryption, preservation, retrieval and authentication of e-evidence in the court of law.\n\nAs recommended in the national study report, during April 2011, Centre of Excellence for Digital Preservation was launched as the flagship project under the National Digital Preservation Program, funded by Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India. The project was awarded to Human-Centred Design & Computing Group, C-DAC Pune, India. The objectives of Centre of Excellence were as under:\nThe major outcomes of this project are briefly summarised hereafter.\n\nDigital preservation standard and guidelines are developed in order to help local data intensive projects in preparing for highly demanding standards such as ISO 16363 for Audit and Certification of Trusted Digital Repositories. The standard is duly notified by Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India Vide Notification No. 1(2)/2010-EG-II dated December 13, 2013 for all e-governance applications in India.\nThe eGOV-PID provides standard metadata dictionary and schema for automatically capturing the preservation metadata in terms of cataloging information, enclosure information, provenance information, fixity information, representation information, digital signature information and access rights information immediately after an electronic record is produced by e-governance system. It helps in producing an acceptable Submission Information Package (SIP) for an Open Archival Information System (OAIS) ISO 14721:2012.\nBest practices and guidelines introduce 5 distinct steps of e-record management namely e-record creation, e-record capturing, e-record keeping, e-record transfer to trusted digital repository and e-record preservation which need to be adopted in all e-governance projects. It also specifies the open source and standard based file formats for the production of e-records. The guidelines incorporate the Electronic Records Management practice as per the ISO/TR 15489-1 and 2 Information and Documentation - Records Management.\n\nHowever, it is difficult to implement the digital preservation standard due to unavailability required tools and solutions. Therefore, the standard and guidelines are supported with a variety of digital preservation tools and solutions which can be given to the memory institutions and records creating organizations for long term preservation. The project team at C-DAC Pune has developed a software framework for digital archiving named as DIGITĀLAYA (डिजिटालय in Hindi language) which is customizable for various domains, data types and application contexts such as\nDIGITĀLAYA (डिजिटालय) is designed and developed as per the CCSDS Open Archival Information System (OAIS) Reference Model, ISO 14721: 2012.\n\nA number of digital preservation tools are developed to help in processing the digital data\nAll the archival systems and digital preservation tools are developed in such a way that they enable in producing evidences / reports as required for the audit and certification of trustworthy digital repositories.\n\nIn order to test and demonstrate the effectiveness of digital preservation tools, various pilot digital repositories were developed in collaboration with domain institutions such as Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts; New Delhi; National Archives of India, New Delhi; Stamps and registration Department, Hyderabad; and e-District. C-DAC Noida developed the pilot digital repository for e-Court in collaboration with district courts of Delhi using e-Goshwara: e-Court Solution.\n\nThe pilot digital repositories were selected from different domains with following objectives:\n\nAs a part of the pilot digital repositories, National Cultural Audiovisual Archive (NCAA) at IGNCA, New Delhi is established using DIGITĀLAYA (डिजिटालय). NCAA manages around 2 Petabytes of rare cultural audiovisual data. During June 2017, Primary Trustworthy Digital Repository Authorization Body (PTAB), UK got accredited by National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB), New Delhi, India. PTAB was involved to audit National Cultural Audiovisual Archive. Both NCAA and C-DAC teams worked together during the audit process. Finally, NCAA has been awarded the certified status as Trusted Digital Repository on 27 November 2017, as per ISO 16363. It happens to be the first Certified Trusted Digital Repository (Certificate No. PTAB-TDRMS 0001) as per ISO 16363 in India and world.\n\nThe High Level 3-day Training Course on ISO 16363 for Auditors and Managers of Digital Repositories was conducted during 11–13 January 2017 at India Habitat Centre, New Delhi, India. This training was organized as per the deliverable of Centre of Excellence for Digital Preservation by C-DAC Pune in collaboration with Primary Trustworthy Digital Repository Authorization Body (PTAB), UK.\n\nThis initiative was helpful in formally introducing the ISO 16363 and ISO 16919 through the National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB) for the audit and certification of Indian digital repositories. The first batch of potential technical auditors was trained which included 27 Participants from various stakeholder organisations. Apart from this, numerous digital preservation and DIGITĀLAYA (डिजिटालय) training sessions were organised for the staff of NAI, IGNCA and the 21 partner institutions contributing in NCAA project.\n\nThe Principal Investigator of Centre of Excellence for Digital Preservation, Dr. Dinesh Katre represented India in the UNESCO International Experts Consultative Meet on Preservation and Access during June 25–26, 2014 at Warsaw, Poland, which drafted the Standard Setting Instrument for the protection and preservation of the digital heritage. General Conference of UNESCO at its 38th session on 1 and 2 July 2015 unanimously adopted the Recommendation Safeguarding the Memory of the World –Preservation of, Access to, Documentary Heritage in the Digital Era (38 C/Resolutions – Annex V).\n\nBased on the experience gained from this project, Government of India is considering to create a national policy on digital preservation which will be instrumental in establishing national digital preservation infrastructure. The digital preservation initiative stands at the crux where it is crucial to fill up the gap between the Digital India and the challenges posed by rampant technological obsolescence, to make it a truly sustainable vision.\n\nNational Digital Information Infrastructure and Preservation Program (NDIIPP), USA\n\nInternet Archive, USA\n\nWayback Machine\n\nInternet Memory Foundation\n\nDigital Curation Centre, UK\n\nDigital Preservation Coalition (DPC), UK\n\nTrustworthy Repositories Audit & Certification\n\nBig Data\n"}
{"id": "21849930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21849930", "title": "National Museum of Ethnology (Portugal)", "text": "National Museum of Ethnology (Portugal)\n\nThe National Museum of Ethnology () is an ethnology museum in Lisbon, Portugal. The museum holds in its collections the most relevant ethnographic heritage in Portugal. It is responsible for the safeguarding and management of nearly half a million items. \n\nThe museum's ethnographic collections are divided into two separate groups. There is the collection assembled by the \"National Museum of Ethnology's staff\" dating from the museum's launch in 1962, created by the team who introduced the field of modern anthropology to Portugal. These collections, totaling 42,000 objects, are representative of 80 countries and 5 continents, with greater emphasis on cultures from Africa, Asia and South America, and traditional Portuguese culture.\n\nMany of these collections were exhaustively documented through field research, and are inseparable from the important photographic, film, sound and drawing Archives that constituting a significant part of the nearly half a million items that make the Museum's movable heritage.\n\nThe second set of the museum's collection consists of 11.600 objects from the \"Popular\" Art \"Museum\", largely assembled in the 1930s and early 1940s for the propaganda exhibitions promoted by the regime of \"Estado Novo\". They differ significantly from their matching parts of the collections of the \"National Museum of Ethnology\" due to the lesser amount of information available, if any, about their origin.\n\nFollowing the transfer of the collections of the Museum of Popular Art in 2007 to the building of the National Museum of Ethnology, both museums were merged in 2012 into a single museum – National Museum of Ethnology / Popular Art Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "20740192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20740192", "title": "One Piece discography", "text": "One Piece discography\n\nA number of musical CDs have been created for the media franchise built around Eiichirō Oda's manga \"One Piece\". Various theme songs and character songs were released on a total of 49 singles. Many of them were also released in collected form on the eight compilation albums or the 16 soundtrack CDs, along with background music from the anime television series, the series' feature films, and video games.\n\nThe anime television series currently consists of 36 pieces of theme music; eighteen opening themes and eighteen ending themes. As of episode 279, ending themes were omitted and, starting from episode 326 onwards, opening themes were extended from 110 seconds long to 150 seconds long. In episodes 1-206 of Funimation's English-language release of the series, the opening and ending themes were dubbed into English by various voice actors, before reverting to the Japanese versions from episodes 207 onwards.\n\nThe sub-lists on compilation albums and singles list the releases peak position in Oricon's weekly charts as well as the length of the release's chart run in weeks.\nCarl Kimlinger of Anime News Network states that \"One Piece has always stood out for its use of music\", which they describe as a \"usual mix of trumpeting pirate bombast, rocking action music, and catchy individual themes\". Margaret Veira of Active Anime states that the anime television series's \"background music sets the mood and the scenes perfectly.\"\n"}
{"id": "614197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614197", "title": "Outline of classical architecture", "text": "Outline of classical architecture\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to classical architecture:\n\nClassical architecture – architecture of classical antiquity, that is, ancient Greek architecture and the architecture of ancient Rome. It also refers to the style or styles of architecture influenced by those. For example, most of the styles originating in post-renaissance Europe can be described as classical architecture. This broad use of the term is employed by Sir John Summerson in \"The Classical Language of Architecture\".\n\nClassical architecture can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35864871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35864871", "title": "Paul Zacchias", "text": "Paul Zacchias\n\nPaul Zacchias or Paolo Zacchia (1584-1659) was an Italian physician, teacher of medical science, forensic medicine, medio-legal jurist, philosopher, and poet. He is said to have been personal physician to Pope Innocentius X and Pope Alexander VII. Zacchias was also legal adviser to the Rota Romana, the highest Papal court of appeals, and head of the medical system in the Papal States. His most well known book in three volumes, \"Quaestiones medico-legales\" (1621-1651) established legal medicine as a topic of study.\n\nZacchias work also contains superstitious views on magic, witches, and demons which were widely held at the time. At the time, both theological and medical knowledge was required to differentiate natural cases of sickness from supernatural causes which might require attention of the Catholic church. Zacchias was known for a skeptical approach that attempted to eliminate natural causes before diagnosing phenomena as witchcraft. Medical practitioners at his time were also made available to diagnose and assess between miracles and natural causes.\n\nHe is known to have argued that minors make proper test subjects to be put to torture. Despite these views, Zacchias is seen to have notably progressed the works of jurisprudence in medicine of the time period.\n\nPaul Zacchias was born in Rome in 1584 and died in the city in 1659. Zacchias in his life was director of the health system of the Papal States, as well as legal adviser to the Rota Romana, the highest Papal court of appeals.\n\nUnder Emperor Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire in 1532, legal medicine was introduced to the court system via penal code. However, Zacchias work helped to add scientific basis to the legal practice and court system.\n\nQuaestiones medico-legales is divided into three sections. The first section contains decisions of the Rota Romana during his time serving on it. The other two sections cover questions of human physiology. In it he examines problems such as the formation of hermaphrodites, and the animation of the foetus and superfoetation. The later two volumes also include many observations by Zacchias on mental disease. Zacchias was also familiar with hypochondriacal disorder or those without geniune illness.\n\nQuaestiones medico-legales was translated into several other languages from Latin, and was used by medical practitioners into the 18th century.\n"}
{"id": "50656087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50656087", "title": "Peter J. Thuesen", "text": "Peter J. Thuesen\n\nPeter Johannes Thuesen (born 1971) is Professor of Religious Studies at Indiana University – Purdue University Indianapolis.\n\nThuesen studied at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Princeton University. He taught at Yale Divinity School and Tufts University before coming to IUPUI.\n\nThuesen has written two works of intellectual history: \"In Discordance with the Scriptures: American Protestant Battles over Translating the Bible\" (1999) and \"Predestination: The American Career of a Contentious Doctrine\" (2009). \"Predestination\" received the 2010 \"Christianity Today\" Book Award for History/Biography. He is also co-editor of \"Religion and American Culture\".\n"}
{"id": "57769604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57769604", "title": "Portrait of Francisco de Pisa", "text": "Portrait of Francisco de Pisa\n\nPortrait of Francisco de Pisa is a 1614 painting by El Greco, now in the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. Most art historians identify it as doctor Francisco de Pisa, a Spanish cleric, though a minority identify it as the Italian historian Giacomo Bosio due to the words shown in the open book. Francisco de Pisa was an enemy of Teresa of Ávila, who he criticised because he felt that her works contained \"much that contradicts truth and sound doctrine and all good use of mental prayer\". The pose of the subject is similar to that in \"Portrait of Cardinal Tavera\", which is of a similar date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1639567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1639567", "title": "Proposed National Unification Promotion Law", "text": "Proposed National Unification Promotion Law\n\nThe proposed National Unification Promotion Law of the People's Republic of China () is a document that appeared in early 2004 as a suggestion to create formal a legal basis for the People's Republic of China's reunification with Taiwan. It was authored by a Chinese scholar Yu Yuanzhou (余元州), a professor from the Jianghan University in Wuhan who does not have a formal governmental position. Although no formal legislative action has been taken on the document, it was widely discussed in China. The reactions to the proposed document was mixed, with some, mainly in Taiwan, saying it provided evidence of hostile intent on the part of the PRC, while others praising it for proposing flexible solutions to the intractable conflict.\n\nThis proposal has not been directly incorporated in the bill (which later passed into law). None of the policies (e.g. the federal policy, or a new currency, see below) appeared in the final, official anti-secession law of the PRC.\n\nAlthough Taiwan was ceded to Japan in the treaty of Shimonoseki ratified in 1895 – then surrendered by Japan in 1945 to the Kuomintang Administration – the PRC government considers Taiwan to be the 23rd province of the People's Republic of China. The historical claim is based on the formal incorporation of Taiwan into the Qing empire in 1680. From the political perspective, according to the PRC argument, the government of the Republic of China ceased to be legitimate following its retreat to Taiwan in 1949, and thus all sovereignty and governmental authority in China was automatically transferred to the PRC, including that of Taiwan which was then under ROC administration. The official ROC line counters that it did not cease to exist in 1949 and has continued to function as a sovereign political entity on Taiwan to the present day, making the relation between the PRC and ROC similar to that between other states similarly partitioned (such as North Korea and South Korea). The PRC's position has been acknowledged by most other nations but not formally recognized, as most nations prefer to take an ambiguous approach on the issue. See Political status of Taiwan.\n\nSince 1949, the PRC government has demanded that Taiwan unify under the PRC, and has reserved the right to use military force to compel Taiwan to do so if necessary. However, opinion polls conducted in Taiwan have indicated that there is very little support for unification on the PRC's terms, even among those who favor eventual unification, making peaceful unification unlikely for the foreseeable future. With the reelection of Chen Shui-bian to the ROC Presidency, and the growth of Taiwan independence sentiment, a new Taiwanese identity appears to be emerging on the island as opposed to identification with China. In 2008, the KMT regained both the presidency and the legislature with a pair of election victories over the DPP.\n\nIn a string of unsuccessful efforts to change Taiwanese public opinion, several propositions and leaks from PRC governmental organs expressed consideration for a law aiming to formalize the policy for Chinese reunification between mainland China and Taiwan under the authority of the PRC. This culminated in May 2004, when Premier Wen Jiabao pronounced to a group of Chinese expatriates in London that serious consideration of such a law would be taken. Several days later, Yu's suggestion (similar to a green paper) emerged.\n\nThe draft document has 31 articles, organized in 8 chapters. Its provisions touch mostly constitutional law.\n\nArticle 2 establishes Taiwan as the \"Taiwan Special Political Area of PRC, or Taiwan SPA of PRC for short\" (); this appears to be an administrative division of the PRC distinct from the Special Administrative Region espoused by the PRC government for Taiwan. Curiously, it allows Chinese people loyal (or having affinity) to the Republic of China to transiently view the mainland as \"The Mainland Special Political Area of ROC, or The Mainland SPA of ROC\" (中華民國大陸特別政治區). Article 3 reiterated the PRC's aim to implement the 'one country, two systems' policy for Taiwan, which would be brought into reality with military force if necessary.\n\nArticle 8 exempts Taiwan from any PRC imposed taxes. Chapter 3 proposes the establishment of a new, common currency called the Chinese dollar set by fiat to be worth 0.1 grams of gold forever.\n\nTwo methods of unification are laid out as options: Constitutional arrangement for peaceful unification is contained in Chapter 4: the Constitution of the Republic of China which is used in Taiwan is said to be obsolete; a federation is proposed. Chapter 5 provides the legal basis for non-peaceful (military) methods of unification. The conditions for the use of armed force are set out, and explicitly states that the PRC may not limit itself to the use of conventional weapons, implying the use of weapons of mass destruction. Article 18 also stipulates that Taiwan will be subject to attack should it defy policy set by the PRC government.\n\nChapter 6 provides for honours for those promoting unification, whereas Chapter 7 sets out criminal penalties against separatism—limited to acts carried out within Chinese territory, and acts carried out anywhere by Chinese residents in the Mainland, Macau, Hong Kong, and Taiwan.\n\nArticle 30, section 1 provides that the law and subsequent changes thereof are to be carried out by the National People's Congress and signed into force by the President of the People's Republic of China—parenthetically, 'Head of State', probably to infer the possibility of a different position once the law takes effect; section 2 provides that permanent sections of the law cannot be changed unless later agreements contain promises that are 'more favourable' (更加优惠, but the beneficiary is unspecified); section 3 states that the law is lower than the Constitution of the People's Republic of China but higher than any other laws of the land.\n\nThe ROC President Chen Shui-bian has expressed serious concerns about this proposal, and has expressed doubts that the Taiwanese public would find it acceptable. Chen also pointed out that the law being proposed is mostly intended as a measure to legitimize the PRC's military threats against the ROC. Furthermore, the proposed law would incriminate anyone holding opinions other than those supporting PRC policy on the question of reunification. Under the law dissidents would be prosecuted under charges of treason, retroactively effective up to 100 years, raising serious questions about freedom of speech and civil liberties. Chen stated that the law would only serve to increase the feelings of animosity of the Taiwanese people towards the PRC and increase tensions.\n\nIt is worth noting that the PRC's \"one country, two systems\" policy has been shown to be approved by less than 10% of Taiwan residents in multiple recent opinion polls. Moreover, many people also questioned how a proposed PRC law could be applied onto a territory over which the PRC does not have jurisdiction. Even though few states formally recognize the ROC as an independent country, most prefer to remain ambiguous over the matter. The Political status of Taiwan is still an ongoing multilateral dispute.\n\nIt has been unclear as to the degree to which this law is or was ever taken seriously by PRC authorities. The law\nwas proposed by an individual without any governmental authority, and no formal action on the law has ever been taken by the National People's Congress. After summer 2004, references to the proposed law on both sides of the straits became rare, leading many to conclude that it was released by the PRC mainly to gauge public opinion. Shortly after this proposal, the PRC enacted the Anti-Secession Law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "81094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81094", "title": "Proposition", "text": "Proposition\n\nA proposition is a tentative and conjectural relationship between constructs that is stated in a declarative form. An example of a proposition is: “An increase in student intelligence causes an increase in their academic achievement.” This declarative statement does not have to be true, but must be empirically testable using data, so that we can judge whether it is true or false. Propositions are generally derived based on logic (deduction) or empirical observations (induction). Because propositions are associations between abstract constructs, they cannot be tested directly. Instead, they are tested indirectly by examining the relationship between corresponding measures (variables) of those constructs. The empirical formulation of propositions, stated as relationships between variables, is called hypotheses . The term proposition has a broad use in contemporary analytic philosophy. It is used to refer to some or all of the following: the primary bearers of truth-value, the objects of belief and other \"propositional attitudes\" (i.e., what is believed, doubted, etc.), the referents of that-clauses, and the meanings of declarative sentences. Propositions are the sharable objects of attitudes and the primary bearers of truth and falsity. This stipulation rules out certain candidates for propositions, including thought- and utterance-tokens which are not sharable, and concrete events or facts, which cannot be false.\n\nAristotelian logic identifies a proposition as a sentence which affirms or denies a predicate of a subject with the help of a 'Copula'. An Aristotelian proposition may take the form \"All men are mortal\" or \"Socrates is a man.\" In the first example the subject is \"men\", predicate is \"mortal\" and copula is \"are\". In the second example the subject is \"Socrates\", the predicate is \"a man\" and copula is \"is\".\n\nOften propositions are related to closed sentences to distinguish them from what is expressed by an open sentence. In this sense, propositions are \"statements\" that are truth-bearers. This conception of a proposition was supported by the philosophical school of logical positivism.\n\nSome philosophers argue that some (or all) kinds of speech or actions besides the declarative ones also have propositional content. For example, yes–no questions present propositions, being inquiries into the truth value of them. On the other hand, some signs can be declarative assertions of propositions without forming a sentence nor even being linguistic, e.g. traffic signs convey definite meaning which is either true or false.\n\nPropositions are also spoken of as the content of beliefs and similar intentional attitudes such as desires, preferences, and hopes. For example, \"I desire \"that I have a new car\",\" or \"I wonder \"whether it will snow\"\" (or, whether it is the case that \"it will snow\"). Desire, belief, and so on, are thus called propositional attitudes when they take this sort of content.\n\nBertrand Russell held that propositions were structured entities with objects and properties as constituents. One important difference between Ludwig Wittgenstein's view (according to which a proposition is the set of possible worlds/states of affairs in which it is true) is that on the Russellian account, two propositions that are true in all the same states of affairs can still be differentiated. For instance, the proposition that two plus two equals four is distinct on a Russellian account from three plus three equals six. If propositions are sets of possible worlds, however, then all mathematical truths (and all other necessary truths) are the same set (the set of all possible worlds).\n\nIn relation to the mind, propositions are discussed primarily as they fit into propositional attitudes. Propositional attitudes are simply attitudes characteristic of folk psychology (belief, desire, etc.) that one can take toward a proposition (e.g. 'it is raining,' 'snow is white,' etc.). In English, propositions usually follow folk psychological attitudes by a \"that clause\" (e.g. \"Jane believes \"that\" it is raining\"). In philosophy of mind and psychology, mental states are often taken to primarily consist in propositional attitudes. The propositions are usually said to be the \"mental content\" of the attitude. For example, if Jane has a mental state of believing that it is raining, her mental content is the proposition 'it is raining.' Furthermore, since such mental states are \"about\" something (namely propositions), they are said to be intentional mental states. Philosophical debates surrounding propositions as they relate to propositional attitudes have also recently centered on whether they are internal or external to the agent or whether they are mind-dependent or mind-independent entities (see the entry on internalism and externalism in philosophy of mind).\n\nAs noted above, in Aristotelian logic a proposition is a particular kind of sentence, one which affirms or denies a predicate of a subject with the help of a copula. Aristotelian propositions take forms like \"All men are mortal\" and \"Socrates is a man.\"\n\nPropositions show up in modern formal logic as objects of a formal language. A formal language begins with different types of symbols. These types can include variables, operators, function symbols, predicate (or relation) symbols, quantifiers, and propositional constants. (Grouping symbols are often added for convenience in using the language but do not play a logical role.) Symbols are concatenated together according to recursive rules in order to construct strings to which truth-values will be assigned. The rules specify how the operators, function and predicate symbols, and quantifiers are to be concatenated with other strings. A proposition is then a string with a specific form. The form that a proposition takes depends on the type of logic.\n\nThe type of logic called propositional, sentential, or statement logic includes only operators and propositional constants as symbols in its language. The propositions in this language are propositional constants, which are considered atomic propositions, and composite propositions, which are composed by recursively applying operators to propositions. \"Application\" here is simply a short way of saying that the corresponding concatenation rule has been applied.\n\nThe types of logics called predicate, quantificational, or \"n\"-order logic include variables, operators, predicate and function symbols, and quantifiers as symbols in their languages. The propositions in these logics are more complex. First, terms must be defined. A term is (i) a variable or (ii) a function symbol applied to the number of terms required by the function symbol's arity. For example, if \"+\" is a binary function symbol and \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" are variables, then \"x+(y+z)\" is a term, which might be written with the symbols in various orders. A proposition is (i) a predicate symbol applied to the number of terms required by its arity, (ii) an operator applied to the number of propositions required by its arity, or (iii) a quantifier applied to a proposition. For example, if \"=\" is a binary predicate symbol and \"∀\" is a quantifier, then \"∀x,y,z [(x = y) → (x+z = y+z)]\" is a proposition. This more complex structure of propositions allows these logics to make finer distinctions between inferences, i.e., to have greater expressive power.\n\nIn this context, propositions are also called sentences, statements, statement forms, formulas, and well-formed formulas, though these terms are usually not synonymous within a single text. This definition treats propositions as syntactic objects, as opposed to semantic or mental objects. That is, propositions in this sense are meaningless, formal, abstract objects. They are assigned meaning and truth-values by mappings called interpretations and valuations, respectively.\n\nPropositions are called structured propositions if they have constituents, in some broad sense.\n\nAssuming a structured view of propositions, we can distinguish between singular propositions (also Russellian propositions, named after Bertrand Russell) which are about a particular individual, general propositions, which are not about any particular individual, and particularized propositions, which are about a particular individual but do not contain that individual as a constituent.\n\nAttempts to provide a workable definition of proposition include\n\nTwo meaningful declarative sentences express the same proposition if and only if they mean the same thing.\n\nthus defining \"proposition\" in terms of synonymity. For example, \"Snow is white\" (in English) and \"Schnee ist weiß\" (in German) are different sentences, but they say the same thing, so they express the same proposition.\nTwo meaningful declarative sentence-tokens express the same proposition if and only if they mean the same thing.\n\nUnfortunately, the above definitions have the result that two sentences/sentence-tokens which have the same meaning and thus express the same proposition could have different truth-values, e.g. \"I am Spartacus\" said by Spartacus and said by John Smith; and e.g. \"It is Wednesday\" said on a Wednesday and on a Thursday.\n\nA number of philosophers and linguists claim that all definitions of a proposition are too vague to be useful. For them, it is just a misleading concept that should be removed from philosophy and semantics. W.V. Quine maintained that the indeterminacy of translation prevented any meaningful discussion of propositions, and that they should be discarded in favor of sentences. Strawson advocated the use of the term \"statement\".\n\n"}
{"id": "508376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=508376", "title": "Proto-Indo-European mythology", "text": "Proto-Indo-European mythology\n\n</noinclude>\nProto-Indo-European mythology is the body of myths and stories associated with the Proto-Indo-Europeans. Although these stories are not directly attested, they have been reconstructed by scholars of comparative mythology based on the similarities in the belief systems of various Indo-European peoples.\n\nVarious schools of thought exist regarding the precise nature of Proto-Indo-European mythology, which do not always agree with each other. Vedic mythology, Roman mythology, and Norse mythology are the main mythologies normally used for comparative reconstruction, though they are often supplemented with supporting evidence from the Baltic, Celtic, Greek, Slavic, and Hittite traditions as well.\n\nThe Proto-Indo-European pantheon includes well-attested deities such as *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", the god of the daylit skies, his daughter *\"Héusōs\", the goddess of the dawn, the divine twins, and the storm god *\"Perkunos\". Other probable deities include \"*Péhusōn\", a pastoral god, and \"*Sehul\", a female solar deity.\n\nWell-attested myths of the Proto-Indo-Europeans include a myth involving a storm god who slays a multi-headed serpent that dwells in water and a creation story involving two brothers, one of whom sacrifices the other to create the world. The Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed that the Otherworld was guarded by a watchdog and could only be reached by crossing a river. They also may have believed in a world tree, bearing fruit of immortality, either guarded by or gnawed on by a serpent or dragon, and tended by three goddesses who spun the thread of life.\n\nThe mythology of the Proto-Indo-Europeans is not directly attested and it is difficult to match their language to archaeological findings related to any specific culture from the Chalcolithic. Nonetheless, scholars of comparative mythology have attempted to reconstruct aspects of Proto-Indo-European mythologies based on the existence of similarities among the deities, religious practices, and myths of various Indo-European peoples. This method is known as the comparative method. Different schools of thought have approached the subject of Proto-Indo-European mythology from different angles. The Meteorological School holds that Proto-Indo-European mythology was largely centered around deified natural phenomena such as the sky, the Sun, the Moon, and the dawn. This meteorological interpretation was popular among early scholars, but has lost a considerable degree of scholarly support in recent years. The Ritual School, on the other hand, holds that Proto-Indo-European myths are best understood as stories invented to explain various rituals and religious practices. Bruce Lincoln, a member of the Ritual School, argues that the Proto-Indo-Europeans believed that every sacrifice was a reenactment of the original sacrifice performed by the founder of the human race on his twin brother. The Functionalist School holds that Proto-Indo-European society and, consequently, their mythology, was largely centered around the trifunctional system proposed by Georges Dumézil, which holds that Proto-Indo-European society was divided into three distinct social classes: farmers, warriors, and priests. The Structuralist School, by contrast, argues that Proto-Indo-European mythology was largely centered around the concept of dualistic opposition. This approach generally tends to focus on cultural universals within the realm of mythology, rather than the genetic origins of those myths, but it also offers refinements of the Dumézilian trifunctional system by highlighting the oppositional elements present within each function, such as the creative and destructive elements both found within the role of the warrior.\n\nOne of the earliest attested and thus most important of all Indo-European mythologies is Vedic mythology, especially the mythology of the Rigveda, the oldest of the Vedas. Early scholars of comparative mythology such as Max Müller stressed the importance of Vedic mythology to such an extent that they practically equated it with Proto-Indo-European myth. Modern researchers have been much more cautious, recognizing that, although Vedic mythology is still central, other mythologies must also be taken into account.\n\nAnother of the most important source mythologies for comparative research is Roman mythology. Contrary to the frequent erroneous statement made by some authors that \"Rome has no myth\", the Romans possessed a very complex mythological system, parts of which have been preserved through the characteristic Roman tendency to rationalize their myths into historical accounts. Despite its relatively late attestation, Norse mythology is still considered one of the three most important of the Indo-European mythologies for comparative research, simply due to the vast bulk of surviving Icelandic material.\n\nBaltic mythology has also received a great deal of scholarly attention, but has so far remained frustrating to researchers because the sources are so comparatively late. Nonetheless, Latvian folk songs are seen as a major source of information in the process of reconstructing Proto-Indo-European myth. Despite the popularity of Greek mythology in western culture, Greek mythology is generally seen as having little importance in comparative mythology due to the heavy influence of Pre-Greek and Near Eastern cultures, which overwhelms what little Indo-European material can be extracted from it. Consequently, Greek mythology received minimal scholarly attention until the mid 2000s.\n\nAlthough Scythians are considered relatively conservative in regards to Proto-Indo-European cultures, retaining a similar lifestyle and culture, their mythology has very rarely been examined in an Indo-European context and infrequently discussed in regards to the nature of the ancestral Indo-European mythology. At least three deities, Tabiti, Papaios and Api, are generally interpreted as having Indo-European origins, while the remaining have seen more disparate interpretations. Influence from Siberian, Turkic and even Near Eastern beliefs, on the other hand, are more widely discussed in literature.\n\nLinguists are able to reconstruct the names of some deities in the Proto-Indo-European language (PIE) from many types of sources. Some of the proposed deity names are more readily accepted among scholars than others.\n\nThe term for \"a god\" was \"*deiwos\", reflected in Hittite, \"sius\"; Latin, \"deus\", \"divus\"; Sanskrit, \"deva\"; Avestan, \"daeva\" (later, Persian, \"div\"); Welsh, \"duw\"; Irish, \"dia\"; Old Norse, \"tívurr\"; Lithuanian, \"Dievas\"; Latvian, \"Dievs\".\n\nThe head deity of the Proto-Indo-European pantheon was the god *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", whose name literally means \"Sky Father\". He is believed to have been regarded as the god of the daylit skies. He is, by far, the most well-attested of all the Proto-Indo-European deities. The Greek god Zeus, the Roman god Jupiter, and the Illyrian god Dei-Pátrous all appear as the head gods of their respective pantheons. The Norse god Týr, however, seems to have been demoted to the role of a minor war-deity prior to the composition of the earliest Germanic texts. *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\" is also attested in the Rigveda as Dyáus Pitā, a minor ancestor figure mentioned in only a few hymns. The names of the Latvian god Dievs and the Hittite god Attas Isanus do not preserve the exact literal translation of the name *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", but do preserve the general meaning of it.\n\n\"*Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\" may have had a consort who was an earth goddess. This possibility is attested in the Vedic pairing of Dyáus Pitā and Prithvi Mater, the Roman pairing of Jupiter and Tellus Mater from Macrobius's \"Saturnalia\", and the Norse pairing of Odin and Jörð. Odin is not a reflex of *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", but his cult may have subsumed aspects of an earlier chief deity who was. This pairing may also be further attested in an Old English ploughing prayer and in the Greek pairings of Ouranos and Gaia and Zeus and Demeter.\n\n\n\"*Sehul\" and \"*Mehnot\" are reconstructed as the Proto-Indo-European goddess of the Sun and god of the Moon respectively. \"*Sehul\" is reconstructed based on the Greek god Helios, the Roman god Sol, the Celtic goddess Sul/Suil, the North Germanic goddess Sól, the Continental Germanic goddess *Sowilō, the Hittite goddess \"UTU-liya\", the Zoroastrian Hvare-khshaeta and the Vedic god Surya.\n\n\"*Mehnot-\" is reconstructed based on the Norse god Máni, the Slavic god Myesyats, and the Lithuanian god *Meno, or Mėnuo (Mėnulis). They are often seen as the twin children of various deities, but in fact the sun and moon were deified several times and are often found in competing forms within the same language.\n\nThe usual scheme is that one of these celestial deities is male and the other female, though the exact gender of the Sun or Moon tends to vary among subsequent Indo-European mythologies. The original Indo-European solar deity appears to have been female, a characteristic not only supported by the higher number of sun goddesses in subsequent derivations (feminine Sól, Saule, Sulis, Solntse—not directly attested as a goddess, but feminine in gender — Étaín, Grían, Aimend, Áine, and Catha versus masculine Helios, Surya, Savitr, Usil, and Sol) (Hvare-khshaeta is of neutral gender), but also by vestiges in mythologies with male solar deities (Usil in Etruscan art is depicted occasionally as a goddess, while solar characteristics in Athena and Helen of Troy still remain in Greek mythology). The original Indo-European lunar deity appears to have been masculine, with feminine lunar deities like Selene, Minerva, and Luna being a development exclusive to the eastern Mediterranean. Even in these traditions, remnants of male lunar deities, like Menelaus, remain.\n\nAlthough the sun was personified as an independent, female deity, the Proto-Indo-Europeans also visualized the sun as the eye of *\"Dyḗus Pḥtḗr\", as seen in various reflexes: Helios as the eye of Zeus, Hvare-khshaeta as the eye of Ahura Mazda, and the sun as \"God's eye\" in Romanian folklore. The names of Celtic sun goddesses like Sulis and Grian may also allude to this association; the words for \"eye\" and \"sun\" are switched in these languages, hence the name of the goddesses.\n\nThe Horse Twins are a set of twin brothers found throughout nearly every Indo-European pantheon who usually have a name that means 'horse' \"*ekwa-\", but the names are not always cognate and no Proto-Indo-European name for them can be reconstructed. In most Indo-European pantheons, the Horse Twins are brothers of the Sun Maiden or Dawn goddess, and sons of the sky god.\n\nThey are reconstructed based on the Vedic Ashvins, the Lithuanian Ašvieniai, the Latvian Dieva deli, the Greek Dioskouroi (Kastor and Polydeukes), the Roman Dioscuri (Castor and Pollux), and the Old English Hengist and Horsa (whose names mean \"stallion\" and \"horse\"). References from the Greek writer Timaeus indicate that the Celts may have had a set of horse twins as well. The Welsh Brân and Manawydan may also be related. The horse twins may have been based on the morning and evening star (the planet Venus) and they often have stories about them in which they \"accompany\" the Sun goddess, because of the close orbit of the planet Venus to the sun.\n\nThe Proto-Indo-European Creation myth seems to have involved two key figures: *\"Manu-\" (\"Man\"; Indic Manu; Germanic Mannus) and his twin brother *\"Yemo-\" (\"Twin\"; Indic Yama; Germanic Ymir). Reflexes of these two figures usually fulfill the respective roles of founder of the human race and first human to die.\n\n\nSome authors have proposed \"*Neptonos\" or *\"Hepom Nepōts\" as the Proto-Indo-European god of the waters. The name literally means \"Grandson [or \"Nephew\"] of the Waters.\" Philologists reconstruct his name from that of the Vedic god Apám Nápát, the Roman god Neptūnus, and the Old Irish god Nechtain. Although such a god has been solidly reconstructed in Proto-Indo-Iranian religion, Mallory and Adams nonetheless still reject him as a Proto-Indo-European deity on linguistic grounds.\n\nA river goddess *\"Dehnu-\" has been proposed based on the Vedic goddess Dānu, the Irish goddess Danu, the Welsh goddess Don and the names of the rivers Danube, Don, Dnieper, and Dniester. Mallory and Adams, however, dismiss this reconstruction, commenting that it does not have any evidence to support it.\n\nSome have also proposed the reconstruction of a sea god named *\"Trihtōn\" based on the Greek god Triton and the Old Irish word \"trïath\", meaning \"sea.\" Mallory and Adams reject this reconstruction as having no basis, asserting that the \"lexical correspondence is only just possible and with no evidence of a cognate sea god in Irish.\"\n\n\"*Péhusōn\", a pastoral deity, is reconstructed based on the Greek god Pan and the Vedic god Pūshān. Both deities are closely affiliated with goats and were worshipped as pastoral deities. The minor discrepancies between the two deities can be easily explained by the possibility that many attributes originally associated with Pan may have been transferred over to his father Hermes. The association between Pan and Pūshān was first identified in 1924 by the German scholar Hermann Collitz.\n\nIn 1855, Adalbert Kuhn suggested that the Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed in a set of helper deities, whom he reconstructed based on the Germanic elves and the Hindu ribhus. Though this proposal is often mentioned in academic writings, very few scholars actually accept it. There may also have been a female cognate akin to the Greco-Roman nymphs, Slavic vilas, the Huldra of Germanic folklore, and the Hindu Apsaras.\n\nIt is highly probable that the Proto-Indo-Europeans believed in three fate goddesses who spun the destinies of mankind. Although such fate goddesses are not directly attested in the Indo-Aryan tradition, the Atharvaveda does contain an allusion comparing fate to a warp. Furthermore, the three Fates appear in nearly every other Indo-European mythology. The earliest attested set of fate goddesses are the Gulses in Hittite mythology, who were said to preside over the individual destinies of human beings. They often appear in mythical narratives alongside the goddesses Papaya and Istustaya, who, in a ritual text for the foundation of a new temple, are described sitting holding mirrors and spindles, spinning the king's thread of life. In the Greek tradition, the Moirai (\"Apportioners\") are mentioned dispensing destiny in both the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", in which they are given the epithet Κλῶθες (\"Klothes\", meaning \"Spinners\"). In Hesiod's \"Theogony\", the Moirai are said to \"give mortal men both good and ill\" and their names are listed as Klotho (\"Spinner\"), Lachesis (\"Apportioner\"), and Atropos (\"Inflexible\"). In his \"Republic\", Plato records that Klotho sings of the past, Lachesis of the present, and Atropos of the future. In Roman legend, the Parcae were three goddesses who presided over the births of children and whose names were Nona (\"Ninth\"), Decuma (\"Tenth\"), and Morta (\"Death\"). They too were said to spin destinies, although this may have been due to influence from Greek literature.\n\nIn the Old Norse \"Völuspá\" and \"Gylfaginning\", the Norns are three cosmic goddesses of fate who are described sitting by the well of Urðr at the foot of the world tree Yggdrasil. In Old Norse texts, the Norns are frequently conflated with Valkyries, who are sometimes also described as spinning. Old English texts, such as \"Rhyme Poem\" 70, and \"Guthlac\" 1350 f., reference Wyrd as a singular power that \"weaves\" destinies. Later texts mention the Wyrds as a group, with Geoffrey Chaucer referring to them as \"the Werdys that we clepyn Destiné\" in \"The Legend of Good Women\". A goddess spinning appears in a bracteate from southwest Germany and a relief from Trier shows three mother goddesses, with two of them holding distaffs. Tenth-century German ecclesiastical writings denounce the popular belief in three sisters who determined the course of a man's life at his birth. An Old Irish hymn attests to seven goddesses who were believed to weave the thread of destiny, which demonstrates that these spinster fate-goddesses were present in Celtic mythology as well. A Lithuanian folktale recorded in 1839 recounts that a man's fate is spun at his birth by seven goddesses known as the \"deivės valdytojos\" and used to hang a star in the sky; when he dies, his thread snaps and his star falls as a meteor. In Latvian folk songs, a goddess called the Láima is described as weaving a child's fate at its birth. Although she is usually only one goddess, the Láima sometimes appears as three. The three spinning fate goddesses appear in Slavic traditions in the forms of the Russian Rožanicy, the Czech Sudičky, the Bulgarian Narenčnice or Urisnice, the Polish Rodzanice, the Croatian Rodjenice, the Serbian Sudjenice, and the Slovene Rojenice. Albanian folk tales speak of the Fatit, three old women who appear three days after a child is born and determine its fate, using language reminiscent of spinning.\n\nAlthough the name of a particular Proto-Indo-European smith god cannot be linguistically reconstructed, it is highly probable that the Proto-Indo-Europeans had a smith deity of some kind, since smith gods occur in nearly every Indo-European culture, with examples including the Hittite god Hasammili, the Vedic god Tvastr, the Greek god Hephaestus, the Germanic villain Wayland the Smith, and the Ossetian culture figure Kurdalagon. Many of these smith figures share certain characteristics in common. Hephaestus, the Greek god of blacksmiths, and Wayland the Smith, a nefarious blacksmith from Germanic mythology, are both described as lame. Additionally, Wayland the Smith and the Greek mythical inventor Daedalus both escape imprisonment on an island by fashioning sets of mechanical wings from feathers and wax and using them to fly away.\n\nThe Proto-Indo-Europeans may have had a goddess who presided over the trifunctional organization of society. Various epithets of the Iranian goddess Anahita and the Roman goddess Juno provide sufficient evidence to solidly attest that she was probably worshipped, but no specific name for her can be lexically reconstructed. Vague remnants of this goddess may also be preserved in the Greek goddess Athena.\n\nSome scholars have proposed a war god *\"Māwort-\" based on the Roman god Mars and the Vedic Marutás, companions of the war-god Indra. Mallory and Adams, however, reject this reconstruction on linguistic grounds. Likewise, some researchers have found it more plausible that Mars was originally a storm deity, while this cannot be said for Ares.\n\nOne common myth found in nearly all Indo-European mythologies is a battle ending with a hero or god slaying a serpent or dragon of some sort. Although the details of story often vary widely, in all iterations, several features remain remarkably the same. In iterations of the story, the serpent is usually associated with water in some way. The hero of the story is usually a thunder-god or a hero who is somehow associated with thunder. The serpent is usually multi-headed, or else \"multiple\" in some other way.\n\nIn Hittite mythology, the storm god Tarhunt slays the giant serpent Illuyanka. In the Rigveda, the god Indra slays the multi-headed serpent Vritra, which had been causing a drought. In the \"Bhagavata Purana\", Krishna slays the serpent Kāliyā.\n\nSeveral variations of the story are also found in Greek mythology as well. The story is attested in the legend of Zeus slaying the hundred-headed Typhon from Hesiod's \"Theogony\", but it is also in the myths of the slaying of the nine-headed Lernaean Hydra by Heracles and the slaying of Python by Apollo. The story of Heracles's theft of the cattle of Geryon is probably also related. Although Heracles is not usually thought of as a storm deity in the conventional sense, he bears many attributes held by other Indo-European storm deities, including physical strength and a knack for violence and gluttony.\n\nThe original Proto-Indo-European myth is also reflected in Germanic mythology. In Norse mythology, Thor, the god of thunder, slays the giant serpent Jörmungandr, which lived in the waters surrounding the realm of Midgard. Other dragon-slaying myths are also found in the Germanic tradition. In the \"Völsunga saga\", Sigurd slays the dragon Fafnir and, in \"Beowulf\", the eponymous hero slays a different dragon.\n\nReflexes of the Proto-Indo-European dragon-slaying myth are found throughout other branches of the language family as well. In Zoroastrianism and Persian mythology, Fereydun, and later Garshasp, slays Zahhak. In Slavic mythology, Perun, the god of storms, slays Veles and Dobrynya Nikitich slays the three-headed dragon Zmey. In Armenian mythology, the god Vahagn slays the dragon Vishap. In Romanian folklore, Făt-Frumos slays the fire-spitting monster Zmeu. In Celtic mythology, Dian Cecht slays Meichi. The myth is believed to have symbolized a clash between forces of order and chaos. In every version of the story, the dragon or serpent always loses, although in some mythologies, such as the Norse Ragnarök myth, the hero or god dies as well.\n\nThe analysis of different Indo-European tales indicates that the Proto-Indo-Europeans believed there were two progenitors of mankind: *' (\"Man\") and *' (\"Twin\"), his twin brother. A reconstructed creation myth involving the two is given by David W. Anthony, attributed in part to Bruce Lincoln: Manu and Yemo traverse the cosmos, accompanied by the primordial cow, and finally decide to create the world. To do so, Manu sacrifices either Yemo or the cow, and with help from the sky father, the storm god and the divine twins, forges the earth from the remains. Manu thus becomes the first priest and establishes the practice of sacrifice. The sky gods then present cattle to the third man, *', who loses it to the three-headed serpent *', but eventually overcomes this monster either alone or aided by the sky father. Trito is now the first warrior and ensures that the cycle of mutual giving between gods and humans may continue. Reflexes of *Manu include Indic Manu, Germanic Mannus; of Yemo, Indic Yama, Avestan Yima, Norse Ymir, possibly Roman Remus (< earlier Old Latin \"*Yemos\").\n\nThe early \"history\" of Rome is widely recognized as a historicized retelling of various old myths. Romulus and Remus are twin brothers from Roman mythology who both have stories in which they are killed. The Roman writer Livy reports that Remus was believed to have been killed by his brother Romulus at the founding of Rome when they entered into a disagreement about which hill to build the city on. Later, Romulus himself is said to have been torn limb-from-limb by a group of senators. Both of these myths are widely recognized as historicized remnants of the Proto-Indo-European creation story.\n\nThe Germanic languages have information about both Ymir and Mannus (reflexes of \"*Yemo-\" and \"*Manu-\" respectively), but they never appear together in the same myth. Instead, they only occur in myths widely separated by both time and circumstances. In chapter two of his book \"Germania\", which was written in Latin in around 98 A.D., the Roman writer Tacitus claims that Mannus, the son of Tuisto, was the ancestor of the Germanic peoples. This name never recurs anywhere in later Germanic literature, but one proposed meaning of the continental Germanic tribal name \"Alamanni\" is \"Mannus' own people\" (\"all-men\" being another scholarly etymology).\n\nAnother important possible myth is the myth of the fire in the waters, a myth which centers around the possible deity *\"Hepom Nepōts\", a fiery deity who dwells in water. In the Rigveda, the god Apám Nápát is envisioned as a form of fire residing in the waters. In Celtic mythology, a well belonging to the god Nechtain is said to blind all those who gaze into it. In an old Armenian poem, a small reed in the middle of the sea spontaneously catches fire and the hero Vahagn springs forth from it with fiery hair and a fiery beard and eyes that blaze as suns. In a ninth-century Norwegian poem by the poet Thiodolf, the name \"sǣvar niþr\", meaning \"grandson of the sea,\" is used as a kenning for fire. Even the Greek tradition contains possible allusions to the myth of a fire-god dwelling deep beneath the sea. The phrase \"\"νέποδες καλῆς Ἁλοσύδνης\",\" meaning \"descendants of the beautiful seas,\" is used in \"The Odyssey\" 4.404 as an epithet for the seals of Proteus.\n\nJaan Puhvel notes similarities between the Norse myth in which the god Týr inserts his hand into the wolf Fenrir's mouth while the other gods bind him with Gleipnir, only for Fenrir to bite off Týr's hand when he discovers he cannot break his bindings, and the Iranian myth in which Jamshid rescues his brother's corpse from Ahriman's bowels by reaching his hand up Ahriman's anus and pulling out his brother's corpse, only for his hand to become infected with leprosy. In both accounts, an authority figure forces the evil entity into submission by inserting his hand into the being's orifice (in Fenrir's case the mouth, in Ahriman's the anus) and losing it. Fenrir and Ahriman fulfill different roles in their own mythological traditions and are unlikely to be remnants of a Proto-Indo-European \"evil god\"; nonetheless, it is clear that the \"binding myth\" is of Proto-Indo-European origin.\n\nIn the cosmogonic myths of many Indo-European cultures a Cosmic Egg symbolizes the primordial state from which the universe arises.\n\nMost Indo-European traditions contain some kind of Underworld or Afterlife. It is possible that the Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed that, in order to reach the Underworld, one needed to cross a river, guided by an old man (\"*ĝerhont-\"). The Greek tradition of the dead being ferried across the river Styx by Charon is probably a reflex of this belief. The idea of crossing a river to reach the Underworld is also present throughout Celtic mythologies. Several Vedic texts contain references to crossing a river in order to reach the land of the dead and the Latin word \"tarentum\" meaning \"tomb\" originally meant \"crossing point.\" In Norse mythology, Hermóðr must cross a bridge over the river Giöll in order to reach Hel. In Latvian folk songs, the dead must cross a marsh rather than a river. Traditions of placing coins on the bodies of the deceased in order to pay the ferryman are attested in both ancient Greek and early modern Slavic funerary practices. It is also possible that the Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed that the Underworld was guarded by some kind of watchdog, similar to the Greek Cerberus, the Hindu Śárvara, or the Norse Garmr.\n\nThe Proto-Indo-Europeans may have believed in some kind of world tree. It is also possible that they may have believed that this tree was either guarded by or under constant attack from some kind of dragon or serpent. In Norse mythology, the cosmic tree Yggdrasil is tended by the three Norns while the dragon Nidhogg gnaws at its roots. In Greek mythology, the tree of the golden apples in the Garden of the Hesperides is tended by the three Hesperides and guarded by the hundred-headed dragon Ladon. In Indo-Iranian texts, there is a mythical tree dripping with Soma, the immortal drink of the gods and, in later Pahlavi sources, a malicious lizard is said to lurk at the bottom of it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "728011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=728011", "title": "Richard J. Terrile", "text": "Richard J. Terrile\n\nRichard John Terrile (born March 22, 1951 in New York) is a Voyager scientist who discovered several moons of Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. He works for NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.\n\nTerrile is a supporter of the simulation hypothesis, the idea that our reality is a computer-generated virtual reality created by unknown programmers.\n"}
{"id": "12612088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12612088", "title": "Richard Keith Sprigg", "text": "Richard Keith Sprigg\n\nRichard Keith Sprigg (31 March 1922 – 8 September 2011) was a British linguist who specialised in the phonology of Asian languages. Sprigg was educated under J. R. Firth and was a member of the first generation of professional British linguists. Also as a consequence Sprigg was an advocate of the prosodic phonological method of Firth. Sprigg worked on several Tibeto-Burman languages including Lepcha, and various Tibetan dialects. He taught for many years at the School of Oriental and African Studies, and retired to Kalimpong, West Bengal, India with his wife Ray, granddaughter of David Macdonald the author of \"The Land of the Lama\" and \"20 Years in Tibet\", until her death.\n\nIn 2000 he returned to UK and lived in retirement with his second wife Elisabeth in Crowborough, East Sussex, England.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3634196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634196", "title": "Rupert Emerson", "text": "Rupert Emerson\n\nRupert Emerson (August 20, 1899, in Rye, NY – February 9, 1979, in Cambridge, MA) was a professor of political science and international relations. He served on the faculty of Harvard University for forty-three years and served in various U.S government positions.\n\nAfter serving in the U.S. Navy from 1917–18, he received a B.A. from Harvard University in 1922, then a Ph.D. at the London School of Economics in 1927. He was a member of the American Political Science Association, the Association for Asian Studies (president, 1952–53), the African Studies Association (president, 1965–66), the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nEmerson was on the faculty of Harvard University from 1927 until his retirement in 1970. A specialist on nationalism in Asia and Africa, he often guest lectured at universities in East Africa. He was an instructor at Harvard from 1927–31; assistant professor, 1931–38; associate professor of political science, 1938–46; professor of international relations, 1946–70; emeritus professor of political science, 1970-79. He was a lecturer at Yale University, 1937–38; a visiting professor of political science at University of California, Berkeley, 1953–54, and 1973, at University of California, Los Angeles, 1965–71, and at the American University in Cairo, 1972.\n\nHe served in various U.S. government posts in Washington, DC, 1941-46. He served as a constitutional advisor to the Korean government in 1962. He also served as a trustee of the Institute of Pacific Relations.\n\n\nHis parents were William Key Bond and Maria Holmes (Furman) Emerson. He married Alla Julievna Grosjean on September 14, 1925; they had 4 children: William Key Bond Emerson, Nina Ule Emerson, Natasha Maria Emerson, Rupert Allan Emerson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401489", "title": "Ruritan", "text": "Ruritan\n\nRuritan National is a service club located in small towns and rural areas in the United States. It aims to achieve \"Fellowship, Goodwill and Community Service\". The local clubs are autonomous from the national organization. Many Ruritan clubs sponsor local clubs or chapters of 4-H, the National FFA Organization, or a Boy Scouts of America troop.\n\nUnlike most community service organizations, Ruritan rarely has national programs. Rather, each club surveys the needs of its own community and then works to meet some of those needs. Many clubs provide and supervise community recreational centers, sponsor little league and other athletic programs, sponsor anti-litter campaigns, help the sick and needy and provide a wide range of other activities to help improve their communities.\n\nThe first Ruritan Club was chartered May 21, 1928, in Holland, Virginia, now part of Suffolk, Virginia.\n\nSince that first club, Ruritan has grown throughout the United States of America, and in doing so, has become \"America's Leading Community Service Organization,\" with over 30,000 members in more than 1,200 clubs.\n\nThe Ruritan organization is made of Ruritan Clubs, of which anyone may become a member. Club officers consist of a President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, Immediate Past President, and 1st-, 2nd- and 3rd-Year Directors. Clubs are organized into zones, overseen by a zone governor and consisting of three to ten clubs at the discretion of the district cabinet. Zones are then organized into districts.\n\nThe National Office is located in Dublin, Virginia, the location defined by the Ruritan Constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "10263107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10263107", "title": "Société Asiatique", "text": "Société Asiatique\n\nThe Société Asiatique is a French learned society dedicated to the study of Asia. It was founded in 1822 with the mission of developing and diffusing knowledge of Asia. Its boundaries of geographic interest are broad, ranging from the Maghreb to the Far East. The society publishes the \"Journal asiatique\". At present the society has about 700 members in France and abroad; its library contains over 90,000 volumes.\n\nThe establishment of the society was confirmed by royal ordinance on April 15, 1829. Antoine-Isaac Silvestre de Sacy was the first president.\n\n"}
{"id": "50236430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50236430", "title": "Speed shop", "text": "Speed shop\n\nSpeed shops are local brick and mortar businesses which typically purvey aftermarket automotive accessories intended to increase the performance of automobiles. They came into existence in the 1940s in North America as a result of the then rising popularity in hotrod culture. The term has recently broadened such that it encompasses motorcycle performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "26274126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26274126", "title": "Statue of Hope", "text": "Statue of Hope\n\nThe Statue of Hope is an allegorical figure that is typically a private memorial or monument displayed in a graveyard or cemetery. Hope is one of the Seven Virtues of the Christian religion.\n\nMost commonly used in the Victorian era and believed to be popularized by the Statue of Liberty's dedication in 1886. Prior to this, other images such as Saint Philomena whose authorization of devotion began in 1837 and Danish sculptor Bertel Thorvaldsen's Goddess of Hope statue sculpted in 1817, displayed similar characteristics.\n\nOne of the earliest signed Statue of Hope memorials was carved by Odoardo Fantacchiotti in 1863 for the grave of Samuel Reginald Routh of England in the Protestant Cemetery of Florence, Italy. Another variation was completed in 1791. The Custom House, Dublin Ireland features a 16 foot (about 5 meter) tall statue of a female resting on an anchor atop the dome. This statue has been called both the Statue of Hope and the Statue of Commerce.\n\nIn the United States, these statues were commonly carved out of limestone or marble and were usually unsigned. The Wilson memorial pictured on the right was sculpted using Indiana Limestone which was quarried nearby. Towards the latter part of the 19th and early 20th century, some were cast with zinc, commonly referred to as White Bronze.\n\nA female, typically shown wearing Roman Stola and Palla garments, stands with one arm resting on or holding an anchor. This is often an Anchored cross meaning hope and is the primary symbol of the statue. Further, the New Testament, Hebrews 6:19 states \"Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which entereth into that within the veil.\" Often, the opposite arm is raised with the index finger of the hand pointing towards the sky. This symbolizes the pathway to heaven. A hand held over the heart symbolizes faith. Other key elements can be a broken chain attached to the anchor or sometimes hanging from the neck. This symbolizes the cessation of life. Many statues have a single five pointed star rather than a circle of stars. The star is on the top of the forehead, usually on a Crown of Immortality or diadem, and represents the immortal soul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3845651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3845651", "title": "SunWatch Indian Village", "text": "SunWatch Indian Village\n\nSunWatch Indian Village / Archaeological Park, previously known as the Incinerator Site, and designated by the Smithsonian trinomial 33-MY-57, is a reconstructed Fort Ancient Native American village next to the Great Miami River on West River Road in Dayton, Ohio. The dwellings and site plan of the site are based on lengthy archeological excavations sponsored by the Dayton Society of Natural History, which owns and operates the site as an open-air museum. Because of its archaeological value, the site was listed in 1974 on the National Register of Historic Places. Since that time, as the many years of archaeological research at the site have led to important findings about the Fort Ancient culture, SunWatch Indian Village was designated in 1990 as a National Historic Landmark.\n\nAmateurs had found some prehistoric materials at the site in the 1960s. Professional excavation began in 1971 as a salvage operation when the city planned a sewage treatment plant. With the discovery of significant artifacts and the remains of a stockaded village, the city changed its plans to preserve the site. Excavations continued through 1988 and are generally completed, although additional small studies have been done. The studies have revealed much about the original people's dwellings, social organization, diets, burial practices and other aspects of their lives at the site. The circular village, surrounded by defensive palisades, was occupied for about 20 years, with a total population of about 250. They depended on farming and hunting.\n\nScholars have named it Sun Watch because, since studies of the 1980s, they believe that a complex of posts in the plaza related to astronomical measurements. The Fort Ancient culture people, whose society was based on agriculture, would have planned rituals around a solar calendar.\n\nWith reconstructed dwellings, a plaza and gardens, and an interpretive center, the village was opened in 1988 to the public as an open-air museum. Interpretive tours are offered as well as a variety of educational programs and special events developed in collaboration with Native American and other groups. Archaeological excavations are ongoing in the area, with special opportunities for school groups, graduate students, and adult learners.\n\nAdditional artifacts and exhibits are held in the related Boonshoft Museum of Discovery in Dayton. These help interpret the history and culture of the people, and show more of the artifacts recovered at the site than can be displayed at SunWatch.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30756", "title": "Terence", "text": "Terence\n\nPublius Terentius Afer (; c. 195/185 – c. 159? BC), better known in English as Terence (), was a Roman playwright during the Roman Republic, of Berber descent. His comedies were performed for the first time around 170–160 BC. Terentius Lucanus, a Roman senator, brought Terence to Rome as a slave, educated him and later on, impressed by his abilities, freed him. Terence apparently died young, probably in Greece or on his way back to Rome. All of the six plays Terence wrote have survived.\n\nOne famous quotation by Terence reads: \"Homo sum, humani nihil a me alienum puto\", or \"I am human, and I think nothing human is alien to me.\" This appeared in his play \"Heauton Timorumenos\".\n\nTerence's date of birth is disputed; Aelius Donatus, in his incomplete \"Commentum Terenti\", considers the year 185 BC to be the year Terentius was born; Fenestella, on the other hand, states that he was born ten years earlier\n, in 195 BC.\n\nHe may have been born in or near Carthage or in Greek Italy to a woman taken to Carthage as a slave. Terence's cognomen \"Afer\" suggests he lived in the territory of the Libyan tribe called by the Romans Afri near Carthage prior to being brought to Rome as a slave. This inference is based on the fact that the term was used in two different ways during the republican era: during Terence's lifetime, it was used to refer to non-Carthaginian Libyco-Berbers, with the term \"Punicus\" reserved for the Carthaginians. Later, after the destruction of Carthage in 146 BC, it was used to refer to anyone from the land of the Afri (Tunisia and its surroundings). It is therefore most likely that Terence was of Libyan descent, considered ancestors to the modern-day Berber peoples.\n\nIn any case, he was sold to P. Terentius Lucanus, a Roman senator, who educated him and later on, impressed by Terence's abilities, freed him. Terence then took the \"nomen\" \"Terentius,\" which is the origin of the present form.\n\nHe was a member of the so-called Scipionic Circle.\n\nWhen he was 25, Terence travelled to Greece and never returned. It is mostly believed that Terence died during the journey, but this cannot be confirmed. Before his disappearance he exhibited six comedies which are still in existence. According to some ancient writers, he died at sea.\n\nLike Plautus, Terence adapted Greek plays from the late phases of Attic comedy. Terence wrote in a simple conversational Latin, pleasant and direct. Aelius Donatus, Jerome's teacher, is the earliest surviving commentator on Terence's work. Terence's popularity throughout the Middle Ages and the Renaissance is attested to by the numerous manuscripts containing part or all of his plays; the scholar Claudia Villa has estimated that 650 manuscripts containing Terence's work date from after AD 800. The mediaeval playwright Hroswitha of Gandersheim claims to have written her plays so that learned men had a Christian alternative to reading the pagan plays of Terence, while the reformer Martin Luther not only quoted Terence frequently to tap into his insights into all things human but also recommended his comedies for the instruction of children in school.\n\nTerence's six plays are:\n\nThe first printed edition of Terence appeared in Strasbourg in 1470, while the first certain post-antique performance of one of Terence's plays, \"Andria\", took place in Florence in 1476. There is evidence, however, that Terence was performed much earlier. The short dialogue \"Terentius et delusor\" was probably written to be performed as an introduction to a Terentian performance in the 9th century (possibly earlier).\n\nDue to his clear and entertaining language, Terence's works were heavily used by monasteries and convents during the Middle Ages and The Renaissance. Scribes often learned Latin through the meticulous copying of Terence's texts. Priests and nuns often learned to speak Latin through reenactment of Terence's plays, thereby learning both Latin and Gregorian chants. Although Terence's plays often dealt with pagan material, the quality of his language promoted the copying and preserving of his text by the church. The preservation of Terence through the church enabled his work to influence much of later Western drama.\n\nTerence's plays were a standard part of the Latin curriculum of the neoclassical period. US President John Adams once wrote to his son, \"Terence is remarkable, for good morals, good taste, and good Latin... His language has simplicity and an elegance that make him proper to be accurately studied as a model.\"\n\nTwo of the earliest English comedies, \"Ralph Roister Doister\" and \"Gammer Gurton's Needle\", are thought to parody Terence's plays.\n\nDue to his cognomen Afer, Terence has long been identified with Africa and heralded as the first poet of the African diaspora by generations of writers, including Juan Latino, Phyllis Wheatley, Alexandre Dumas, Langston Hughes and Maya Angelou.\n\nAmerican playwright Thornton Wilder based his novel \"The Woman of Andros\" on Terence's \"Andria\".\n\nQuestions as to whether Terence received assistance in writing or was not the actual author have been debated over the ages, as described in the 1911 edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica:\"\n[In a prologue to one of his plays, Terence] meets the charge of receiving assistance in the composition of his plays by claiming as a great honour the favour which he enjoyed with those who were the favorites of the Roman people. But the gossip, not discouraged by Terence, lived and throve; it crops up in Cicero and Quintilian, and the ascription of the plays to Scipio had the honour to be accepted by Montaigne and rejected by Diderot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56885391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56885391", "title": "The Athenaeum (South Africa)", "text": "The Athenaeum (South Africa)\n\nThe Athenaeum (an institution for the promotion of literary or scientific learning) building is at the heart of a burgeoning creative industry in Port Elizabeth. It is situated at the corner of Castle Hill and Belmont Terrace in Nelson Mandela Bay. The building aims to cultivate, develop and promote the culture, heritage and arts of the Eastern Cape. It was opened on 26 July 1896 and was designed by George William Smith. It was declared a national monument in 1980 and is listed as one of the provincial heritage sites of Port Elizabeth.\n\nThe Athenaeum was erected during the height of the Victorian era thus the designer, George William Smith, designed the building in a typically Victorian manner. It is a two-storey building with two distinct sections which were opened in 1896 and 1901 respectively. The Belmont Terrace facade has two wings which are joined by a central arched entrance porch, which is a classic of the Victorian style. The building has elements of 19th century neoclassicism and the architectural style used was Edwardian Baroque.\n\nIn the 1850s, a group of intellectuals and willing citizens in the area of Algoa Bay came together to form the Athenaeum Society with the aim of promoting cultural, artistic and scientific activities within the town. The formation of this society was largely motivated by the lack of public entertainment within their region.\n\nCommittee members from the local library, the Athenaeum Society and the municipality held a meeting on 20 October 1856 to appeal to the colonial government to accord land to erect a Town Hall, which would accommodate municipal offices, a library, a museum and an athenaeum (place of further learning). A Town Hall was erected in 1858, which secured a home for the Athenaeum Society. Thus the society initially operated out of a space in the Town Hall but, as the library and museum grew and expanded into the space which the Athenaeum Society occupied, the society was forced to cease all activities in that space.\n\nIn 1882 an Art School was founded in Port Elizabeth. The number of its members grew exponentially so new premises were sought after. In 1891 Dr Hewitt, the founder of the Young Men's Institute, was also looking for premises for his society. In that very year the Photographic Society and Naturalist Society were founded and also sought premises in which to operate. The four societies thus came together to reinvigorate the Athenaeum.\n\nThe Town Council subsequently granted the new Athenaeum some council land and offered to erect a building if each society contributed the equivalent of €1000, which they did. An agreement was signed that stated that the building would remain the property of the Town Council, but would be made available to the societies, rate free. It also stipulated that the Athenaeum Council was responsible for the interior maintenance of the building whilst the municipality was responsible for the exterior. The Athenaeum Council, together with further funding from the Town Council, erected The Athenaeum in 1896. Since its opening in 1896, the Athenaeum has been home to numerous creative societies and leveraged off partnerships with the Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA), the Arts Journey, the National Arts Festival, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University and Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism.\n\nIn 1946, the Port Elizabeth Music and Dramatic Society (PEMADS) rented and renovated the Loubser Hall into a theatre, which is known today as the Ford Little Theatre. In the early 2000s the Athenaeum building went into a state of dilapidation and closed down. The Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) took over the building in 2010 and started renovations. The Athenaeum and Ford Little Theatre were reopened in 2012.\n\nThe Athenaeum serves as a cradle of diverse activities within the arts industry. It showcases both national and international art exhibitions, live performances, art interventions and theatre shows. A number of emerging creatives hold office and studio space within the building. It is considered a fusion of new South African art and old South African design. To ensure sustainability, The Athenaeum also offers services such as venue hire, exhibition hosting and curation, event management, bar services, marketing and promotion and service provider management.\nThis venue is a stage for many creative industry pursuits, from live theatre productions and shows to live concerts, film screenings, conferences, debates and book launches.\n"}
{"id": "20634078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20634078", "title": "The Great Saint Patrick's Day Flood", "text": "The Great Saint Patrick's Day Flood\n\nThe Great Saint Patrick's Day Flood is a short historical novel for children by the American writer Mildred S. Flaherty based on events of the Pittsburgh Flood of 1936 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nSet in March, the Allegheny, Monongahela, and Ohio Rivers are rising. Eleven-year-old Billy Flynn and his seven-year-old brother Tommy are happy when school is cancelled. The boys' excitement soon turns to fear and awe as the rivers overflow their banks and people are forced to flee from their homes and work. Soon they experience life as they have never known it, discovering real courage and honor along the way.\n"}
{"id": "4964763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4964763", "title": "Wayne N. Aspinall", "text": "Wayne N. Aspinall\n\nWayne Norviel Aspinall (April 3, 1896 – October 9, 1983) was a lawyer and politician from Colorado. He is largely known for his tenure in the United States House of Representatives, serving as a Democrat from 1949–1973 from Colorado's Fourth District. Aspinall became known for his direction of the House Interior and Insular Affairs Committee, of which he was the chairman from 1959–1973. Aspinall focused the majority of his efforts on western land and water issues.\n\nHis actions supporting resource development often drew the ire of the increasingly powerful environmental lobby in the 1960s. David Brower, a prominent executive director of the Sierra Club, said that the environmental movement had seen \"dream after dream dashed on the stony continents of Wayne Aspinall.\" The congressman returned the animosity, calling environmentalists \"over-indulged zealots\" and \"aristocrats\" to whom \"balance means nothing.\" This battle shaped Aspinall's congressional career.\n\nAspinall was born in Middleburg, Logan County, Ohio in 1896 and moved to Palisade, Colorado in 1904. He studied at the University of Denver until World War I, when he enlisted in the armed services (the Air Service of the Signal Corps). He returned to DU after his discharge and graduated in 1919. After several years of teaching around the state, he enrolled in law school in Denver and graduated in 1925. In 1930, he won a seat in the Colorado State House of Representatives, serving as Speaker in 1937 and 1938 before moving to the State Senate from 1939 to 1948. He served in World War II as a captain in Military Government during 1943 and 1944 as well. In 1948, he chose to run for national office, hoping for it to be a stepping stone to Colorado's governorship. However, he would stay in the U.S. House for 24 years.\n\nLiving on Colorado's Western Slope defined Aspinall's political ideology. His family had traditionally voted Republican, but the party's in-fighting in 1912 between Theodore Roosevelt and William H. Taft disillusioned Aspinall. However, despite becoming a Democrat, his rural roots shaped a relatively conservative philosophy. He believed in limited federal involvement in western land and water issues; to him, localities could better decide the uses of their resources. \"When I was young…I lived outside the little town of Palisade, and the townspeople always seemed to call the shots. Then I moved to Palisade, and the bigger town of Grand Junction always seemed to call the shots. Then I went to the state Legislature, and the Eastern Slope…seemed to call the shots. And in Congress, the big metropolitan areas seemed to hold all the marbles.\"\n\nHis service in the U.S. House ended in 1972 with his loss in the Fourth District Democratic primary. However, Aspinall remained active in politics. He voiced his opinions on the need for the United States to become self-reliant for its energy needs, pushing oil shale development until his death in 1983.\n\nColorado history remembers Aspinall as one of the state's most influential politicians. Known as \"The Chairman,\" he led the Interior and Insular Affairs Committee during a period that defined future water and land policy in the United States. Colorado governor Richard Lamm, a Democrat who had several ideological differences with Aspinall, remarked that \"[N]o one in our history has done more to win Colorado a place at the table in Washington.\" He had a son, Owen Aspinall, who went on to become Governor of American Samoa.\n\nAspinall favored dams and water reclamation projects for several reasons: (1) the power they generated; (2) general recreational use; and (3) he felt the key to Western economic prosperity lay in obtaining permanent stored supply of water for economic purposes. In Aspinall's mind, Americans had many opportunities to enjoy scenic areas, so damming a few of them would not hurt the country. After his career, he boasted that he had brought over $1 billion worth of water projects to his district. According to his observers, he \"never met a dam he didn't like.\"\n\nThe Colorado River Storage Project (CRSP) came before Congress in the early to mid-1950s. The bill, sponsored by Wayne Aspinall and several western allies, called for damming several areas in the Upper Basin of the Colorado River. It included the Echo Park Dam proposal, located within Dinosaur National Monument. This became a volatile issue between environmentalists and water project advocates. Located just below the Green and Yampa Rivers, the proposed high dam would have created a 43,000 acre (170 km²) lake, flooding the Green River Canyon for and the Yampa River Canyon for . However, because of increased environmental awareness around the country, the majority of the public opposed the project. In 1954 alone, the Department of the Interior received 20,000 pieces of mail about the plan, and one insider estimated the letters ran 80 to 1 in opposition of the project.\n\nIn 1954 and 1955, environmentalists defeated the controversial aspects of the CRSP. In '55, Aspinall conceded that for the bill to pass, he needed to sacrifice the Echo Park plan. Several more compromises between the two sides gave way to the Colorado River Storage Act of 1956 (Public Law 485, in chapter 203), which called for the creation of other irrigation projects and several large dams, including the Glen Canyon Dam in Utah, which created Lake Powell. Other projects created from the CRSP included the Flaming Gorge, Navajo, and Curecanti reservoirs. For his compromise, Aspinall gained five other reclamation projects and three hydroelectric dams for the Fourth District. The bill passed the House 256-136 in March 1956 and then-President Dwight Eisenhower signed it into law soon thereafter.\n\nThis plan, originally proposed in 1951, called for water diversion out of the Frying Pan and Roaring Fork Rivers on the Western Slope of Colorado to the Arkansas River, which flowed to a drier climate in the southeast part of the state. Because the Front Range (Boulder, Denver, Colorado Springs, and Pueblo) had a tremendous population advantage over the Western Slope, most of the state favored the project. Precedent for this maneuver had been set in 1937 with the Colorado-Big Thompson Project, which transferred Western Slope water to farmers in northeast Colorado.\n\nBecause he wanted to focus the House's efforts on the CRSP in the mid-'50s, Aspinall tabled Fry-Ark until 1960. However, when the issue resurfaced, Aspinall's opinion created controversy in his own district. Many of his constituents disapproved of sending their water to the Front Range. Aspinall, however, pushed the plan through because he realized that as a strong proponent of public water development, it seemed contradictory for him to block reclamation projects that benefited others. The bill passed in August 1962 when Aspinall attained a plan calling for the construction of a reservoir on the Roaring Fork River near Aspen, which would compensate the Western Slope for its loss of water.\n\nFry-Ark demonstrated Aspinall's resolve to proliferate the amount of publicly funded water projects throughout the West, pitting him against the wishes of the majority of his constituents in the early 1960s. He quickly regained favor with them, however, when its precedent eventually brought more dams and reclamation projects back to the Fourth District.\n\nOne of the first comprehensive pieces of environmental legislation during the era faced a lengthy battle in Congress between Presidents Kennedy and Johnson and western politicians like Aspinall. When the Wilderness bill first came to the House in 1961, Aspinall employed various stall tactics to never allow the popular bill out of the Interior Committee. He continued this through 1962 and into '63, earning him the wrath of the country's environmentalists, preservationist politicians, and a large amount of the public.\n\nHowever, in November 1963 Aspinall made a deal with John Kennedy. Aspinall greatly desired a public land review commission (see below), while one of Kennedy's primary goals was the passage of the Wilderness Act. Aspinall agreed to release the bill in exchange for the administration's cooperation with the land commission. (Also, Kennedy's assassination on November 22, 1963 created an ethos in Washington that essentially made Kennedy a martyr. Lyndon Johnson took up and pushed through many of his legislative goals because of public empathy.)\n\nBefore Aspinall let the Wilderness Act of 1964 pass, he dropped the original request of 55 million acres (220,000 km²) of protected wilderness to only 9.1 million acres (37,000 km²). He also inserted a clause, called the \"1984 clause,\" that allowed mining interests to still have access to many of these areas until December 31, 1983. Despite these concessions, the House passed it 373-1 and Lyndon Johnson signed it in September. The act also refused to turn over exclusive power to the executive branch, keeping some power in Congress for public land oversight. Ironically, the National Wildlife Federation named Aspinall their \"Conservationist of the Year\" in 1964 for his role in the eventual passage of the bill.\n\nFrom 1966 to 1968, Aspinall took on the final significant water project battle of his congressional career. The purpose of the Colorado River Basin Project, according to supporters, was to build dams to generate revenue and energy for communities in the Lower Basin of the Colorado River without using much of the Upper Basin's river water. The primary focus of the project was the Central Arizona Project (CAP). CAP supporters, among other demands, wanted to build two dams, one that would flood Grand Canyon National Monument and part of Grand Canyon National Park (Bridge Canyon Dam), with the other on the edge of the Grand Canyon (Marble Canyon Dam). Aspinall originally supported this, claiming it would generate revenue for all Colorado River Basin states. In turn, however, he demanded that his district receive five reclamation projects for his support. Several congressmen, including Arizona senator Carl Hayden, saw this as action as a move that held the state hostage, and many would come to resent Aspinall for it.\n\nEnvironmentalists vehemently opposed the CAP because of its detriment to the scenery of the Grand Canyon. Aspinall would later say \"We viewed the development of the river as the only reasonable, practicable, safe, and logical way for millions of Americans and visitors to enjoy the canyon bottom which to date so few have had an opportunity to visit or view.\" However, during the debate, the Sierra Club mocked that philosophy, purchasing an ad in national newspapers in July 1966. \"Should we also flood the Sistine Chapel so tourists can get nearer the ceiling?\" it asked.\n\nSensing that he couldn't break the stalemate, Aspinall dropped the Grand Canyon dams from the CRPB in late August 1967. The bill eventually passed in the middle of 1968, creating the Colorado River Basin Act. However, in exchange for this compromise, Aspinall did receive five projects for Colorado (the Dallas Creek, Animas-La Plata, West Divide, San Miguel, and Dolores projects).\n\nOf those five, only two were eventually built (Dolores and Dallas Creek). The Animas-La Plata project is currently under construction, and is one of the last major water projects in the West. Jimmy Carter declared a \"Hit List\" in 1977 on what he felt was wasteful spending on \"pork barrel\" water projects, eliminating the other three (among others). Furthermore, no new major reclamation projects were approved during the rest of the era, partly because Aspinall's heavy-handed demands that constrained the legislation broke apart the western coalition of politicians that supported the construction of water projects.\n\nKennedy's concession in 1963 to enact the Wilderness Act gave Aspinall the go-ahead to organize his pet project, the Public Land Law Review Commission (PLLRC) in 1965. The PLLRC reviewed all federal regulations affecting the control and uses of the nation's public lands and recommended changes that would help the federal government manage these areas more efficiently. Aspinall served as the commission's chair for the entirety of its existence, from 1965 until 1970.\n\nThe final report came out on June 23, 1970. Titled \"One Third of the Nation's Lands,\" it gave 137 recommendations to Richard Nixon and Congress. Among its suggestions: \n\nEnvironmentalists blasted its findings. The Sierra Club accused the study of being \"oriented toward maximum immediate commercial exploitation...\" predicated upon a world with an \"ever-expanding economy and unlimited resources.\" Others stated that the report only considered studies and opinions favorable to Aspinall's political ideology. Many citizens were also still unhappy with Aspinall for blocking the creation of the Redwood National Park in California for half of the decade until its passage in 1968, and they saw this as more evidence that he served as a mouthpiece for the extractive industries' interests in Congress.\n\nAspinall proposed HR 9211 in his final session in Congress to implement many of the PLLRC's recommendations, but it failed to pass. During the height of the environmental movement, many of these suggestions were unacceptable to the public. However, later bills spawned from the ideas in the PLLRC, such as the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.\n\nAfter over two decades in office, the turbulent forces of the 1960s and early '70s caught up with Aspinall. With liberalism gaining strength throughout the country by protesting the Vietnam War and advocating civil rights for African Americans and equal rights for women, reformers gained control of the Democratic Party. They jumped on the opportunity to remove one of the party's most conservative members.\n\nIn 1970 a young Democrat named Richard Perchlik challenged Aspinall in the Fourth District Democratic primary. Although Aspinall won by over 11,000 votes in his first primary challenge since 1948, Perchlik's campaign portrayed Aspinall as old (74 at the time) and out of touch with the ideals of liberals on the war and the environment. The challenger also accused \"The Chairman\" of being too connected to the extractive special interests and railed against him for his role in what reformers viewed as a flawed seniority system in Congress.\n\nAspinall's friend and colleague, Democratic congressman Byron Rogers of Colorado's First District, did not survive 1970's primary season, however. A young liberal lawyer from Denver, Craig Barnes, defeated Rogers (although Barnes himself lost the general election). Rogers had a similar philosophy and legislative record to Aspinall, seemingly foreshadowing Aspinall's fate in 1972.\n\nThe degree to which Aspinall appreciated the challenge of liberal Democrats is debated. He did say that \"this drive toward liberalism, organization of committees, etc., is causing me to wonder if I haven't reached the place where I should let some younger and more militant person take over.\" However, he never altered his campaign message in 1972, even after the Republican-controlled Colorado General Assembly redrew the state's district lines to include largely liberal precincts in the Fourth District. \"Wayne Aspinall represents all the interests because all the people have interest in our resources,\" his campaign said, continuing to target the miners, ranchers, and loggers that lived on the Western Slope. He never attempted to alter his message to assuage the concerns of his new liberal constituents.\n\nHis opponent in the 1972 Democratic primary, Alan Merson, employed the same strategy that Perchlik and Barnes used two years previously. Merson attacked Aspinall for being slow to recognize developing energy problems, promoting policies that fed constant growth, building needless water projects, and being a tool of special interests. Merson received extensive external aid, accepting endorsements from \"The New York Times\", \"Field and Stream\", and even \"Reader's Digest\". The environmental lobby provided most of the support to Merson's campaign, with $20,000 coming from the League of Conservation Voters. Environmental Action, having named Aspinall to their 1972 \"Dirty Dozen\" list of biggest congressional enemies to the environment, also endorsed Merson.\n\nUsing the young, liberal vote on the Front Range, Merson defeated Aspinall in the primary 53% to 47%. History credits Aspinall's loss to his age, the strength of the environmental issue in 1972, and the redistricting that cost \"The Chairman\" much of his conservative support on the Western Slope.\n\nHowever, redistricting still favored Republicans, despite the liberal Merson's victory. Moving urban voters into the Fourth split the Democratic vote and consolidated Republican strength. Merson lost to James Paul Johnson, who had been Aspinall's unsuccessful Republican opponent in 1966, in the general election in November 1972.\n\nAspinall stayed relatively active after leaving office in January 1973. He crossed party lines and endorsed Gerald Ford for President in 1976. He also pressed for further exploration of oil shale in the late 1970s, serving on the board of directors for the Paraho Oil Shale Demonstration, Inc., hoping to lead the country to an alternative energy source to end American reliance on oil during the energy crisis caused by the Arab Oil Embargo.\n\nHe proudly took part in the Sagebrush Rebellion, a western philosophy popular from 1979–1982 that attempted to reclaim some federally protected land for determination by states and local governments.\n\nAspinall resumed the practice of law, was a resident of Palisade, Colo., until his death there October 9, 1983; he was cremated, and his ashes were interred at Orchard Mesa Municipal Cemetery, Grand Junction, Colorado. The United States Post Office and Courthouse in Grand Junction was renamed the Wayne N. Aspinall Federal Building in 1972.\n\n\n"}
