{"id": "46538349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46538349", "title": "2015 Rompin by-election", "text": "2015 Rompin by-election\n\nA by-election was held for the Dewan Rakyat seat of Rompin, Pahang in Malaysia on 5 May following the nomination day on 22 April 2015. The seat fell vacant after member of parliament Jamaluddin Jarjis, from Barisan Nasional died in a helicopter crash in Semenyih, Selangor. Jamaluddin Jarjis won the seat with a majority of 15,114 votes in the general elections in 2013, beating Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS)'s Mohd Nuridah Salleh.\n\nThe Rompin by-election was a straight contest between ruling party UMNO's Hasan Arifin and opposition PAS's Nazri Ahmad.\n\nBN held the seat, albeit with their majority slashed by almost half.\n"}
{"id": "24663996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24663996", "title": "36.9 ultimatum", "text": "36.9 ultimatum\n\nThe 36.9 ultimatum refers to the 1997 ultimatum by then-Prime Minister of Norway, Thorbjørn Jagland, that his government would resign if the Norwegian Labour Party gained less than 36.9% of the votes (the percentage gained by the Labour Party in 1993 under Gro Harlem Brundtland) in the parliamentary election, no matter what the parliamentary situation would be. \n\nAs the Labour Party gained only 35%, Jagland's government resigned, even though the Labour party won the election in the sense that it remained the biggest party and could have continued in government. Jagland's 36.9 ultimatum was subject to much public ridicule in 1997 and subsequent years, as well as strong criticism within his own party. When the Labour Party formed a government again in 2000, Jens Stoltenberg became Prime Minister with Jagland as Foreign Minister; Jens Stoltenberg also succeeded Jagland as leader of the Labour Party in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "3164053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3164053", "title": "Alexander Bickel", "text": "Alexander Bickel\n\nAlexander Mordecai Bickel (December 17, 1924 – November 8, 1974) was an American law professor and expert on the United States Constitution. One of the most influential constitutional commentators of the twentieth century, his writings emphasize judicial restraint.\n\nBickel was born in Bucharest, Romania, to Jewish parents, Solomon and Yetta Bickel. The family emigrated to New York City in 1939. He graduated \"Phi Beta Kappa\" from City College of New York in 1947 and \"summa cum laude\" from Harvard Law School in 1949.\n\nFollowing law school, Bickel was a law clerk for federal judge Calvert Magruder of the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. In 1950, he went to Europe as a law officer of the U.S. State Department, serving in Frankfurt, Germany, and with the European Defense Community Observer Delegation in Paris.\n\nIn 1952, he returned to the U.S., and clerked for Supreme Court Justice Felix Frankfurter in the Court's 1952–53 term. He prepared a historic memorandum for Frankfurter, urging that \"Brown v. Board of Education\" be reargued.\n\nIn 1956, he became an instructor at Yale Law School, where he taught until his death. He was named Chancellor Kent Professor of Law and Legal History in 1966, and Sterling Professor of Law in 1974.\n\nWith colleague Charles Black, Bickel established Yale Law as a respected center for the study of constitutional law.\n\nA frequent contributor to \"Commentary\", \"New Republic\" and \"The New York Times\", Bickel argued against \"prior restraint\" of the press by the government as part of the successful representation of \"The New York Times\" in the Pentagon Papers case (1971). He also defended President Richard Nixon’s order to dismiss special Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox.\n\nBickel died of cancer at his home in Connecticut, at 49 years of age.\n\nBickel's most distinctive contribution to constitutional law was to stress what he called \"the passive virtues\" of judicial decision-making – the refusal to decide cases on substantive grounds if narrower grounds exist to decide the case. Bickel viewed \"private ordering\" and the voluntary working-out of problems as generally preferable to legalistic solutions.\n\nIn his books \"The Supreme Court and the Idea of Progress\" and \"The Morality of Consent\", Bickel attacked the Warren Court for what he saw as its misuse of history, shoddy reasoning, and sometimes arbitrary results. Bickel thought that the Warren Court's two most important lines of decision, \"Brown v. Board of Education\" and \"Baker v. Carr\", did not produce the results the Court had intended. In his book \"The Least Dangerous Branch\", Bickel coined the term \"countermajoritarian difficulty\" to describe his view that judicial review stands in tension with democratic theory.\n\nBickel envisioned the Supreme Court as playing a statesman-like role in national controversies, engaging in dialogue with the other branches of government. Thus he did not see the Court as a purely passive body, but as one which should lead public opinion, albeit carefully.\n\nBickel's writings addressed such varied topics as constitutionalism and Burkean thought, citizenship, civil disobedience, freedom of speech, moral authority and intellectual thought. Bickel has been cited by Chief Justice John Roberts and by Justice Samuel Alito as a major influence and is widely considered one of the most influential constitutional conservatives of the 20th century.\n\nRelative to Alito's legal thinking and philosophy, one writer in 2011 looked particularly at Alito dissents in \"Snyder v. Phelps\", \"Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association\", and \"United States v. Stevens\", three First Amendment cases. The writer traced the influence of \"The Supreme Court and the Idea of Progress\", \"The Morality of Consent\" and other Bickel writings both as they bore on Alito's developing thinking in college and as he chose to go to Yale (Bickel would die during Alito's third year there); and as the Bickel writings bore on the solitary or minority opinions Alito wrote in the three cases, here departing in cases even from other usually allied conservative members of the Court.\n\nBickel was a gifted and easily accessible instructor. In 1971, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He inaugurated the DeVane Lecture series at Yale in 1972 where he taught a large class mostly of Yale undergraduates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54617949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54617949", "title": "Ali Charaf Damache", "text": "Ali Charaf Damache\n\nAli Charaf Damache is a citizen of Algeria and Ireland who was the first suspected terrorist to be extradited to the USA during the Donald Trump presidency. He is alleged to have been the ringleader of a cell tasked with killing Lars Vilks, a Swedish artist, some Muslims accused of blasphemy for having drawn the Islamic prophet Muhammad in a cartoon.\n\nAlthough he was born in Algeria, he grew up in France.\n\nIn 2009, Damache married Jamie Paulin Ramirez, an American convert to Islam he met online, through a dating site for American Muslims. Ramirez would go by the nickname \"Jihad Jamie\", and would eventually receive an 8-year sentence for playing a role in the plot to kill Vilks.\n\nRamirez and Colleen LaRose, another American convert to Islam, traveled to Ireland to participate in the murder plot. Ramirez and Damache wed the day she arrived in Ireland. Both Ramirez and Damache were blonde, with blue eyes. Commentators would assert that Damache and his colleagues sought out blonde-haired, blue-eyed converts because, once radicalized, they would find it easy to cross borders without suspicion.\n\nLaw enforcement officials in Ireland arrested Damache and six other individuals, in Ireland, in 2010, after learning of the plot against Vilks. LaRose, who went by the nickname \"Jihad Jane\", is reported to have tipped off authorities herself, after she grew disenchanted with Damache. While he had impressed her, online, she was disappointed after meeting him in person, and seeing he had trouble paying his bills.\n\nLaRose returned to the USA, where she pled guilty and received a ten-year sentence. Damache was only charged with sending a threatening text message. Ireland considered, and rejected, an extradition request from the USA.\n\nSpain arrested Damache, in December 2015, at the request of the USA. The USA had charged Damache with trying to recruit others to terrorism, and leading the cell that included LaRose. The USA announced they had received Damache on July 21, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "48191313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48191313", "title": "Allendeite", "text": "Allendeite\n\nAllendeite, ScZrO, is an oxide mineral. Allendeite was discovered in a small ultrarefractory inclusion within the Allende meteorite. This inclusion has been named ACM-1. It is one of several scandium rich minerals that have been found in meteorites. Allendeite is trigonal, with a calculated density of 4.84 g/cm. The new mineral was found along with hexamolybdenum. These minerals, are believed to demonstrate conditions during the early stages of the Solar System, as is the case with many CV3 carbonaceous chondrites such as the Allende meteorite. It is named after the Allende meteorite that fell in 1969 near Pueblito de Allende, Chihuahua, Mexico.\n\nAllendeite was found as nano-crystals in an ultrarefractory inclusion in the Allende meteorite. The Allende meteorite has shown to be full of new minerals, after nearly forty years it has produced one in ten of the now known minerals in meteorites. This CV3 carbonaceous chondrite was the largest ever recovered on earth and is referred to as the best-studied meteorite in history. The inclusion has only been viewed via electron microscopy. The sample is one centimeter in diameter and has been entrusted to the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History with the catalog number USNM7554. One crystal studied is a single 15 x 25 micron size with included perovskite, various osmium-iridium-molybdenum-tungsten alloys, and scandium-stabilized tazheranite. In fact, all allendeite was in contact with perovskite. The grains are anhedral, with no observable crystal forms or twinning.\n\nVarious scandium rich minerals have been found in meteorites, including; davisite, panguite, kangite, tazheranite, thortveitite, and eringaite. Of these, allendeite is the most Sc rich, with only pretulite containing substantially more scandium.\n\nColor, streak, luster, hardness, tenacity, cleavage, fracture, density, and refractive index could not be observed because the grain size was too small and the section bearing the mineral was optically thick.\n\n"}
{"id": "34836064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34836064", "title": "Anti-Monopoly Committee (Ukraine)", "text": "Anti-Monopoly Committee (Ukraine)\n\nAnti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine () is the state authority with special status, aimed at providing the state protection to competition in the field of entrepreneurial activity.\n\nAntimonopoly Committee of Ukraine carries out his activities on the grounds of the legislative acts concerning economic competition protection; the Laws of Ukraine “On economic competition protection”, “On the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine”, “On protection from unfair competition” are main of them.\n\nThe committee consists of the Chairman and 10 commissioners, out of which there are two first deputies and three other deputies. Activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine is under the control of the President of Ukraine; Committee is accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. President in consent with the Supreme Council of Ukraine designates and dismisses from the appointment the Chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. First deputies and deputies of the Chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine are to be designated and dismissed from their appointments by the President of Ukraine on proposal of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The proposal is made on the grounds of the suggestions of the Chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine.\n\nIn every region of Ukraine, including the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, territorial offices of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine are to be created. The above-mentioned offices are legal entities which carry out the tasks of the Antimonopoly Committee on the regional level.\n\nWithin the framework of its procuration the Committee supervises the activities of enterprises of all types of ownership, state and local authorities, activities of foreign entrepreneurs in Ukraine as well. Committee is entitled to make decisions concerning abatement of the competition legislation breach, which are obligatory for enterprises and state authorities, to allow or prohibit concerted actions in the market, to impose fines or apply other sanctions with respect to the breakers of the rules of fair competition.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39069972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39069972", "title": "Asia-Pacific Telecommunity band plan in the 700 MHz band", "text": "Asia-Pacific Telecommunity band plan in the 700 MHz band\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Telecommunity (APT) band plan is a type of segmentation of the 698–806 MHz band (usually referred to as the 700 MHz band) formalized by the APT in 2008–2010 and specially configured for the deployment of mobile broadband technologies (e.g. most notably Long Term Evolution, LTE). This segmentation exists in two variants, FDD and TDD, that have been standardized by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) and recommended by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) as segmentations A5 and A6, respectively. The APT band plan has been designed to enable the most efficient use of available spectrum. Therefore, this plan divides the band into contiguous blocks of frequencies that are as large as possible taking account of the need to avoid interference with services in other frequency bands. As the result, the TDD option (segmentation A6) includes 100 MHz of continuous spectrum, while the FDD option (segmentation A5) comprises two large blocks, one of 45 MHz for uplink transmission (mobile to network) in the lower part of the band and the other also of 45 MHz for downlink transmission in the upper part. As defined in the standard, both FDD and TDD schemes for the 700 MHz band include guard bands of 5 MHz and 3 MHz at their lower and upper edges, respectively. The FDD version also includes a center gap of 10 MHz. The guardbands serve the purpose of mitigating interference with adjacent bands while the FDD center gap is required to avoid interference between uplink and downlink transmissions. The two arrangements are shown graphically in figures 1 and 2.\nExisting 3GPP standards for the APT band plan are given below:\n\nAllocation of the 700 MHz band (that in many parts of the world is commonly referred to as the Digital Dividend) to mobile communications it is one of the key solutions for meeting the mobile data explosion challenge faced by the telecommunications industry and telecommunications regulators seeking additional spectrum for the deployment of new mobile broadband networks and capacity. As of today, the APT band plan is considered to be the most effective way to segment the 700 MHz band from the point of view of modern spectrum management. The superior spectral efficiency of this plan is explained further in this article. Currently, the FDD configuration is the one which has been studied most widely and is much more popular across the world. For this reason, the FDD APT band plan option is generally referred to as the APT band plan.\n\nThe APT band plan has been developed over a 2.5 year period and was based on considerable technical studies by industry and governments. For the overall success of the creation of the harmonized band plan, high degree of cooperation among industry stakeholders (governments, vendors, operators, associations, and other) was key. As a result, the APT band plan is very well-thought from the technical point of view and is able to meet modern and future requirements by networks, user equipment and growing demand of connectivity.\n\nBecause many countries across the globe have adopted the APT band plan, substantial economies of scale are bound to be created. That will lead to personal devices' and network elements' price erosion and thus, also to increasingly higher penetration of mobile devices and mobile internet.\n\nThe APT band plan allows that up to 4 operators could receive wide spectrum blocks (2x 10 MHz in this case), or 3 operators getting 2x 15 MHz each, or other mixed configurations. On the other hand, in the US, there are only two commercial operators using the band (AT&T and Verizon Wireless), each of them having 2x 10 MHz of spectrum.\n\nThe APT band plan has already become a multi-regionally harmonized spectrum band that will provide a coherent ecosystem for LTE devices. Most Asian countries have already opted for the APT band; there is a strong evidence of a rising regional consensus among the vast majority of Latin American countries. Europe’s \"second\" digital dividend matches the second duplexer of the APT band plan which implies that the user equipment, as well as network elements will be compatible with those of the APT band plan. Additionally, some Middle East and African countries have already shown their preference of the APT band plan.\n\nThe APT band plan allows greater national spectrum planning flexibility for governments all over the world, giving the possibility to adjust channel sizes to necessities of particular market and country by allocating blocks ranging from 2x 5 MHz up to 2x 20 MHz.\n\nWith the inclusion of two-duplexer system in the devices and network equipment, full interoperability is guaranteed across the entire band of the APT band plan. In a nutshell, it means that any user will be able to use his/her mobile device in any network in the 700 MHz band where the APT band plan is used, regardless of the mobile operator and the country. On the contrary, in the US band plan, there are two or three different device ecosystems which translate to non-interoperability within the country, and severe limitations (most probably, practically unavailability) of international roaming.\n\nThe APT band plan represents two blocks of 45 MHz of contiguous spectrum. This enables operators to enjoy much wider channels comparing to the blocks available within the US band plan. That translates to much greater efficiency of networks, higher data throughput levels, lower latency and lesser investments needed for network deployment, all other factors being equal. Wider channel sizes are crucially important for the networks of the nearest future because of the growth of mobile data and projected capacity demand.\n\nThe APT band plan assures appropriate protective measures for other services in adjacent bands which allow avoiding harmful interference from TV services in lower bands as well as from cellular networks in upper bands. In the same manner, the center gap of 10 MHz protects the band from self-interference.\n\nIn the near future, the phenomenon of asymmetric traffic (when downlink experiences more traffic than uplink) can be mitigated by applying signal processing techniques that are currently under consideration in the standards development process for the APT band plan. Examples of such techniques are: skewing the number of MIMO antennas to the side where higher traffic is needed, Multi-user MIMO, and other methods.\n\nUS band plan was developed significantly earlier than the APT band plan. As of today, there are successful deployments of LTE networks in the USA. Due to this fact, the ecosystem of this band plan is relatively well-developed with two large networks already operating commercially and with a number of user devices existing on the market. The APT band plan does not yet enjoy a ready ecosystem and, therefore, has to “compete” with the US band plan in order to become the preferred way for countries to segment the band.\n\nAnother existing challenge is the advancement of its own ecosystem, which in turn depends on equipment vendors: terminal devices manufacturers (HTC, Apple, Samsung, Nokia, etc.), producers of parts of terminals (such as Qualcomm) and vendors that manufacture network elements (Ericsson, Nokia Siemens Networks, Alcatel-Lucent, Huawei, etc.). The development of the ecosystem depends heavily on the demand that exists on the market and is a function of the created economies of scale.\n\nMost likely, China will follow the TDD configuration of the APT band plan, thus most probably becoming one of a handful of markets in the world that support such configuration, but still an important and large one. Even Taiwan, one of China’s closest neighbors, adopted the FDD version of the APT band plan. Furthermore, TDD configuration is technologically in many ways inferior to the FDD one. (It should be said, however, that in a number cases the TDD configuration proves to have certain advantages, such as larger capacity to bear with downlink disproportionately exceeding the uplink data transmission). In the same time, the TDD configuration of the 700 MHz, as it is seen today, is not expected to form part of the same ecosystem as the FDD mode either of the APT band plan, or of the US band plan. Therefore, it will not add up to economies of scale of neither of the two and a completely separate ecosystem might likely be developed.\n\nIn the APT 700 FDD configuration, two overlapping duplexers are required to cover the entire band due to the limitations by current filter technologies. The existence of two duplexers in the APT band plan and the fact that European, Japanese (and perhaps some other future networks) will only work with one duplexer set, raise a question of whether user and network equipment manufacturers will incorporate both duplexers in their equipment or will create two parallel configurations – one with only one duplexer and another one with both of them. Presence of both configurations would lead to less significant economies of scale for each type of the equipment and to distortions in the economic valuation of different parts of the spectrum in the 700 MHz band. Although the dynamics of the market such as the ever-increasing complexity of chipsets, multi-band support by chip manufacturers demonstrate that the most likely outcome is the inclusion of both duplexers in all devices.\nAdditionally, whereas channel bandwidths up to 15 MHz can be supported anywhere within the band, channel bandwidths of 20 MHz are limited to the upper and lower parts of the band and may not be employed in the mid-portion of the band where the filters overlap.\n\nAs of 2014, most equipment vendors have released two versions of their radio units: one dedicated to the lower band and another one dedicated to the upper band. A notable alternative is provided by Alcatel-Lucent - their RRH2x40-07APT-4R radio unit covers the entire band 28 (45 MHz) within a single radio unit thus negating the need of sourcing two different radio unit variants.\n\nFrequency arrangements of the US band plan and the APT band plan substantially overlap thus making them largely incompatible. The 3GPP has designated five operating bands for the US band plan (Bands 12, 13, 14, 17, 29) and two bands for the APT band plan (Band 28 for FDD version and Band 44 for TDD version). There are distinct differences among the operating bands such as different channel bandwidths and channel locations within the 700 MHz band. More specifically, duplex spacing and guardband peculiarities of the APT band plan is what differentiates it most. US band plan, in its turn, is characterized by a number of inconsistencies: i) non-existence of in-band interoperability (i.e. devices working in band 13 are not compatible with devices working with in either of the bands 12, 14, 17); ii) harmful interference from TV channels; iii) absence of user equipment in Band 12 (it is also not likely to appear in the future)[EDIT 12/1/2014: Band 12 equipment is already available]; iv) no current use of the D and E blocks in the lower part of the 700 MHz band (there is a 12 MHz TDD frequency block); and some other issues. As a result of these peculiarities of segmentation, block A of the lower 700 MHz band is practically not used due to interference from TV Channel 51. Out of the total of 23x2 MHz of spectrum owned and used by AT&T and Verizon, 3x2 MHz cannot be used due to limitations by LTE technology standards - only blocks of 5, 10, 15, 20 MHz can be used according to 3GPP industry standards.\n\nEuropean countries, which still continue have a high occupancy of broadcasting services in the 700 MHz band that have been granted a period until 2015 to convert to digital. It appears that since the APT segmentation is based on two overlapping duplexers of 30+30 MHz, it fits perfectly in the European scheme, as shown on the graph below. This compatibility opens the way for the harmonization of the 700 MHz band with the European region. Japan, one of largest and most advanced Asian markets and the global technology leader is using the upper duplexer part of the APT band plan and thus will enjoy being the part of the ecosystem of the APT band plan too. This basically means that the terminals designed to work in the APT band plan will perfectly function in Europe and Japan, thus adding up to the size of the market that is being created by the APT band plan.\nAll facts mentioned above and the recent announcements from various governments indicate that the 700 MHz band in the FDD mode of the APT band plan is becoming one of the most harmonized band that exists in the world. This extent of harmonization will lead to economies of scale which will in turn drag down the prices of terminals, speed up adoption of smart devices and finally convert to socio-economic benefits.\n\nAt the given moment, the user equipment (UE) for this segmentation scheme has not yet been released commercially. In the same time, the development of 3GPP and ITU standards (bands 28 and 44) and evident signals that has been sent to the market by many countries in Asia, Latin America and elsewhere, indicate that technological developments of the required ecosystem (first of all, in terms of user equipment and network equipment) are currently underway. Some of the strongest signals for the future demand have been sent by large markets, such as Japan, India, Indonesia, and above all, Mexico. This country was the first large market in Americas to adopt the APT band plan despite historical path dependency and despite having a 3,000 km border with the USA which uses a different segmentation of the 700 MHz band. Another point that is worth to mention is that the standardization work that has been carried out by the 3GPP was strongly supported by many key companies from the industry. That also proves that the equipment manufacturers are in the process of the commercialization of UE and network elements driven by the creation of significant market by the APT band plan.\nAll that seems to indicate that first prototypes of APT devices will appear in the Q2 of 2013 and market releases are to be expected in the second half of 2013. In Latin America, for example, the National Spectrum Agency (ANE) of Colombia has announced that Huawei, ZTE and Ericsson will conduct tests in the band under the standard APT pipeline in the first quarter of 2013, using equipment developed by the leading manufacturers with the goal to auction off the spectrum in August 2013. Due to economies of scale that are being created by the APT band plan, the price of smart devices could then lower down significantly.\n\nA significant number of countries have already adopted the APT segmentation scheme: Australia, India, Japan, Korea, the Philippines, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan, and Tonga in Asia; and Brazil, Costa-Rica, Colombia, Chile, Mexico, Ecuador, Panama and Argentina in Latin America. In countries such as Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam, Uruguay, Paraguay, Peru and a few others it is scheduled to be adopted in the nearest future.\nIn Europe, allocation of the 700 MHz band to mobile services implies challenges, acknowledged by the ITU-R in its decision that new allocations should not come into force until 2015 due to many countries in Europe having digital terrestrial television (DTT) services in 700 MHz band. That decision also takes into account the need for European countries to better study issues regarding the channel plan and to carry out compatibility studies regarding other services in the Region and on other topics, before taking final position on the best suitable allocation and associated regulation. However, once these issues are resolved, the APT band plan will become compatible with the usage of the 700 MHz band in Europe, whereas the US band plan will not.\n\nGenerally speaking, it is very important that the spectrum is used in the same way across as many markets as possible to create economies of scale. That, in turn, leads to lower prices for the equipment thus increasing the adoption of the technology and having a direct and indirect impact on the economic growth. This growth consists of enhancement of productivity, job creation, entrepreneurship, infrastructure investment, taxation; all leading to GDP growth. According to the joint study of the GSMA and the Boston Consulting Group, the biggest socio-economic benefits are likely to arise by allocating the 700 MHz band to mobile services.\n\nFor example, by 2020, the allocation of 700 MHz band in Asia to mobile could generate a GDP increase of more than US$1 trillion (NPV of $960 billion) and tax revenue growth of US$215 billion, along with the creation of an additional 1.4 million new businesses (including new departments or business units within existing firms) and 2.7 million new jobs. Comparing allocation to mobile services and broadcasting services, which is another possible option of utilization of the 700 MHz band, the first option would lead to significant incremental economic benefits over the broadcasting services – in particular, an extra US$959 billion in GDP, by 2020, as well as additional tax revenues of US$171 billion, 1.4 million more business activities, and 2.6 million additional jobs, according to the study.\n\nCreation of economies of scale is vital for mass production of equipment and its further adoption in target markets. Overall, the greater economies of scale are, the lesser end user prices will be established and the vaster will be the adoption of the technology that translates to socio-economic benefits. Speaking about the ecosystem availability timeframes, many stakeholders expect the APT band plan ecosystem to develop rapidly as countries identify and auction spectrum with this frequency arrangement.\n\nAlthough there exists a rather small spectral overlap that theoretically provides some opportunities for manufacturing equipment that would be operable across both plans, there are important technical considerations that are certain to constrain practical radio-frequency (RF) designs to separate markets for two band plans of the 700 MHz band.\n\nWith the ongoing adoption of the LTE technology, future numerous deployments in the 700 MHz band and the advancements in the microelectronics, the user devices of the future might support multiple LTE bands and potentially could even include RF designs (antennas, band chips, duplexers, filters, oscillators and other circuitry) supporting both the US band plan and the APT band plan. However, at least in the short- and medium-term, there will be separate markets for UE in these two existing band plan configurations.\n\nAs is it forecasted as of today, the US band plan will solely be used in the USA, Canada, Nicaragua and a handful of Caribbean islands. That, by itself, represents a significant market of an order of 410 million people.\n\nHowever, the recent developments around the propagation of the APT band plan across Asia-Pacific region, Latin America, and thanks to the compatibility of the European frequency arrangements, as well as the situation in Africa and Middle East, project confidence that a far bigger market is being created worldwide. Summed up, the prospective overall market for the APT band plan translates to a figure of at the very least 3 billion people across the globe. With ongoing studies of the digital dividend in the world, that number is might increase and include nearly all the rest of the world.\nFirst and foremost, vast number of Asian-Pacific countries have already adopted the APT band plan. For the moment, combined markets of Australia, Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Japan, New Zealand, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore and South Korea add up to around 2 billion 100 million people.\nIn the Middle East and Africa region, Egypt, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa and United Arab Emirates are likely to follow Europe in using partially the frequency arrangement of the APT band plan which makes them fall into the same category of ecosystems. The number of such countries of the region is bound to rise. These countries alone represent a market equal to the one of the US band plan – around 330 million people.\nIn Latin America, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Costa-Rica, Panama, Peru, Venezuela have all officially adopted the APT band plan. The logical outcome of the ongoing regional harmonization process in Americas will be the resulting market of an order of 400 million consumers.\nGiven the size of the potential market that is on the verge of being created, the socio-economic benefits caused by booming access and adoption of the mobile internet by all social layers of population and driven by rocketing penetration of smart devices will be overwhelming and transformational.\n\nThe FDD mode of the APT band plan has been standardized by the 3GPP as the Band 28 (FDD 703-748 / 758 - 803 MHz) and the TDD mode - as the Band 44 (TDD 703 – 803 MHz). The work was completed at RAN4 #63 meeting in Czech Republic on May 21–25, 2012.\n\nThe following table outlines the main technical aspects of the standard that have been set at the 3GPP RAN4 Plenary in Slovenia on 13-15 of June 2012 in the R4-123624 for the FDD mode and in the R4-123696 for the TDD mode.\n\n3GPP members who supported and contributed to this work include: Alcatel-Lucent, CATT, China Mobile, Ericsson, ETRI, HiSilicon, Huawei, KDDI, KT Corporation, LG Electronics Inc., LG-Ericsson Co. Ltd., Motorola Mobility, NII Holdings, Nokia, Nokia Siemens Networks, NTT DOCOMO, Qualcomm Inc., Samsung, ST-Ericsson, Telefónica S.A., Vodafone, ZTE.\nThe segmentation scheme called \"A5\" for the band 698-806 MHz, corresponding to the FDD mode of the APT band plan, is defined by the Recommendation of ITU-R M.1036-4 (3/2012) \"Frequency Arrangements for Implementation of the terrestrial component of International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) in the bands Identifies for IMT in the Radio Regulations (RR) \"(ITU-R M.1036). The TDD version of the APT band plan is standardized as the “A6” segmentation scheme in accordance with the same Recommendation of ITU-R M.1036-4 (3/2012).\nCurrent specifications can be found in 3GPP TS 36.101 v11.1.0 for the UE and 3GPP TS 36.104 v11.1.0 for the Base Stations. They correspond to the frequency arrangement of the Rec. ITU-R M.1036-4 (3-2012).\n\nThe most favored, popular mobile broadband technology internationally for the digital dividend\nspectrum appears to be the FDD-LTE technology. LTE is known to offer operators and end users high data throughput and low latency which are the two main characteristics of a technology that is aimed to be used for data transmission. Peak speeds utilizing multiple antennas (MIMO) in optimal conditions are in excess of 300 Mbit/s. While actual speeds experienced by users will be dependent on equipment and the number of users connected to any cell, it is clear that LTE offers speeds which could result in a step-change in mobile broadband connectivity. The move to LTE is seen as the key next step for mobile network operators aiming to respond to the increasing demand for mobile data access. LTE offers greater spectral efficiency, allowing the provision of higher data speeds and greater data allowance, at lower cost. This will be particularly important for MNOs as average revenue per user from voice and text services falls. FDD-LTE offers a natural upgrade path from GSM and WCDMA technologies which are already widely implemented in New Zealand. It will be able to provide both mobile and fixed wireless broadband services. There is also growing interest from some manufacturers in using TDD-LTE in the 700 MHz band. This move is led mainly by equipment manufacturers and mobile network operators in China. At the current moment in time, though, the technology is largely untested.\n\nAccording to the estimates of Qualcomm, “in a coverage-limited system comparison using the same frequency band, the TDD system required 31% more base stations than FDD when using a 1:1 TDD system and 65% more base stations when using a 2:1 TDD system. Higher frequency bands required even more base stations.” Due to the fact that the major part of both capital and operational expenditures of operators have to do with base stations of the network, making their incurred costs directly proportional to the number of base stations, FDD deployments imply lower deployment and operating costs.\n\nThe duplexer is a filter that provides isolation of the transmitter leakage to its own receiver. In a mobile connected device, the transmitter and receiver are linked to the same antenna by means of a duplexer. Duplexer isolation of > 45 dB is considered feasible by the industry. If the duplexer isolation is not sufficient then the handset may experience self-desensitization. Multi-mode, multi-band handsets often have mode- and band-specific duplexers. Duplexer technology affects choice of duplex separation and centre band gap which have been designed for the APT band plan with these considerations in mind.\n\nDuplex spacing is the separation between the uplink channel and the corresponding downlink channel. A larger separation implies less likelihood of self-interference between a handset transmitter and its own receiver. Because a power amplifier out of band response is related to the bandwidth, the duplex separation requirement is also dependent on the carrier bandwidth in order to protect the receiver from self-interference. A duplex spacing of 30 MHz is sufficient to support carrier bandwidths of up to 10 MHz. This result is derived using 3GPP specification 3GPP 36.101.\n\nCentre gap is a key characteristic of FDD-based frequency arrangement represented by the gap between frequency blocks assigned for downlink and uplink respectively in the FDD-based arrangement as illustrated in Figure 5. It is common understanding that the duplex spacing and centre gap influence the duplexer performance so that larger separation brings the better isolation performance between downlink and uplink. Technically, this size of spacing affects the duplexer performance in the following two technical aspects:\n\nTo prevent self-desensitization, a duplexer must attenuate Tx emissions at the own Rx frequency band below the Rx noise floor. This leads typically to at least a 45 dB attenuation requirement at the own Rx frequency band. Implementing this attenuation requirement is a simple matter with the suggested 2x50 MHz arrangement by the use of a dual duplexer because the own UL and DL bands are separated by much wider separation distance the 8 MHz that would have been the case if a single duplexer is applied. The center gap will also determine whether competitive networks can share base station sites with minimum interference and protective site filtering complexity.\n\n\nThe maximum bandwidth of an RF filter or duplexer for a terminal at this frequency range is today around 30-35 MHz. Any arrangement that efficiently uses the 108 MHz bandwidth in the frequency range 698-806 MHz must thus have more than one duplexer. “Dual duplexer” means that the handset has 2 duplexers, one per sub band as illustrated in figure 8.\n\nWith the use of a dual duplexer arrangement the individual duplex spacing will be increased, providing at the same time more usable spectrum for FDD. With current technology it would not be possible to implement a passband of 50 MHz with a single duplex solution. The dual duplexer arrangement may lead to a 2x50 MHz FDD band plan. Dual duplexers are being specified today and would add to the number of band specific duplexers to be accommodated in handsets where physical space is at a premium.\n\nAs of 2014, most equipment vendors have released two versions of their radio units: one dedicated to the lower band and another one dedicated to the upper band. A notable alternative is provided by Alcatel-Lucent - their RRH2x40-07APT-4R radio unit covers the entire band 28 (45 MHz) within a single radio unit thus negating the need of sourcing two different radio unit variants.\n\nRadio waves, due to its nature and physics, can cause harmful interference to networks and equipment operating in a different band plan, (i.e. in neighboring countries). That is why coherent policies and technical frameworks are routinely developed by countries to mitigate such interference. The 700 MHz band is no exception and is currently regulated by mutual agreements between countries.\n\nAs a common practice to approach such issues, there are two possible scenarios to consider:\n\n"}
{"id": "32477845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32477845", "title": "Attorney General v Dow", "text": "Attorney General v Dow\n\nAttorney General of Botswana v. Unity Dow (sometimes abbreviated Attorney General v. Dow) was a High Court case in the Republic of Botswana. The plaintiff, Unity Dow, was a citizen of Botswana, married to a non-citizen, whose children had been denied citizenship under a provision of the Citizenship Act of 1984. This Act conferred citizenship on a child born in Botswana only if \"a) his father was a citizen of Botswana; or b) in the case of a person born out-of-wedlock, his mother was a citizen of Botswana.\" The plaintiff claimed that this provision violated guarantees of the Constitution of Botswana. The High Court agreed, holding that the provision infringed:\n\nThe Court concluded that the right to liberty had been infringed because the provision hampered a woman's free choice to marry a non-citizen and, in fact, undermined marriage. The Court also decided that the right not to be expelled from Botswana was infringed because, if the plaintiff's resident permit was not renewed, she would be forced to leave Botswana if she desired to stay with her family. Finally, the Court stated that the right not to be subjected to degrading treatment was infringed because any law discriminating against women constitutes an offense against human dignity.\n\nThis decision was subsequently upheld by the Botswana Court of Appeal.\n"}
{"id": "27998051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27998051", "title": "Betäubungsmittelgesetz", "text": "Betäubungsmittelgesetz\n\nThe Betäubungsmittelgesetz (BtMG), generally meaning Narcotics Law, is the controlled-substances law of Germany. In common with the Misuse of Drugs Act of 1971 of the United Kingdom and Controlled Substances Acts of the US and Canada, it is a consolidation of prior regulation and an implementation of treaty obligations under the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, Convention on Psychotropic Substances and other treaties. \n\nThe BtMG updated the German Opium Law 1929 and mirrors the Swiss BtMG and Austrian Suchtmittelgesetz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30361387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30361387", "title": "Bicycle helmet laws by country", "text": "Bicycle helmet laws by country\n\nThe wearing of bicycle helmets, and attitudes towards their use vary around the world. Compulsory use of helmets has often been proposed and is the subject of much dispute (see Bicycle helmet laws), based largely on considerations of overall public health. Only two countries (Australia and New Zealand) currently require and enforce universal use of helmets by cyclists. In some other jurisdictions, partial rules apply - for children, in certain states or sub-national areas, or under other limited conditions.\n\nDenmark and the Netherlands have a strong cycling culture and have amongst the lowest levels of helmet use.\n\nAustralia was the first country to enact mandatory bicycle helmet use for all cyclists. Mexico City has had mandatory cycle helmet laws repealed, and in Italy the Federazione Italiana Amici della Bicicletta managed to block a proposed helmet law. While bicycle helmets are not required to be worn by law in the United Kingdom the British Medical Association advocates the compulsory use of helmets. Cycling UK, the largest cycling advocacy organisation in the UK, consider helmet wearing as personal choice rather than being mandated by legislation. In 2002 an attempt was made to introduce bicycle helmet legislation in Poland but it was opposed by cyclists' organisations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3506168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3506168", "title": "Black triangle (badge)", "text": "Black triangle (badge)\n\nThe black triangle was a badge used in Nazi concentration camps to mark prisoners regarded \"asocial\" and \"arbeitsscheu\" (work-shy). Those considered asocial included thieves, murderers, nomads, and Aryans who engaged in sexual relations with Jews. Women deemed to be asocial included prostitutes, nonconformists, and lesbians.\n\nThe symbol originates from Nazi Germany, where every prisoner had to wear a concentration camp badge on their jacket, of which the design and color categorized them according to the reason for their internment. The homeless were included, as were alcoholics, those who habitually avoided work and employment, draft dodgers, pacifists, Roma and Sinti people, and others. Many black triangle prisoners were mentally disabled or mentally ill.\n\nNazis considered homosexual women asocial and a threat to German society, and the badge was used to identify them. \n\nIn the 1970s, the black triangle was first used as a symbol of pride and solidarity by lesbians in the United Kingdom; and its symbolic use was introduced in North America through the \"women's peace camp movement\". It has also been adopted in remembrance of lesbians who suffered and died at the hands of Nazis. Some lesbians wear it for \"historical precision\". \n\nSome UK groups concerned with the rights of disabled people have adopted the symbol in their campaigns. Such groups cite press coverage and government policies, including changes to incapacity benefits and disability living allowance, as the reasons for their campaigns. \"The Black Triangle List\" was created to keep track of welfare-related deaths due to cuts by the Department for Work and Pensions.\n\nThe inverted black triangle was first used in the UK to indicate that a drug or vaccine is new and to monitor its usage. The scheme was adopted by the European Union in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4387357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4387357", "title": "Charles Black (professor)", "text": "Charles Black (professor)\n\nCharles Lund Black, Jr. (September 22, 1915 – May 5, 2001) was an American scholar of constitutional law, which he taught as professor of law from 1947 to 1999. He is best known for his role in the historic \"Brown v. Board of Education\" Supreme Court case, as well as for his \"Impeachment: A Handbook\", which served for many Americans as a trustworthy analysis of the law of impeachment during the Watergate scandal.\n\nBorn in Austin, Texas, Black graduated from the University of Texas at Austin in 1935 and later obtained a master's degree in English. He received his LL.B. from Yale Law School in 1943, then served in the Army Air Corps as a teacher and as an associate at Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Sunderland & Kiendl. In 1947, he became a professor of law at the Columbia University Law School, where he wrote legal briefs for the successful 1954 \"Brown v. Board of Education\" suit. He also was involved in civil rights cases in the south.\n\nIn 1956, he joined Yale Law School as its first Henry R. Luce Professor of Jurisprudence. He was appointed Sterling Professor of Law in 1975. During his thirty-one-year career at Yale, he wrote numerous books, including \"The People and the Court\", \"Structure and Relationship in Constitutional Law\", \"Impeachment: A Handbook.\"\n\nAn outspoken critic of the death penalty, Professor Black also authored \"Capital Punishment: The Inevitability of Caprice and Mistake\". With Alexander Bickel, Black made Yale Law School one of the world's leading centers for the study of constitutional law.\n\nBlack also co-authored \"The Law of Admiralty\" with Grant Gilmore. He often told students that when he and Gilmore were young professors, he decided that he needed to write a \"black letter law\" book as an alternative to relying solely on constitutional law to make his reputation. Although he was mainly known as a constitutional legal scholar, his work with Gilmore on Admiralty became canonical, and \"The Law of Admiralty\" is one of the most influential law books ever written in a practical area of law. Admiralty is the law of the sea, of shipping and shipping contracts, and is a functional, practical area of international law, in which uniformity of the application of law in ports throughout the world is important, and as a result it has evolved somewhat differently from other areas of federal law. \"Gilmore and Black,\" as it was often called, became so influential that it is one of the few treatises that federal admiralty and international courts cite almost as though it were a primary source of law. It is the most cited work of maritime law in history. \n\nBlack was an idiosyncratic and brilliant teacher who was fond of telling stories in a strong Texas drawl that sometimes puzzled students who were inattentive, eager to become hum-drum practitioners, or otherwise not cut out for high-level intellectual discourse.\n\nBlack was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1976. He returned to Columbia Law School in 1986, when his wife Barbara Aronstein Black became dean there. He served as adjunct professor of law until 1999. He died in New York City aged 85.\n\nA lifelong fan of jazz, he was featured in the Ken Burns documentary Jazz: A History of American Music, where he related hearing Louis Armstrong perform at an Austin hotel in 1931. This experience, he said, fomented his interest in race and civil rights.\n\nIn 1959, Black published a poem, \"Tracker home\", in volume 3 of the avant garde small magazine \"Nomad\". The short biography the back of the magazine describes him thus, Charles Black teaches in New Haven, Connecticut. His work has appeared in THE SOUTHWEST REVIEW, EPOCH, and THE CAROLINA QUARTERLY.\n\nFor Black's obituary in \"The New York Times\", former student Akhil Amar commented, \"He was my hero. So many of the great moral issues of the 20th century seem clear in retrospect, but were quite controversial at the time. He had the moral courage to go against his race, his class, his social circle.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1869861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1869861", "title": "City of Anaheim v. Angels Baseball LP", "text": "City of Anaheim v. Angels Baseball LP\n\nCity of Anaheim v. Angels Baseball LP is a lawsuit filed in Orange County, California Superior Court by the city of Anaheim, California against the owners of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim Major League Baseball franchise, concerning the team's official name. The lawsuit and a related political and public relations battle sought to reverse the team's official name change from \"Anaheim Angels\" to \"Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim\", which the city characterized as a breach of the team's lease on the city-owned Angel Stadium of Anaheim. The city was unsuccessful, as both a trial jury and an appellate court ruled in the team's favor.\n\nThe Angels franchise was founded as the \"Los Angeles Angels\" in 1961 and played under that name until 1965, when it changed its name to \"California Angels\" upon its move from Los Angeles' Dodger Stadium to the new Anaheim Stadium (now Angel Stadium of Anaheim). In 1996, the Angels and the city of Anaheim agreed on a new lease that called for the city to fund renovations to Anaheim Stadium, and called for the team's name to contain the name \"Anaheim\". The following year, the team's official name changed again to \"Anaheim Angels\".\n\nIn 2005, the team was sold to Arturo \"Arte\" Moreno. Less than two years later, the team announced it was changing its name to \"Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim\", an attempt to market the team as being from Southern California—Major League Baseball's second-largest media market—rather than just Orange County. The \"of Anaheim\" phrase was included to comply with the terms of the 1996 lease. Anaheim city officials immediately denounced the change, characterizing it as a breach of the lease, even though it was in technical compliance. Likewise, many fans denounced the change, as many Orange County residents consider Orange County to have its own identity separate from Los Angeles.\n\nA preliminary injunction filed by the city seeking to immediately reverse the name change was unsuccessful, and the Angels began playing under the new name for the 2007 season.\n\nThe present-day Angels franchise began play as the \"Los Angeles Angels\" in . Owned by actor Gene Autry and his wife Jackie, they played their inaugural season at Wrigley Field in South Los Angeles (not to be confused with the Chicago stadium of the same name). They moved to Dodger Stadium the following season, becoming tenants of the National League's Los Angeles Dodgers for four seasons. During the season, Gene Autry struck a deal with the suburban city of Anaheim on a new stadium for the Angels. The team changed its name to \"California Angels\" late in the season, as they were the only American League team in the state at the time, and moved to the city-owned Anaheim Stadium in . They would play under this moniker for over 30 seasons.\n\nIn The Walt Disney Company acquired a 25% interest in the Angels from the Autrys. The following year, the team changed its name again to \"Anaheim Angels\", the result of an agreement between the city and the team to refurbish and downsize Anaheim Stadium after the 1994 departure of the NFL's Los Angeles Rams to St. Louis. One clause of the new lease required that the team name \"contain\" the name \"Anaheim\". There was precedent for the name \"Anaheim\" in a major professional sports team name, as the NHL's Mighty Ducks of Anaheim (now known as the Anaheim Ducks), also owned by Disney, were enfranchised in 1993. Disney would acquire the remaining share of the team in , less than a year after Gene Autry's death.\n\nEarly in the season, Disney sold the team to Arturo \"Arte\" Moreno, a fourth-generation Mexican American billboard magnate from Arizona. Though he vowed to keep the team in Anaheim, starting in the 2004 season, all references to Anaheim began disappearing from the Angels players' uniforms, officially licensed merchandise, web site, ticket media, and promotional materials, and were replaced with \"Angels\", \"Angels Baseball\", or the Angels' wordmark or halo insignia.\n\nOn January 3, 2005 the Angels announced that the club's official name was being changed to \"Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim\". In its official announcement, team spokesmen pointed out the Angels had been originally created as the American League's representative of the Greater Los Angeles area, which comprises the counties of Los Angeles, Ventura, Riverside, and San Bernardino, in addition to Orange County.\n\nNew owner Moreno believed the new name would help him market the team to the entire Southern California region rather than just Orange County, thereby tapping into Major League Baseball's second largest media market. The \"of Anaheim\" phrase was included in the official name to comply with a provision of the team's lease at Angel Stadium which requires that the team's name \"include the name Anaheim therein\", although it was correctly anticipated that the team would be referred to as simply the \"Los Angeles Angels\" by the media and the majority of the public.\n\nAt the same time they announced the name change, the Angels aggressively marketed themselves to Los Angeles, buying space on nearly 500 billboards in the area that read simply \"City of ANGELS\" in the team's wordmark. The Dodgers, not wanting to give up any of its market share to the Angels, countered with their own billboard campaign, featuring the slogan \"LA Baseball\" (with \"LA\" depicted in the team's insignia), and putting \"Los Angeles Dodgers of Los Angeles\" on special giveaway merchandise for Opening Day 2005.\n\nThe name change upset some fans from Orange County who did not wish to be associated with Los Angeles. It has been claimed that a cultural divide (the \"Orange Curtain\") exists between Orange County and Los Angeles; some fans suggested that Moreno, an Arizona native, did not take into account the alleged animosity between residents of the two counties when he attempted to restore the team's original name. Some fans wished for either the name to stay the same, or even for an alternate rename to the \"Orange County Angels.\" Some fans made and sold unlicensed merchandise with messages such as \"We are not LA\" and \"Anaheim Angels of Anaheim\" .\n\nAnaheim Mayor Curt Pringle and other city officials asserted that the name change violated the spirit of the lease clause, even if it was in technical compliance. They argued that a name change was a major bargaining chip in negotiations between the city and Disney, and that the wording of the clause was merely to allow Disney some \"wiggle room\" in selecting the team name (Disney chairman Michael Eisner reportedly considered naming the team the \"Mighty Angels of Anaheim\"). They further argued that the city would never have agreed to the new lease without the name change, because the new lease required that the city partially fund the stadium's renovation while reducing annual revenue for the city. Anaheim sued Angels Baseball L.P. in Orange County Superior Court, seeking monetary damages and a restoration of the \"Anaheim Angels\" name. Concurrently, city politicians boycotted the city's luxury suite at Angel Stadium, including during the Angels' 2005 playoff run, opting instead to donate game tickets in the suite to various charities. A trial, initially set for November 7, 2005 was postponed until January 9, 2006.\n\nIn addition to the lawsuit brought by the city of Anaheim, the mayors of every Orange County city, as well as the mayor of Los Angeles, signed a petition opposing the name change, while the city councils of Anaheim, Irvine, and Los Angeles adopted formal resolutions opposing the name change. The Los Angeles resolution specifically stated that the city only recognizes professional sports teams bearing the name \"Los Angeles\" as those whose home facilities are within the Los Angeles city limits, including the National League's Dodgers, the NBA's Lakers and Clippers, the WNBA's Sparks, the NHL's Kings, and the Arena Football League's Avengers. Disney and the city of Los Angeles filed \"amicus curiae\" papers in Orange County Superior Court supporting Anaheim's position in its lawsuit against the team.\n\nThe city also sought a preliminary injunction to immediately reverse the name change in advance of the trial, which was rejected by the superior court judge. The city appealed the judge's ruling to the Court of Appeal, Fourth District, which granted an unusual writ moving the city's case to the top of the docket and held a hearing on March 28, 2005. Though a ruling had been anticipated by April 7, 2005 the three judges of the appellate court merely urged the city and the team to work towards a settlement prior to trial. The appellate court ruled against Anaheim's request for an injunction on June 27, 2005.\n\nThe case proceeded to jury trial on January 9, 2006, and on February 9, 2006, the jury found in favor of the team, determining that the \"Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim\" name was in compliance with the lease, and thus denying the city any monetary compensation. Both citing the jury verdict finding the team in compliance and noting that his own conclusion agreed with that judgment, on March 2, 2006, the judge in the case formally denied the city's request to force the team to restore the \"Anaheim Angels\" name.\n\nOn February 26, 2007, the city of Anaheim appealed the jury's decision, citing some testimony that it wanted to present but was not heard in the jury trial, and sought to recoup an estimated US$7 million in court costs. On December 20, 2008, a state appellate court issued a split decision denying the city's appeal and refusing to either set aside the jury's verdict or order the team to pay for the city's court costs. On January 13, 2009, Anaheim's city council voted not to further appeal the court's decisions, bringing a conclusion to the legal battle.\n\nDespite the legal victory, the team only uses its full name on official press releases and its website, and continues to market itself without direct reference to location wherever possible. Neither \"Los Angeles\" nor \"Anaheim\" appears on the team's uniforms or officially licensed merchandise or promotional materials; \"Angels\" or \"Angels Baseball\" are used instead. Major League Baseball and the national media have recognized the name change from the beginning, and team ownership correctly predicted that the national media and the general public would drop \"of Anaheim\" out of convenience and refer to the team as simply the \"Los Angeles Angels.\"\n\nDespite the prolonged legal battle, organized fan resistance to the new name subsided long before the appellate court ruling.\n\nThe name controversy and the city's suit and boycott did little to quell fan enthusiasm for the team, as Angel Stadium consistently drew over 3.3 million fans through its gates each season from 2004 to 2008. It also had little to no impact on the team's on-field performance—they won four American League West division titles over the same timespan, marking the most successful era in franchise history. The controversy also did little to negatively impact the perception of team ownership around the league, as evidenced by the Angels being selected to host the 2010 All-Star Game, with MLB Commissioner Bud Selig calling the Angels a \"model franchise.\"\n\nIn 2007, the Angels' name change was the inspiration for the independent minor league Long Beach Armada baseball team's tongue-in-cheek name change to the \"Long Beach Armada of Los Angeles of California of the United States of North America Including Barrow, Alaska\".\n\nOn February 22, 2005, California state assemblyman Tom Umberg introduced a truth in advertising bill (AB 1041) in the State Assembly. If signed into law, the \"Truth in Sports Advertising Act\" would have required the Angels to disclose on all tickets and promotional materials that the team's home is Anaheim, not Los Angeles, unless Anaheim or Orange County exempted the franchise from the requirement. On May 16, 2005, the bill passed the California Assembly by a margin of 52–17 and was sent to the California State Senate where, on May 26, 2005, it was referred to the Business, Professions and Economic Development Committee.\n\nState Senate hearings scheduled on June 7 and June 27, 2005 were cancelled at the request of Assemblyman Umberg. On July 11, 2005, the hearing was postponed indefinitely by the Senate committee, effectively killing the bill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3872722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3872722", "title": "Class A television service", "text": "Class A television service\n\nThe class A television service is a system for regulating some low-power television (LPTV) stations in the United States. Class A stations are denoted by the broadcast callsign suffix \"-CA\" (analog) or \"-CD\" (digital), although very many analog -CA stations have a digital companion channel that was assigned the -LD suffix used by regular (non-class-A) digital LPTV stations.\n\nThe FCC created this category of service as a result of the Community Broadcasters Protection Act of 1999. Support for this ruling came largely from the Community Broadcasters Association, an industry group representing low-power TV station operators.\n\nUnlike traditional LPTV stations, class-A stations were given primary status during the transition to digital television (DTV), meaning that a full-service television station could not displace a class A LPTV station from its broadcast frequency (TV channel), except in rare cases. In contrast, traditional LPTV stations often found their frequencies assigned to full-service DTV operations, forcing them to relocate to another frequency. This was especially true in large cities, where available broadcast spectrum was scarce, and LPTV stations found themselves forced to cease operations due to no suitable spectrum. This was especially so with the taking of the 700 MHz band (channels 52 to 69) from the upper UHF TV band.\n\nIn exchange for the added broadcast protections, class-A stations are required to be more responsible in covering the community they serve. Class-A stations must:\n\n\nAn LPTV station could also qualify for class-A status if it follows the FCC's \"public interest, convenience, and necessity\" standards.\n\nA class-A television station may obtain a license to broadcast digitally at not more than 15 kW UHF or 3,000 watts VHF, but is not required to do so. These are the same maximum power levels as for unprotected (secondary) low-power television stations.\n\nUnlike full-service stations, class-A television stations are not subject to limits on common ownership which restrict full-power twinstick or duopoly operations; they were required to cease analog broadcasting in 2015, as opposed to 2009 for full-power stations. They also were not required to simulcast their programming in analog and digital format during the US digital transition, unlike most full-service stations.\n\nDespite the name of the act of law which created it, there is no requirement that a class-A station be an independent or community broadcaster, and some class-A stations are simply used as broadcast translators for other stations. In some communities, existing full-service broadcasters have operated an analog class A station together with a simulcast as a digital subchannel of a main full-service station, as a means to affiliate with two national TV networks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51326420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51326420", "title": "Collective agreement coverage", "text": "Collective agreement coverage\n\nCollective agreement coverage or union representation refers to the proportion of people in a country population whose terms and conditions at work are made by collective bargaining, between an employer and a trade union, rather than by individual contracts. This is invariably higher than the union membership rate, because collective agreements almost always protect non-members in a unionised workplace. This means that, rather than individuals who have weaker bargaining power representing themselves in negotiations, people organise to represent each other together when negotiating for better pay and conditions in their workplace. The number of people who are covered by collective agreements is higher than the number of union members (or the \"union density\" rate), and in many cases substantially higher, because when trade unions make collective agreements they aim to cover everyone at work, even those who have not necessarily joined for membership.\n\nThe causes of higher or lower collective bargaining coverage are widely debated. Common causes are often identified as including the following:\n\n\nCollective agreement coverage in Sweden was in 2016 90% of all employees (in the private sector 84%, in the public sector 100%). In 2017 union density was 69% (64% in the private sector, 79% in the public sector). \n\nIn the United States in 2015 there were 14.8m union members, and 16.4m people covered by collective bargaining or union representation. Union membership was 7.4% in private sector, but 39% in the public sector. In the five largest states, California has 15.9% union membership, Texas 4.5%, Florida 6.8%, New York 24.7% (the highest in the country), and Illinois had 15.2%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "911366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=911366", "title": "Copyright of official texts", "text": "Copyright of official texts\n\nOfficial texts, as defined in Article 2(4) of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, are texts of a legislative, administrative and legal nature (e.g. statute laws, administrative regulations and court decisions) and the official translations of such texts.\n\nThe Convention indicates that it shall be left to the discretion of each member country of the Berne Convention to determine the protection to be granted to such official texts in that country.\n\nGenerally, member countries of the Convention include official texts in the public domain. However, the governments of the United Kingdom and some Commonwealth countries claim a Crown copyright in their works. Many republics of the Commonwealth also copyright their official works, though they have no crown copyright.\n\n"}
{"id": "42736966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42736966", "title": "Critical theory", "text": "Critical theory\n\nCritical theory is a school of thought that stresses the reflective assessment and critique of society and culture by applying knowledge from the social sciences and the humanities. As a term, \"critical theory\" has two meanings with different origins and histories: the first originated in sociology and the second originated in literary criticism, whereby it is used and applied as an umbrella term that can describe a theory founded upon critique; thus, the theorist Max Horkheimer described a theory as critical insofar as it seeks \"to liberate human beings from the circumstances that enslave them\".\n\nIn sociology and political philosophy, the term \"Critical Theory\" describes the neo-Marxist philosophy of the Frankfurt School, which was developed in Germany in the 1930s. This use of the term requires proper noun capitalization, whereas \"a critical theory\" or \"a critical social theory\" may have similar elements of thought, but not stress its intellectual lineage specifically to the Frankfurt School. Frankfurt School critical theorists drew on the critical methods of Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud. Critical theory maintains that ideology is the principal obstacle to human liberation. Critical theory was established as a school of thought primarily by the Frankfurt School theoreticians Herbert Marcuse, Theodor Adorno, Max Horkheimer, Walter Benjamin, and Erich Fromm. Modern critical theory has additionally been influenced by György Lukács and Antonio Gramsci, as well as the second generation Frankfurt School scholars, notably Jürgen Habermas. In Habermas's work, critical theory transcended its theoretical roots in German idealism and progressed closer to American pragmatism. Concern for social \"base and superstructure\" is one of the remaining Marxist philosophical concepts in much of contemporary critical theory.\n\nPostmodern critical theory politicizes social problems \"by situating them in historical and cultural contexts, to implicate themselves in the process of collecting and analyzing data, and to relativize their findings\".\n\nCritical theory () was first defined by Max Horkheimer of the Frankfurt School of sociology in his 1937 essay \"Traditional and Critical Theory\": Critical Theory is a social theory oriented toward critiquing and changing society as a whole, in contrast to traditional theory oriented only to understanding or explaining it. Horkheimer wanted to distinguish critical theory as a radical, emancipatory form of Marxian theory, critiquing both the model of science put forward by logical positivism and what he and his colleagues saw as the covert positivism and authoritarianism of orthodox Marxism and Communism. He described a theory as critical insofar as it seeks \"to liberate human beings from the circumstances that enslave them\". Critical theory involves a normative dimension, either through criticizing society from some general theory of values, norms, or \"oughts\", or through criticizing it in terms of its own espoused values.\n\nThe core concepts of critical theory are as follows:\n\nThis version of \"critical\" theory derives from Kant's (18th-century) and Marx's (19th-century) use of the term \"critique\", as in Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" and Marx's concept that his work \"Das Kapital\" (\"Capital\") forms a \"critique of political economy\". For Kant's transcendental idealism, \"critique\" means examining and establishing the limits of the validity of a faculty, type, or body of knowledge, especially through accounting for the limitations imposed by the fundamental, irreducible concepts in use in that knowledge system.\n\nKant's notion of critique has been associated with the overturning of false, unprovable, or dogmatic philosophical, social, and political beliefs, because Kant's critique of reason involved the critique of dogmatic theological and metaphysical ideas and was intertwined with the enhancement of ethical autonomy and the Enlightenment critique of superstition and irrational authority. Ignored by many in \"critical realist\" circles, however, is that Kant's immediate impetus for writing his \"Critique of Pure Reason\" was to address problems raised by David Hume's skeptical empiricism which, in attacking metaphysics, employed reason and logic to argue against the knowability of the world and common notions of causation. Kant, by contrast, pushed the employment of a priori metaphysical claims as requisite, for if anything is to be said to be knowable, it would have to be established upon abstractions distinct from perceivable phenomena.\n\nMarx explicitly developed the notion of critique into the critique of ideology and linked it with the practice of social revolution, as stated in the famous 11th of his \"Theses on Feuerbach\": \"The philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways; the point is to change it.\"\n\nOne of the distinguishing characteristics of critical theory, as Adorno and Horkheimer elaborated in their \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\" (1947), is a certain ambivalence concerning the ultimate source or foundation of social domination, an ambivalence which gave rise to the \"pessimism\" of the new critical theory over the possibility of human emancipation and freedom. This ambivalence was rooted, of course, in the historical circumstances in which the work was originally produced, in particular, the rise of National Socialism, state capitalism, and mass culture as entirely new forms of social domination that could not be adequately explained within the terms of traditional Marxist sociology.\n\nFor Adorno and Horkheimer, state intervention in economy had effectively abolished the tension between the \"relations of production\" and \"material productive forces of society\", a tension which, according to traditional critical theory, constituted the primary contradiction within capitalism. The market (as an \"unconscious\" mechanism for the distribution of goods) and private property had been replaced by centralized planning and socialized ownership of the means of production.\n\nYet, contrary to Marx's famous prediction in the \"Preface to a Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\", this shift did not lead to \"an era of social revolution\", but rather to fascism and totalitarianism. As such, critical theory was left, in Jürgen Habermas' words, without \"anything in reserve to which it might appeal; and when the forces of production enter into a baneful symbiosis with the relations of production that they were supposed to blow wide open, there is no longer any dynamism upon which critique could base its hope\". For Adorno and Horkheimer, this posed the problem of how to account for the apparent persistence of domination in the absence of the very contradiction that, according to traditional critical theory, was the source of domination itself.\n\nIn the 1960s, Jürgen Habermas, a proponent of critical social theory, raised the epistemological discussion to a new level in his \"Knowledge and Human Interests\", by identifying critical knowledge as based on principles that differentiated it either from the natural sciences or the humanities, through its orientation to self-reflection and emancipation. Although unsatisfied with Adorno and Horkeimer's thought presented in \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\", Habermas shares the view that, in the form of instrumental rationality, the era of modernity marks a move away from the liberation of enlightenment and toward a new form of enslavement. In Habermas's work, critical theory transcended its theoretical roots in German idealism, and progressed closer to American pragmatism.\n\nHabermas is now influencing the philosophy of law in many countries—for example the creation of the social philosophy of law in Brazil, and his theory also has the potential to make the discourse of law one important institution of the modern world as a heritage of the Enlightenment.\n\nHis ideas regarding the relationship between modernity and rationalization are in this sense strongly influenced by Max Weber. Habermas dissolved further the elements of critical theory derived from Hegelian German Idealism, although his thought remains broadly Marxist in its epistemological approach. Perhaps his two most influential ideas are the concepts of the public sphere and communicative action; the latter arriving partly as a reaction to new post-structural or so-called \"postmodern\" challenges to the discourse of modernity. Habermas engaged in regular correspondence with Richard Rorty and a strong sense of philosophical pragmatism may be felt in his theory; thought which frequently traverses the boundaries between sociology and philosophy.\n\nWhile modernist critical theory (as described above) concerns itself with \"forms of authority and injustice that accompanied the evolution of industrial and corporate capitalism as a political-economic system\", postmodern critical theory politicizes social problems \"by situating them in historical and cultural contexts, to implicate themselves in the process of collecting and analyzing data, and to relativize their findings\". Meaning itself is seen as unstable due to the rapid transformation in social structures. As a result, the focus of research is centered on local manifestations, rather than broad generalizations.\n\nPostmodern critical research is also characterized by the \"crisis of representation\", which rejects the idea that a researcher's work is an \"objective depiction of a stable other\". Instead, many postmodern scholars have adopted \"alternatives that encourage reflection about the 'politics and poetics' of their work. In these accounts, the embodied, collaborative, dialogic, and improvisational aspects of qualitative research are clarified\".\n\nThe term \"critical theory\" is often appropriated when an author works within sociological terms, yet attacks the social or human sciences (thus attempting to remain \"outside\" those frames of inquiry). Michel Foucault is one of these authors.\n\nJean Baudrillard has also been described as a critical theorist to the extent that he was an unconventional and critical sociologist; this appropriation is similarly casual, holding little or no relation to the Frankfurt School. Jürgen Habermas of The Frankfurt School is one of the key critics of postmodernism.\n\nCritical theory is focused on language, symbolism, communication, and social construction.\n\nFrom the 1960s and 1970s onward, language, symbolism, text, and meaning came to be seen as the theoretical foundation for the humanities, through the influence of Ludwig Wittgenstein, Ferdinand de Saussure, George Herbert Mead, Noam Chomsky, Hans-Georg Gadamer, Roland Barthes, Jacques Derrida and other thinkers in linguistic and analytic philosophy, structural linguistics, symbolic interactionism, hermeneutics, semiology, linguistically oriented psychoanalysis (Jacques Lacan, Alfred Lorenzer), and deconstruction.\n\nWhen, in the 1970s and 1980s, Jürgen Habermas redefined critical social theory as a study of communication, i.e. communicative competence and communicative rationality on the one hand, distorted communication on the other, the two versions of critical theory began to overlap to a much greater degree than before.\n\nCritical theorists have widely credited Paulo Freire for the first applications of critical theory towards education/pedagogy. They consider his best-known work, \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\", a seminal text in what is now known as the philosophy and social movement of critical pedagogy. For a history of the emergence of critical theory in the field of education, see Isaac Gottesman (2016), \"The Critical Turn in Education: From Marxist Critique to Postructuralist Feminism to Critical Theories of Race\" (New York: Routledge).\n\nWhile critical theorists have been frequently defined as Marxist intellectuals, their tendency to denounce some Marxist concepts and to combine Marxian analysis with other sociological and philosophical traditions has resulted in accusations of revisionism by classical, orthodox, and analytical Marxists, and by Marxist–Leninist philosophers. Martin Jay has stated that the first generation of critical theory is best understood as not promoting a specific philosophical agenda or a specific ideology, but as \"a gadfly of other systems\".\n\nCritical theory has been criticized for not offering any clear road map to political action following critique, often explicitly repudiating any solutions (such as with Herbert Marcuse's concept of \"the Great Refusal\", which promoted abstaining from engaging in active political change).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46239309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46239309", "title": "Customs ruling", "text": "Customs ruling\n\nCustoms rulings are binding administrative decisions issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) pursuant to 19 C.F.R. Part 177. Rulings may address customs related matters, including United States tariff classification, marking, and valuation. CBP may issue such rulings to any importer or exporter of merchandise; to any individual or business entity that has a direct and demonstrable interest in the matters or questions presented in the ruling request; or to an agent (such as attorney) of either of the aforementioned parties. Rulings may only be prospective and in response to a ruling request.\n\nRulings are written by Regulations and Rulings (R&R), a division of CBP's Office of Trade (renamed from Office of International Trade on February 24, 2016 ). Certain ruling subject matter is handled by the National Commodity Specialist Division (NCSD), a section of R&R which is located in New York City.\n\nCBP issues new rulings regularly. They are available to the public at no cost through CBP desktop website CROSS or mobile-friendly website CustomsMobile, which provides advanced search options over CROSS. Subscription-based commercial services, such as Lexis-Nexis and Customs Info, also provide access to Customs rulings.\n"}
{"id": "443324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=443324", "title": "Department of Justice (Canada)", "text": "Department of Justice (Canada)\n\nThe Department of Justice () is the department of the Government of Canada that represents the Canadian government in legal matters. The purpose of the department is to ensure that the Canadian justice system is fair, accessible and efficient. Almost all lawyers in the federal government are employed by the Department of Justice, and they are dispatched to manage the legal affairs of the other departments and agencies.\n\nWhile the role of the Minister of Justice has existed since 1867, the department was not created until 1868. The headquarters of the Department of Justice is located in Ottawa at St. Andrew's Tower (275 Sparks Street), a modern low rise office tower built in 1987.\n\nThe current Minister of Justice (and Attorney General of Canada) is Jody Wilson-Raybould.\n\nAt the time of Confederation in 1867, the Province of Canada had two Crown Law Departments, one for Canada West (now Ontario) and one for Canada East (now Quebec). At Confederation, the Crown Law Department, Canada West began to act as the new Department of Justice, reporting to Sir John A. Macdonald, who was Minister of Justice, Attorney General, and the new Prime Minister. The Crown Law Department, Canada East became the new Department of the Militia, following its former Attorney General, George-Étienne Cartier.\n\nThe Department of Justice came into being in May 1868, when the Department of Justice Act was passed by Parliament. The Act formally recognized the informal structure that was already in place. The Act also laid out the distinct roles of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General: the Minister was a partisan political adviser to the Crown, while the Attorney General provided legal services.\n\nThe new Department of Justice had only seven staff: two barristers-at-law (including the Deputy Minister, Hewitt Bernard), a clerk and shorthand writer (Macdonald's personal secretary), a copy clerk, a clerk articling under Macdonald, and two messengers.\n\nThe legal branch of the department remained relatively small for many years. As late as 1939, the Department employed only seven lawyers. The department's first woman lawyer, Henrietta Bourque, was hired in 1939, but the department remained heavily male-dominated. In the 25 years between 1939 and 1964, only five female lawyers were hired by the department.\n\nAlthough the Department of Justice Act had given the department responsibility for all litigation for or against the government, many government departments hired their own lawyers to provide them with legal advice. In 1962, however, these departmental lawyers were brought together in a common legal service. Although many lawyers still work closely with other government departments in departmental legal services units, they are now considered to be employees of the Department of Justice.\n\nRegional offices were opened in Montreal (1965), Toronto (1966), Vancouver (1967), Winnipeg (1969), Halifax, Edmonton, Saskatoon, the Northwest Territories, and Iqaluit (Nunavut). The Department of Justice co-chaired the Interdepartmental Working Group on Trafficking in Persons with the Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development from 1999 until 2012.\n\nThe department employs 5,000 people, nearly half of whom are lawyers, in offices across the country mostly under the Public Prosecution Service of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14000011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14000011", "title": "Electrohippies", "text": "Electrohippies\n\nThe Electrohippies Collective (Ehippies) is an international group of internet activists based in Oxfordshire, England, whose purpose is to express disapproval of governmental policies of mass media censorship and control of the Internet \"in order to provide a 'safe environment' for corporations to do their deals.\" \n\nThe protest against the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Seattle in 1999 was a signal event in the anti-globalisation movement. Thousands of people gathered to disrupt the World Trade Organisation conference by preventing delegates from entering the conference venue. Simultaneously, an online direct protest was run by The Electrohippies Collective with what is now a familiar aspect of cyber space: a denial-of-service (DOS) action. This tactic blocked the computer network servicing the WTO meeting by flooding it with requests. The Ehippies claimed success for the action, saying 450,000 people participated over 5 days, resulting in the WTO conference network being constantly slowed and periodically brought to a halt.\n\nTheir claim was disputed by staff of Conxion, the ISP hosting the conference website, who deployed a URL rewriting rule to redirect attack traffic to the attack page itself. It was claimed that this counter-attack \"crashed\" the Ehippies' server within seconds, forcing them to move to another ISP. The majority of hits to the Ehippies' site were thus their own attack page attacking itself. Conxion claimed to have logged fewer than 10,000 unique-source IP addresses. The attack page consisted of nine frames, three attacking the San Jose conference server, three against the Virginia server and three against the main WTO server. The Chicago conference server was not attacked and remained entirely unaffected. However, the WTO main website server, hosted by another provider, did not benefit from the rewrite-engine fix and did suffer significantly from the DOS attack.\n\nThe Ehippies justified their campaign tactic as enabling tens of thousands of remote computer users to join the Seattle protest action. They pointed out that the action could not have worked without the support of sufficient people—purporting to demonstrate that there was significant support for their action.\n\nAs a follow-up to their WTO action, the Ehippies and volunteers tried to shut down the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank websites by a \"virtual sit-in\" in conjunction with 'real world' protests in Washington, D.C. in April 2000. Some 5000 online participants were able to cause only intermittent slowdowns on those sites.\n\nThe collective was forced to subside temporarily into inaction by the British government's The Terrorism Act 2000 and The Regulation of Investigatory Power Act 2000, perceived as significantly changing the right of British citizens to freely use the internet for political and protest action. Now it \"focusses on the use of technology by activists, mainly through organising workshops and quietly assisting 'behind the scenes' of other campaigns. Current campaigns are the \"Simple\" energy-focused campaign and the \"Browser Alert\" campaign against proprietary software abuses and Digital rights management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18782425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18782425", "title": "Exempt charity", "text": "Exempt charity\n\nAn exempt charity is an institution established in England and Wales for charitable purposes which is exempt from registration with, and oversight by, the Charity Commission for England and Wales.\n\nExempt charities are largely institutions of further and higher education, universities, industrial and provident societies, friendly societies, or national museums, that were established by Act of Parliament or by Royal Charter. These organisations are specified in Schedule 3 to the Charities Act 2011.\n\nHistorically, they were treated as exempt from supervision because they were considered to be adequately supervised by, or accountable to, some other body or authority, such as Parliament. However this supervision was not always formalised, and the Charities Act 2006 (which was consolidated into the 2011 Act) introduced the idea of \"principal regulator\" for exempt charities. Where a previously exempt charity had no principal regulator it would become subject to registration with, and regulation by, the Charity Commission.\n\nAlthough outside the jurisdiction of the Charity Commission, exempt charities are still subject to the usual legal rules applicable to charities in English law and to the general provisions of the Charities Acts, and may seek advice from the Charity Commission\n\nThe following list (comprising schedule 3 to the Charities Act 2011) lists institutions both by name and by generic type as exempt charities:\n\nInstitutions with an exemption from the Charitable Trusts Acts 1853 to 1939\n1(1)Any institution which, if the Charities Act 1960 had not been passed, would be exempted from the powers and jurisdiction, under the Charitable Trusts Acts 1853 to 1939, of—\n\n(a)the Charity Commissioners for England and Wales, or\n\n(b)the Minister of Education,(apart from any power of the Commissioners or Minister to apply those Acts in whole or in part to charities otherwise exempt) by the terms of any enactment not contained in the Charitable Trusts Acts 1853 to 1939 other than section 9 of the Places of Worship Registration Act 1855.\n\n(2)Sub-paragraph (1) does not include—\n\n(a)any Investment Fund or Deposit Fund within the meaning of the Church Funds Investment Measure 1958,\n\n(b)any investment fund or deposit fund within the meaning of the Methodist Church Funds Act 1960, or\n\n(c)the representative body of the Welsh Church or property administered by it.\n\nEducational institutions\n2 The universities of Oxford, Cambridge, London, Durham, Newcastle and Manchester.\n\n3 King’s College London and Queen Mary and Westfield College in the University of London.\n\n4(1)Any of the following, if Her Majesty declares it by Order in Council to be an exempt charity for the purposes of this Act—\n\n(a)a university in England,\n\n(b)a university college in England, or\n\n(c)an institution which is connected with a university in England or a university college in England.\n\n(2)Sub-paragraph (1) does not include—\n\n(a)any college in the university of Oxford;\n\n(b)any college or hall in the university of Cambridge or Durham;\n\n(c)any students’ union.\n\n(3)For the purposes of this paragraph—\n\n(a)a university or university college is in England if its activities are carried on, or principally carried on, in England;\n\n(b)the Open University is to be treated as a university in England.\n\n5(1)An English higher education corporation.\n\n(2)For the purposes of this paragraph a higher education corporation is an English higher education corporation if the activities of the institution conducted by that corporation are carried on, or principally carried on, in England.\n\n6(1)A successor company to a higher education corporation at a time when the institution conducted by the company is eligible, by virtue of an order made under section 129 of the 1988 Act, to receive support from funds administered by the Higher Education Funding Council for England.\n\n(2)In this paragraph “the 1988 Act” means the Education Reform Act 1988 and “successor company to a higher education corporation” has the meaning given by section 129(5) of the 1988 Act.\n\n7A further education corporation.\n\n8A qualifying Academy proprietor (as defined in section 12(2) of the Academies Act 2010).\n\n9 The governing body of any foundation, voluntary or foundation special school.\n\n10 Any foundation body established under section 21 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998.\n\n11A sixth form college corporation (within the meaning of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992).\n\nMuseums, galleries etc.\n12 The Board of Trustees of the Victoria and Albert Museum.\n\n13 The Board of Trustees of the Science Museum.\n\n14 The Board of Trustees of the Armouries.\n\n15 The Board of Trustees of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.\n\n16 The Board of Trustees of the National Museums and Galleries on Merseyside.\n\n17 The trustees of the British Museum.\n\n18 The trustees of the Natural History Museum.\n\n19 The Board of Trustees of the National Gallery.\n\n20 The Board of Trustees of the Tate Gallery.\n\n21 The Board of Trustees of the National Portrait Gallery.\n\n22 The Board of Trustees of the Wallace Collection.\n\n23 The Trustees of the Imperial War Museum.\n\n24 The Trustees of the National Maritime Museum.\n\n25 The British Library Board.\n\nHousing\n26 Any registered society within the meaning of the Co-operative and Community Benefit Societies and Credit Unions Act 1965, if the society is also a non-profit registered provider of social housing.\n\n27 Any registered society within the meaning of the Co-operative and Community Benefit Societies and Credit Unions Act 1965, if the society is also registered in the register of social landlords under Part 1 of the Housing Act 1996.\n\nConnected institutions\n28(1)Any institution which—\n\n(a)is administered by or on behalf of an institution included in any of paragraphs 1 to 8 and 11 to 25, and\n\n(b)is established for the general purposes of, or for any special purpose of or in connection with, the institution mentioned in paragraph (a).\n\n(2)Sub-paragraph (1) does not include—\n\n(a)any college in the university of Oxford which is administered by or on behalf of that university;\n\n(b)any college or hall in the university of Cambridge or Durham which is administered by or on behalf of that university;\n\n(c)any student’s union.\n\n(3)Any institution which—\n\n(a)is administered by or on behalf of a body included in paragraph 9 or 10, and\n\n(b)is established for the general purposes of, or for any special purpose of or in connection with, that body or any foundation, voluntary or foundation special school or schools.\n\nThe following charities are no longer exempt, because there was no suitable body to act as principal regulator:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4118738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4118738", "title": "Facial composite", "text": "Facial composite\n\nA facial composite is a graphical representation of one or more eyewitnesses' memory of a face, as recorded by a composite artist. Facial composites are used mainly by police in their investigation of (usually serious) crimes. These images are also used to reconstruct the suspect's face in hope of identifying them.\n\nConstruction of the composite was originally performed by a trained artist, through drawing, sketching, or painting, in consultation with a witness or crime victim. Subsequently, techniques were devised for use by those less artistically skilled, employing interchangeable templates of separate facial features. The first such mechanical system, called \"Identikit\", was introduced in the U.S. in 1959; it used drawings of facial features on transparent acetate sheets that could be superimposed on one another to produce the composite image. (A later version of Identikit is made by Smith & Wesson.) In 1970, a system called \"Photofit\", which aimed for greater realism by using actual photographs of facial features, was introduced in the U.K.\n\nIn the last two decades, a number of computer based facial composite systems have been introduced; amongst the most widely used systems are SketchCop FACETTE Face Design System Software, \"Identi-Kit 2000\", FACES, E-FIT and PortraitPad. In the U.S. the FBI maintains that hand-drawing is its preferred method for constructing a facial composite. Many other police agencies, however, use software, since suitable artistic talent is often not available.\n\nUntil quite recently, the facial composite systems used by international police forces were exclusively based on a construction methodology in which individual facial features (eyes, nose, mouth, eyebrows, etc.) are selected one at a time from a large database and then electronically 'overlaid' to make the composite image. Such systems are often referred to as feature-based since they essentially rely on the selection of individual features in isolation. However, after a long period of research and development work conducted largely within British universities, systems based on a rather different principle are finding increasing use by police forces. These systems may be broadly described as holistic or global in that they primarily attempt to create a likeness to the suspect through an evolutionary mechanism in which a witness's response to groups of complete faces (not just features) converges towards an increasingly accurate image. Three such systems have come from academic beginnings, EFIT-V from the University of Kent; EvoFIT (http://www.EvoFIT.co.uk) from the University of Stirling, the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) and the University of Winchester; and ID from the University of Cape Town, South Africa. GFE is an experimental evolutionary face compositing system using image gradient instead of luminance to represent faces, which seems to produce better quality composites.\n\nA general review of research into the evaluation of mechanical template techniques may be found in Davies and Valentine (2006). A review of research into more modern 'feature' and 'recognition' systems, and into methods for improving the effectiveness of composites, may be found in Frowd et al. (2008) and (2009).\n\nThe systems used in the UK have been subjected to a number of academic studies. These have typically shown that E-FIT and PRO-fit produce composites that are correctly named, either immediately or a few hours after construction, about 20% of the time (see Brace et al. (2000), Bruce et al. (2002), Davies et al. (2000) and Frowd et al. (2005)). When witnesses in these studies are required to wait two days before constructing a composite, which matches real use more closely, naming falls to a few percent at best (e.g. Frowd et al. [2005] and [2007]). The reason for the low level of naming from these systems appears to be that witnesses are unable to accurately construct the internal features of the face after long delays, the region that is important for recognition by another person later (Frowd et al. [2007]).\n\nEvolutionary systems show a marked improvement in accuracy. In academic trials, research on a fairly-recent version of the EvoFIT system has shown correct naming levels of about 30% after a 2-day delay (see Frowd et al., 2010). Using more-recent construction techniques, the performance increased to 45% correct naming (Frowd et al., 2012). Using the very latest system, interview and enhancement techniques, naming of an EvoFIT composite is 74% correct (Frowd et al., 2013). Appropriately, the system does appear to behave more like a face recognition than a face recall system (Frowd et al., 2011) Accompanying the development of EvoFIT have been new approaches in the type of interview administered to eyewitnesses prior to face construction (e.g. Frowd et al., 2012). Similarly in extensive field use EFIT-V has shown a 40% naming rate over an 18-month period with 1000 interviews. The EvoFIT system has been similarly evaluated in formal police field-trials. These evaluations have reported a much higher naming rate for EvoFIT composites but, using the latest interview techniques, a suspect arrest rate of 60%. This latest police field trial has also indicated that an EvoFIT directly leads to the arrest of a suspect and then a conviction in 29% of cases. There have been many notable successes - for example, in this investigation, EvoFIT has directly led to the arrest of a serial rapist.\n\nWhile the classic use of the facial composite is the citizen recognizing the face as an acquaintance, there are other ways where a facial composite can prove useful. The facial composite can contribute in law enforcement in a number of ways:\n\n\nFacial composites of various types have been used extensively in those television programs which aim to reconstruct major unsolved crimes with a view to gaining information from the members of the public, such as \"America's Most Wanted\" in the US and \"Crimewatch\" in the UK.\n\nThese notable cases had facial composites assist in identifying the perpetrator:\n"}
{"id": "40848337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40848337", "title": "Fisheries law", "text": "Fisheries law\n\nFisheries law is an emerging and specialized area of law. Fisheries law is the study and analysis of different fisheries management approaches such as catch shares e.g. Individual Transferable Quotas; TURFs; and others. The study of fisheries law is important in order to craft policy guidelines that maximize sustainability and legal enforcement. This specific legal area is rarely taught at law schools around the world, which leaves a vacuum of advocacy and research. Fisheries law also takes into account international treaties and industry norms in order to analyze fisheries management regulations. In addition, fisheries law includes access to justice for small-scale fisheries and coastal and aboriginal communities and labor issues such as child labor laws, employment law, and family law.\nAnother important area of research covered in fisheries law is seafood safety. Each country, or region, around the world has a varying degree of seafood safety standards and regulations. These regulations can contain a large diversity of fisheries management schemes including quota or catch share systems. It is important to study seafood safety regulations around the world in order to craft policy guidelines from countries who have implemented effective schemes. Also, this body of research can identify areas of improvement for countries who have not yet been able to master efficient and effective seafood safety regulations.\n\nFisheries law also includes the study of aquaculture laws and regulations. Aquaculture, also known as aquafarming, is the farming of aquatic organisms, such as fish and aquatic plants. This body of research also encompasses animal feed regulations and requirements. It is important to regulate what feed is consumed by fish in order to prevent risks to human health and safety.\n\nOn November 19, 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved AquaBounty Technologies’ application to sell the AquAdvantage salmon to U.S. consumers. The possible introduction of genetically engineered salmon into the marketplace furthers discussion involving ethics, protection of the natural environment, international and domestic trade law, labeling practices, nutrition, and constitutional issues. As the FDA points out, nutrition labeling for raw produce (fruits and vegetables), fish, and genetically modified products, is voluntary. Under section 403(a)(1) of the \"Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act\" (\"FD&C Act\"), a food is misbranded if its labeling is “false or misleading in any particular”. Section 201(n) of the FD&C Act provides that labeling is misleading if it fails to reveal facts that are material in light of representations made or suggested in the labeling. In regards to the AquAdvantage salmon, the FDA has stated:\"Based on our assessments of food derived from the AquAdvantage Salmon, we have determined that the term “Atlantic salmon” is the appropriate common or usual name for such food within the meaning of section 403(i) of the FD&C Act because AquAdvantage Salmon meets FDA’s regulatory standard for Atlantic salmon (Ref. 10) and the composition and basic nature of food from AquAdvantage Salmon does not significantly differ from its non-GE counterpart—non-GE farm-raised Atlantic salmon. In addition, we have determined that food derived from AquAdvantage Salmon is as safe and nutritious as food from other farm-raised Atlantic salmon. For these reasons, we have concluded that there is no material difference between food derived from AquAdvantage Salmon and food derived from other non-GE, farm-raised Atlantic salmon that is required to be disclosed in the labeling of food derived from AquAdvantage Salmon under the relevant provisions of the FD&C Act, as explained above.\"\n\nIn 2014, Canada was a top-five producer of GM crops in the world, and is one of the largest players on the global market. Health Canada and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (\"CFIA\") carry joint responsibility for federally food labeling policies in Canada under the \"Food and Drugs Act\" (\"F&D Act\"). Under the F&D Act, GMOs are defined as “novel foods”. A novel food is allowed to enter the Canadian marketplace only after it has passed an assessment undertaken by various stakeholders. Health Canada is responsible for deciding all health and safety labeling policies for food products, such as special dietary needs or GM products, and ensuring that the products are safe for consumption. The CFIA is responsible for the development of all non-health and safety food labeling regulations and policies and the enforcement of labeling legislation. Standards are set by the CFIA so that Canadian food labels are truthful and not misleading.\n\nSubsection 5(1) of the F&D Act states that “no person shall label, package, treat, process, sell or advertise any food in a manner that is false, misleading or deceptive or is likely to create an erroneous impression regarding its character, value, quantity, composition, merit or safety”. Food must be labelled only if there are changes in the food such as problematic allergens or a significant nutrient or compositional change. Health Canada has not released an official statement concerning the AquAdvantage salmon, but does state on its website: “after twelve years of reviewing the safety of novel foods, Health Canada is not aware of any published scientific evidence demonstrating that novel foods are any less safe than traditional foods. The regulatory framework put in place by the federal government ensures that new and modified foods can be safely introduced in to the Canadian diet”.\n\n"}
{"id": "15687966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15687966", "title": "Gambian constitutional referendum, 1996", "text": "Gambian constitutional referendum, 1996\n\nA election was held in the Gambia on 8 August 1996. The new constitution was passed, with voter turnout of 86.9%.\n\nElected president Dawda Jawara was overthrown in a military coup led by Yahya Jammeh on 22 July 1994. Following the coup, Jammeh ruled Gambia by decree as head of the Armed Forces Provisional Ruling Council, with all political activity banned. He promised a return to civilian rule within four years, and a constitution was drawn up following a controversial consultation process.\n\nThe new constitution allowed for multiparty elections, an unlimited number of five year presidential terms and lowered the voting age from 21 to 18.\n\nThe referendum was organised by the Provisional Independent Electoral Commission, with 441,732 voters registered.\n\nPresidential elections were held in August 1996, which were won by Jammeh (despite him denying that he would stand until shortly before the election). In January 1997 parliamentary elections were held and won by Jammeh's Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction. \n"}
{"id": "20611269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611269", "title": "Harbottle &amp; Lewis", "text": "Harbottle &amp; Lewis\n\nHarbottle & Lewis is a law firm based in London, United Kingdom which advises clients across the media, communications and entertainment industries.\n\nHarbottle & Lewis has 42 partners and 68 lawyers and in 2016/17 recorded turnover of £28.1m. It is recommended by the independent legal directories The Legal 500 and Chambers and Partners in all its core practice areas.\n\nLaurence Harbottle and Brian Lewis met at Law School in Guildford in 1951. Both lawyers had a special interest in the legal aspects of film production and theatre and in December 1955 established Harbottle & Lewis with its office in South Molton Street, Mayfair. While Brian Lewis concentrated on film guarantees and film productions, Laurence Harbottle mainly acted for film producers as well as writers, actors and technicians.\n\nWith advances in technology, their firm grew and developed its television and music industry expertise. More recently Harbottle & Lewis has also built specialist practice areas in electronic commerce and interactive entertainment.\n\nThe firm moved from South Molton Street to its current location on Hanover Square in May 1988.\n\nLaurence Harbottle served as solicitor to friends Laurence Olivier and Dirk Bogarde. The firm's clients presently include The Prince of Wales, and subsequently his sons The Duke of Cambridge and The Duke of Sussex.\n\nIn 2006 Harbottle & Lewis acted on behalf of Prince Charles in engaging with the Metropolitan Police's investigations with regards to the hacking of the phones of his sons, Princes William and Harry, in the News of the World royal phone hacking scandal. That scandal subsequently led to the dismissal of \"News of the World\" reporter Clive Goodman. When Goodman sued for unfair dismissal, Harbottle & Lewis were hired by the \"News of the World's\" parent company, News International.\n\nOn 10 July 2011, Harbottle & Lewis acting for their client News International were cited by \"BBC News\" Business editor Robert Peston as being involved in the 'smoking gun' emails in the \"News of the World\" phone hacking scandal. On 18 July 2011, the firm issued an open letter outlining its position, and appointed Luther Pendragon to handle PR issues relating to the affair. On 19 July, Lord MacDonald the former Director of Public Prosecutions engaged by News Corporation to review the emails handed to Harbottle & Lewis in 2007, said in evidence to the Home Affairs Select Committee:\nOn 20 July, Harbottle & Lewis issued a statement saying that it had asked News International to release it from its professional duty of confidentiality, which had been declined by News International. Harbottle & Lewis subsequently wrote to John Whittingdale MP, chairman of the Culture, Media and Sport Committee, asking to provide evidence to the committee.\n\nOn 21 July it was reported that News International had authorised Harbottle & Lewis to answer questions from the Metropolitan Police Service and parliamentary select committees in respect of what they were asked to do.\n\nThe Culture, Media and Sports Committee is reported to be planning to write to Harbottle & Lewis asking its representatives to appear when it resumes in October.\n\nPaul Farrelly, one of the MPs on the committee, said:\nHe said that a letter written by the London law firm in 2007 to News International concerning a review of internal News of the World emails was now \"clearly misleading\".\n\nOn 22 July, Tom Watson, another MP on the Committee, published a letter from the Solicitors Regulation Authority in response to his letter expressing concerns about Harbottle and Lewis's part in the phone-hacking affair. In the letter, Anthony Townsend, Chief Executive of the SRA said:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1012133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1012133", "title": "Hires Root Beer", "text": "Hires Root Beer\n\nHires Root Beer is a root beer marketed by Keurig Dr Pepper. Introduced in 1876, it is considered the second longest continuously made soft drink in the United States. Only Vernors ginger ale, dating to 1866, is older.\n\nHires Root Beer was created by Philadelphia pharmacist Charles Elmer Hires. The official story is that Hires first tasted root beer, a traditional American beverage dating back to the colonial era, while on his honeymoon in 1875. However, historical accounts vary and the actual time and place of the discovery may never be known. By 1876, Hires had developed his own recipe and was marketing 25-cent packets of powder which each yielded five gallons of root beer. At Philadelphia's Centennial Exposition in 1876, he cultivated new customers by giving away free glasses of root beer. Hires marketed it as a solid concentrate of sixteen wild roots and berries. It claimed to purify the blood and make rosy cheeks. In 1884, he began producing a liquid extract and a syrup for use in soda fountains, and was soon shipping root beer in kegs and producing a special fountain dispenser called the \"Hires Automatic Munimaker.\" In 1890, the Charles E. Hires Company incorporated and began supplying Hires root beer in small bottles claiming over a million bottles sold by 1891.\n\nBut Hires's choice of name for his product caused a problem: the word \"beer\" drew the wrath of the temperance movement. He had his root beer tested by a laboratory, and trumpeted their conclusion that a glass of his root beer contained less alcohol than a loaf of bread.\nHires Root Beer was promoted as \"The Temperance Drink\" and \"the Greatest Health-Giving Beverage in the World.\" Hires advertised aggressively, believing \"doing business without advertising is like winking at a girl in the dark. You know what you are doing, but nobody ELSE does.\"\nOne of the major ingredients of root beer was sassafras oil, a plant root extract used in beverages for its flavor and presumed medicinal properties. The medicinal properties of root beer are emphasized in the advertising slogan, \"Join Health and Cheer; Drink Hires Rootbeer.\" The U.S. Food and Drug Administration banned sassafras oil in 1960 because it contains the carcinogen and liver-damaging chemical safrol. However, a process was later discovered by which the harmful chemical could be removed from sassafras oil while preserving the flavor.\n\nPrior to the move to \"natural and artificial flavors\", Hires ingredients included carbonated water, sugar, dextrose, caramel, plant extractives of birch, sassafras, licorice, vanilla, spikenard, sarsaparilla, hops, wintergreen, pipsissewa, ginger and flavor.\n\nHires Root Beer kits, available in the United States and Canada from the early 1900s through the 1980s allowed consumers to mix an extract with water, sugar and yeast to brew their own root beer. However, most consumption was of pre-bottled root beer.\n\nA mid-1960s' advertising campaign featured jingles by jazz singer Blossom Dearie, wherein she sang in a Betty-Boop voice: \"Hires Root Beer! Hires Rootin' Tootin' Root Beer! Hires Rootin'-Tootin' Rabble-Rousin', lion-roarin', Roman-candle-lightin' Root Beer!\"\n\nConsolidated Foods bought the company from the Hires family in 1960, only to sell Hires two years later to Crush International. Procter & Gamble bought Crush in 1980, and sold it to Cadbury Schweppes in 1989. Cadbury divested its soft drinks arm in 2008, and the beverage company renamed itself Keurig Dr Pepper that year.\n\nIn Canada, the Hires brand is no longer sold by Keurig Dr Pepper; retailers and vending machines have replaced it with Pepsi-owned Mug Root Beer since the 1990s and DPSG markets Stewarts Root Beer in Canada. The Hires brand is now offered by Canada Dry Motts as an alcoholic drink, Hires Root Beer and Vodka.\n\nHires availability in the U.S. is limited as other Dr. Pepper owned brands like A&W Root Beer are competing for the same bottlers on behalf of the same company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58959724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58959724", "title": "History of the Queensland Police", "text": "History of the Queensland Police\n\nThe history of the Queensland Police Service in Queensland, Australia, commenced in 1864, five years after the Separation of Queensland from New South Wales in 1859. This timeline highlights significant developments in Queensland policing.\n\nThe Queensland Police Force was established by the Queensland Government on 1 January 1864 with strength of 287 officers serving a population of 61,467. David Thompson Seymour appointed as Acting Commissioner and later as Commissioner.\n\nThe uniform worn by Queensland police officers after separation in 1859 was a dark blue jacket and top with a forage cap, supplied by the New South Wales police.\n\nTransport in the settled areas was mainly by foot and in the unsettled areas by horse.\n\nThe hulk \"Margaret Eliza\" was purchased for £3000. It was refitted and renamed the \"Proserpine\". She was used as a floating water police office, prison, and later as a reformatory school.\n\nCorrespondence with the Police Commissioner or between stations was by handwritten letter, moved by horse or Cobb and Co stagecoach, or by telegram.\n\nFinding that no written instructions had ever been issued for the guidance of the police, Commissioner Seymour issues \"Rules for the General Government and Discipline of members of the Police Force of Queensland\" based upon the Victorian police model.\n\nOn 1 December, the Detective Office was created with Sub-Inspector George Elliott in charge.\n\nPolice Commissioner David Seymour described the lack of accommodation for police: \"Many men are compelled to live in lodgings, and in the country districts constables live in public-houses some distance from the lock-up at times making them unavailable for sudden emergencies\".\n\nPolice Commissioner Seymour focussed on the crime of bushranging and took active measures to hasten the capture of these criminals through the purchase of fresh police horses and the construction of securely fenced paddocks at every police station.\n\nWater police were stationed on board the Hulk Proserpine at the mouth of the Brisbane River.\n\nRevolvers were supplied to every police station and 50 breech-loading carbines were delivered to the Department.\n\nThe Bread or Blood riot started, threatening the sacking of Government House in Brisbane. Hundreds of government officials were sworn in as Special Constables to assist police.\n\nThe first uniform consisted of a Garibaldi jacket of dark blue, serge wool cloth, red facings, and shoulder knot; trousers of the same material, with red cord, and a high cap with French peak.\n\nOn 6 November 1867 Constable Patrick William Cahill and Constable John Francis Power were poisoned and shot in the head at the MacKenzie River Crossing while escorting a consignment of bank notes and bullion from Rockhampton to Clermont. The first major test for the Detective Office was to solve their murders.\n\nPolice Commissioner Seymour stated that \"men at all stations are, when practicable, to be drilled once a week\".\n\nThe publication of \"Rules for the General Government and Discipline of members of the Police Force of Queensland\" was approved, printed and distributed.\n\nEach constable required one pair of handcuffs as part of his equipment allotment.\n\nA police barracks was established in George Street, Brisbane, on the site of the old convict hospital.\n\nChanges to rank insignia were implemented which among other things meant that an Acting Sergeant would be called a Senior Constable.\n\nA general order was issued that the Chinese had as much right on the gold fields as Europeans, so long as they had a miners' permit. If a collision resulted in a riot which the police could not quell, they were to note the ring-leaders and apprehend them.\n\nSub-Inspector Robert Johnstone, officer in charge of native police, accompanied explorer George Dalrymple on the north-east coast expedition to explore the coastal lands as far as Cooktown.\n\nThe bulk of the Queensland Police force moved from the Brisbane CBD to Victoria Barracks and occupies the army buildings on site.\n\nThree movable houses and twelve large frame-tents were built in Brisbane and shipped to the Palmer River gold-field. They were quickly erected by two constables and could house six officers.\n\nThe Police Manual instructed constables on beat duty to \"possess such knowledge of the inhabitants of each house as to enable them to recognise their persons; and thus prevent mistakes, and be enabled to render assistance, when called upon, to the inhabitants\".\n\n\"Instructions for the Guidance of the Police\" were published and a system of competitive examination for promotion was introduced, intended to increase police efficiency.\n\nRoma Street Police Barracks were built and provided accommodation for about forty-five men, room for an Officer-in-Charge and two cells.\n\nNavy blue helmets were introduced and proved to be a very hot choice of headwear; they were phased out in favour of white helmets in 1896.\n\nAt Birdsville, locally-available cane grass was used on police station walls for its insulation properties and longevity.\n\nNative Police camp accommodation was constructed using a variety of materials, such as saplings, logs, bark, canvas and shingles.\n\nOn 24 January Sub-Inspector George Dyas was found buried after being killed by being speared in the back by Aboriginals while he camped near the 40 Mile Waterhole near Normanton.\n\nOn 24 September Sub-Inspector Henry Kaye died from being speared through the chest by Aboriginals at Woolgar gold fields (100 km north of Richmond).\n\nSub-Inspector 1/c Alexander Douglas was sent to Herberton and with four troopers, two old gold diggers and five Chinese men; he blazed a trail from Herberton to Mourilyan. The party travelled without rations and in continuous rain for twenty days, living mainly on roots.\n\nMartini-Henry rifles were purchased to replace the Snider previously used.\n\nThe Petrie Terrace Gaol area was taken over by the Queensland Police and became known as the Petrie Terrace Police Depot where prospective police officers were trained.\n\nOn 24 January Cadet Sub-Inspector Mark Beresford died after being speared in the thigh and hit on the head by Aboriginals in the Selwyn Ranges to the south of Cloncurry.\n\nOn 26 January Constable William Dwyer was struck on the head by a tomahawk and killed by an Aboriginal near Juandah Station via Taroom.\n\nCap badges consisting of a separate district letter and number were issued and remained in use until 1906.\n\nThe first six camels arrived in Birdsville from India in poor condition and by July only four had survived. Despite these early setbacks camels proved useful, travelling hundreds of kilometres on duties such as collecting statistical returns.\n\nThe first honour given to any Queensland police officer was a Royal Humane Society Bronze Medal awarded to Constable James O\"Brien for saving the life of a nine year old boy at Ipswich.\n\nDuring the Burketown cyclone on 5 March, Sergeant John Ferguson\"s wife kept a lamp burning in the window of the courthouse and her beacon drew many people to the refuge during the storm.\n\nA Royal Commission of Enquiry into the Police Force proposed sweeping changes including that the control of the section of Water Police known as River Police was given back to the police Commissioner.\n\nThe cost of buying ordinary clothing for plain clothes work was an extra burden that detectives had to meet out of their ordinary pay.\n\nThere were eleven detectives on the pay-roll across the state. Seven in Brisbane, two in Townsville, and one each in Normanton and Rockhampton.\n\nOn 27 October Senior Constable Alfred Wavell was shot and killed at Corinda (southwest of Burketown) by a man who had escaped from the Normanton lock-up.\n\nSenior Sergeant Martin Breene and Constable Joseph Waters displayed energy and perseverance during the shearer\"s strikes by following and preventing \"fire gangs\" from doing damage at Lammermoor pastoral station.\n\nDuring the shearer\"s strike, police were given sole power to \"preserve order and secure liberty to all alike\".\n\nActing Sergeant John Raphael Thompson was paid £10 extra to attend to photographic work which included mug shots and crime scene photography.\n\nOn 4 February Constable James Sangster, 25, drowned attempting a rescue of two members of the Jackson family during the 1893 flood of the Bremer River at North Ipswich. He is commemorated by the James Sangster Memorial at North Ipswich, which was initiated by the Jackson family and funded by public subscription. The monument has a broken obelisk which symbolises a life cut short.\n\nOn 10 May Constable Benjamin Ebbitt died at South Brisbane having never recovered from an assault during an arrest on 9 November 1890 at Croydon.\n\nOn 6 September Constable Edward Lanigan was killed by being shot in the chest while trying to prevent another policeman from being shot during an arrest at Montalbion (a mining town near Irvinebank).\n\nOn 30 June, Commissioner Seymour retired after 31 years in the job and was replaced by William Edward Parry-Okeden on 1 July. Full control of the water police finally came under the jurisdiction of Police Commissioner.\n\nOn 2 July Senior Constable William Conroy died after being stabbed several times trying to prevent a man from stabbing the man's wife on Thursday Island.\n\nThe Roma Street police station telephone exchange was connected to fourteen sites including the Woolloongabba and South Brisbane police stations, the Commissioners house at Red Hill, the Detective Office, the Police Depot and the Central Fire Brigade Station.\n\nThe bicycle, as a means of transport was introduced and a slow distribution occurred across the state. At about £13 a bicycle was more expensive than a horse.\n\nDetectives received no special training. Generally, \"the smartest and most intelligent' people from among the plain clothes officers in the general police were selected and expected to learn from experience.\n\nThe Pearl ferry capsized near the Victoria Bridge on the flooded Brisbane River on Valentine's Day. After the rescue of sixty survivors, police made every effort to recover and identify the bodies of the twenty-nine victims. \n\nA loose tunic was adopted in place of the existing jumper for police uniform. Mounted officers performing mounted duty, wore Bedford cord breeches and black napoleon boots.\n\nThe collection housed in the \"Police Museum\" running since 1893, was used to educate recruits about criminal methods.\n\nOn the trail of an escapee, Constable James Kenny and four indigenous troopers survived Cyclone Mahina at Bathurst Bay, by staying together after their camp was blown away.\n\nThe recruit probation period was increased so that no man was sworn until three months' drill and instruction was completed at the Police Depot.\n\nAt the turn of the century the Queensland Police Department had 845 police officers and 135 native trackers at 256 stations.\n\nFirst-Class Constable George Pugh displayed discretion and bravery in the single-handed arrest of three men for the unlawful killing of cattle at the Jundah Opal Fields, and for taking them on foot, the twenty miles to Jundah police station.\n\nThe Criminal Investigation Branch moved into the old St John's Cathedral synod building on the corner of Elizabeth and George Streets.\n\nThe Imperial Service Order and Medal was established by King Edward for the administration and clerical staff of the Civil Service throughout the British Empire for long and meritorious service.\n\nOn 30 MarchConstable George Doyle was shot while attempting to capture the Kenniff brothers, who had a long history of stealing cattle and horses, in Upper Warrego.\n\nIn May the Bronze Medal of the Royal Humane Society was awarded to First-class Michael Becher, Inspector Percy Galbraith, Constables Charles Pinwill and William Ryan who risked their own lives to save the lives of others between 12 November 1889 and 15 January 1903.\n\nOn 29 March Acting Sergeant David Johnston was killed by being hit on the head with an axe by a prisoner in the watchhouse at Mackay.\n\nThe Fingerprint Bureau was established. During the first year of operation 578 fingerprints were taken and 226 came from other states.\n\nOn 16 September 1Constable First Class Charles O'Kearney was knocked down and killed by a horse being deliberately ridden towards him in retaliation for an arrest in Laidley.\n\nWilliam Geoffrey Cahill became the third Police Commissioner on 1 April 1905.\n\nOn 23 December Constable Albert Price was stabbed and killed while making an arrest at Mackay.\n\nOn 27 September 1906: Sergeant Thomas Heaney died at South Brisbane from head fractures sustained when he was hit multiple times over the head with a metal bar during an arrest on 7 June 1905 at Woolloongabba, Brisbane.\nOn 4 October Police Commissioner Cahill announced the establishment of a Medal for Merit departmental award for police officers who displayed pre-eminent bravery on duty. The first two medals were awarded to Acting Sergeant John Hennessy and Constable Richard Runge on 12 October.\n\nQueensland police enforced the Infant Life Protection Act of 1905 by checking the registration of births and the deaths of illegitimate children.\n\nThe Patrol was the first motorised vessel used by the Brisbane Water Police. She was capable of .\n\nConstable Charles Watson and a tracker followed suspected murderer J.W Patterson for 350 miles. They captured the fugitive but had very little food or water for the last 100 miles of the chase.\n\nA new Figure of 8 style handcuff was introduced.\n\nA very fine reserve called Rewan was proclaimed as a stud farm for breeding police horses. The Woodford mares and foals as well as two purchased stallions, \"Libertine\" and \"Mack\" populated the reserve.\n\nVery few police stations have a typewriter and some officers use their own to complete reports and correspondence.\n\nThe Kings Police Medal was instituted by King Edward VII on 7 July to be awarded to those officers of properly recognised police forces and fire brigades under the jurisdiction of the sovereign, who showed distinguished service and conspicuous devotion to duty, or who carried out heroic acts of courage. First awarded to Constable John Bourke on 29 August 1911.\n\nInspector White reported that nearly every station within a five mile radius of the centre of Brisbane was connected by telephone.\n\nChief Inspector Urquhart favourably mentioned Constable Peter Hagarty of Finch Hatton: \"he is an exceptional good man in a rough place among a very rough class of people. He made seventy-one arrests single handed this year and is most highly spoken of by the respectable portion of the community\".\n\nFirst reference to the idea of women police was made by the National Council of Women of Queensland.\n\nThe 1912 Brisbane general strike started as a tramway strike but gains momentum with 20,000 or more people withholding their labour and brings industry to a standstill. Mass rallies see police numbers bolstered by the swearing in of 3,000 Special Constables.\n\nPolice stations serve a variety of local community needs and police officers were expected to act in extraneous roles as representatives for the government.\n\nPolice Commissioner Cahill rejects the idea of employing women following an enquiry by the Acting Home Secretary.\n\nThe strength of the Force on 30 June, was 1037 general police, 30 Criminal Investigation Branch officers, 11 water police officers, 99 indigenous police, 27 recruits and 89 on leave with the Commonwealth Military Forces on active service in World War I.\n\nAt 13 July, four year old Nicholas Frousheger wandered away from his home about three miles south of Charleville. The media reports that \"the police, and a large party of civilians are trying hard to overtake him, but it is difficult owing to the stony ridges and the light imprint left by the little one\".\n\nFrederic Charles Urquhart becomes the fourth Police Commissioner on 1 January 1917.\n\nOn 24 March, 8,000 soldiers and conservatives march on the Russian émigré headquarters at South Brisbane which leads to violent clashes between protestors and police. This uprising was known as the Red Flag Riots or Red Monday.\n\nBicycles, not cars, were the usual means of transportation used by police for the prevention and detection of crime. Police Commissioner Ryan establishes bicycle patrols so that plain clothes officers could keep the suburbs of Brisbane under surveillance at night time.\n\nAn explosion at Mount Mulligan Colliery entombs over seventy miners. Residents, men from a neighbouring mine assist Constable James O\"Dwyer in efforts to recover deceased miners.\n\nPatrick Short became the fifth Police Commissioner on 16 January 1921.\n\nThe first thorough revision of \"Rules for the general government and discipline of the members of the Police Force of Queensland\" was completed.\n\n779 horses were in service, three camels were obtained for Noccundra police station and three new Harley-Davidson motorcycles with side cars were purchased.\n\nWilliam Harold Ryan becomes the sixth Police Commissioner on 15 January 1925.\n\nThe first two motorised vehicles were Black Marias or prison vans, one of which utilised the body from a horse-drawn prison van on the back of a Bean truck chassis.\n\nThe Criminal Investigation Branch building in Queen's Park, was blown up by a criminal intent on destroying the evidence against him.\n\nRetired Sergeant 2/c William Lynam had the gruesome job of burying seventeen Ingham flood victims, men, women, and children of three Italian families \"on the nearest patch of dry land I could find\".\n\nDustcoats and overalls were worn by members of the Criminal Investigation Branch when riding on motorcycles to prevent dust and oil from staining clothing.\n\nThere was only one detective available to handle criminal investigations between Townsville and Cloncurry.\n\nInspector Loch describec Cecil Plains as \"a large pastoral and farming district with large areas of thickly timbered and pear infested ground that gives stock thieves excellent opportunity to carry out their work.\n\nOn 6 August 1930 Constable Ernest James Dawson was on traffic duty on the Yungaburra Road near Lake Barrine when he lost control of his motorcycle. Despite emergency surgery which appeared initially successful, complications arose and he died in Brisbane General Hospital on 18 January 1931. There was a huge funeral procession in his honour on 19 January 1931.\n\nThe first two women police, Miss Zara Dare and Miss Eileen O'Donnell were appointed on 16 March, after Queensland Cabinet supported a submission by Irene Longman, Queensland's first female Member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly. They were attached to Roma Street police station in the centre of Brisbane but were not sworn-in and had no powers of arrest. They did not have a uniform but were given a badge. Their duties were to protect the interests of women and children.\n\nOn 5 January, four-year-old Betty Doherty was taken by crocodile as she plays near the Seymour River, about twelve kilometres east of Halifax. Acting Sergeant Frank Conaty and Constables George Schnitzerling, Jens Fredericksen and Arnold Still made an extensive search but fail to find any trace of the child.\n\nCecil James Carroll becomes the seventh Police Commissioner on 8 May 1934.\n\nA special squad of traffic police was organised for the control of the Brisbane traffic district.\n\nThe Battley Single Finger Print System was adopted, to reduce the period of search for a print found at the crime scene among the 470,000 impressions held.\n\nCarroll introduces the police cadet system to admit applicants of 18 years with a junior pass or a senior level school certificate.\n\nCarroll initiated the establishment of the Queensland Police Welfare Club which was located within Roma Street police station and served alcohol as well as offering recreational amenties such as a library, billiard tables and darts boards. Six weeks after its establishment the Club held its first ball at the Brisbane City Hall on 1 August 1934. Over 2,000 people attended and was believed to be the largest function of its kind ever held in Brisbane. The balls were an annual event and were held at Brisbane City Hall until the 1960s when they relocated to Cloudland Ballroom; the balls ceased in the 1970s.\n\nThe Modus Operandi Section was established by Police Commissioner Carroll as a central repository for criminal records regarding their habits or manner of working. A Criminal Photographic Supplement was reproduced in the Queensland Police Gazette to allow quick access to the information collected by the Modus Operandi Section.\n\nThe Queensland Police Department was given control of the Firearms Act and creates the Firearms Section under Clerk Thomas Baty, to undertake the major task of licensing firearms.\n\nCommissioner Carroll gains approval for an experimental wireless station with the call sign VKR. Three patrol cars were equipped with the new one-way, wireless communication system.\n\nWeekly lectures were delivered by experienced officers at the Roma Street police barracks and copies of lectures were distributed to every police officer.\n\nNewly sworn Constable Thomas Baty assumes charge of the Firearm Section.\n\nThe new brick two-storey, Fortitude Valley police station was built and officially opened on 6 July. It was described as the \"finest, most up-to-date and most comfortable police station in Queensland\". It is now heritage-listed.\n\nThe Queensland Police becomes mechanised and a departmental garage was built to service the departments growing number of motorcycles and motor vehicles. Trained mechanics worked in the garage.\n\nThe Firearms Section was enlarged to include forensic ballistics and a laboratory was installed, with microscopical and photomicrographical apparatus to examine bullets.\n\nA librarian was appointed to look after the Central Police Library's collection of 5,000 law, crime and fiction books.\n\nThe Criminal Investigation Branch consisted of 48 detectives, 65 plain clothes police spread over all districts, along with 14 cadets.\n\nThe Firearm Section was expanded to encompass the scientific investigation of firearms under the area of Forensic Ballistics.\n\nOn 28 November Constable George Robert Young of the water police was one of four men on a RAAF amphibious aircraft which crashed killing all on board. They were searching for the body of missing woman Marjorie Norval in the estuaries of Moreton Bay when the aircraft hit high tension wires.\n\nDuring World War II (1939 to 1945) the Police Commissioner worked in co-operation with the Australian Defence Department to provide protection of civilian lives, public buildings and communications lines.\n\nThe Kings Commendation for Brave Conduct was instituted by King George VI to acknowledge brave acts by civilians and members of the military in non-warlike circumstances during a time of war or in peacetime where the action would not otherwise be recognised by an existing award.\n\nLegislation provides police with selection of and control over civilian air-raid wardens. Police officers were involved in enrolling and training wardens to receive and pass on news of raids from Defence Information Centres.\n\nA seven-month-long \"School of Instruction in Criminal Investigation Work\" course was established.\n\nNew barracks at Petrie Terrace were built to replace the old structure used since 1883 at a cost of £40,000. It provided a training centre for recruits and a home for 104 single men performing duty in central Brisbane.\n\nThe system of interchange of detectives and the sharing of knowledge with New South Wales and Victoria police continues, with one Queensland detective working in Sydney and the other in Melbourne.\n\nThe Kings Police Medal becomes The Kings Police and Fire Services Medal and was awarded for acts of exceptional courage and skill or who exhibit conspicuous devotion to duty. First awarded to Constable Athol Haines on 28 July 1943.\n\nThe George Medal was established by order of King George VI on 4 September, was given for acts of great bravery. First awarded to Constable 1/c Osmond Cislowski on 11 May 1956.The number of women in the Women Police Section increases to nine in response to the extra demands on policing during World War II.\n\nA permanent two-way radio station, allowing two-way radio wireless communication with patrol cars, was established to replace the temporary one-way system in use since 1935.\n\nThe Women Police Section was formed with Elizabeth Boyle as Supervisor and attached to the Criminal Investigation Branch Headquarters in George Street Brisbane.\n\nThe Central Fingerprint Bureau in Sydney was created for use by all policing jurisdictions.\n\nThe Forensic Ballistics Section was renamed as the Scientific Section and now encompasses forensic chemistry, scientific photography and the examination of documents and handwriting. The Scientific Section was examining documents and handwriting with ultra-violet rays and microscopy.\n\nThe Force was staffed by 1610 sworn police and 34 native trackers at 341 stations.\n\nInspector Noel Carseldine remarked: \"The fact of the war having continued throughout the year has meant the performance of arduous duties by the police in this district. Several hundred aliens have been interned in the sugar areas of Ayr, Brandon, Giru, Halifax, Home Hill and Ingham\".\n\n246 bicycles were in use across the state.\n\nThe Fingerprint Bureau, the Modus Operandi Record System, the Photographic and Scientific Sections were classified under the title: Technical Aids in the Investigation of Crime.\n\nDetective Constable Les Bardwell took over the Scientific Section and remains as the Officer in Charge until his retirement in 1976.\n\nThe \"White Ghost\", a white Chevrolet Special Deluxe utility, equipped with a loud hailer, was introduced to Brisbane and Toowoomba streets as part of a road safety campaign.\n\nNew uniform consisted of an open-neck tunic, airman's blue shirt, with detachable collar, black tie, and a new type white helmet.\nThe Photographic Unit gains staff who have experience with drawing plans of crime scenes and road collisions.\n\nProbationaries undergo six months of training at the Police Depot.\nThe Queensland Police-Citizens Youth Welfare Association was registered under the jurisdiction of the Police Department on 20 May.\nThere were 100 cars in use across the state representing brands such as Ford, Buick, Chevrolet, International, G.M.C, Mercury, Hudson, De Soto, Dodge and Plymouth.\n\nFingerprint Expert Cecil Smith and two Queensland Detectives make history when they take hand and palm prints from almost the entire population of Ocean Island (now Banaba Island) to catch a double murderer.\n\nJohn Smith becomes the eight Police Commissioner on 24 July 1949.\n\nRadio transmissions were made from Mount Coot-tha and the switch from amplitude modulated (A.M.) mobile equipment to frequency modulated (F.M.) equipment was made.\n\nRoad safety lectures were introduced into schools and kindergartens. Puppets were used to illustrate scenarios for younger children and older children were taught to cross the street and to ride a bicycle safely. \n\nAfter an inquisitive cow fell into a ditch at the rear of the Queensland Woollen Mill in Ipswich, police were called to perform a rescue operation. Using a small crane, the heavy beast was successfully winched from the ditch and suffered only shock.\n\nThere were fourteen police districts and 338 stations throughout Queensland at 30 June. Somerset police station was re-established and a new station was opened at Kenilworth.\n\nThe Police Force was staffed by 2030 sworn personnel, 10 women police and 30 trackers. The State population had reached one million.\nThe Central Communications Room opens at the CIB building in Brisbane and becomes the nerve centre of police communications through the state.\nPolice radio stations were operating in Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.\n\nThe British Empire Medal for Meritorious Service originally established in 1922, was first awarded to Constable Noel Haupt on 17 October.\n\nThe Kings Police and Fire Services Medal was split into two awards, the Queens Fire Service Medal and the Queens Police Medal for Gallantry which was first awarded posthumously to Constable 1/c Roy Doyle on 1 April 1956.\n\nThe Kings Commendation for Brave Conduct became the Queens Commendation for Brave Conduct. It was first awarded to Constable Clifford Lebsanft on 11 May 1956.\nWomen were permitted to join the Queensland Police Union.\n\nThe Brisbane Traffic Branch was established as an entity separate from the Brisbane Police District.\n\nPatrick Glynn becomes the ninth Police Commissioner on 6 January 1955.\nThe Union's application for equal pay fails in the Industrial Court.\n\nThe state was affected by cyclonic disturbances and flood conditions resulting in widespread interruption to communications and damage to property.\n\nOn 1 April Constable First Class Roy Doyle died in hospital at Mackay from head injuries sustained when he hit a submerged block of concrete while attempting a rescue in the flooded Pioneer River at Mackay on 29 March.\n\nOn 1 May the awarding of the Police Long Service and Good Conduct Medal, originally proclaimed by King George VI in 1951, was extended to include the states of Australia by Queen Elizabeth II. The medal was awarded after twenty-two years of approved police service and 378 police officers qualify.\n208 centres were sharing 384 vehicles and 126 horses – 73 cars, 113 utilities, 37 land rovers, 6 vans, 155 motorbikes and 179 bicycles.\n\nThomas William Harold becomes the tenth Police Commissioner on 1 April 1957.\n\nTwo Traffic Branch officers attend the \"Traffic Engineering Course\" offered by the New South Wales University of Technology.\n\nPolice Commissioner Harold puts into operation four radio-equipped prowl cars to cruise the city and suburbs through the night.\n\nThe British Empire Medal for Gallantry was established on 14 January. First awarded to Constable James Boyle on 7 August 1959.\n\nFrancis Erich (Frank) Bischof becomes the eleventh Police Commissioner on 30 January 1958. With a view to raising the morale and status of newly sworn-in personnel, Bischof decides to inaugurate Passing Out Parades for Probationaries. The first parade was held on 29 May with twenty-four men being sworn.\n\nThe Queensland Police Pipe Band makes its first public appearance on 29 August at a passing out parade at the Petrie Terrace Police Depot.\nThe Stock Investigation Squad was formed, with a detective sergeant and three plainclothes members.\n\nSub-Inspector Cecil Smith was appointed as the first Queensland Police Public Relations Officer on 6 July. He was expected to make regular telecasts on topical police matters by way of the new technology of television.\n\nDetective Senior Sergeant Les Bardwell, Constable Barry Short and Cadet Neil Raward were the only three scientific officers servicing the state.\n\nA new range of drab olive uniform and a new cap badge were introduced.\n\nA new insignia was introduced which was an adaptation of the police badge. It bears the Latin motto \"Constantia ac Comitate\" (English translation: Firmness with Courtesy\")\".\n\nThe old Queensland Egg Board building, on the corner of Makerston Street and North Quay was purchased and converted into a Police Headquarters.\n\n.38 Smith and Wesson revolvers were purchased to enable the standardisation of firearms.\n\nOn 19 February Constable Gregory Olive was shot in the chest at close range when he knocked on a front door to make inquiries at Kelvin Grove, Brisbane.\n\nOn 16 August Constable Douglas Wrembeck stopped to question a motorist in South Brisbane and was killed when he was struck by a car driven by a hit-and-run driver.\n\nThe Juvenile Aid Bureau was established to guide potential youthful law breakers on the right path and prevent them from incurring a court conviction.\n\nOn 14 February Senior Constable Cecil Bagley was electrocuted when he tried to rescue a neighbour being electrocuted in his car at Mount Gravatt, south Brisbane. Although at home, his death was deemed to have occurred while on duty because, as a police officer, he was always expected to respond in an emergency situation.\n\nOn 30 June the police strength equals 2760 police officers (1 police officer to 571 people).\n\nOn 26 October Senior Constable Desmond Trannore was shot attending a domestic disturbance near Gordonvale, North Queensland.\n\nOn 31 March, eight serving plainclothes women police were sworn in and given equal powers and rank as male officers. In June the first uniformed women were sworn in following regular probationary training.\n\nTwenty-one new Cortina sedans were purchased for traffic work.\n\n179 cars, eight vans, eighteen motor cycles, one bus and one utility truck were fitted with two-way wireless. Twenty-three cars and three utility trucks were fitted with two-way wireless.\n\nThe first set of specially chosen police was trained for a \"Rescue 8\" Squad to handle major incidents and disaster emergencies.\n\nThe first ever issue of attire for policewomen was a female version of the drab olive uniform.\n\nSergeant 2/c Colin Ward and Constable Colin Tapsall installed the first police-owned UHF radio linking system from Saddle Mountain near Kuranda, to the Cairns Airport.\n\nAll new CIB Detective appointees were required to attend a course of training that includes lectures by senior experienced detectives, films and practical application.\n\nThe Company Squad was reorganised as the Fraud Squad.\n\nOn 27 March Constable Douglas Gordon was shot and killed attending a domestic disturbance at Inala, in south Brisbane.\n\nOn 26 June the Crime Prevention Bureau commences operation, for the purpose of providing two police officers in a full-time capacity to impart security and personal safety advice to community members.\n\nThe Emergency Squad was established principally to deal with the apprehension of armed offenders.\n\nA World War II sea mine washes up onto the beach at Surfers Paradise, shocking those enjoying the sun, sand and surf. The device was successfully deactivated and removed by the Royal Australian Navy with the help of Gold Coast police.\n\nPrinting of Volume 1 of the new \"Queensland Policeman's Manual\" was completed and preparation of Volume 2 was well advanced.\n\nProbationaries receive training in the use of Breath Testing Devices (Alcotest) and Breath Analysing Instruments (Breathalyser).\n\nNorwin William Bauer becomes the twelfth Police Commissioner on 14 February.\n\nOn 9 April Senior Constable Colin Brown was shot and killed while investigating the behaviour of a farm employee on a property near Dayboro, north of Brisbane.\n\nThe number of policewomen equals twenty-seven. Postings extend outside central Brisbane and to provincial centres. The Queensland Police Union achieves equal pay for women with the support of Police Commissioner Ray Whitrod.\n\nThe position of Assistant Commissioner (Crime) was established.\n\nThe Queensland Police College at Chelmer commences operation on 27 January as an \"in-service training centre\".\n\nAll newly-sworn Constables were sent, over a period of twelve months, to different metropolitan police stations for on-the-job training.\n\nRaymond Wells Whitrod becomes the thirteenth Police Commissioner on 1 September 1970.\n\nPolice and protestors clash over the South African Springbok football team's tour of Queensland.\n\nThe minimum height for women joining was set at 162.5cm and the bar on married women joining up was removed.\n\nConsideration was given to the use of computers for police purposes.\n\nThe Public Order Squad was formed with approximately 100 members, who provide staff for duty in connection with street demonstrations and similar disturbances.\n\nA new cadet training scheme was introduced. The three year structure, combines senior examination subjects and special police courses.\n\nThe Police Driver Training Wing was established and courses commence on 1 March.\n\nStage 1 of the Queensland Police Academy at Oxley opens in January and the first 150 cadets were admitted.\n\nUniform colour changes from drab olive back to blue. Policewomen wear a black skirt, white shirt with black tie and bowler style cap.\n\nThe Queensland Police Academy officially opens at Oxley on 24 March.\n\nA Crime Intelligence course for Detectives commences at the Chelmer Police College.\n\nTwo days after Cyclone Tracy devastates Darwin in the Northern Territory, twelve Queensland police officers arrive to lend a hand.\n\nA Scenes of Crime Training Unit was opened at the Oxley Police Academy and a Scenes of Crime Unit becomes operational.\n\nFirst female detective was appointed.\n\nThe Police Air Wing was established with the purchase of two Cessna 180E aircraft. Four police officers and qualified pilots were attached to the Wing.\n\nThe Rape Squad, comprising seven female constables, commences working from within the Information Bureau.\n\nThe quota system for the recruitment of women was removed and integration was adopted in deployment. Police Commissioner Whitrod's open door policy results in an influx of women.\n\nFinal year Cadets and Probationaries receive twenty-three training periods in crowd control, prisoner control and crisis-situation handling.\n\nThe Star of Courage, the second highest Australian bravery decoration, was established in the Australian honours system in February. It is awarded for acts of conspicuous courage in circumstances of great peril. Only four have been awarded to Queensland police officers, the first to Constable Rodney Edward on 16 March 1988.\n\nA new system of identification numbers and rank boards with metal chevrons were introduced for all ranks.\n\nOn 2 November Senior Constable Lyle Hoey died after being deliberately run down by a car near Mount Molloy in North Queensland.\n\nThe number of Queensland policewomen equals 308.\n\nAll police centres across the state have access to a motor vehicle.\n\nThe Electronic Data Processing Unit was reorganised into the Planning and Research Branch and begins developing computer programs to make information available on criminal statistics, stolen vehicles, staff deployment, and vehicles of interest.\n\nForbes House in Makerston Street was purchased and converted into Police Headquarters and officially opens 7 March.\n\nTerence Murray (Terry) Lewis becomes the fourteenth Police Commissioner on 29 November 1976.\n\nThree new police vessels were commissioned: \"D.G. Gordon\", \"G.J. Olive\" and \"Lyle M. Hoey\". They were named after three police officers who were killed in the line of duty.\n\nThe first step was taken in the automation of the colour printing process for the Photographic Section.\n\nExperienced journalist Ian Hatcher was appointed as the first Police Press Officer on 29 August. His responsibilities were to liaise with media and to publicise the work and improve the public image of the Force throughout the State.\n\nIn January, Police pilot Sergeant 2/c Ron Rooke successfully carries out flood relief operations in the Camooweal, Burketown, Hamilton, Boulia and Doomadgee areas by dropping several hundred kilograms of food to stranded motorists.\n\nThe recruitment of female cadets was stopped but the quota for the recruitment of female adult probationers was revived.\n\nA computer systems training officer was appointed to train police officers in the correct use and operation of computer equipment for practical police work.\n\nTo give the public and the police an appreciation of the history of the Police Force, the Police Museum was fully open to the public on 17 May.\n\nOn 12 March the Bomb Squad was reorganised as a two man Arson-Bomb Squad and its activities were expanded.\n\nAn armed man hijacked a commercial aircraft between Coolangatta and Brisbane and holds air crew and passengers hostage at Eagle Farm Airport. Emergency Squad personnel were deployed while a police negotiator secures the release of the hostages.\n\nEpaulette boards give way to shoulder patches and stripes of rank on the sleeves of new uniform. The Latin motto adopted on the shoulder patches was \"Constantia Ac Comitate\".\n\nA new computerised message-switching system was introduced, with terminals installed in the metropolitan area and some district headquarters.\n\nTraffic branch motorcyclists were issued with blue leather caps which were worn instead of helmets while off their bikes and directing traffic.\n\nThe Rescue Squad was created within the Task Force in Brisbane. Members were trained in all types of rescue situations so that they could assist in bringing aid to people beset by accidents or disasters.\n\nA new American Style highway patrol was formed to operate on country highways in an effort to cut down the road toll. The patrol fleet was equipped with 53 V8 Falcons with long range radios, as well as 84 Yamaha four cylinder 1100cc road motorcycles.\n\nThe first Blood Splash Pattern Evaluation Course was held.\n\nThe Explosive Ordinance Reconnaissance Team was established which took the responsibility for bomb response from the Arson and Bomb Squad.\n\nThe Latin motto on shoulder patches was replaced by the English translation of \"Firmness With Courtesy\".\n\nThe Police Department's own computer system comes online and ends the shared arrangements with other government departments.\n\nThe Safety House program commences and provides a safe place for children in the event they feel threatened.\n\nRain and mud hamper police attempts to remove protestors trying to prevent the construction of the Cape Tribulation to Bloomfield Road.\n\nOn 29 February Constable Michael Low was shot and killed attending a domestic dispute at North Rockhampton, Central Queensland.\n\nOn 22 June Queensland motorcycle police establish the Guinness Book of Records world record for the number of riders on a motorcycle, when 35 police officers balance on a motorbike at Surfers Paradise Raceway.\n\nThe Queensland police computer links to the Main Roads Department and the New South Wales police computer to increase access to information such as national stolen vehicles files.\n\nAdopt–a–Cop was introduced at Northgate State School, with Constable Michael Volk from Nundah Police Station eager to attend the school during lunch times to provide advice on road safety, bike safety and stranger danger.\n\nLong batons were purchased for use by members of Brisbane Mobile Patrols and the Brisbane Traffic Branch.\n\nQueensland Police were officially linked to a central Finger-print Bureau in Sydney, which gives computer access to millions of prints throughout Australia and overseas.\n\nThe Department operates 1,092 vehicles.\n\nThere were 309 computer terminals in 121 locations. Training in computers was offered to Cadets and Probationaries at the Police Academy.\n\nUnder Police Commissioner Lewis the advancement of women was curtailed in most areas. The number of female sworn officers drops from over 8 per cent to 5 per cent.\n\nThe Transport, Radio and Electronics Sections, Brisbane Mobile Patrols, and Traffic Accident Investigation Squad relocate to Alderley from the Petrie Terrace Police Depot.\n\nOn 27 July the Fitzgerald Enquiry opens. It was a much needed, but painful organisational reform for the Queensland Police. Over the two years of the enquiry there were 238 hearings and 339 witnesses were called to give evidence.\n\nOn 29 July Senior Constable Peter Grahame John Kidd was shot and killed in a raid at Virginia, in north Brisbane. The raid was to recapture an extremely dangerous escapee from Long Bay Jail who had subsequently committed several armed robberies. Kidd was the first member of the Tactical Response Team to enter the house. Having been shot through a closed door, Kidd continued to push through the door and returned fire. He then collapsed and died in hospital. Hundreds of police marched in Kidd's funeral procession held on 31 July. He was posthumously awarded the Queensland Police Valour Medal and the Star of Courage.\n\nOn 21 September Ronald James Redmond becomes the Acting Police Commissioner.\n\nThe Neighbourhood Watch Unit commences operation on 22 February after a successful pilot program conducted on the Gold Coast. The program aims to reduce preventable crimes, improve personal and household security, reduce fear of crime, and provide support for victims of crime.\nCrime Stoppers was established. Its role is to gather information from the community that will lead to offenders being caught and prosecuted.\n\nThe first official video recording of a crime scene was conducted by the Photographic Section.\n\nOn 29 June Constable Brett Handran was shot and killed attending a domestic dispute in Wynnum, in east Brisbane.\n\nNoel Newnham becomes sixteenth Police Commissioner on 1 November 1989.\n\nFitzgerald Enquiry recommendations augment the change from the Queensland Police Force to Queensland Police Service. A new badge was designed and the motto \"With Honour We Serve\" was approved.\n\nThe first five female Inspectors were appointed.\n\nIn May the Task Force was created in response to Fitzgerald Report recommendations. Its role was to support all regional commands through intelligence and co-ordination of crime operations.\n\nCOMFIT, the electronic composition of faces from witness descriptions was developed by the Photographic Section.\n\nThe Fingerprint Bureau, Photographic and Scientific Sections move to the 4th floor of the new headquarters building under the umbrella of the Forensic Services Branch.\n\nThe new Police Communications Centre benefits from a two-million-dollar ESCORT Computer Aided Dispatch system that feeds instant information to mobile vehicles and foot patrols.\n\nThe Queensland Police Service Valour Award was introduced to recognise police officers who perform acts of exceptional bravery in hazardous circumstances. First awarded in 1990 to Constables Kyle Bates, Edward Bennet, Neil Paulsen and Senior Constable Brendan Carew for a sea rescue.\n\nThe Commissioner's Lantern Award was initiated to recognise and promote community-based policing. The inaugural 1991 winner was the Youth Assistance Panel project based in Townsville, joint initiative targeting petty juvenile offenders to provide a last chance before invoking the court system.\n\nThe first custom built police headquarters was constructed on the block bounded by Makerston, Roma and Garrick Streets.\n\nNew police badge, logo and the motto \"With Honour We Serve\" were adopted.\n\nIn September the Computer Aided Despatch system was introduced which promises to improve the information available to, and increase the efficiency of, despatching police vehicles to incidents.\n\nThe Queensland Anti-Discrimination Act reinforces merit-based criteria in employment and the number of female recruits stabilises around thirty-three per cent.\n\nThe Bureau of Criminal Intelligence develops and puts into operation the Queensland Intelligence Database with the ability to link nine different data categories.\n\nThe Police Overseas Service Medal was established on 25 April to acknowledge the overseas peace-keeping role of police officers. The medal was awarded with a clasp which details the area of service.\n\nThe first female Chief Superintendent and Superintendent were appointed.\n\nThe Queensland Equal Opportunity in Public Employment Act gives legislative support to initiatives to improve the position of women. These include flexible work options, anti-harassment strategies and mentor support.\n\nThe Scientific Section relocates to the Roma Street Police Headquarters with more than 30 staff, many of whom specialise in a very select field of forensic identification.\n\nElectronic Recording Section becomes part of Forensic Services Branch\n\nThe first Police Beat Shopfront was trialled at Rockhampton\"s K-Mart Plaza and becomes a permanent establishment in August. This initiative was designed to provide an effective policing presence in shopping centres and to improve communication with the community.\n\nThe Special Emergency Response Team was established to respond to emergency situations and to provide operational police with specialist support.\n\nAn Executive Development Program commences to provide skills in strategic planning, policy development, resource management, and command and control to officers moving to commissioned rank.\n\nJames Patrick O\"Sullivan becomes the seventeenth Police Commissioner on 1 November 1992.\n\nThe offender identification computer system called Com-Fit was developed.\n\nThe Task Force becomes the State Crime Operations Command with a primary function to generate intelligence about organised and major crime; and to support regional police during major criminal investigations.\n\nThe Public Safety Response Team was established as a fulltime unit with a staff of forty-five.\n\nOn 24 October twelve passengers on a Wide Bay Tours bus, die when it crashes on the Gateway Motorway. Police, ambulance, fire and emergency service workers, work together to assist the injured after the accident.\n\nThe Police Recruit Operational and Vocational Education (PROVE) program was introduced to allow recruit curricula to be run on a wholly in-Service basis.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1996 the Academy was renamed as the Queensland Police and Emergency Services Academy in acknowledgement of the continuing training initiative between the Queensland Police and Queensland Emergency Services.\n\nIn May, a new $3.3 million police complex, consisting of police station and watchhouse, was officially opened on Mornington Island. It was one of only four cyclone resistant buildings on the island and could be used as a cyclone shelter if required.\n\nIn response to the recommendations of the Royal Commission into Aboriginal Deaths in Custody, the concept of Police Liaison Officers was initiated on Thursday Island and later trialled in Townsville. \n\nThe North Queensland Campus of the Police Academy was established in Townsville to encourage recruitment in central and northern Queensland.\n\nOn 21 May Constable Shayne Gill was struck and killed by a motor vehicle while on radar duty on the Bruce Highway near Glasshouse Mountains.\n\nThe North Queensland Police Service Academy in Townsville opens its doors for recruit training on 14 October.\n\nThe Violent Crime Analysis Unit was established to analyse victimology, modus operandi, offender information, forensic data and behavioural patterns.\n\nThe Volunteers in Policing (VIP) trial program was initiated in September. VIP duties at police stations include victim support, witness support, customer service, school support and community liaison.\n\nBicycles patrols were re-introduced to Brisbane after a successful trial.\n\nThe Interactive Crime Scene Recording System was developed by the Photographic Section.\n\nThe laser speed gun was introduced; it uses LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging).\n\nA range of new equipment was introduced which includes extendable batons, hinged handcuffs and Glock firearms.\n\nWomen make up 17.36 per cent of sworn personnel. The number of female sworn officers increases steadily by approximately one per cent per year.\n\nThe Queensland Police Service Medal was introduced on 1 January, to recognise the diligent and ethical service by members of the Queensland Police Service.\n\nThe Queensland Government transfers the community police function from Community Councils at Woorabinda, Yarrabah and on Badu Island, to the Queensland Police as a 12 month pilot. These officers were known as Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Police (QATSIP).\n\nKathleen Rynders was the first policewoman to achieve the rank of Assistant Commissioner and in 2008 becomes the first woman to rise to the rank of Deputy Commissioner.\n\nAll manual fingerprints filing systems were replaced by the National Automated Fingerprint Identification System allowing all states to share fingerprint information.\n\nThe DNA Implementation Unit was established to facilitate the introduction of new legislation allowing the QPS to use DNA as a forensic investigative tool.\n\nThe Crime Prevention Personal Safety Team develops a larger than life wooden figure named \"Duncan\" to assist in teaching children to pay attention to their gut feelings when they feel in danger.\n\nOn 21 July 2000 Senior Constable Norman Watt, 33, was shot during an armed stand-off near Rockhampton in Central Queensland.\n\nRobert Atkinson becomes the eighteenth Police Commissioner on 1 November 2000.\n\nIn March 2002 co-ordination and security for Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting involves the largest security operation ever staged by the Queensland Police.\n\nA dedicated cold case team was established within the Homicide Investigation Group.\n\nIn March co-ordination and security for Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting was managed by the Queensland Police Service. More than 4,000 police and staff members take part in the security operation.\n\nConstable Mokhtiar Singh creates history as the first Sikh to be sworn in as a Queensland police officer. His uniform includes an adaptation of the traditional Indian turban in recognition of his cultural heritage and religious beliefs.\n\nThirteen Queensland Disaster Victim Identification Squad officers were deployed to Bali, as part of an Australian contingent, to assist the Indonesian Government following the terrorist attack.\n\nThe Oxley Police Academy delivers a Justice Entry Program targeted at Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.\n\nOn 22 August 2003 Senior Sergeant Perry Irwin, 42, was shot while investigating reports of gunfire in bushland at Caboolture, north of Brisbane.\n\nQueensland police begins the sharing and searching of DNA samples from people and crime scenes at a national level on the newly operating National Criminal Investigative DNA Database (NCIDD).\n\nIn February the Service opens a Police Dog Development Complex. It\"s hoped that this dog breeding facility will overcome a general lack of trainable dogs.\n\nBright red, two door Monaro Highway patrol cars were introduced.\n\nAs at 30 June there were 9310 police officers and 3153 support staff.\n\nThe \"Forensic Register\" was fully deployed for remote data entry to provide a \"paperless\" case file solution at a scene of crime. All forensic film based cameras were replaced with digital SLR cameras to record crime scenes. \n\nThree new Queensland police awards were established: the Commissioners Commendation for Bravery, Commissioners Certificate for Notable Action and Commissioners Award for Meritorious or Special Service.\n\nThe Commissioners Commendation for Bravery was first awarded to Senior Sergeant Mathew Rosevear, Sergeants Robert Duncan and Richard Downie; Constables Glen Lamont, Kim Adamson and John Lima.\n\nThe eligibility criteria for the Humanitarian Overseas Service Medal originally established in 1999, were amended to enable recognition of humanitarian service provided in response to national disasters overseas. First awarded to Senior Sergeants Kenneth Rach and Scott McLaren for their disaster victim identification work after the Thailand tsunami.\n\nQueensland police, Cardwell Lions Club and Cardwell Coast Guard go into partnership to provide free EPIRBs to departing bush walkers on the Thorsborne Trail on Hinchinbrook Island and Herbert River Gorge walk. The project aims to help rescuers find lost or injured hikers more quickly.\n\nOn 18 July 2007, Constable Brett Irwin, 33, was shot while executing an arrest warrant for breach of bail at Keperra, in northwest Brisbane.\n\nQPRIME a major new policing information system was launched. The system is used to record and manage all reportable police incidents. It allows easier access to information, less time is spent searching for information in different systems and reduces manual and paper-based processes.\n\nThe Live-scan fingerprint scanning system was successfully rolled out across the state. These units were connected to the Crimtrac National Automated Fingerprint Identification System in Canberra.\n\nThe Photographic Section goes digital and acquires a digital mini-lab which means that photos taken at any Queensland crime scene were processed and printed almost immediately.\n\nOperation Achilles concludes after more than 2 years of investigation resulting in the simultaneous execution of warrants across the world and the arrests of child sex offenders in Australia, the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe publication of district-based Neighbourhood Watch Crime Bulletins was launched in Cairns in October. Crime Bulletins provide information to the community to assist in clearing offences, and to provide details about crime prevention initiatives.\n\nThe eligibility criterion of the Queensland Police Service Medal was changed and was made available to living former members who served prior to the introduction of the medal in 1999.\n\nNewly designed patches and epaulettes were introduced. Epaulettes for the ranks of Senior Sergeant and below, now incorporate the words \"Queensland Police\".\n\nPolicelink was established to provide an alternative point of contact for reporting non-urgent crimes or incidents and for general police enquiries. A new national non-urgent police number was introduced.\n\nThe National Police Service Medal was established on 9 November and recognises the special status that sworn police officers have because of their role protecting the community and represents a police officer\"s past and future commitment to give ethical and diligent service. A minimum of 15 years' service is required to qualify for the medal.\n\nCommunications Room Operator Andrew Heinrich, took a call at the Ipswich Police Communications Centre around 9pm on 25 September and remains calm and in control as he gives the mother CPR instructions to resuscitate her unconscious baby girl.\n\nThe Fortitude Valley police station redevelopment project comprises two stages, the construction of a two-level \"operational\" building and the refurbished of the existing 1936 building.\n\nEight years after thirteen year old Daniel Morcombe was abducted from a Sunshine Coast road, an extensive police investigation locates and charges his killer with murder.\n\nThe use of Automatic Number Plate Recognition technology was launched state-wide. The initial launch consisted of one unit being located at the State Traffic Support Branch for use in state wide traffic operations involving both specialist and local police.\n\nThe floods of 2011 initiate the first use of Facebook and Twitter by the QPS Media and Public Affairs Branch to forge a direct link with the community by using social media to relentlessly issue accurate information and to fight rumours. \n\nUnprecedented floods affects much of Queensland and police were involved in all manner of support, including victim identification, missing persons coordination, anti-looting patrol and countless rescues in all manner of vehicles and vessels. \n\nOn 29 May 2011 Detective Senior Constable Damien Leeding (CIB) was shot when he confronted an armed offender at the Pacific Pines Tavern on the Gold Coast. Leeding died in hospital on 1 June three days after being shot. \n\nThe introduction and implementation of the Automatic Number Plate Recognition project delivers significant improvement and efficiencies in frontline traffic operations.\n\nThe new \"Police Recruit Pathway\" selects applicants based on physical health and fitness, personal integrity, cognitive ability and literacy, psychological suitability, life and work experience and practical policing skills.\n\nIan Duncan Hunter Stewart becomes the nineteenth Police Commissioner on 1 November 2012.\n\nA new recruit program commences in January that increasingly expects recruits to perform realistic policing roles.\n\nOn 3 March an armed gunman brings business in the Queen Street Mall to a halt. The situation was brought under control by the swift action of operational police and the Special Emergency Response Team.\n\nThe Fatal 5 campaign on HSV Holdens, was launched which adds “inattention” to \"speed\", \"seat belts\", \"drink driving\" and \"driving tired\" as the main causes of traffic crashes. The campaign was designed to catch the attention of road users and prompt them to be more careful on the roads.\n\nUnder the Queensland Police Renewal Program the newly named State Crime Command includes the Child Safety and Sexual Crime Group, Drug and Serious Crime Group, Fraud and Cyber Crime Group and the Homicide Group.\n\nThe strength of the Queensland Police Service at 30 June was 11,055 police officers, 371 police recruits and 3705 staff members.\n\nOn 1 July, a new structure was approved and which means the reduction of Regions from eight to five and Districts from thirty to fifteen.\n\nWomen make up more than twenty-five per cent of sworn personnel and serve in many varied roles across the state.\n\nThe most northerly police station was on Thursday Island, the most southerly police station was at Hungerford, the most westerly station was at Camooweal and the most easterly police station was at Coolangatta.\n\nOn 1 July the Forensic Services Group forms as a result of the QPS review. It consisted of more than 550 staff and encompasses all district scenes of crime units, the Fingerprint Bureau, the Forensic Intelligence Unit, and the DNA management, Photographic and Electronic Recording and Scientific sections. The FSG processes in excess 150,000 requests for service and positively identifies or links several thousand suspects to their crime each year.\n\nThe mobile data pilot for smartphones and tablets was rolled in October as part of the move to provide the technology required by police to keep the community safe.\n\nAt the Queensland Police Excellence Awards, Southern Region wins the Gold Lantern Award for Excellence in Problem-Oriented and Partnership for their \"Stay on Track Outback\" initiative which aims to enhance road safety on the rural and remote highways of outback Queensland.\n\nNew uniform material was approved which is lighter in weight and more breathable. The cloth is treated with a flash dry and incorporates a percentage of stretch for comfort and ease.\n\nThere were more than 450 police establishments spread across the state.\n\nQueensland Police celebrated their 150th anniversary.\n\nOn 29 May 2017, Senior Constable Brett Forte was shot and killed at Adare, north of Gatton, after attempting to apprehend a suspected offender. The gunman, Rick Maddison, was shot and killed the next day by police while trying to escape after a siege in a farmhouse at Ringwood, north-west of Gatton. On 8 June 2018, the police helicopter POLAIR 2 was named Brett A. Forte in his honour. POLAIR 2 had provided air support during the siege.\n\nThis article was originally based on material from Policing Queensland Timeline 1864 - 2014, © State of Queensland (Queensland Police Service) 2018, released under CC-BY-4.0 licence, accessed on 4 November 2018.\n"}
{"id": "17003920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17003920", "title": "Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal) Act, 1983", "text": "Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal) Act, 1983\n\nThe Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal ) (IMDT) Act was an Act of the Parliament of India enacted in 1983 by the Indira Gandhi government. It was struck down by the Supreme Court of India in 2005 in \"Sarbananda Sonowal v. Union of India\".\n\nKnown as the IMDT Act (1983) it described the procedures to detect illegal immigrants (from Bangladesh) and expel them from Assam. The Act was pushed through mainly on the grounds that it provided special protections against undue harassment to the “minorities” affected by the Assam Agitation. It was applicable to the state of Assam only whereas in other states, detection of foreigners is done under The Foreigners Act, 1946.\n\nThe act made it difficult to deport illegal immigrants from Assam. It has been alleged to be one of the main reasons for the rapid rise of the Muslim population and demographic change in Assam.\n\nThe Foreigners Act, 1946 defines a foreigner as a person who is not a citizen of India. Section 9 of the Act states that, where the nationality of a person is not evident as per preceding section 8, the onus of proving whether a person is a foreigner or not, shall lie upon such person.\n\nHowever, under the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal ) (IMDT) Act, the burden of proving the citizenship or otherwise rested on the accuser and the police, not the accused. This was a major departure from the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946.\n\nThe accuser must reside within a 3 km radius of the accused, fill out a complaint form (a maximum of ten per accuser is allowed) and pay a fee of ten Rupees.\n\nIf a suspected illegal migrant is thus successfully accused, he is required by the Act to simply produce a ration card to prove his Indian citizenship.\n\nAnd if a case made it past these requirements, a system of tribunals made up of retired judges would finally decide on deportation based on the facts.\n\nThe act also provided that 'if the application is found frivolous or vexatious' the Central Government may not accept it.\n\nIt excluded the migrants who entered India before March 25, 1971 from the illegal-migration accusation. And for post-1971 migrants too, the procedure for deporting were tough.\n\nThe Act was challenged by Sarbananda Sonowal in courts. In 2005 a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court of India held that the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act, 1983 and rules \"has created the biggest hurdle and is the main impediment or barrier in the identification and deportation of illegal migrants\" and struck down the Act.\n\nThe court also observed \"(the conviction rate under the IMDT act) comes to less than half per cent of the cases initiated...(the IMDT Act) is coming to the advantage of such illegal migrants as any proceedings initiated against them almost entirely ends in their favour, enables them to have a document having official sanctity to the effect that they are not illegal migrants.\"\n\nOn 9 August 2012, the Supreme Court hearing a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction for deportation of illegal migrants, was told that the Government of India, as a matter of policy, \"does not support any kind of illegal migration either into its territory or illegal immigration of its citizens. \"It was also stated that the Government is committed to deporting illegal Bangladeshi migrants, but only lawfully. It asserted that the demand for deleting the names of alleged 41 lakh doubtful voters from the list of 2006 on the basis of religious and linguistic profiling would prima facie be illegal, arbitrary and violative of the secular and democratic credentials of India. The court posted the matter for final hearing on 6 November 2012.\n\nThe Foreigners Act,1946\n\n"}
{"id": "28626288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28626288", "title": "Japan–Korea Treaty of 1882", "text": "Japan–Korea Treaty of 1882\n\nThe Japan–Korea Treaty of 1882, also known as the Treaty of Chemulpo or the \"Chemulpo Convention,\" was negotiated between Japan and Korea following the Imo Incident in July 1882.\n\nOn July 23, 1882, factional strife between Koreans in Korea's capital expanded beyond the initial causes of the disturbance.\nAs the violence unfolded, the Japanese legation was destroyed by rioters. The Japanese diplomats were forced to flee the country. When order was restored, the Japanese government demanded damages and other concessions form the Korean government.\n\nThe negotiations were concluded in August 1882.\n\nArticle V of the \"convention\" permitted the Japanese to protect the Japanese legation and the Japanese community in Korea.\n\nIn 1884, the Japanese forgave the ¥400,000 indemnity which had been mandated by the treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1768472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1768472", "title": "Karachi Agreement", "text": "Karachi Agreement\n\nThe Karachi Agreement of 1949 was signed by the military representatives of India and Pakistan, supervised by the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan, establishing a cease-fire line in Kashmir following the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947. It established a cease-fire line which has been monitored by United Nations observers from the United Nations since then.\nThe Security Council Resolution 47 of April 1948 established a UN Commission (United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan — UNCIP) to mediate between India and Pakistan in order to bring about a cessation of fighting in Kashmir and to make arrangements for a popular plebiscite. After negotiations with the two sides, the Commission passed a three-part resolution in August 1948 and subsequently added a 'supplement'. The three parts dealt with ceasefire, terms for truce, and procedures for negotiation regarding the plebiscite. Both the countries accepted the resolution and a ceasefire was achieved on 31 December 1948.\n\nThe Karachi Agreement, formally called the \"Agreement Between Military Representatives of India and Pakistan Regarding the Establishment of a Cease-Fire Line in the State of Jammu and Kashmir,\" was signed on 27 July 1949, supervised by the Truce Subcommittee of the UNCIP.\n\nThe signatories were:\n\nThe other members of the Indian delegation were Maj. Gen. K. S. Thimayya, Brig. Sam Maneckshaw, Maj. S. K. Sinha (who acted as the \"aide-de-camp\" for Gen. Srinagesh), and the secretaries of the Defence Ministry and the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs. The Pakistani delegation included Maj. Gen. Nazir Ahmed and Brig. Sher Khan and civil servants M. Ayub and A. A. Khan. The military representatives of the two sides negotiated for a week starting 18 July to demarcate the positions under their control.\n\nS. K. Sinha stated that the Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru briefed the Indian delegation before the Karachi meeting, wherein he informed them that the UN Resolution conceded the legality of Kashmir's accession to India and, so, any \"no man's land\" would belong to India. The Pakistani delegation would need to produce proof to the UN Commission of factual positions of their control for all the territory they claim. Sinha stated that, based on this principle, the agreement demarcated several hundred square miles of territory on the Indian side even though there were no Indian troops in that territory.\nThe 830 kilometre long ceasefire line established in the agreement started from a southernmost point just west of the Chenab river in Jammu. It ran in a rough arc northwards and then northeastwards to the map coordinate NJ9842, about 19 km north of the Shyok river.\n\nFrom the map point NJ9842 it was said to run due north to the international boundary with China, at a distance of about 60–65 km. Since there were no troops in that area of inaccessible glacial terrain, no effort was made to extend the ceasefire line between NJ9842 and the China border. This area, of the Siachen Glacier, eventually became a bone of contention between India and Pakistan.\n\nAnother anomaly arose at the southern end of the ceasefire line in Jammu. From the terminus of the ceasefire line to the international boundary between Indian and Pakistani Punjab, there was a gap of over 200 km, which was covered by a recognised \"provincial boundary\" between Pakistani Punjab and the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir. India generally referred to this boundary as the \"international border\", whereas Pakistan referred to it as the \"border\" or the \"working border\".\n\nU.N. document number S/1430/Add.2 (which is the second addendum to the 1949 Karachi Agreement) shows the Cease Fire Line (CFL) marked on the Map of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Title of this addendum reads:\n\nMap of the State of Jammu and Kashmir showing the Cease Fire Line as Agreed Upon in the Karachi Agreement, Ratified by the Governments of India and Pakistan on 29 and 30 July Respectively. (See Annex 26 to the third Interim Report of the United Nation Commission for India and Pakistan)\n\nThe Karachi Agreement between India and Pakistan established a cease-fire line to be supervised by the military observers. These observers, under the command of the Military Advisor, formed the nucleus of the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP). On 30 March 1951, following the termination of the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan (UNCIP), the Security Council, by Resolution 91 (1951) decided that UNMOGIP should continue to supervise the cease-fire line in Kashmir. UNMOGIP's functions were to observe and report, investigate complaints of cease-fire violations and submit its findings to each party and to the Secretary General.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21888735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21888735", "title": "Land value tax in the United States", "text": "Land value tax in the United States\n\nLand value taxation (i.e. property tax applied only to the unimproved value of land) has a long history in the United States dating back from Physiocrat influence on Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin. It is most famously associated with Henry George and his book \"Progress and Poverty\" (1879), which argued that because the supply of land is fixed and its location value is created by communities and public works, the economic rent of land is the most logical source of public revenue. and which had considerable impact on turn-of-the-century reform movements in America and elsewhere. Every single state in the United States has some form of property tax on real estate and hence, in part, a tax on land value. However, Pennsylvania in particular has seen local attempts to rely more heavily on the taxation of land value.\n\nPhysiocrat influence in the United States came by Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson as Ambassadors to France, and Jefferson brought his friend Pierre du Pont to the United States to promote the idea. A statement in the 36th Federalist Paper reflects that influence, \"A small land tax will answer the purpose of the States, and will be their most simple and most fit resource.\"\n\nHenry George (September 2, 1839 – October 29, 1897) was perhaps the most famous advocate of land rents. An American political economist, he advocated a \"Single Tax\" on land that would eliminate the need for all other taxes. In 1879 he authored \"Progress and Poverty\", which significantly influenced land taxation in the United States.\n\nThere are two potential legal obstacles unique to land value taxation in the United States: uniformity clauses and Dillon's Rule. At the federal level, land value taxation is legal so long as it is apportioned among the states.\n\nThe United States legal system includes \"uniformity clauses\" found in individual State Constitutions as well as the federal Constitution. Broadly speaking, these clauses require taxation to be applied evenly or uniformly within a jurisdiction. However, the exact wording and meaning of these clauses differs from constitution to constitution. Although the federal Uniformity Clause has never been an issue, the wording and interpretation of many state constitutions has created issues peculiar to each state. For example in 1898, the Maryland Court of Appeals (the highest state appellate court) ruled that the use of land value taxation in Hyattsville was unconstitutional. Shortly thereafter, an amendment to the Maryland Declaration of Rights specifically allowed for land value taxation where authorized by the State Legislature. However, the uniformity clause in Pennsylvania has been broadly construed, and land value taxation has been used since 1913.\n\nEach state will have its own legal stance or lack of any stance on LVT; some uniformity clauses explicitly allow some types of classifications of property, some have no uniformity clause, and some do not specifically discuss land \"qua\" land at all. Except for the pre-1900 Maryland case of Hyattsville (later overturned by state constitutional amendment and statutory provisions), no state courts have actually struck down an attempt to implement land value taxation on the basis of a state uniformity clause. Nor have any courts even squarely ruled that land and improvements are actually \"classes\" of property such that uniformity clauses are applicable. Consequently, as a general rule, as long as each type of property (land, improvements, personal) is taxed uniformly there is no constitutional obstacle.\n\nEven in rather strict uniformity clause states, it is unclear whether the uniformity clause actually prohibits separate land value taxation. Some states have other constitutional provisions - for example in New Jersey, which gives localities maximum home rule authority, and have not adopted Dillon's Rule. While the uniformity clauses might be interpreted to prohibit state-wide action, local action may be legitimate.\n\nAlthough uniformity clauses do not seem to be a major obstacle in most jurisdictions to land value taxation, control of local authority by the state legislature remains a real obstacle, requiring the need for local enabling authority or the abrogation of Dillon's Rule. The theory of state preeminence over local governments was expressed as Dillon's Rule in an 1868 case, where it was stated that \"[m]unicipal corporations owe their origin to, and derive their powers and rights wholly from, the legislature. It breathes into them the breath of life, without which they cannot exist. As it creates, so may it destroy. If it may destroy, it may abridge and control.\"\n\nAs opposed to Dillon's Rule, the Cooley Doctrine expressed the theory of an inherent right to local self determination. In a concurring opinion, Michigan Supreme Court Judge Thomas Cooley in 1871 stated: \"[L]ocal government is a matter of absolute right; and the state cannot take it away.\" In Maryland, for example, municipal corporations have the right to implement land value taxation, but the counties, including Baltimore City which is treated as a county in Maryland for certain purposes, do not. However, Dillon's Rule has been abandoned in some states, whether in whole by state constitution or state legislation or piecemeal by home rule legislation passed by the State Legislature. For example, the Virginia Legislature has granted land value tax authority to Fairfax and Roanoke.\n\nEvery single state in the United States has some form of property tax on real estate and hence, in part, a tax on land value. There are several cities that use LVT to varying degrees, but LVT in its purest form is not used on state or national levels. Land value taxation was tried in the South during Reconstruction as a way to promote land reform. There have also been several attempts throughout history to introduce land value taxation on a national level. In \"Hylton v. United States\", the Supreme Court directly acknowledged that a Land Tax was constitutional, so long as it was apportioned equally among the states. Two of the associate justices explained in their summaries, stating:\n\nThere have also been attempts since then to introduce land value tax legislation, such as the Federal Property Tax Act of 1798, and HR 6026, a bill introduced to the United States House of Representatives on February 20, 1935 by Theodore L. Moritz of Pennsylvania. HR 6026 would have imposed a national 1% tax on the value of land in excess of $3,000.\n\nThe first city in the United States to enact land value taxation was Hyattsville, Maryland in 1898, through the efforts of Judge Jackson H. Ralston. The Maryland Courts subsequently found it to be barred by the Maryland Constitution. Judge Ralston and his supporters commenced a campaign to amend the state Constitution which culminated in the Art. 15 of the Declaration of Rights (which remains today part of the Maryland State Constitution). In addition, he helped see that enabling legislation for towns be passed in 1916, which also remains in effect today. The towns of Fairhope, Alabama and Arden, Delaware were later founded as model Georgist communities or \"single tax colonies\". \nIn 2011, Altoona, Pennsylvania fully shifted its property tax so that it fell only on land but reverted to a tax on land and improvements in 2016.\n\nNearly 20 Pennsylvania cities employ a \"two-rate\" or \"split-rate\" property tax: taxing the value of land at a higher rate and the value of the buildings and improvements at a lower one. This can be seen as a compromise between pure LVT and an ordinary property tax falling on real estate (land value plus improvement value). Alternatively, two-rate taxation may be seen as a form that allows gradual transformation of the traditional real estate property tax into a pure land value tax.\n\nNearly two dozen local Pennsylvania jurisdictions (such as Harrisburg) use two-rate property taxation in which the tax on land value is higher and the tax on improvement value is lower. Pittsburgh used the two-rate system from 1913 to 2001 when a countywide property reassessment led to a drastic increase in assessed land values during 2001 after years of underassessment, and the system was abandoned in favor of the traditional single-rate property tax. The tax on land in Pittsburgh was about 5.77 times the tax on improvements.\n\nNotwithstanding the change in 2001, the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership Business Improvement District employed a pure land value taxation as a surcharge on the regular property tax from 1997 to 2016. In 2000, Florenz Plassmann and Nicolaus Tideman wrote that when comparing Pennsylvania cities using a higher tax rate on land value and a lower rate on improvements with similar sized Pennsylvania cities using the same rate on land and improvements, the higher land value taxation leads to increased construction within the jurisdiction.\n\nBelow are rates used in local Pennsylvania jurisdictions as of 2013:\n\nConnecticut passed an enabling act in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "8395049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8395049", "title": "List of wars extended by diplomatic irregularity", "text": "List of wars extended by diplomatic irregularity\n\nThere are different claims of wars extended by diplomatic irregularity which involve long peaceful periods after the end of hostilities where, for various reasons, the belligerents could be considered to be in a technical state of war.\n\nSome have occurred when small countries were named in a declaration of war being accidentally omitted from a peace treaty concerning the wider conflict. These \"extended wars\" have only been discovered after the fact, and have no impact during the long period (often hundreds of years) after the actual fighting ended. The discovery of an \"extended war\" is sometimes an opportunity for a friendly ceremonial peace to be contracted by the belligerent parties. Such ceremonial peace ceremonies are even conducted after ancient wars where no peace treaty was expected in the first place, and in cases where the countries weren't even at war at all, such as the case of Berwick v Russia. These \"treaties\" often involve non-sovereign sub-national entities, such as cities, who do not in reality have the power to declare or end wars.\n\nSuch a situation is to be distinguished from that of parties deliberately avoiding a peace treaty when political disputes outlive military conflict, as in the Kuril Islands dispute between Japan and Russia, and also from situations where a peace treaty is not signed because the original declaration of war was deemed to be illegal, such as the declaration of war by Thailand against the United States was mutually recognized to be after World War II.\n\nNot all such cases are without consequence. For example the lack of a formal peace treaty with a government representing all of Germany (due to its partition) was the legal justification for the continued presence of U.S. troops in Western Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "518133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=518133", "title": "LonWorks", "text": "LonWorks\n\nLonWorks (local operating network) is a networking platform specifically created to address the needs of control applications. The platform is built on a protocol created by Echelon Corporation for networking devices over media such as twisted pair, powerlines, fiber optics, and RF. It is used for the automation of various functions within buildings such as lighting and HVAC; see building automation.\n\nThe technology has its origins with chip designs, power line and twisted pair, signaling technology, routers, network management software, and other products from Echelon Corporation. In 1999 the communications protocol (then known as LonTalk) was submitted to ANSI and accepted as a standard for control networking (ANSI/CEA-709.1-B). Echelon's power line and twisted pair signaling technology was also submitted to ANSI for standardization and accepted. Since then, ANSI/CEA-709.1 has been accepted as the basis for IEEE 1473-L (in-train controls), AAR electro-pneumatic braking systems for freight trains, IFSF (European petrol station control), SEMI (semiconductor equipment manufacturing), and in 2005 as EN 14908 (European building automation standard). The protocol is also one of several data link/physical layers of the BACnet ASHRAE/ANSI standard for building automation.\n\nChina ratified the technology as a national controls standard, GB/Z 20177.1-2006 and as a building and intelligent community standard, GB/T 20299.4-2006; and in 2007 CECED, the European Committee of Domestic Equipment Manufacturers, adopted the protocol as part of its Household Appliances Control and Monitoring – Application Interworking Specification (AIS) standards.\n\nDuring 2008 ISO and IEC have granted the communications protocol, twisted pair signaling technology, power line signaling technology, and Internet Protocol (IP) compatibility standard numbers ISO/IEC 14908-1, -2, -3, and -4.\n\nBy 2010 approximately 90 million devices were installed with LonWorks technology. Manufacturers in a variety of industries including building, home, street lighting, transportation, utility, and industrial automation have adopted the platform as the basis for their product and service offerings. Statistics as to the number of locations using the LonWorks technology are scarce, but products and applications built on top of the platform include such diverse functions as embedded machine control, municipal and highway/tunnel/street lighting, heating and air conditioning systems, intelligent electricity metering, subway train control, building lighting, stadium lighting and speaker control, security systems, fire detection and suppression, and newborn location monitoring and alarming, as well as remote power generation load control.\n\nTwo physical-layer signaling technologies, twisted pair \"free topology\" and power line carrier, are typically included in each of the standards created around the LonWorks technology. The two-wire layer operates at 78 kbit/s using differential Manchester encoding, while the power line achieves either 5.4 or 3.6 kbit/s, depending on frequency.\n\nAdditionally, the LonWorks platform uses an affiliated Internet protocol (IP) tunneling standard—ISO/IEC 14908-4 (ANSI/CEA-852) -- in use by a number of manufacturers to connect the devices on previously deployed and new LonWorks platform-based networks to IP-aware applications or remote network-management tools. Many LonWorks platform-based control applications are being implemented with some sort of IP integration, either at the UI/application level or in the controls infrastructure. This is accomplished with Web services or IP-routing products available in the market.\n\nAn Echelon Corporation-designed IC consisting of several 8-bit processors, the \"Neuron chip\" was initially the only way to implement a LonTalk protocol node and is used in the large majority of LonWorks platform-based hardware. Since 1999, the protocol has been available for general-purpose processors: A port of the ANSI/CEA-709.1 standard to IP-based or 32-bit chips.\n\n\nOne of the keys to the interoperability of the system is the standardisation of the variables used to describe physical things to LonWorks. This standards list is maintained by LonMark International and each standard is known as Standard Network Variable Types (SNVTs, pronounced \"sniv-its\"), so, for example, a thermostat using the temperature SNVT is expected to produce a number between zero and 65535 that corresponds to a temperature between -274 and 6279.5 degrees Celsius.\n"}
{"id": "2875144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2875144", "title": "Marie Vassiltchikov", "text": "Marie Vassiltchikov\n\nMarie Illarionovna Vassiltchikov (; 11 January 1917 – 12 August 1978) was a Russian princess who wrote \"Berlin Diaries, 1940-1945\", which described the effects of the bombing of Berlin and events leading to the attempted assassination of Adolf Hitler in the 20 July Plot.\n\nPrincess Marie (\"Missie\") Vassiltchikov was born in Saint Petersburg, Russia, in the waning days of the Russian Empire, on 11 January 1917. She was the fourth child of a member of the Fourth Duma, Prince and his wife, the former Princess Lidiya Leonidovna Vyazemskaya. As members of the aristocracy, her parents fled Russia in 1919, following the Bolshevik October Revolution by joining a group of people who had been evacuated by the British fleet as described in the book \"Purgatory of fools: A memoir of the aristocrats' war in Nazi Germany\" by Tatiana von Metternich-Winneburg. King George V of the United Kingdom was the cousin of the last Tzar and maternal nephew of Empress Marie Feodorovna. King George V persuaded Prime Minister David Lloyd George to send a ship to the Crimea to save his aunt but the Empress refused to leave unless those who wished to leave with her were taken as well. The British sent additional ships to take the entire group including the Vassiltchikov family. Princess Marie lived as a refugee initially in the French Third Republic, then Weimar Republic Germany, and then Lithuania until just before the start of World War II.\n\nIn 1940, Princess Marie and her sister, Princess Tatiana Vassiltchikova (Tatiana von Metternich-Winneburg) (1915–2006), traveled to Berlin where, as stateless persons, they were able to obtain work permits. After a brief period of employment with the Broadcasting Service, Vassiltchikov transferred to the Auswärtiges Amt (AA), or German Foreign Ministry's Information Office, where she worked as the assistant to Dr. Adam von Trott zu Solz, a key member of the anti-Nazi resistance and a former Rhodes scholar.\n\nDue to the tendency of Nazi party members to bypass the Foreign Ministry staff when formulating policy as described in Princess Marie's diaries, the A.A. effectively became a gathering place for civilian members of the anti-Nazi resisters including Adam von Trott zu Solz. In 1944, he was among the leaders of the 20 July Plot to kill Adolf Hitler. Princess Marie kept diaries of her life in the plotters' circle. She wrote in shorthand and kept the pages hidden in her A.A. office and in other locations but was not actively involved in the plot, although aware of its existence in general terms. In addition, her diaries detail the bombing of Berlin, the daily life of what remained of Berlin's cosmopolitan pre-war nobility and intelligentsia, and her own journey from privilege to near-death at the end of the war.\n\nFollowing the failed attempt to kill Hitler, many of her friends and colleagues were imprisoned and a number were killed. Princess Marie and her friend Princess Elenore (Loremarie) von Schönburg went several times to Gestapo headquarters to plead for the life of Dr. von Trott zu Solz (among others) and to bring food and packages. Eventually, they were warned by a friendly guard not to return.\n\nAfter Dr. von Trott zu Solz was executed in late August 1944, Princess Marie left Berlin and traveled to Vienna, where she worked as a nurse until the end of the war.\n\nPrincess Marie was found by the United States Third Army under the command of US Army General George S. Patton outside Gmunden, Austria, on 4 May 1945. She worked as an interpreter for the army, but contracted scarlet fever and was transported to a hospital unit.\n\nOn 28 January 1946 Princess Marie Vassiltchikov married U.S. Army Captain Peter Graham Harnden of Military Intelligence (born in London on 9 April 1913). They settled in Paris, where Harnden opened an architectural firm. After Harnden died in Cadaqués on 15 October 1971, she moved to London. After her husband's death, she bowed to the wishes of friends and relatives who had been encouraging her to publish her wartime diaries. She died in London of leukemia on 12 August 1978. At the time, the task of editing and polishing her diaries was still incomplete; this task was completed by her brother George Vassiltchikov, who wrote an introduction.\n\nPrincess Marie Illarionovna Harnden was survived by her four children (Marina Harnden, born 15 September 1948; Anthony Peter Harnden, born in Paris on 13 February 1951, died in Cadaqués on 4 January 1999; Michael Christopher Harnden, born 10 October 1954; Alexandra Harnden, born 18 March 1956); her brother, Prince Yuri \"Georgie\" Vassiltchikov; and her sister, Princess Tatiana von Metternich-Winneburg, who was married to Paul Alfons von Metternich-Winneburg, a descendant of Prince Klemens Wenzel von Metternich, the prominent Austrian state chancellor and diplomat of the Napoleonic era.\n\nVassiltchikov's diaries' description of the repeated bombing of Berlin during the war is considered one of the best testimonies of that experience.\n\nThe diaries are also important in that they chronicle a little-known aspect of Hitler's war crimes: the destruction of the aristocracy of Europe. Hitler and the aristocracy had an uneasy relationship during the war. After it became clear that many of the 20 July Plot participants were members of the aristocracy, Hitler used the assassination attempt as an excuse to wipe out many members of the prominent ruling families of Europe.\n\nA poignant feature of Vassiltchikov's diary is its arc from the first pages in 1940 to its conclusion in 1945. She begins by recounting a night spent dancing at a ball at the Chilean embassy and ends with her flight from Vienna, which found her stumbling, filthy and half-starved, across a bombed railroad depot at the end of the war. Her account of wartime Berlin at times takes on an air of surreality as she writes about days that combined lunches at the Hotel Adlon and nights spent in half-ruined flats and conversations that ranged from gossip about her noble and royal friends to the intended killing of Hitler.\n\nThe cover (inside back) of the Chatto and Windus Ltd edition published in 1985 has reviews by various people, who praise the book and A.J.P.Taylor (historian) describes it as \"a remarkable historical document of the first importance.\" which answers the question of \"by whom?\" which is in the first line above. Also praised by Bernard Levin, and Auberon Waugh and a Daily Mail reviewer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1377561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1377561", "title": "Minority interest", "text": "Minority interest\n\nIn accounting, minority interest (or non-controlling interest) is the portion of a subsidiary corporation's stock that is not owned by the parent corporation. The magnitude of the minority interest in the subsidiary company is generally less than 50% of outstanding shares, or the corporation would generally cease to be a subsidiary of the parent.\n\nIt is, however, possible (such as through special voting rights) for a controlling interest requiring consolidation to be achieved without exceeding 50% ownership, depending on the accounting standards being employed. Minority interest belongs to other investors and is reported on the consolidated balance sheet of the owning company to reflect the claim on assets belonging to other, non-controlling shareholders. Also, minority interest is reported on the consolidated income statement as a share of profit belonging to minority shareholders.\n\nThe reporting of 'minority interest' is a consequence of the requirement by accounting standards to 'fully' consolidate partly owned subsidiaries. Full consolidation, as opposed to partial consolidation, results in financial statements that are constructed as if the parent corporation fully owns these partly owned subsidiaries; except for two line items that reflect partial ownership of subsidiaries: net income to common shareholders and common equity. The two minority interest line items are the net difference between what would have been the common equity and net income to common, if all subsidiaries were fully owned, and the actual ownership of the group. All the other line items in the financial statements assume a fictitious 100% ownership.\n\nSome investors have expressed concern that the minority interest line items cause significant uncertainty for the assessment of value, leverage and liquidity. A key concern of investors is that they cannot be sure what part of the reported cash position is owned by a 100% subsidiary and what part is owned by a 51% subsidiary.\n\nMinority interest is an integral part of the enterprise value of a company. The converse concept is an associate company.\n\nUnder the International Financial Reporting Standards, the non-controlling interest is reported in accordance with IFRS 5 and is shown at the very bottom of the Equity section on the consolidated balance sheet and subsequently on the statement of changes in equity. Under US GAAP minority interest can be reported either in the liabilities section, the equity section, or the mezzanine section of the balance sheet. The Mezzanine section is located between liabilities and equity. FASB FAS 160 and FAS 141r significantly alter the way a parent company accounts for non-controlling interest (NCI) in a subsidiary. It is no longer acceptable to report minority interest in the mezzanine section of the balance sheet.\n\n"}
{"id": "42266982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42266982", "title": "Newtown Act", "text": "Newtown Act\n\nThe Newtown Act (21 George II c.10) was an act of the Parliament of Ireland regulating municipal corporations, in particular the manner in which parliamentary boroughs elected members to the Irish House of Commons.\n\nClauses 1 to 7 aimed to curtail faggot voters by requiring a rentcharge property qualification for the franchise to be either over ten pounds or else held for over one year prior to the election. This restricted temporary conveyancing of parts of a freehold from its true owner to multiple fictitious owners. These provisions were an uncontentious technical amendment of an act passed in 1745 (19 George II c.11).\n\nThe oath required of electors under the 1745 act was amended by clause 5 of the Newtown Act to reflect the changed property restrictions. The revised oath restated unchanged the portion which prohibited Irish Roman Catholics from voting:\n\nClause 8 was controversially appended to the bill at a late stage. It explicitly permitted non-residents to become burgesses (members of the corporation). Burgesses were the sole parliamentary electors in corporation boroughs, and in freeman boroughs they were also crucial since they had the power to grant or refuse freeman status. The patrons of pocket boroughs ensured the burgesses were loyal . Permitting non-resident burgesses was necessary as only members of the established Church of Ireland could be burgesses, and many boroughs were rotten boroughs or otherwise underdeveloped places where few Protestants were willing to settle. This provision was stated to apply to boroughs other than those with city status. The 1835 Report of the Commissioners on Municipal Corporations in Ireland questioned whether it was applicable in the case of Armagh and Tuam, both being episcopal sees and hence \"cities\" in William Blackstone's definition in \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\". In fact, non-residents had served on both corporations.\n\nThe act's common name comes from Newtownards in County Down, where the Newtownards constituency was the subject of litigation between Brabazon Ponsonby, 1st Earl of Bessborough and Alexander Stewart. In 1744 Stewart bought from Bessborough's unstable stepson Robert Colvill the manor of Newtown (later renaming its seat Mount Stewart). Bessborough had been managing the borough within the manor for Colvill, and Stewart set about replacing Bessborough's appointees on its corporation, giving him control of its two MPs. Bessborough launched a court case in 1747, arguing that Stewart's burgesses were ineligible as they were not resident in the borough. This action prompted the addition of clause 8 to the bill.\n\nThe heads of the bill were reported by the Committee of the Whole House of Commons on 17 December 1747. The heads were then sent for pre-approval, as required by Poynings' Law, to the Privy Council of Ireland in January 1748 and then the Privy Council of Great Britain in March 1748, both of which debated it strongly and made amendments. Petitions were considered from Stewart and from The Irish Society. The amended bill was returned to the Commons on 28 March and sent to the Irish House of Lords on 31 March.\n\nThe act's negative reputation is ascribed by A. P. W. Malcomson to James Caulfeild, 1st Earl of Charlemont, who called it \"the most outrageous and unconstitutional that ever was enacted\" in his 1783 memoirs, which present clause 8 as instigated by Stewart solely to win his court case. William Lynch in 1831 was also critical, stating that all ancient boroughs in Ireland were \"de jure\" potwallopers, under the common law as \"enforced by the statutes of 10th Hen. VII. ch. 7, and 33rd Hen. VIII\"; in this view the 1748 act was one of a series of encroachments on an ancient right.\n\nMalcomson argues that Charlemont's account is coloured by political bias and that clause 8 was \"only simplifying and making more intelligible the legal position as it already stood\". Malcomson accepts the court case as the motivation for clause 8, but suggests that MPs were not acting in Stewart's particular interest but from \"dread and uncertainty\" of a decision's effect on their own constituency. Stewart's case was decided in his favour in 1758, without reference to the Newtown Act. Malcomson suggests the act did not apply to the case as clause 8 was not retroactive, and that the clause's only effect was between 1748 and 1758, during which time it forestalled any copycat cases being started.\n\nThe allowance of non-resident burgesses has been presented as a worsening of the Irish House of Commons' unrepresentativeness, and as intended solely to increase the hold of patrons over their boroughs. Malcomson disputes this, suggesting the patron's hold was tight in any case: \"what was wrong with the burgesses ... was not that they were non-resident but that there were too few of them\". Malcomson posits disadvantages of restricting the franchise to residents, including the exclusion of progressive gentry living near but outside the borough, and the difficulty of determining a prospective voter's residency in cases where a borough's boundaries were irregular or uncertain.\n\nThe act's guarantee of the franchise to non-residents resulted in a transfer of power from the local gentry and bourgeois to the larger regional landholders. The latter were interested mainly in controlling the borough's MPs, and not in its municipal affairs, causing an \"ossification\" in town government that lasted until the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Act 1840.\n\nThe Catholic Relief Act 1793 implicitly amended the Newtown Act, permitting Catholics to vote and specifying a different electoral oath. Clauses (sections) 1–7 of the Newtown Act were repealed by an act of 1795 (35 George III c.29). The Acts of Union 1800 disenfranchised most Irish boroughs, and the corporations of many of these became defunct; clause 8 of the Newtown Act continued to apply to the remainder. In 1826, Sir John Newport tried unsuccessfully to introduced a bill to repeal clause 8. The Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Act 1840 abolished most corporations and reformed the remainder. This rendered the Newtown Act obsolete. Section 8 was repealed by the Statute Law Revision (Ireland) Act 1878. The entire act (only the title and preamble remained) was not formally repealed in the Republic of Ireland until the Statute Law Revision Act 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1459096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1459096", "title": "Objectivist movement", "text": "Objectivist movement\n\nThe Objectivist movement is a movement of individuals who seek to study and advance Objectivism, the philosophy expounded by novelist-philosopher Ayn Rand. The movement began informally in the 1950s and consisted of students who were brought together by their mutual interest in Rand's novel, \"The Fountainhead\". The group, ironically named \"the Collective\" due to their actual advocacy of individualism, in part consisted of Leonard Peikoff, Nathaniel Branden, Barbara Branden, Alan Greenspan, and Murray Rothbard. Nathaniel Branden, a young Canadian student who had been greatly inspired by Rand's work, became a close confidant and encouraged Rand to expand her philosophy into a formal movement. From this informal beginning in Rand's living room, the movement expanded into a collection of think tanks, academic organizations, and periodicals.\n\n\"The Collective\" was Rand's private name for a group of close confidants, students, and proponents of Rand and Objectivism during the 1950s and 1960s. The founding members of the group were Nathaniel Branden, Barbara Branden, Leonard Peikoff, Alan Greenspan, Joan Kennedy Taylor, Allan Blumenthal, Harry Kalberman, Elayne Kalberman, Joan Mitchell, and Mary Ann Sures (formerly Rukavina). This group became the nucleus of a growing movement of Rand admirers whose name was chosen by Rand as a joke based on Objectivism's staunch commitment to individualism.\n\nThe Collective originally started out as an informal gathering of friends (many of them related to one another) who met with Rand on weekends at her apartment on East 36th Street in New York City to discuss philosophy. Barbara Branden said the group met \"because of a common interest in ideas\". Greenspan recalled being drawn to Rand because of a shared belief in \"the importance of mathematics and intellectual rigor\". The group met at Rand's apartment at least once a week, and would often discuss and debate into the early morning hours. About these discussions, Greenspan said, \"Talking to Ayn Rand was like starting a game of chess thinking I was good, and suddenly finding myself in checkmate.\" Eventually, Rand also allowed them to begin reading the manuscript of \"Atlas Shrugged\" (1957) as she completed it. As the years went on, the Collective would proceed to play a larger, more formal role, promoting Rand's philosophy through the Nathaniel Branden Institute (NBI). Some Collective members gave lectures at the NBI in cities across the United States and wrote articles for its newsletters, \"The Objectivist Newsletter\" (1962–1965) and \"The Objectivist\" (1966–1971).\n\nIn 1968, after a complex series of events, Rand expelled Nathaniel and Barbara Branden from the Collective. In the subsequent years, the Collective slowly broke apart for numerous reasons. (Peikoff, Greenspan and Sures remained associated with Rand until her death. Rand expelled Kay Nolte Smith, while Allan and Joan Mitchell Blumenthal and Robert Hessen left on their own.) Peikoff eventually became Rand's legal heir and the person she described as the best teacher of her ideas, and has been called Rand's \"intellectual heir\". Following Rand's death in 1982, Peikoff founded (1985) the Ayn Rand Institute to promote Objectivist philosophy.\n\nThe first formal presentation of Objectivism began with the Nathaniel Branden Lectures (NBL), shortly after the publication of Rand's final novel, \"Atlas Shrugged\". Nathaniel Branden was the first member of The Collective, and later, Rand's \"intellectual heir.\" In time, Branden and Rand became romantically involved. After the publication of \"Atlas Shrugged\", Rand was inundated with requests for more information about her philosophy. Not wanting to be a teacher or leader of an organized movement, she allowed Branden to lecture on her behalf.\nThe success of NBL prompted Branden to expand his lecture organization into the Nathaniel Branden Institute (NBI). Rand and Branden also co-founded the first publication devoted to the study and application of Objectivism. \"The Objectivist Newsletter\" began publication in 1962 and was later expanded into \"The Objectivist\".\n\nThe 1960s saw a rapid expansion of the Objectivist movement. Rand was a frequent lecturer at universities across the country. Rand hosted a radio program on Objectivism on the Columbia University station, WKCR-FM. The Nathaniel Branden Institute (NBI) hosted lectures on Objectivism, the history of philosophy, art, and psychology in cities across the country. Campus clubs devoted to studying Rand's philosophy formed throughout the country, though operated independently of NBI. Rand was a frequent guest on radio and television, as well as an annual lecturer at the Ford Hall Forum. At the peak of its popularity, NBI was delivering taped lectures in over 80 cities. By 1967 NBI had leased an entire floor in the Empire State Building (with \"The Objectivist\" as a sub-tenant).\n\nIn 1968, Rand publicly broke with Nathaniel and Barbara Branden. She accused Nathaniel Branden of a \"gradual departure from the principles of Objectivism,\" financial exploitation of her related to business loans, and \"deliberate deception of several persons.\" In a response sent to the mailing list of \"The Objectivist\" in 1968, the Brandens denied many of Rand's charges against them. The result of their conflicting claims was a \"schism\", as some participants in the Objectivist movement supported the Brandens, while others supported Rand's repudiation of them. Robert L. Bradley, Jr. has called the dissolution of NBI an \"organizational failure\" in the Objectivist movement \"as stunning as the collapse of Enron in a different context\"; he charges Rand with \"resorting to half-truths\" and concludes that she \"would never own up to the circumstances leading to the split, personally or publicly.\"\n\nNBI was closed and its offices vacated, in an environment that Barbara Branden described as \"total hysteria\" as its former students learned about the matter. The Brandens continued for a time to sell some of NBI's recorded lectures through a new company, but otherwise had little involvement with the Objectivist movement until their biographical books about Rand were released. \"The Objectivist\" continued publishing with Rand as editor and Leonard Peikoff as associate editor. Peikoff also took over Nathaniel Branden's role as the primary lecturer on Objectivism. Peikoff later described the Brandens' expulsion as the first \"of the many schisms that have plagued the Objectivist movement.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, Rand gave fewer public speeches. She concentrated instead on nonfiction writing and on helping the work of her students and associates, through efforts such as a series of private workshops on epistemology that she conducted from 1969 through 1971 for about a dozen students and professionals in philosophy, math and physics. \"The Objectivist\" was replaced by \"The Ayn Rand Letter\" in 1971. While \"The Objectivist\" had published articles by many authors, \"The Ayn Rand Letter,\" marketed as a personal newsletter from Rand, published only her work (plus occasionally Leonard Peikoff's).\n\nThroughout the decade, Peikoff continued to offer a number of lecture series on various topics related to Objectivism to large audiences, often incorporating new philosophic material. Rand worked closely with Peikoff, helping edit his book, \"The Ominous Parallels\", for which she wrote the introduction. In mid-1979, Rand's associate Peter Schwartz began editing and publishing \"The Intellectual Activist\", a publication which Rand recommended to her audience. Another associate of hers during this period was Harry Binswanger, whom she advised on his mini-encyclopedia of Objectivism, \"The Ayn Rand Lexicon: Objectivism from A to Z\" (1986). After the close of \"The Objectivist Calendar,\" a short publication listing upcoming events within the Objectivist movement, Binswanger began editing and publishing \"The Objectivist Forum\", a bimonthly journal on Objectivism which had Rand's support and for which she served as \"philosophic consultant.\"\n\nUpon Rand's death on March 6, 1982, Peikoff inherited her estate, including the control of the copyrights to her books and writing (barring \"Anthem\", in the public domain). Shortly after Rand's death, Peikoff's first book, \"The Ominous Parallels\", was published. In 1983, Peikoff gave a series of lectures titled \"Understanding Objectivism\", for the purpose of improving the \"methodology\" used in studying Objectivism, as a corrective to what he describes as the \"Rationalist\" and the \"Empiricist\" methods of thought.\n\nA high-quality bimonthly philosophical journal, The Objectivist Forum, was published from 1980 to 1987. \n\nIn 1985, Leonard Peikoff and Ed Snider founded the Ayn Rand Institute (ARI), the first organization devoted to the study and advocacy of Objectivism since the closure of NBI in 1968. The institute began by sponsoring essay contests on Rand's novels and distributing op-eds analyzing world events from an Objectivist perspective. In 1987, the institute began teaching aspiring Objectivist academics.\n\nIn 1989, another major split occurred within the Objectivist movement. As Brian Doherty describes it, David Kelley, a philosopher and lecturer then affiliated with ARI, was \"booted from the official Objectivist world\" for disagreeing \"about the inherent evils of Barbara Branden's Rand biography [\"The Passion of Ayn Rand\"]\" and \"\"publicly defend[ing] on principle\" the notion of Objectivists talking to libertarians.\"\n\nKelley was criticized by Peter Schwartz for giving a speech under the auspices of Laissez Faire Books (LFB), a libertarian bookseller. Schwartz argued that this activity violated the Objectivist moral principle of sanction. In other words, Kelley was implicitly conferring moral approval on the organization by appearing at an event that it sponsored. LFB, in turn, was morally objectionable because it promoted books, such as \"The Passion of Ayn Rand\" (1986), that Schwartz maintained were hostile and defamatory towards Rand and Objectivism. (Although Schwartz made no mention of it, Leonard Peikoff had signed copies of his book \"The Ominous Parallels\" at three LFB events in 1982. According to Peikoff, he later broke off relations with LFB after being told that LFB offered anarchist literature.)\n\nKelley responded, in a paper titled \"A Question of Sanction\", by disputing Schwartz's interpretation of the sanction principle in particular and his interpretation of moral principles in general. Subsequently, in an essay appearing in \"The Intellectual Activist\", Peikoff endorsed Schwartz's view and claimed that Kelley's arguments contradicted the fundamental principles of Objectivism. Peikoff maintained that many non-Objectivist systems of thought, such as Marxism, are based on \"inherently dishonest ideas\" whose advocacy must never be sanctioned. He attributed the fall of NBI and subsequent schisms not to \"differences in regard to love affairs or political strategy or proselytizing techniques or anybody's personality,\" but to a \"fundamental and philosophical\" cause: \"if you grasp and accept the concept of 'objectivity,' in all its implications, then you accept Objectivism, you live by it and you revere Ayn Rand for defining it. If you fail fully to grasp and accept the concept, whether your failure is deliberate or otherwise, you eventually drift away from Ayn Rand's orbit, or rewrite her viewpoint or turn openly into her enemy.\" Those who criticized his position were to make their exit: \"if you agree with the Branden or Kelley viewpoint or anything resembling it—please drop out of our movement: drop Ayn Rand, leave Objectivism alone. We do not want you and Ayn Rand would not have wanted you [...]\"\n\nKelley responded to the Peikoff–Schwartz critique in his monograph, \"Truth and Toleration\", later updated as \"The Contested Legacy of Ayn Rand\". He responded to his ostracism by founding the Institute for Objectivist Studies (IOS), later renamed The Objectivist Center (TOC) and then The Atlas Society (TAS), with the help of Ed Snider, one of the founders of the Ayn Rand Institute. Kelley was joined by Objectivist scholars George Walsh and Jim Lennox, as well as former Collective members Joan and Allan Blumenthal.\n\nKelley's Institute for Objectivist Studies began to publish material on Objectivism and host conferences for Rand scholars in 1990. IOS held a symposium on Chris Matthew Sciabarra's book, \"\" (1995). IOS invited Nathaniel and Barbara Branden to participate in the institute's activities, effectively bringing them back into the Objectivist movement, and they continued to appear at events for the organization until their deaths in 2014 and 2013, respectively. In 1999, IOS renamed itself to The Objectivist Center.\n\nIn 1991, Peikoff's book \"\" was published. It was the first comprehensive presentation of Rand's philosophy to appear in print. In 1994, the Ayn Rand Institute expanded its educational programs into the Objectivist Graduate Center (OGC), which held classes led by Leonard Peikoff and Harry Binswanger. 1996 saw a series of lectures on Objectivism by ARI intellectuals at Harvard. ARI increased its notoriety by staging a protest against President Clinton's volunteerism initiative in 1997. ARI gathered more attention for its activism on behalf of the family of Elian Gonzalez. 1996 saw the release of the Academy Award-nominated documentary \"\", directed by Michael Paxton. In 1999, the United States Postal Service released an Ayn Rand stamp.\n\nIn 2000, Yaron Brook succeeded Michael Berliner as head of ARI, and ARI expanded its OGC into the Objectivist Academic Center (OAC), offering undergraduate and graduate courses on Objectivism, writing, history, the history of philosophy, and the history of science. Several OAC classes are now accredited. Throughout the 2000s, ARI increased its media presence, publishing op-eds and providing intellectuals for live interviews. In 2005, ARI helped establish the Ayn Rand Institute Canada, which distributes free books to Canadian schools. In 2006, ARI sponsored a conference on the War on Terror. In addition to Objectivist speakers, mid-east scholars Daniel Pipes, Robert Spencer, and Danish newspaper editor Flemming Rose gave lectures. By 2007, ARI had donated 700,000 copies of Rand's novels to high schools around the United States. \n\nThe Objectivist Center also went through a number of changes in the 2000s. In 2005, founder David Kelley stepped aside as executive director in favor of former Cato Institute scholar Ed Hudgins, while Kelley stayed on as Chief Intellectual Officer, and the institute relocated to Washington, D.C. In 2006, the organization rebranded itself again, changing its name to The Atlas Society.\n\nIn 2009, Domingo García founded Objetivismo Internacional (OI) in Spain to help spread Objectivism in the Spanish-speaking world. OI is not officially affiliated with any other Objectivist organization; however, they closely collaborate with the Ayn Rand Institute. OI is based in Murcia, Spain, and García is its CEO.\n\nA central goal for ARI throughout the 2010s has been to spread Objectivism internationally. ARI helped establish the Ayn Rand Center Israel in October 2012, the Ayn Rand Institute Europe in April 2015, and the Ayn Rand Center Japan in February 2017. Each of these institutions are affiliated with ARI but are separate legal entities. In 2017, Jim Brown replaced Yaron Brook as the operational executive of ARI, while Brook continues as its chairman of the board. In June 2018, Tal Tsfany, co-founder of the Ayn Rand Center Israel, took over as the president and CEO of ARI.\n\nIn 2014, Carl Barney launched the Objectivist Venture Fund, originally the Anthem Venture Fund, which has helped fund a number of Objectivist initiatives, including \"The Undercurrent\" and the Ayn Rand Center Israel.\n\nIn 2016, the Ayn Rand Center Israel launched the Atlas Award for the Best Israeli Start-up, presented annually at the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Judges for the award include Yaron Brook and Shlomo Kalish. Moovit was the first recipient of the award in 2016. Zebra Medical Vision won the award in 2017, and Innoviz won in 2018.\n\nIn 2016, Objetivismo USA was established as a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization in New York, New York as a sister organization of Objetivismo Internacional. Its CEO is Edwin Thompson.\n\nThe Atlas Society has also undergone a change in leadership in the 2010s. In 2011, Aaron Day replaced Ed Hudgins as the operational executive of The Atlas Society, and on March 1, 2016, The Atlas Society announced Jennifer Grossman as its new CEO.\n\nDespite the fact that several members of the Collective were philosophy graduate students at NYU, Objectivism did not begin to make serious inroads into academic philosophy until the 1980s. Rand herself had much disdain for modern academia, citing the poor state of American universities, particularly the humanities, as the source of much of the country's problems, and Peikoff expressed similar sentiments in the early 1990s, declaring that his book on Objectivism was \"written not for academics, but for human beings (including any academics who qualify).\" The Ayn Rand Institute initially concentrated on promoting Objectivism independently of academia, supplying free books to high schools and universities, sponsoring essay contests for students and support programs for teachers and professors interested in studying and teaching Rand's ideas.\n\nSome limited academic attention was given to Objectivism in the 1970s. In 1971, William F. O'Neill published \"With Charity toward None: An Analysis of Ayn Rand's Philosophy\", in which he provides an academic discussion of Objectivism. Although he alleges flaws in Rand's thinking, he expresses admiration for her efforts, and particularly her ability to motivate readers to think about philosophical issues. There was occasional discussion of Rand in scholarly journals throughout the rest of the decade.\n\nThirteen years later, the second book-length academic study of Objectivism appeared. It was a collection of essays called \"The Philosophic Thought of Ayn Rand\" (1984), edited by Douglas Den Uyl and Douglas Rasmussen. It was also the first book about Rand's thought to be published after her death. Den Uyl and Rasmussen made a specific effort to bring more serious scholarly attention to Objectivism by maintaining high scholarly standards for the essays in their book.\n\nIn 1987, noted Aristotle scholar and Rand student Allan Gotthelf co-founded the Ayn Rand Society with George Walsh and David Kelley, which is affiliated with the American Philosophical Association. Non-Objectivist participants have included Jaegwon Kim and Susan Haack.\n\nIn 1995, Chris Matthew Sciabarra published \"Ayn Rand: The Russian Radical\", an academic study of Rand's ideas and intellectual history. Rand bibliographer Mimi Reisel Gladstein called Sciabarra's work \"a significant milestone in Rand studies.\" Three years later, Sciabarra declared a \"renaissance\" in the scholarship about Rand, noting that his book was only \"one of fifteen book titles dealing with Rand that have been published since 1995, along with countless articles and other references to her work.\" However, he also noted that not all of the material carried \"deep scholarly interest.\"\n\nIn 2001, John P. McCaskey founded the Anthem Foundation for Objectivist Scholarship, which sponsors the work of professors affiliated with the Ayn Rand Institute. As of 2007 there were 13 such fellowships for the study of Objectivism in universities in the U.S., including at the University of Pittsburgh and the University of Texas at Austin. In 2006, the Anthem Foundation in conjunction with the University of Pittsburgh hosted a conference on the philosophy of science called \"Concepts and Objectivity: Knowledge, Science, and Values.\" Participants included Objectivists Onkar Ghate, Allan Gotthelf, James G. Lennox, Harry Binswanger, and Tara Smith, as well as noted analytic philosophers David Sosa, A. P. Martinich, and Peter Railton. Other Objectivists, not all of whom are affiliated with ARI, have received support from the BB&T Charitable Foundation's program to support the study of capitalism. In 2010 McCaskey was forced to resign from the Ayn Rand Institute and subsequently resigned from the Anthem Foundation.\n\nIn 2006, Cambridge University Press published Tara Smith's book, \"Ayn Rand’s Normative Ethics: The Virtuous Egoist\".\n\nSince 1999, \"The Journal of Ayn Rand Studies\", edited by Stephen D. Cox, Chris Matthew Sciabarra, and R. W. Bradford (until his death in 2005), has been published semi-annually as a \"nonpartisan,\" scholarly forum for the discussion of Rand's work and its application to many fields. The \"Journal\" is published by the \"Pennsylvania University Press\" and archived at Stanford University's CLOCKSS. None of its editors have been aligned with the Ayn Rand Institute, and no one affiliated with ARI has participated in its exchanges since 2002.\n\nObjectivism has remained popular on college campuses, with dozens of student groups dedicated to promoting and studying the philosophy of Objectivism spread across the U.S., Australia, Canada, Guatemala, Israel, the Netherlands, New Zealand, and Norway. These clubs often present speakers on controversial topics such as abortion, religion, and foreign policy, often allying with conservative (and sometimes liberal) organizations to organize their events. For example, the New York University Objectivism Club hosted a joint panel on the Muhammad cartoons that received nationwide coverage for NYU's censorship of the cartoons. There are several dozen speakers sponsored by the Ayn Rand Institute and other organizations who give nationwide tours each year speaking about Objectivism.\n\nThe Ayn Rand Institute has spent $5 million on educational programs advancing Objectivism, including scholarships and clubs. These clubs often obtain educational materials and speakers from ARI. There are also several conferences organized by various organizations, which draw several hundred attendees each summer and feature philosophy courses and presentations of new publications and research. A student-run magazine, \"The Undercurrent\", is published for colleges around the United States.\n\nThere are a number of writers who cannot be classified as Objectivist but who still exhibit a significant influence of Objectivism in their own work. Prominent among these is John Hospers, Emeritus Professor of Philosophy, University of Southern California, who credited Rand's political ideas as helping to shape his own, while in other areas sharp differences remained. Another is Murray Rothbard, who, like Rand, advocated volition, Aristotle and natural rights, but who also advocated anarchism, which was anathema to Rand. Also in this category are journalist Edith Efron, scientist Petr Beckmann, and author Charles Murray.\n\nOver the years, some critics have accused the Objectivist movement of being a cult or cult-like, and Rand of being a cult figure. The term 'Randroid' (a portmanteau of 'Rand' and 'android') has been used to evoke the image of \"the Galt-imitating robots produced by the cult.\"\n\nSuggestions of cult-like behavior by Objectivists began during the NBI days. With growing media coverage, articles began appearing that referred to the \"Cult of Ayn Rand\" and compared her to various religious leaders. Terry Teachout described NBI as \"a quasi-cult which revolved around the adoration of Ayn Rand and her fictional heroes,\" one that \"disintegrated\" when Rand split with Nathaniel Branden. In 1968, psychologist Albert Ellis, in the wake of a public debate with Nathaniel Branden, published a book arguing that Objectivism was a religion, whose practices included \"sexual Puritanism,\" \"absolutism,\" \"damning and condemning,\" and \"deification\" of Ayn Rand and her fictional heroes. In his memoirs, Nathaniel Branden said of the Collective and NBI that \"there was a cultish aspect to our world [...] We were a group organized around a charismatic leader, whose members judged one another's character chiefly by loyalty to that leader and her ideas.\"\n\nIn 1972, libertarian author Murray Rothbard began privately circulating an essay on \"The Sociology of the Ayn Rand Cult\", in which he wrote:\nRothbard also wrote that \"the guiding spirit of the Randian movement was not individual liberty ... but rather personal power for Ayn Rand and her leading disciples.\"\n\nIn the 1990s, Michael Shermer argued that the Objectivist movement displayed characteristics of religious cults such as the veneration and inerrancy of the leader; hidden agendas; financial and/or sexual exploitation; and the beliefs that the movement provides absolute truth and absolute morality. Shermer maintained that certain aspects of Objectivist epistemology and ethics promoted cult-like behavior:\nIn 1999, Jeff Walker published \"The Ayn Rand Cult\". In one passage, Walker compared Objectivism to the Dianetics practices of Scientology, which is considered by many to be a cult. Both, argues Walker, are totalist sets of beliefs that advocate \"an ethics for the masses based on survival as a rational being.\" Walker continues, \"Dianetics used reasoning somewhat similar to Rand's about the brain as a machine. ... Both have a higher mind reprogramming the rest of the mind.\" Walker further notes that both philosophies claim to be based on science and logic. Walker's book has drawn criticism from Rand scholars. Chris Matthew Sciabarra criticized Walker's objectivity and scholarship. Mimi Reisel Gladstein wrote that Walker's thesis is \"questionable and often depends on innuendo, rather than logic.\" R. W. Bradford called it \"merely annoying\" for scholars.\n\nThe claims of cultism have continued in more recent years. In 2004, Thomas Szasz wrote in support of Rothbard's 1972 essay, and in 2006, Albert Ellis published an updated edition of his 1968 book that included favorable references to Walker's. Similarly, Walter Block, while expressing admiration for some of Rand's ideas and noting her strong influence on libertarianism, described the Objectivist movement as \"a tiny imploding cult.\"\n\nRand stated that \"I am not a cult\", and said in 1961 that she did not want \"blind followers.\" In the wake of NBI's collapse, she declared that she did not even want an organized movement.\n\nJim Peron responded to Shermer, Rothbard and others with an argument that similarities to cults are superficial at best and charges of cultism directed at Objectivists are \"ad hominem\" attacks. Objectivism, he said, lacks layers of initiation, a hierarchy, obligation, cost or physical coercion:\nIn 2001, Rand's long-time associate Mary Ann Sures remarked:\nMeanwhile, Shermer, who considers himself an admirer of Rand, has tempered his judgment. Contrasting Leonard Peikoff's \"heavy-hammer approach\" with the \"big-tent approach\" of The Atlas Society, Shermer told Ed Hudgins: \"If we're close enough on the same page about many things, I think it's more useful to cut people some slack, rather than going after them on some smaller points. I don't see the advantage of saying, 'You shouldn't have liked that movie because ultimately, if you were an Objectivist, you wouldn't have.' I guess it was those sorts of judgments made by some Objectiv[ists] that I objected to.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13480003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13480003", "title": "Partnership taxation", "text": "Partnership taxation\n\nPartnership taxation is the concept of taxing a partnership business entity. Many jurisdictions regulate partnerships and the taxation thereof differently.\n\nMany common law jurisdictions apply a concept called \"flow through taxation\" to partnerships. Partnerships are a flow-through entity where the taxes are assessed at the entity level but which are applied to the partners of the partnership.\n\nPartnership taxation is codified as Subchapter K of Chapter 1 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (Title 26 of the United States Code). Partnerships are \"flow-through\" entities for United States federal income taxation purposes. Flow-through taxation means that the entity does not pay taxes on its income. Instead, the owners of the entity pay tax on their \"distributive share\" of the entity's taxable income, even if no funds are distributed by the partnership to the owners. Federal tax law permits the owners of the entity to agree how the income of the entity will be allocated among them, but requires that this allocation reflect the economic reality of their business arrangement, as tested under complicated rules.\n\nIn general, a partnership is treated under Section 111 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and Section 848 Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005 as not having a 'separate and distinct' legal personality from its members. As a result, partners are assessed to either UK corporation tax or UK income tax on their share of the profits and losses of the partnership\n\nFollowing the case of Memec plc v CIR [70 TC 77], HM Revenue and Customs has issued guidance as to how interests of UK tax residents in foreign partnerships should be treated for UK tax purposes.\n\nPartnership taxation in Hong Kong is the taxation of the profits or losses generated by partnership business entities. First, these profits or losses of the partnership are assessed according to the Hong Kong Inland Revenue Ordinance, Chapter 112, section 22. After assessment, then said profits or losses flow through the partnership to the partners who are then taxed on their share of said profits or losses generated by the partnership without any taxes levied against the partnership.\n\nMany civil law jurisdictions directly tax the partnership entity.\n\n"}
{"id": "32802267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32802267", "title": "Puerto Rican constitutional referendum, 1994", "text": "Puerto Rican constitutional referendum, 1994\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Puerto Rico on 6 November 1994. Voters were asked whether they approved of two amendments, one to eliminate the absolute right to bail and the other to increase the number of Supreme Court judges. Both were rejected by 54% of voters, with a turnout of 62.2%.\n"}
{"id": "24358769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24358769", "title": "Respect for Marriage Act", "text": "Respect for Marriage Act\n\nThe Respect for Marriage Act, abbreviated as RFMA (, ), was a proposed bill in the United States Congress that would have repealed the Defense of Marriage Act and required the U.S. federal government to recognize the validity of same-sex marriages. It was supported by former U.S. Representative Bob Barr, original sponsor of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), and former President Bill Clinton, who signed DOMA in 1996. The administration of President Barack Obama also supported RFMA.\n\nHaving been introduced in several previous Congresses, the last version of the proposal was put forth in the 114th Congress in both the House and the Senate in January 2015. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California remarked that this Congress must \"ensure that married, same-sex couples are treated equally under federal law\".\n\nOn June 26, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" that the 14th Amendment requires all U.S. states to recognize same-sex marriages. This decision rendered the last remaining provision of DOMA unenforceable and essentially made the Respect for Marriage act \"de facto\" federal law. The Respect for Marriage Act would now only remove the unenforceable provisions from the statutes.\n\nUntil 1996, the federal government of the United States customarily recognized marriages conducted legally in any state for the purpose of federal legislation. Following an unsuccessful lawsuit aimed at legalizing same-sex marriage in Hawaii, the United States Congress passed the Defense of Marriage Act, one section of which forbids the federal government from recognizing same-sex marriages.\n\nH.R.2523, the Respect for Marriage Act, as introduced in the House on June 26, 2013, read:\n\nIn addition to repealing DOMA, the legislation would have established a method for the federal government to determine whether a marriage is valid for federal purposes, a legal dilemma known as choice of laws. Anticipating that federal courts and administrators would need to determine the validity \"for federal purposes\" of a marriage that is recognized in one state and not another, or in a foreign country and not by every U.S. state, it created two tests. If celebrated in a state of the U.S., a marriage is valid for federal purposes if valid in that state. If celebrated elsewhere, a marriage is valid for federal purposes if it is valid in at least one U.S. state.\n\nLegal scholars disputed whether the language of the Respect for Marriage Act was an appropriate solution to the problem. Lynn Wardle wrote that it \"is substantively biased to circumvent state policies that do not allow or recognize same-sex marriage\" and \"a violation of federalism\". William Baude endorsed the language of the Respect for Marriage Act. He argued that the options are to give priority to the place a marriage is celebrated or to the domicile of the married couple, that one's domicile is more easily manipulated, and that basing the choice of law on the place of celebration \"promotes predictability and stability\".\n\nThe 2009 bill was introduced by U.S. Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York on September 15, 2009, and garnered 120 cosponsors.\n\nThe 2011 bill was introduced by U.S. Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York on March 16, 2011, and a U.S. Senate version was introduced by Dianne Feinstein of California on the same day. President Obama announced his support for the bill on July 19, 2011.\n\nIn September 2011, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida became the 125th cosponsor of the bill in the U.S. House of Representatives and the first Republican member of the U.S. Congress to announce support for the bill. In December 2012, Richard Hanna and Charles Bass have become the next Republicans to cosponsor the bill.\n\nOn July 20, 2011, Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont chaired the first-ever congressional hearing on a proposal to repeal the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). On October 25, 2011, Sen. Leahy announced that the Senate Judiciary Committee would begin debate on November 3, 2011, with a committee vote likely to happen the following week. On November 3, 2011, the bill was debated in the Senate Judiciary Committee, where its passage was a foregone conclusion due to sufficient votes to pass being found in the 10 Democratic members of the committee, who are cosponsors of the bill; however, Republicans on the Committee requested the vote be delayed one week. During the debate Sen. Feinstein noted that DOMA denies same-sex couples more than 1,100 federal rights and benefits that are provided to all other members of that class, legally married couples, including rights to Social Security spousal benefits, protection from estate taxes when a spouse passes away, and the ability to file taxes jointly and claim certain deductions. The Senate Judiciary Committee voted 10-8 in favor of advancing the bill to the Senate floor.\n\nThe bill's sponsors decided not to reintroduce the Respect for Marriage Act in 2013 until the United States Supreme Court issued a decision in \"United States v. Windsor\". They reintroduced it on June 26, the same day the Court ruled in that case that Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act was unconstitutional.\n\nThe aforementioned lawmakers Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York and Senator Dianne Feinstein of California reintroduced the legislation on the first day of the 114th Congress. Nadler remarked, \"We must finish the job begun by the Supreme Court\". In terms of co-sponsors, the proposal soon accrued 77 co-sponsors in the House and 41 in the Senate. The news received a warm welcome from LGBT rights groups such as the American Military Partner Association, which stated that Congressional action had to take place in order to assist same-sex military couples seeking veterans benefits.\n\nSection 2 of DOMA, the last substantive provision of that act remaining viable after \"Windsor\", was declared unconstitutional in \"Obergefell\" in June 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51138371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51138371", "title": "Road Transport Act 1987", "text": "Road Transport Act 1987\n\nThe Road Transport Act 1987 (), is a Malaysian laws which enacted to make provision for the regulation of motor vehicles and of traffic on roads and other matters with respect to roads and vehicles thereon; to make provision for the protection of third parties against risks arising out of the use of motor vehicles; to make provision for the co-ordination and control of means of and facilities for transport; to make provision for the co-ordination and control of means of and facilities for construction and adaptation of motor vehicles; and to make provision for connected purposes.\n\nThe Road Transport Act 1987, in its current form (1 February 2013), consists of 5 Parts containing 129 sections and 3 schedules (including 10 amendments).\n\n"}
{"id": "2262060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2262060", "title": "SEC Rule 10b-5", "text": "SEC Rule 10b-5\n\nSEC Rule 10b-5, codified at , is one of the most important rules targeting securities fraud promulgated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to its authority granted under § 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The rule prohibits any act or omission resulting in fraud or deceit in connection with the purchase or sale of any security. The issue of insider trading is given further definition in SEC Rule 10b5-1.\n\nIn 1942, SEC lawyers in the Boston Regional Office learned that a company president was issuing pessimistic statements about company earnings while simultaneously purchasing the company's stock. Although the Securities Act of 1933 prohibited fraudulent sales of securities, no regulation existed at that time which would have precluded fraudulent purchases. Rule 10b-5, issued by the SEC under section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, was implemented to fill this regulatory void. The commissioners approved the rule without debate or comment, with the exception of Commissioner Sumner Pike who indicated approval of the rule by asking, \"Well, we are against fraud aren't we?\"\n\n\"Rule 10b-5: Employment of Manipulative and Deceptive Practices\":\n\nTo establish a claim under Rule 10b-5, plaintiffs (including the SEC) must show (i) Manipulation or Deception (through misrepresentation and/or omission); (ii) Materiality; (iii) \"In Connection With\" the purchase or sale of securities, and (iv) Scienter. Private plaintiffs have the additional burden of establishing (v) Standing - Purchaser/Seller Requirement; (vi) Reliance (presumed if there was an omission); (vii) Loss Causation; and (viii) Damages.\n\nThese are roughly comparable to the elements of common law fraud, which are i) Deception; ii) Materiality; iii) with Intent to Cause Reliance; that iv) causes Actual Reliance; and v) Harm. \n\nIn a case for insider trading, anyone who uses insider information can be held liable. A tippee can be liable if the tipper breached a fiduciary duty and the tippee knew or had reason to know that the tipper was breaching the duty.\n\nDeceit can be in the form of an affirmative misrepresentation or of an omission of fact which, in context, makes other facts misleading. \n\nFurthermore, for a private party to recover damages, they must be able to show that they were injured because they relied on the fraudulent claim. Alternately, fraud can occur through omission of a material fact, where the injured party does not have to prove reliance, because it is assumed to have occurred. If the defendant had publicly made a fraudulent statement, \"every\" investor could sue if it could be shown that the statement affected the market as a whole. This is the \"fraud on the market\" theory the Supreme Court enunciated in \"Basic Inc. v. Levinson\". This \"fraud on the market\" presumption of the plaintiff's reliance upon the deceit is only available in situations (like in \"Basic\") where the security is traded on a well organized and presumably efficient market. The same can be said for an omission of material information.\n\nBoth the \"bespeaks caution\" doctrine and the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act offer protection for forward-looking statements if they are accompanied by cautionary language identifying specific factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statement and may be sufficient to absolve a defendant of liability. However, in \"Iowa Public Employees' Retirement System v. MF Global Ltd.,\" the US Second Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a decision by the District Court for the Southern District of New York, ruling that the \"bespeaks caution\" defense to securities disclosure claims applies exclusively to forward-looking statements and not to characterizations that communicate present or historical fact.\n\nIn the case of \"TSC Industries, Inc. v. Northway, Inc.\", the word \"material\" was defined by the U.S. Supreme Court - \"an omitted fact is material if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable shareholder would consider it important in deciding how to vote.\" There are four elements of materiality laid out in TSC: a fact must assume \"actual significance\" in the deliberations of a \"reasonable shareholder\" because the fact would have \"significantly altered\" the \"total mix\" of information available to that shareholder in making its decisions. Each of those elements is itself the subject of extensive litigation. \n\nNegligence is not sufficient for a claim under 10b-5; plaintiffs or prosecutors must show at least recklessness, purpose, or knowledge.\n\nThe purchaser/seller requirement is the requirement that, to bring an action under 10b-5, a private plaintiff must be either a buyer or a seller of the company's stock. Potential buyers who were defrauded into not buying stock may not bring a claim under 10b-5. \n\nTo recover, plaintiffs must be able to show that the fraud proximately caused their losses. Standard damages in fraud cases are expectation or benefit of bargain damages. \n\nTo what extent Rule 10b-5 prohibits insider trading is a matter of some dispute. The SEC has long advocated an \"equal access theory\" with regard to 10b-5, arguing that anyone who has material, non-public information must either disclose that information or abstain from trading. However, the Supreme Court rejected the strongest version of that theory in \"Chiarella v. United States\", holding a person with no fiduciary duty to the shareholders had no duty to disclose information before trading on it. In 1997, the Supreme Court has embraced a \"misappropriation\" theory of omissions, holding in \"United States v. O'Hagan\" that misappropriating confidential information for securities trading purposes, in breach of a duty owed to the source of that information, gives rise to a duty to disclose or abstain.\n\nBoth the SEC and private citizens can enforce the requirements of the rule through lawsuits. In Blue Chip Stamps v. Manor Drug Stores, the Supreme Court held that only purchasers or sellers of securities may bring a private action for damages under Rule 10b-5; however any member of the public may provide information to the SEC regarding possible violations of the federal securities laws.\n\n"}
{"id": "1673341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1673341", "title": "Solicitor-General of Australia", "text": "Solicitor-General of Australia\n\nThe Solicitor-General of Australia is the country's second highest-ranking law officer, after the Attorney-General for Australia. The position is often known as the Commonwealth Solicitor-General in order to distinguish it from the state solicitors-general. The current officeholder is Stephen Donaghue, who took office on 16 January 2017.\n\nThe Commonwealth Solicitor-General gives the Australian federal government legal advice and appears in court to represent the Commonwealth's interest in important legal proceedings, particularly in the High Court. Unlike the attorney-general, the solicitor-general is not a member of parliament.\n\nThe office was created in 1916 with the appointment of Sir Robert Garran. Prior to this, from 1903 to 1913 Sir Charles Powers had served as the first Commonwealth Crown Solicitor, which later became the Australian Government Solicitor. Sir Charles Powers was also sometimes referred to as the \"Solicitor-General\", but the two offices are separate: Powers was succeeded in 1913 as Crown Solicitor by Gordon Castle, whereas the first Solicitor-General, Robert Garran, was not appointed until 1916.\n\nTwo solicitors-general have been appointed to the High Court of Australia: Anthony Mason in 1972 and Stephen Gageler in 2012. Gageler is the only person to be directly elevated from the solicitor-generalship to the High Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "1001032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1001032", "title": "Son of Sam law", "text": "Son of Sam law\n\nA Son of Sam law is a US English term for any law designed to keep criminals from profiting from the publicity of their crimes, often by selling their stories to publishers. Such laws often authorize the state to seize money earned from deals such as book/movie biographies and paid interviews and use it to compensate the criminal's victims. These laws have been criticized as violating the free-speech guarantee of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. The original and namesake law, from the State of New York, was itself ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States, though New York and other states have since passed laws with similar goals that attempt to comply with the Court's decision.\n\nThe term \"Son of Sam\" is derived from the first law of this type, targeted at serial killer David Berkowitz, who used the name \"Son of Sam\" during his notorious murder spree in the mid-1970s New York. After his arrest in August 1977, Berkowitz's intense presence in the media led to widespread speculation that he might sell his story to a writer or filmmaker. Although Berkowitz denied wanting any kind of deal, the New York State Legislature swiftly passed preemptive legal statutes anyway, the first legal restriction of its kind in the U.S. The original New York law was invoked in New York eleven times between 1977 and 1990, including once against Mark David Chapman, the murderer of musician John Lennon. \n\nCritics argued that the law infringed on freedom of speech and therefore violated the First Amendment, and that \"Son of Sam\" laws take away the financial incentive for many criminals to tell their stories, some of which (such as the Watergate scandal and the assassination of John F. Kennedy) were of vital interest to the general public.\n\nIn 1987, lawyers for publishing company Simon & Schuster sued the New York authorities to prevent enforcement of the Son of Sam law with respect to a book they were about to publish called \"Wiseguy\", written by Nicholas Pileggi. The book was about ex-mobster Henry Hill and was used as the basis for the film \"Goodfellas\". The case reached the federal Supreme Court in 1991. In an 8–0 ruling on \"Simon & Schuster v. Crime Victims Board\", the court ruled the law unconstitutional. The majority opinion was that the law was overinclusive, and would have prevented the publication of such works as \"The Autobiography of Malcolm X\", Thoreau's \"Civil Disobedience\", and even \"The Confessions of Saint Augustine\".\n\nSimilarly, the state of California's Son of Sam law was struck down in 2002 after being used against Barry Keenan, one of the men who kidnapped Frank Sinatra, Jr. in 1963.\n\nAfter numerous revisions, New York adopted a new \"Son of Sam\" law in 2001. This law requires that victims of crimes be notified whenever a person convicted of a crime receives $10,000 (US) or more—from virtually any source. The law then attaches a springing statute of limitations, giving victims an extended period of time to sue the perpetrator of the crime in civil court for their crimes. This law also authorizes a state agency, the Crime Victims' Board, to act on the victims' behalf in some limited circumstances. Thus far, the current New York law has survived court scrutiny.\n\nIn certain cases, a Son of Sam law can be extended beyond the criminals themselves to include friends, neighbors, and family members of the lawbreaker who seek to profit by telling publishers and filmmakers of their relation to the criminal. In other cases, a person may not financially benefit from the sale of a story or any other mementos pertaining to the crime.\n\nRegardless of whether a state has a formal Son of Sam law, victims and their families may use civil lawsuits for monetary damages that effectively preclude a wrongdoer (or accused wrongdoer) from profiting from his crime. A prominent example is the litigation between the family of Ron Goldman and O. J. Simpson following Simpson's acquittal for Goldman's murder. Goldman's family won a wrongful death claim against Simpson for more than $30 million. When Simpson later published a book about the murder, \"If I Did It\", a court awarded the book's rights to the Goldman family to help satisfy the judgment.\n\nIn high-profile criminal cases and cases that are closely tied to national security, such as convictions for terrorism and espionage, a \"Son of Sam clause\" has been included in plea bargains. Examples include John Walker Lindh (an American who aided the Taliban in Afghanistan) and Harold James Nicholson (a Central Intelligence Agency officer who spied for Russia). As a result of their plea bargains, any and all profits made from book deals or movie rights would be handed over to the U.S. Treasury. Neither the convicts nor their families would be able to profit. \n\nWith the advent of the Internet and online sales, many Son of Sam laws are now targeting the sale of so-called \"murderabilia\". Few courts have yet issued opinions regarding the constitutionality of many of these new laws.\n\nSon of Sam laws are distinct from asset forfeiture, the seizing of assets acquired directly as a result of criminal activity. Where asset forfeiture looks to remove the profitability of crimes by taking away money and assets gained as proceeds from the crime, Son of Sam laws are designed so that criminals are unable to take advantage of the notoriety of their crimes. \n\n"}
{"id": "51600739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51600739", "title": "Species affected by poaching", "text": "Species affected by poaching\n\nSpecies affected by poaching refers both to the effects of illegal hunting and fishing or capturing of wild animals on certain species, and, in a recent usage, the illegal harvesting of wild plant species. The article provides an overview of species currently endangered or impaired by poaching in the Americas, sub-Saharan Africa, and South-East Asia.\n\nIn the early 1990s, crimes against wildlife were rampant in certain parts of the United States, and poaching equaled or exceeded the number of animals hunted legally. As trophy hunting became popular, poaching activity, in particular commercial poaching, increased in the Western states. Commercial poachers kill grizzly bears, moose, bighorn sheep, elk, mountain lions, eagles and snakes. Domestic bear species such as American black bear are slaughtered for their body parts that are used for exotic foods, medicinal purposes and as aphrodisiacs. Walrus is poached for the ivory of their tusks, white-tailed deer for antlers and meat, bobcats for their pelts, and bighorn sheep as trophies. Elk antlers and seal penises are used for medicinal purposes. Paddlefish and sturgeon eggs are sold as caviar. Redfish, shellfish, trout and salmon are poached for meat, snakes for their skins, bald eagles for their feathers used in Southwestern art. Protected ridge-nosed rattlesnakes, rock rattlesnakes, twin-spotted rattlesnakes, Sonoran Mountain kingsnakes and massasaugas are illegally collected in Arizona.\n\nMillions of protected plants are illegally collected each year. Plant poaching spans the illegal harvest of ginseng roots, rare orchids, endangered cacti, pitcher plants and Venus flytraps, and tree species such as aspen and western red cedar. Commercial poachers collect hundreds of wildflowers in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park every year, in particular American ginseng, orchids and trilliums. Rangers seized about 11,000 illegally harvested ginseng roots in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park between 1994 and 2004, and attribute ginseng poaching to the illegal domestic and international black market. It is estimated that fresh roots of wild ginseng are worth $65–100 per pound, and dried roots about $260–365 per pound. Ginseng is also harvested illegally in Wisconsin. Goldenseal is suspected to be illegally collected in the Hoosier National Forest.\n\nIn 2007, it was estimated that parrot trappers capture about 65,000–78,500 wild parrots each year in Mexico, mainly by setting nets or by collecting nestlings from tree cavities. About 50,000–60,000, more than 75%, die before reaching customers. Between 2003 and 2006, Mexican wildlife officials did not issue permits for parrot trapping as legal permits provided cover for the illegal trade of poached parrots. Illegal trapping of wild parrots affects most of the 22 parrot species native to Mexico including:\nCommercial poaching of neotropical river otters for their fur is a continuous threat for Mexican populations. Bahía Magdalena is a hot spot for mortality of black, loggerhead, olive ridley and hawksbill sea turtles. More than 600 sea turtles are estimated to be killed yearly inside the bay, mostly for consumption of their meat, which is considered a delicacy in Mexico.\n\nThe solitary eagle is seriously threatened by poaching. Illegal hunting of Baird's tapirs is a major threat for populations in Costa Rica, Belize and Panama. In Panama, mammal species hunted by poachers comprise white-tailed deer, red brocket deer, collared peccary, agouti and coati. Geoffroy's tamarin, howler monkey, white-faced capuchin and common opossum are captured less often.\n\nWest Indian manatees were illegally hunted in the Port Honduras area in Belize at least until the end of the 1990s. Poachers were suspected to come from Guatemala and Honduras. Manatees were killed for meat, and their bones used for carving trinket and other souvenirs sold in local markets in the Yucatán Peninsula. In 2002, it was estimated that about 40 manatees are killed annually along the eastern Nicaraguan coast and in inland wetlands by poachers and incidental drowning in fishing nets.\n\nOther species poached in Central American countries and in the Dominican Republic for being traded alive include Geoffroy's spider monkey, margay, ocelot, great horned guan, crested guan, great curassow, ocellated turkey, great green macaw, Hispaniolan amazon, Hispaniolan parakeet, red-billed toucan, chestnut-mandible toucan, raptors, rosy boa, rattlesnake, Galápagos tortoise, beaded lizard, green iguana, poison dart frogs and freshwater turtles. Snakes, spectacled caiman, Morelet’s and American crocodiles are killed for their skins. Black iguana, mangrove cockle and queen conch are poached for consuming their meat.\n\nIn Colombia the endangered helmeted curassow and the near threatened wattled guan are poached for their meat and eggs. The jacutinga population in the Brazilian Atlantic rainforest is threatened by illegal hunting. The global decline of leatherback sea turtle populations is attributed to the illegal harvest of eggs and killing of egg-bearing females at nesting sites along Central and South American coastlines of the Caribbean Sea and on the Malaysian Terengganu beach.\n\nThe population of the critically endangered Black rhinoceros, inhabiting most of Sub-Saharan Africa, was estimated to have been about 100,000 in 1960 and has now dramatically decreased to only about 4,000, with poaching being attributed as one of the causes of this decline in population. The commercial poaching of white and black rhinoceros escalated in South Africa from 12 rhinos killed in 2004 to 946 rhinos killed in 2013. Rhino horns have increasingly been acquired by Vietnamese people. African elephants, ions, greater kudus, elands, impala, duiker, reedbuck, bushbuck, bushpig, common warthog, chacma baboon and greater cane rat are illegally hunted for the bushmeat trade in Mozambique.\n\nAfrican elephants are being poached for their ivory tusks – the heaviest teeth of any animal alive. In October 2013 poachers were reported in the press to have poisoned more than 300 African elephants in Hwange National Park in Zimbabwe. This UK Telegraph report (republished widely by other newspapers) was proven to be exaggerated, with a maximum total of 120 elephants determined by independent sources to be dead in this incident. Even so, conservationists have claimed the incident to be the highest massacre of animals in South Africa in 25 years. African elephants continue to remain a high target for poachers and some researchers have estimated that African elephants may be extinct in 25–50 years in the wild. African elephants have experienced a 60-70% decline in population in two decades, 1979–2002. In Central Africa, 13,607 elephants have been poached in 2012 alone. In East Africa, 8,515 elephants have been poached in 2012 alone.\n\nIllegal poaching for African elephants has increased noticeably in 2008 and correlates with an increase in price for local black market ivory and with increased findings of illegal ivory headed to China. There is a probable species reduction of ~3% in 2011 alone. Estimates of over 25,000 to 35,000 African elephants were killed for their tusks in 2012. Despite ivory trade bans in 1989, elephant numbers continue to decline in Africa. Finding and monitoring the origin of illegal ivory found will significantly help in efforts to curb and suppress illegal poaching of African elephants. In Tanzania, 60% of the elephant population has been killed since 2010 and now number fewer than 44,000 individuals. In Mozambique, 48% of the country's elephants were killed in the same period. Local people kill elephants for cash, but penalties are often negligible. In central Africa, militias and terrorist groups also poach elephants, often outside their home countries. They hide inside protected areas and kill park rangers who get in their way. A 2014 survey estimated that at least 100,000 elephants were killed for their ivory between 2010 and 2012. According to the survey, even if poaching stopped now, it might take more than 90 years for forest elephants to match their 2002 population.\"\n\nThere are more than 400 endangered faunal species in the Philippines, all of which are illegal to hunt.\n"}
{"id": "33580957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33580957", "title": "The Eye That Cries", "text": "The Eye That Cries\n\nThe Eye that Cries (\"El Ojo que Llora\" in Spanish) is a memorial that was born as a private initiative designed to honor the thousands of victims as a result of terrorism in Peru, to strengthen the collective memory of all Peruvians and to promote peace and reconciliation in the country.\n\nThe Eye that Cries is part of a larger project called The Memory Alameda which will incorporate other art pieces, large extensions of green areas and the Museum of Memory (Yuyanapaq).\n\nThe memorial, The Eye That Cries, located in Campo de Marte, a park in Jesus Maria, a district of Lima, Peru was completed in 2005. It was conceptualized and executed by Lika Mutal, an originally Dutch artist who lives and works in both New York and Lima. At the center of the memorial is a black stone which Mutal discovered near a pre-Columbian cemetery.\n\nThe memorial was built primarily as a way to commemorate the roughly 70,000 victims of the violence committed by both the Peruvian military government and the radical guerrilla group attempting to fight against the government and all those who opposed their communist ideologies. The primary guerrilla group was the Shining Path (Sendero Luminoso in Spanish), a radically communist \"terrorist\" group who resisted those who opposed them through radical actions, including violence. The government armed forces only added to the violence by fighting the guerrilla group. Most of the crimes, which took place in a span of twenty years (1980–2000) remained unspoken of until the Peruvian Commission of Truth and Reconciliation (Comisión de Verdad y Reconciliación in Spanish) brought them to the public. After President Alberto Fujimori fled the country in 2000, human rights committees and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission began the process of reconciling the crimes that had occurred.\n\nThe Peruvian Commission of Truth and Reconciliation (CVR) filed a public report in 2003 where it spoke of the crimes that occurred during those two decades, and the rulings placed pressure on the Peruvian government to commemorate all of the victims. The CVR's extensive report stated that during those two decades of violence, 69,280 people had either died or disappeared, roughly 600,000 people became internal refugees, and 40,000 children became orphans. The truth commission also reported that the majority of the victims of the crimes were indigenous victims who lived in isolated highlands. The report stated that three out of four victims of the brutal crimes were indigenous, roughly 85 percent of all of the victims. The fact that the indigenous were among one of the most marginalized groups in society and that they lived in highlands away from main cities made it easy for the crimes of the \"Senderos\" and the military officials to go unreported. Their marginalization and their isolation made this highly victimized group silent and they were powerless both against the guerrilla group and the government.\n\nThough the members of the Shining Path contributed to over half of the roughly 70,000 people killed during this twenty-year period, 41 members were still added to the names of the victims in The Eye That Cries memorial. The reason these members were added was due to an armed conflict that occurred in 1992 in Castro Castro prison. Important leaders of the radical guerrilla were captured and imprisoned in Miguel Castro Castro penitentiary. In 1992 in Castro Castro, there was a military raid in which forty-one \"Senderos\" were targeted and killed during the span of four days. The names of those forty-one \"Senderos\" among the victims listed in The Eye That Cries would later cause a controversy since a large portion of the deaths had been at the hands of \"Senderos\". Peruvians considered the Senderos to be terrorists as opposed to victims.\n\nEvidence of Fujimori's corrupt government surfaced and led him to flee to Japan in 2000. Due to the massive amount of corruption during Alberto Fujimori's presidential terms that included blackmail, bribes, and vote-rigging, an investigation into his administration began in 2000 that was led by Alejandro Toledo. The Peruvian government was then urged by human rights organizations to form the Peruvian Truth and Reconciliation Commission (CVR) which would investigate the political violence, human rights violations, and government corruption that had afflicted Peru since the 1980s and during Fujimori's presidential terms. When the CVR finished its final report in August 2003, it recommended that to help aid the process of reconciliation, memorials need to be created to pay tribute to the many victims of political violence in Peru. In 2004, Jesus Maria, a district in Lima, was designated as the location for the project Alameda de La Memoria which would give an actual place to the many marginalized voices that were silenced and victimized during the decades of Peruvian conflict. Alameda de la Memoria would provide a space to contemplate and remember, not only for the victims and their families, but also for the Peruvian population. This project would be located in the park Campo de Marte, and would include the memorial The Eye that Cries.\n\nWhen Lika Mutal began to work on creating The Eye That Cries, she was given a list of names of individuals who were considered to be victims of violence. This list of names was supplied by the TRC, and she would later incorporate the nearly 32,000 names into the monument. Unknown to her, the list of names she was given included not only the thousands of victims who were killed during decades of Peru's armed conflict, but also the names of 41 victims who were killed in Castro Castro Prison during a prison raid in May 1992. The victims killed during the Castro Castro Prison raid were \"organizers and militants of the Shining Path, Peru's notorious guerrilla movement. A large number of the Peruvian population views the members of the Shining Path as terrorists responsible for a majority of the deaths of victims of armed conflict in Peru during the 1980s and 1990s. The inclusion of the names of those murdered due to political unrest, guerrilla attacks, and prison raids creates a clash when at times both victims and perpetrators are included side by side and deemed as victims. This conflict leads to the question of what constitutes a victim, who has the right to judge whether an individual is a victim, and whether a criminal can be considered a victim. From the perspective of International Human Rights Laws \"those killed extra judicially, including convicted criminals\" are considered victims. Yet, from the perspective of a majority of the Peruvian population, the members of Shining Path were considered to be terrorists responsible for mass murders and destruction.\n\nWhen Like Mutal completed The Eye That Cries in 2005, it did not create any major controversies, as both the artist, and the Peruvian Population were unaware that the names of 41 Senderistas were included among the 32,000 names of victims written in stones. In November 2006, a ruling by the Inter-American Court on Human Rights based on investigations of the prison raid in Castro Castro and the deaths of the 41 inmates, stated that these deaths were a violation of human rights. After being accused of human rights violations, Peru was instructed to give reparations to the families of the Castro Castro victims and give a public acknowledgment and ceremony that paid honor to the victims and the families of those whose human rights were violated in the Castro Castro raid. In addition, the ruling of the Inter-American Court stated that the names of these victims be included in The Eye that Cries monument within the coming year.\n\nWhen the rulings of the Inter American Court in 2006 became known, the public and the press expressed outrage. Although the prisoners of the Castro Castro prison had indeed suffered human rights violations, they were still deemed \"terrorists\" by the majority of the Peruvian public and press. The idea that victims and \"their perpetrators'\" names would be combined under a monument that symbolized reconciliation and a place for family members to mourn their lost ones was one that the Peruvian public was not willing to support. What was ironic though, was that the names of the Castro Castro prison victims had been included in The Eye that Cries since 2005. It took well over one year for the Peruvian press to become aware of this transgression, and it was only because of the ruling of the Inter American Court that the subject itself was brought to light. The differing opinions regarding The Eye that Cries halted the completion of the Memory Alameda, which if realized would have been a three part installation.\n\nIn September 2007, Alberto Fujimori was extradited from Chile to Peru where he would stand trial for the violations of human rights and corruption that occurred during his presidential terms. The day after Alberto Fujimori arrived in Lima, Peru, a group of men and women vandalized The Eye that Cries by destroying stones and pouring orange paint on the central stone, and then littering the monument with paint cans. It is believed that the group members responsible for this act of vandalism were supporters of Alberto Fujimori's government not only because of the proximity of Fujimori's arrival and the attack, but because orange is the color of Fujimori's campaign.\n\nIn an interview done by \"El Comercio\", Lika Mutal was asked if she would include the names of the 41 victims murdered in the Castro Castro prison raid in her monument. She responded by saying that, \"I couldn't. They were criminals, killed outside the rule of law, but criminals nonetheless. If reparations have to be granted to their families, the reparations should be directed to remedy the damage they caused\". When it was discovered that the names of terrorists had been included in The Eye that Cries monument, Lika Mutal responded in an interview with \"La Republica\" by saying that she had no knowledge that the names of terrorists were included in the stones. She said that the list given to her by the CVR was marked as the registry that included all of the victims.\n\nAfter visiting the Yuyanapaq exhibit, that narrates the more than twenty years of armed conflict in Peru through photographs, Lika Mutal felt inspired. Working primarily with stone, Lika returned to her studio, where she viewed her artistic medium with a new perspective. She says that upon seeing the stone, the phrase \"The Eye that Cries\" formed in her head. After this moment, she decided to work on this project, and through private sponsors and donations was able to accumulate the necessary funds for The Eye that Cries.\n\nThe Eye that Cries is located in the middle of a labyrinth. The labyrinth itself is composed of tens of thousands of rocks. Each individual rock is inscribed with a name, age, and year of death of a victim of Peru's decades of internal conflict. The sculpture is representative of Pachamama, which in Quechua means Mother Earth. In the center of the sculpture, a small stone that takes the form of an eye continuously trickles water.\n\nFor the survivors, family, and friends of the victims of the violent crimes, The Eye That Cries memorial is a place where they are able to mourn the loss of loved ones. This memorial captures all of the loss, and suffering of the people who were affected by the crimes. For the family members whose loved ones were part of the large group of people who disappeared, the memorial is the only place they are able to mourn and remember.\n\nMany mourners come to the memorial and leave flowers next to the stone with the name of their loved one as a way to supplement the fact that their body was never recovered. Having this common, public place to remember has become an important way of keeping the memory alive. The site is a way for Peruvian citizens to attempt to reconcile all the crimes that were committed; along with having a site to mourn their dead, the memorial served as a way to finally publicly display the violent and complicated history of Peru. The memory of the dead and violence that Peru has experienced also serves as a way to strengthen democratic ideologies. The memorial site also has annual events such as a ceremony on El Dia De Los Muertos, along with serving as a location of Buddhist prayer ceremonies. The ruling of the Inter-American court and subsequent controversy has led to an increase in popularity and visits to the memorial site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9368747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9368747", "title": "Title 27 of the United States Code", "text": "Title 27 of the United States Code\n\nTitle 27 of the United States Code outlines the role of intoxicating liquors in the United States Code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46787935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46787935", "title": "Triple top line", "text": "Triple top line\n\nTriple top line (abbreviated as TTL or 3TL) is first mentioned by McDonough and Braungart (2002). The Triple bottom line, an accounting framework coined by John Elkington in 1994, focuses on aligning sustainability and the intentions of a business when it comes to profit, whereas Triple top line is a focus to align sustainability and business profitability from the inception of a product. The Triple top Line approach is an integral part of the process from the beginning of a product's development through its future development and marketing strategic planning. \n\n"}
{"id": "57772038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57772038", "title": "Truth, Reconciliation and Reparations Commission", "text": "Truth, Reconciliation and Reparations Commission\n\nThe Truth, Reconciliation and Reparations Commission (TRRC) is a truth commission in The Gambia to investigate the Yahya Jammeh era from 1994 to 2017. The process from the announcement of the commission to its launch lasted from 20 July 2017 to 15 October 2018. Its executive secretary is Baba Galleh Jallow, its prosecutor is Essa M. Faal, and the chairperson of the 11-strong commission is Lamin J. Sise.\n\nThe process for founding the TRRC was led by the Attorney General, Ba Tambadou. At a press conference on 20 July 2017, Tambadou announced that a draft bill for the establishment of the TRRC had been shared with international experts for review. He also announced that a team, led by himself, would begin a public engagement tour on the bill in August, which lasted from 14 to 24 August. Tambadou then proceeded to table the bill before the National Assembly. On 13 December 2017, the Truth, Reconciliation and Reparations Commission (TRC) Act was passed, and it received presidential assent on 13 January 2018.\n\nBarrow appointed academic Baba Galleh Jallow as Executive Secretary of the TRRC with effect from 1 February 2018. Also in February, a call was made for nominations to the TRRC. The job description specified that individuals should be of \"high moral character and integrity,\" \"no criminal record or involvement in past human rights violations,\" no political party activity, and residency in either the Greater Banjul Area or in the diaspora. In August 2018, Jallow appointed Alagie Barrow as the director of research and investigation for the commission. It was announced that the commission would begin proceedings on 15 October 2018. On 5 October, Abdoulie Janneh, who had previously been announced as the chairperson of the commissioners, stepped down from the role due to scheduling conflicts. Lamin J. Sise, a close confidante of the late UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, was announced to replace him.\n\nThe commission was launched at Dunes Resort Hotel, Kotu Beach, Kololi, on 15 October. It was launched by President Adama Barrow and attended by senior figures including Mariam Jack-Denton, the Speaker of the National Assembly, Hassan Bubacar Jallow, the Chief Justice, and members of the diplomatic corps, the National Assembly, civil society, and international organisations. Barrow noted that the TRRC would be independent, and was the sixth truth commission launched in Africa in its history. Other speakers included Ba Tambadou, the Attorney General, Sherif Kijera of The Gambia Centre for Victims of Human Rights Violations, Fatou Bensouda, the current chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Mohamed Ibn Chambas, the UN Secretary-General's special representative for West Africa, and Miguel de Serpa Soares, the UN Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs. Baba Galleh Jallow delivered the vote of thanks.\n\nA number of job posting were advertised, starting in June 2018, at the commission. Five research assistants, nine investigators, and 20 statement takers were advertised for. A number of coordinator roles were also advertised for, including in victim support, community outreach, youth and children, and women's affairs.\nThis is the list of designated commissioners released to the media in August 2018, they are not yet confirmed.\n"}
{"id": "1261654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261654", "title": "William Baxter (law professor)", "text": "William Baxter (law professor)\n\nWilliam Francis Baxter, Jr. (July 13, 1929 – November 27, 1998) was a law professor at Stanford University. His specialty was antitrust law.\n\nAs Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice from 1981–1983, Baxter commanded wide public attention when in 1982 he settled a seven-year-old case against AT&T with by far the largest breakup in the history of the Sherman Antitrust Act, splitting AT&T up into seven regional phone companies. On that same day, he dismissed as \"without merit\" a seemingly endless, thirteen-year-old suit against IBM, which had employed more than 300 lawyers and generated 2,500 depositions and 66 million pages of documents. Additionally, under his leadership, the U.S. Justice Department promulgated revised guidelines that it would use to enforce U.S. antitrust laws going forward. As part of that practice, he is the author of Baxter's Law or the Bell Doctrine.\n\nIn 1974, Baxter published a widely read and influential book on the law and economics of pollution control entitled \"People or Penguins: The Case for Optimal Pollution\". This book, though aimed at a law audience, contains a philosophically sophisticated stance on the topic of animal rights.\n\nBaxter maintains that non-human animals have no moral consideration on their own. Any moral consideration of animals is in relation to humans. Moral consideration is a uniquely \"human\" affair. This differs from the view that there is no essential difference between the pain of non-human animals and that of human beings (see Peter Singer), and also differs from the view that the pain of animals is a morally relevant consideration, but is not morally decisive (See Bonnie Steinbock).\n\nIt is important to note that Baxter is not antipathetic toward non-human animals; in fact, he points out that many things that are in the interests of animals (and the larger environment for that matter) are in fact also in the best interests of humans as well. In this sense we have obligations to how we treat non-human animals, but the grounds is only because of the respective impact on human beings.\n\nBaxter states that the way to measure these humans interests are in terms of a cost benefit analysis, where cost doesn't necessarily mean uniquely monetary costs.\n\n"}
