{"id": "36067539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36067539", "title": "A. N. Sattampillai", "text": "A. N. Sattampillai\n\nArumai Nayakam Sattampillai (1823–1918), known popularly as Arumainayagam Sattampillai, Arumainayagam, Sattampillai or Suttampillai (also spelt as Sattam Pillai), a Tamilian convert of Anglican church, was a catechist and the founder of first indigenous and independent \"Hindu Church of Lord Jesus\", rejecting Western missionaries domination for the first time in the history of Indian subcontinent. This subversion paved the way for the development of a fusion model of Hindu-Christian religion, free from European missionary interference and also inspired the Indian national movement, largely centred on Bengal and Madras Presidency to fight against Western-dominated institutionalized church leading to separation of Christ from Church and Indianization of Christianity: to express and interpret Christianity and Biblical text in Indian context, socially, culturally, and religiously.\n\nHe was also the founder of indigenous Seventh Day sect on the outskirts of town Nazareth, Tamil Nadu, and was indirectly responsible for establishing the first Seventh-day Adventist church in South India – Tamil Nadu.\n\nHe was educated at missionary schools run by Society for the Propagation of the Gospel (SPG), an Anglican missionary society and also known by the name Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, presently known by the name United Society for the Propagation of the Gospel (USPG) from 1996. He was trained at a seminary run by SPG. He studied Hebrew and Greek languages, and was considered a great intellect, winning several prizes as a seminarian. He acquired the title \"Sattampillai\", as a young man for being the monitor or classroom student leader, at the SPG seminary in Sawyerpuram.\n\nHe worked in a missionary school and was associated with missionaries as a Catechist. He was a staunch Christian and acquired considerable knowledge of Christian history and Biblical literature—both Old Testament and New Testament.\n\nThe monopoly and domination of Indian churches by Western missionaries grew larger when missionaries established a cordial relationship with the state -- British Raj or East India Company before. The effects of this Western dominance was felt not only in politics but also in the religious sphere, and European missionaries gradually started portraying Indian indigenous religious practices as inferior and targeted converts for alleged anti-white (European) sentiments.\n\nThe Christian missionaries started establishment of their mission stations in Tinnevelly District (colonial British East India Company named it, present Tirunelveli district) of Tamil Nadu in the early 19th century. They established their mission stations—first at Mudalur, and followed by ones at Bethlehem and Nazareth, Tamil Nadu in Tinnevelly district. By 1803, a large number of Shanars (also known as Nadar) to the extent of more than 5000 Shanars were converted to Christianity in southeastern Tinnevelly. In addition to this, with growing opposition to Western colonialism in Asia, especially in India and China from the mid-19th century, the indigenous people perceived Western Christianity as the surrender to Colonialism and suspected Western Christianity in having de-nationalising influence.\n\nNot being comfortable with paternalistic and domineering mindset of SPG European missionaries, he looks to have had conflicts and disliked SPG missionaries like Augustus Frederick Caemmerer, a priest and author of \"Mission of Nazareth, in the District of Tinnevelly. Report for the Year 1845\", and Robert Caldwell, an assistant bishop at Tirunelveli and evangelist. Suttampillai worked as catechist under Caemmerer, who was considered as an obnoxious missionary with a low opinion on indigenous converts. Suttampillai had conflicts with Caemmerer and Caldwell, both in theology and on the personal front; on the theological side, Suttampillai objected to the placing of the cross on the altar, which he considered as against the biblical injunction and interpreted as a sign of idolatry; on the personal side, anti-Western missionary feeling further fuelled when Robert Caldwell published \"The Tinnevelly Shanars\", a quasi-ethnographical study of the Shanar community to which Sattampillai belongs; The study included some passages that deliberately disparaged Shanar community. For example, in Caldwell's view, they are the 'least intellectual people found in India', the majority of the community were marked by apathy, indifference, ignorance, and vice, and, again according to Caldwell, the religion followed by members of the Shanar community who were not yet converted was a 'school of immorality'.\n\nUnder these circumstances and this context with the domineering mentality of Western missionaries against heathens, a desire arose in Arumainayagam Sattampillai to re-cast Christianity into a native and national social and cultural framework, to be interpreted as Hindu. It is also believed that, as Sattam Pillai was not willing to go by the British customary way of worship service, he started to garner like-minded believers and worship the Trinity in an Indian traditional way; accordingly, Sattampillai revolted against the Western superior mindset over Indian Christians, broke out from SPG, and established the \"Hindu church of Lord Jesus\", also known as \"Indian church of the only Savior,\" in 1857 at Prakasapuram (present Pragasapuram), Tirunelveli district. He established his new church, the \"Hindu church of Lord Jesus\", with Hindu-Christian religion as its faith, to subvert the missionary authority and denounced Western Christianity as corrupt and inauthentic—he interpreted Hindu as a geographical term (living across Indus river and/or in social and cultural context), rather than in a religious context; furthermore, he looks to have interpreted the Hindu customs as Indian customs. Over the period, the converted Christians in India started to interpret and express Christianity by employing their innate social, religious, and cultural categories. The year 1857 is significant, as uprising against the British Raj was already occurring in Northern India as part of the Indian Rebellion of 1857. Suttampillai revolted against Western dominance in Indian churches using a two-fold strategy; one, by separating Christ from Church and accommodating native traditions and customs into Christianity, he succeeded in undermining the authority of Western missionaries; two, he appropriated Hebrew scriptures and Jewish customs into the Church supporting the Old Testament rather than New Testament as an antidote against the Western missionaries who were moving towards a New Testament focus with British Raj support.\n\nThe church rejected from their system everything that they perceived as having a savour of a European origin. They cut completely from all European help in money and influence, as if there were no longer any Europeans in the country. Sattampillai also seems to have claimed that Hindu cultural practices are similar to the Jewish cultural practices. His interpretations and inclusive approach made him incorporate (accommodate) \"presumed Indian cultures as Hindu culture\" into his movement such as prostration, sacrifice, use of frankincense, folding their hands while praying to deities, using unfermented grape juice instead of wine, and sitting on the floor. In the rituals of the Church, Old Testament ritualistic practices such as \"ritual impurities attributed to women\" were also practised in this church, as similar practices were also found in Indian (Hindu) religious rituals. Unlike the Anglican church use of bells, they use a trumpet. A trumpet blast from the church tower summons the faithful to worship, and followers wash their hands and feet before entering the sanctuary, where they punctuate the service with bodily prostration. The worship is usually held on Saturday Sabbath. People belonging to this church don't work on Saturday. Food for Saturday is made before 6 pm on Friday. They use Jewish calendar to celebrate feast days as followed in Old Testament days. He denied the efficacy of infant baptism and abandoned the idea of an ordained ministry, declaring that \"anyone might become a minister of the Gospel.\"\n\nHe was strongly against the Western missionary Christianity and directed his apologetics to exposing their decadence, sexual immorality, and materialism that was rampant among Westerners, both in India and Europe. He cited the works of John Parker, William Howitt, Robert Southey, and Abbe Dubois that spoke of the savage nature of Saxons, their extravagant indulgence, drunken behaviour, polygamous marriage practices, and the rampant prostitution in western capitals.\n\nHe not only attacked the lifestyle of Europeans, but denounced Europeans as immoral, depraved, and whorish. In a series of tracts written by Sattampillai, he tried to impose strict discipline to make his community above reproach, and consistently disparaged Europeans (mostly English people, but could also be meant to include Americans and Continentals) for their lax sexual morality and lack of control over women. He was severe on divorce and re-marriage, especially of offspring of such unions: in his view, Holy Church and the country was greatly polluted by admitting such despicable families procreating culpable offspring into the church communion. He loathed the European woman, who once married to one man was able to remarry subsequent to divorce or widowhood; Sattampillai objected to this as a total violation to the laws laid out in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament. Sattampillai also wrote that Europeans strayed from the true path, after Roman kings like Constantine and Theodorus converted to Christianity and introduced their own immoral rules regarding marriage into the laws of the Holy Church.\n\nSattampillai preached that Jesus did not intend for Christians to abandon the laws given in the Hebrew Bible. According to Sattampillai, this is one among several of moral lapses and transgressions by European Christians. Sattampillai sought to correct the distortions wrought on the original form of Christianity by European Christians by returning to the laws of the Hebrew Bible.\n\nRobert Caldwell in his derisive comments on Shanars using \"The Tinnevelly Shanars\" publication is said to have commented that \"Shanar have no caste to raise, and they are conscious that were it not for the protection of the Missionaries and of Christianity, their condition would be deplorable.\". Caldwell argued that Shanars could be considered Hindus only to the extent that \"Hindu\" was a geographical category that included \"any class in India.\"\n\nThe controversy initiated by Sattampillai over \"The Tinnevelly Shanars\" again was resuscitated in 1880 when Y. Gnanamuthoo Nadar (a Tamil Christian clerk in the Tirunelveli courts, antiquarian and representative of the Shanar race, son of the first Indian catechists in SPG in Nazareth area, and a former catechist of CMS) petitioned the colonial British government and missionary ecclesiastical structure, demanding that the British censure Caldwell and remove the offending book from its publication. Gnanamuthoo continued his fight with SPG missionaries, demanding they retract their slanderous statements about their caste and including disrupting the bishops when they travelled to villages to convert between 1880 and 1885. According to Gnanamuthoo, many of the Nadar christians either reverted to Hinduism or joined the Hindu Christian church founded by Sattampillai in 1857 out of anger. Gnanamuthoo also wrote:\nWith the impetus provided by the A.N. Sattampillai movement in revolting against Western church, educated Nadars (also known as Shanar), having got \"The Tinnevelly Shanars\" publication several years earlier, became furious and protested against Caldwell, demanding the removal of \"The Tinnevelly Shanars\" from publication. As part of this effort, Nadars produced a series of arguments to substantiate their claims against Caldwell's portrayal of Shanars, took a form of street corner oratory, published pamphlets, and in early 1880 filed an official petition to the British Raj in the Madras Presidency to retract the odious \"Tinnevelly Shanars\" publication and censure Robert Caldwell.\n\nCaldwell looks to have partly retracted his statements, especially his evaluation that Shanars were \"not Hindus,\" in a letter that was printed in the \"CMS Record\" of February 1880.\n\nSattampillai's activism was centred on the rejection of Western manners and customs. His writings reveal how vehemently some Indian Christians rejected the ideas of civilisation and moral progress embedded in the prevailing colonial model of conversion as a series of stages. It is believed that he was dismissed for allegedly having remarked on foreign missionaries.\n\nRobert L. Hardgrave, an author of \"The Nadars of Tamilnadu\", \"Portrait of the Hindus: Balthazar Solvyns & the European image of India, 1760–1824\", \"Boats of Bengal: eighteenth century portraits\", \"The Dravidian movement\", and several other similar works, has hypothesized that Sattampillai, disgruntled for having been dismissed as a catechist, had somehow discovered Robert Caldwell's pamphlets with disdainful comments on the Shanar caste. Hardgrave believes that Sattampillai, who was supposed to visit Madras in 1850 to plead for his reinstatement with the SPG Corresponding committee, could have discovered Caldwell's pamphlets that ultimately instigated him to resent and revolt against European missionaries during that time.\n\nSattampillai, founder of the indigenous Seventh Day sect at the Nazareth town in Tamil Nadu, received a copy of a booklet containing a lecture delivered by the Seventh Day Baptist representative at the World's Parliament of Religions, which brought representatives from different religious backgrounds together in order to bring forth truths and commonalities across various religions. It was held in 1893 in Chicago, United States. Sattampillai, having believed that it was only the Jews who observed the seventh day as Sabbath, sent a letter to New York with curiosity to know more about the Sabbath. However, the letter reached a Seventh-day Adventist office in Battle Creek, Michigan; hence, F. M. Woolcox sent him a few books and magazines in a reply.\n\nIn 1906, J.S. James from Minnesota was chosen to work in South India; accordingly, he was sent as an Adventist missionary to Bangalore with his wife and two sons. James, having learnt the Tamil language, translated a few pamphlets into Tamil, such as \"Is the end of the world near?\", \"Which day is Sabbath?\", \"The signs of Christ's second coming\", and \"New Testament Sabbath\". Sattampillai, having received and studied them, sought more explanation about them.\n\nIn 1908, James along with G. F. Enoch and J. L. Shaw visited Tirunelveli by train and reached Nazareth by bullock-cart;they were received with awesome ceremonial celebrations participated in by people in the hundreds, including women and children from Hindu Yeka Ratchahar church. They were accommodated for ten days in a local school and on 2 July 1908, the Church donated two acres of land worth 1000 rupees to James, marking the beginning of the Seventh-day Adventist presence there, as James decided to quit Bangalore and stay in Prakasapuram (also spelt Pragasapuram), an adjoining village to Mukuperi.\n\nThe first church of Seventh-day Adventists in South India was formally organised with 50 members on 30 January 1915 in Prakasapuram, although, it was in fact functioning as early as 1908. James and C.G. Lowry conducted the religious service. Later, the Adventist Church also started an educational institution with the name \"James Memorial School\" in Prakasapuram.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "186184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186184", "title": "Adi Shankara", "text": "Adi Shankara\n\nAdi Shankara (pronounced ) or Shankara, was an early 8th century Indian philosopher and theologian who consolidated the doctrine of Advaita Vedanta. He is credited with unifying and establishing the main currents of thought in Hinduism.\n\nHis works in Sanskrit discuss the unity of the ātman and Nirguna Brahman \"brahman without attributes\". He wrote copious commentaries on the Vedic canon (\"Brahma Sutras\", Principal Upanishads and \"Bhagavad Gita\") in support of his thesis. His works elaborate on ideas found in the Upanishads. Shankara's publications criticised the ritually-oriented Mīmāṃsā school of Hinduism. He also explained the key difference between Hinduism and Buddhism, stating that Hinduism asserts \"Atman (Soul, Self) exists\", while Buddhism asserts that there is \"no Soul, no Self\".\n\nShankara travelled across the Indian subcontinent to propagate his philosophy through discourses and debates with other thinkers. He established the importance of monastic life as sanctioned in the Upanishads and Brahma Sutra, in a time when the Mīmāṃsā school established strict ritualism and ridiculed monasticism. He is reputed to have founded four mathas (\"monasteries\"), which helped in the historical development, revival and spread of Advaita Vedanta of which he is known as the greatest revivalist. Adi Shankara is believed to be the organiser of the Dashanami monastic order and unified the Shanmata tradition of worship. He is also known as Adi Shankaracharya, Shankara Bhagavatpada, sometimes spelled as Sankaracharya, , and .\n\nThere are at least fourteen different known biographies of Adi Shankara's life. Many of these are called the \"Śankara Vijaya\", while some are called \"Guruvijaya\", \"Sankarabhyudaya\" and \"Shankaracaryacarita\". Of these, the \"Brhat-Sankara-Vijaya\" by Citsukha is the oldest hagiography but only available in excerpts, while \"Sankaradigvijaya\" by Vidyaranya and \"Sankaravijaya\" by Anandagiri are the most cited. Other significant biographies are the ' (of Mādhava, c. 14th century), the ' (of Cidvilāsa, c. between the 15th and 17th centuries), and the \"\" (of the Kerala region, extant from c. the 17th century). These, as well as other biographical works on Shankara, were written many centuries to a thousand years after Shankara's death, in Sanskrit and non-Sanskrit languages, and the biographies are filled with legends and fiction, often mutually contradictory.\n\nScholars note that one of the most cited Shankara hagiography by Anandagiri includes stories and legends about historically different people, but all bearing the same name of Sri Shankaracarya or also referred to as Shankara but likely meaning more ancient scholars with names such as Vidya-sankara, Sankara-misra and Sankara-nanda. Some biographies are probably forgeries by those who sought to create a historical basis for their rituals or theories.\n\nAdi Shankara died in the thirty third year of his life, and reliable information on his actual life is scanty.\n\nThe Sringeri records state that Shankara was born in the 14th year of the reign of \"VikramAditya\", but it is unclear as to which king this name refers. Though some researchers identify the name with Chandragupta II (4th century CE), modern scholarship accepts the VikramAditya as being from the Chalukya dynasty of Badami, most likely Vikramaditya II (733–746 CE),\n\nSeveral different dates have been proposed for Shankara:\n\nThe popularly accepted dating places Adi Shankara to be a scholar from the first half of the 8th century CE.\n\nShankara was most likely born in the southern Indian state of Kerala, according to the oldest biographies, in a village named Kaladi sometimes spelled as Kalati or Karati, although some texts suggest the birthplace to be Chidambaram in Tamil Nadu. He was born to Nambudiri Brahmin parents. His father died while Shankara was very young. Shankara's , the initiation into student-life, had to be delayed due to the death of his father, and was then performed by his mother.\n\nShankara's hagiography describe him as someone who was attracted to the life of Sannyasa (hermit) from early childhood. His mother disapproved. A story, found in all hagiographies, describe Shankara at age eight going to a river with his mother, \"Sivataraka\", to bathe, and where he is caught by a crocodile. Shankara called out to his mother to give him permission to become a \"Sannyasin\" or else the crocodile will kill him. The mother agrees, Shankara is freed and leaves his home for education. He reaches a Saivite sanctuary along a river in a north-central state of India, and becomes the disciple of a teacher named Govinda Bhagavatpada. The stories in various hagiographies diverge in details about the first meeting between Shankara and his \"Guru\", where they met, as well as what happened later. Several texts suggest Shankara schooling with Govindapada happened along the river Narmada in Omkareshwar, a few place it along river Ganges in Kashi (Varanasi) as well as Badari (Badrinath in the Himalayas).\n\nThe biographies vary in their description of where he went, who he met and debated and many other details of his life. Most mention Shankara studying the Vedas, Upanishads and Brahmasutra with Govindapada, and Shankara authoring several key works in his youth, while he was studying with his teacher. It is with his teacher Govinda, that Shankara studied Gaudapadiya Karika, as Govinda was himself taught by Gaudapada. Most also mention a meeting with scholars of the Mimamsa school of Hinduism namely Kumarila and Prabhakara, as well as Mandana and various Buddhists, in \"Shastrarth\" (an Indian tradition of public philosophical debates attended by large number of people, sometimes with royalty). Thereafter, the biographies about Shankara vary significantly. Different and widely inconsistent accounts of his life include diverse journeys, pilgrimages, public debates, installation of yantras and lingas, as well as the founding of monastic centers in north, east, west and south India.\n\nWhile the details and chronology vary, most biographies mention Adi Shankara traveling widely within India, Gujarat to Bengal, and participating in public philosophical debates with different orthodox schools of Hindu philosophy, as well as heterodox traditions such as Buddhists, Jains, Arhatas, Saugatas, and Carvakas. During his tours, he is credited with starting several \"Matha\" (monasteries), however this is uncertain. Ten monastic orders in different parts of India are generally attributed to Shankara's travel-inspired \"Sannyasin\" schools, each with Advaita notions, of which four have continued in his tradition: Bharati (Sringeri), Sarasvati (Kanchi), Tirtha and Asramin (Dvaraka). Other monasteries that record Shankara's visit include Giri, Puri, Vana, Aranya, Parvata and Sagara – all names traceable to Ashrama system in Hinduism and Vedic literature.\n\nAdi Shankara had a number of disciple scholars during his travels, including Padmapada (also called Sanandana, associated with the text \"Atma-bodha\"), Sureshvara, Tothaka, Citsukha, Prthividhara, Cidvilasayati, Bodhendra, Brahmendra, Sadananda and others, who authored their own literature on Shankara and Advaita Vedanta.\n\nAdi Sankara is believed to have died aged 32, at Kedarnath in the northern Indian state of Uttarakhand, a Hindu pilgrimage site in the Himalayas. Texts say that he was last seen by his disciples behind the Kedarnath temple, walking on the Himalayas until he was not traced. Some texts locate his death in alternate locations such as Kanchipuram (Tamil Nadu) and somewhere in the state of Kerala.\n\nAdi Shankara's works are the foundation of Advaita Vedanta school of Hinduism, and his doctrine, states Sengaku Mayeda, \"has been the source from which the main currents of modern Indian thought are derived\". Over 300 texts are attributed to his name, including commentaries (\"Bhāṣya\"), original philosophical expositions (\"Prakaraṇa grantha\") and poetry (\"Stotra\"). However most of these are not authentic works of Adi Shankara and are likely to be works of his admirers or scholars whose name was also Shankaracharya. Piantelli has published a complete list of works attributed to Adi Sankara, along with issues of authenticity for most.\n\nAdi Shankara is most known for his systematic reviews and commentaries (\"Bhasyas\") on ancient Indian texts. Shankara's masterpiece of commentary is the \"Brahmasutrabhasya\" (literally, commentary on Brahma Sutra), a fundamental text of the Vedanta school of Hinduism.\n\nHis commentaries on ten Mukhya (principal) Upanishads are also considered authentic by scholars, and these are: \"Bhasya\" on the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, the Chandogya Upanishad, the Aitareya Upanishad, the Taittiriya Upanishad, the Kena Upanishad, the Isha Upanishad, the Katha Upanishad, the Mundaka Upanishad, the Prashna Upanishad, and the Mandukya Upanishad. Of these, the commentary on Mandukya, is actually a commentary on Madukya-Karikas by Gaudapada.\n\nOther authentic works of Shankara include commentaries on the Bhagavad Gita (part of his Prasthana Trayi Bhasya). His \"Vivarana\" (tertiary notes) on the commentary by Vedavyasa on Yogasutras as well as those on Apastamba Dharma-sũtras (\"Adhyatama-patala-bhasya\") are accepted by scholars as authentic works of Adi Shankara. Among the \"Stotra\" (poetic works), the Daksinamurti Stotra, the Bhajagovinda Stotra, the Sivanandalahari, the Carpata-panjarika, the Visnu-satpadi, the Harimide, the Dasa-shloki, and the Krishna-staka are likely to be authentic.\n\nShankara also authored Upadesasahasri, his most important original philosophical work. Of other original \"Prakaranas\" (प्रकरण, monographs, treatise), seventy six works are attributed to Adi Shankara. Modern era Indian scholars such as Belvalkar as well as Upadhyaya accept five and thirty nine works respectively as authentic.\n\nShankara's stotras considered authentic include those dedicated to Krishna (Vaishnavism) and one to Shiva (Shaivism) – often considered two different sects within Hinduism. Scholars suggest that these \"stotra\" are not sectarian, but essentially Advaitic and reach for a unified universal view of Vedanta.\n\nAdi Shankara's commentary on the Brahma Sutras is the oldest surviving. However, in that commentary, he mentions older commentaries like those of Dravida, Bhartrprapancha and others which are either lost or yet to be found.\n\nCommentaries on Nrisimha-Purvatatapaniya and Shveshvatara Upanishads are attributed to Adi Shankara, but their authenticity is highly doubtful. Similarly, commentaries on several early and later Upanishads attributed to Shankara are rejected by scholars to be his works, and are likely works of later scholars; these include: Kaushitaki Upanishad, Maitri Upanishad, Kaivalya Upanishad, Paramahamsa Upanishad, Sakatayana Upanishad, Mandala Brahmana Upanishad, Maha Narayana Upanishad, Gopalatapaniya Upanishad. However, in Brahmasutra-Bhasya, Shankara cites some of these Upanishads as he develops his arguments, but the historical notes left by his companions and disciples, along with major differences in style and the content of the commentaries on later Upanishad have led scholars to conclude that the commentaries on later Upanishads were not Shankara's work.\n\nThe authenticity of Shankara being the author of has been questioned, though it is \"so closely interwoven into the spiritual heritage of Shankara that any analysis of his perspective which fails to consider [this work] would be incomplete.\" According to Grimes, \"modern scholars tend to reject its authenticity as a work by Shankara,\" while \"traditionalists tend to accept it.\" Nevertheless does Grimes argue that \"there is still a likelihood that Śaṅkara is the author of the Vivekacūḍāmaṇi,\" noting that \"it differs in certain respects from his other works in that it addresses itself to a different audience and has a different emphasis and purpose.\"\n\n\"Aparoksha Anubuti\" and \"Atmabodha\" are also attributed to Shankara, as his original philosophical treatises, but this is doubtful. Paul Hacker has also expressed some reservations that the compendium \"Sarva-darsana-siddhanta Sangraha\" was completely authored by Shankara, because of difference in style and thematic inconsistencies in parts. Similarly, \"Gayatri-bhasya\" is doubtful to be Shankara's work. Other commentaries that are highly unlikely to be Shankara's work include those on \"Uttaragita\", \"Siva-gita\", \"Brahma-gita\", \"Lalita-shasranama\", \"Suta-samhita\" and \"Sandhya-bhasya\". The commentary on the Tantric work \"Lalita-trisati-bhasya\" attributed to Adi Shankara is also unauthentic.\n\nAdi Shankara is also widely credited with commentaries on other scriptural works, such as the Vishnu sahasranāma and the Sānatsujātiya, but both these are considered apocryphal by scholars who have expressed doubts. \"Hastamalakiya-bhasya\" is also widely believed in India to be Shankara's work and it is included in \"Samata\"-edition of Shankara's works, but some scholars consider it to be the work of Shankara's student.\n\nUsing ideas in ancient Indian texts, Shankara systematized the foundation for Advaita Vedanta in 8th century CE, one of the six orthodox schools of Hinduism founded many centuries earlier by Badarayana. His thematic focus extended beyond metaphysics and soteriology, and he laid a strong emphasis on \"Pramanas\", that is epistemology or \"means to gain knowledge, reasoning methods that empower one to gain reliable knowledge\". Anantanand Rambachan, for example, summarizes the widely held view on one aspect of Shankara's epistemology before critiquing it as follows,\n\nSengaku Mayeda concurs, adding Shankara maintained the need for objectivity in the process of gaining knowledge (\"vastutantra\"), and considered subjective opinions (\"purushatantra\") and injunctions in Śruti (\"codanatantra\") as secondary. Mayeda cites Shankara's explicit statements emphasizing epistemology (\"pramana-janya\") in section 1.18.133 of Upadesasahasri and section 1.1.4 of Brahmasutra-bhasya. According to Michael Comans (aka Vasudevacharya), Adi Shankara considered perception and inference as a primary most reliable epistemic means, and where these means to knowledge help one gain \"what is beneficial and to avoid what is harmful\", there is no need for or wisdom in referring to the scriptures. In certain matters related to metaphysics and ethics, says Shankara, the testimony and wisdom in scriptures such as the Vedas and the Upanishads become important.\n\nAdi Shankara cautioned against cherrypicking a phrase or verse out of context from Vedic literature, and remarks in the opening chapter of his Brahmasutra-Bhasya that the \"Anvaya\" (theme or purport) of any treatise can only be correctly understood if one attends to the \"Samanvayat Tatparya Linga\", that is six characteristics of the text under consideration: (1) the common in \"Upakrama\" (introductory statement) and \"Upasamhara\" (conclusions); (2) \"Abhyasa\" (message repeated); (3) \"Apurvata\" (unique proposition or novelty); (4) \"Phala\" (fruit or result derived); (5) \"Arthavada\" (explained meaning, praised point) and (6) \"Yukti\" (verifiable reasoning). While this methodology has roots in the theoretical works of Nyaya school of Hinduism, Shankara consolidated and applied it with his unique exegetical method called \"Anvaya-Vyatireka\", which states that for proper understanding one must \"accept only meanings that are compatible with all characteristics\" and \"exclude meanings that are incompatible with any\".\n\nHacker and Phillips note that this insight into rules of reasoning and hierarchical emphasis on epistemic steps is \"doubtlessly the suggestion\" of Shankara in Brahma-sutra, an insight that flowers in the works of his companion and disciple Padmapada. Merrell-Wolff states that Shankara accepts Vedas and Upanishads as a source of knowledge as he develops his philosophical theses, yet he never rests his case on the ancient texts, rather proves each thesis, point by point using \"pramanas\" (epistemology), reason and experience.\n\nAdi Shankara, in his text \"Upadesasahasri\", discourages ritual worship such as oblations to \"Deva\" (God), because that assumes the Self within is different from the Brahman. The \"doctrine of difference\" is wrong, asserts Shankara, because, \"he who knows the Brahman is one and he is another, does not know Brahman\". However, Shankara also asserts that Self-knowledge is realized when one's mind is purified by an ethical life that observes Yamas such as \"Ahimsa\" (non-injury, non-violence to others in body, mind and thoughts) and Niyamas. Rituals and rites such as yajna (a fire ritual), asserts Shankara, can help draw and prepare the mind for the journey to Self-knowledge. He emphasizes the need for ethics such as Akrodha and \"Yamas\" during Brahmacharya, stating the lack of ethics as causes that prevent students from attaining knowledge.\n\nAdi Shankara has been varyingly called as influenced by Shaivism and Shaktism. However, his works and philosophy suggest greater overlap with Vaishnavism, influence of Yoga school of Hinduism, but most distinctly his Advaitin convictions with a monistic view of spirituality.\n\nAdi Shankara systematised the works of preceding philosophers. His system marks a turn from realism to idealism. His Advaita (\"non-dualism\") interpretation of the \"sruti\" postulates the identity of the Self (Atman) and the Whole (Brahman). According to Adi Shankara, the one unchanging entity (Brahman) alone is real, while changing entities do not have absolute existence. The key source texts for this interpretation, as for all schools of , are the Prasthanatrayi–the canonical texts consisting of the Upanishads, the Bhagavad Gita and the Brahma Sutras.\n\nAdvaita Vedanta is based on (\"scriptures\"), yukti (\"reason\") and anubhava (\"experiential knowledge\"), and aided by karmas (\"spiritual practices\"). Starting from childhood, when learning has to start, the philosophy has to be a way of life. Shankara's primary objective was to understand and explain how moksha is achievable in this life, what it is means to be liberated, free and a Jivanmukta. His philosophical thesis was that jivanmukti is self-realization, the awareness of Oneness of Self and the Universal Spirit called Brahman.\n\nShankara considered the purity and steadiness of mind achieved in Yoga as an aid to gaining moksha knowledge, but such yogic state of mind cannot in itself give rise to such knowledge. To Shankara, that knowledge of Brahman springs only from inquiry into the teachings of the Upanishads. The method of yoga, encouraged in Shankara's teachings notes Michael Comans (aka Vasudevacharya), includes withdrawal of mind from sense objects as in Patanjali's system, but it is not complete thought suppression, instead it is a \"meditative exercise of withdrawal from the particular and identification with the universal, leading to contemplation of oneself as the most universal, namely, Consciousness\". Describing Shankara's style of yogic practice, Comans (aka Vasudevacharya) writes:\n\nthe type of yoga which Sankara presents here is a method of merging, as it were, the particular (visesa) into the general (samanya). For example, diverse sounds are merged in the sense of hearing, which has greater generality insofar as the sense of hearing is the locus of all sounds. The sense of hearing is merged into the mind, whose nature consists of thinking about things, and the mind is in turn merged into the intellect, which Sankara then says is made into 'mere cognition' (vijnanamatra); that is, all particular cognitions resolve into their universal, which is cognition as such, thought without any particular object. And that in turn is merged into its universal, mere Consciousness (prajnafnaghana), upon which everything previously referred to ultimately depends. \n\nShankara rejected those yoga system variations that suggest complete thought suppression leads to liberation, as well the view that the Shrutis teach liberation as something apart from the knowledge of the oneness of the Self. Knowledge alone and insights relating to true nature of things, taught Shankara, is what liberates. He placed great emphasis on the study of the Upanisads, emphasizing them as necessary and sufficient means to gain Self-liberating knowledge. Sankara also emphasized the need for and the role of \"Guru\" (Acharya, teacher) for such knowledge.\n\nShankara's Vedanta shows similarities with Mahayana Buddhism; opponents have even accused Shankara of being a \"crypto-Buddhist,\" a qualification which is rejected by the Advaita Vedanta tradition, given the differences between these two schools. According to Shankara, a major difference between Advaita and Mahayana Buddhism are their views on Atman and Brahman. According to both Loy and Jayatilleke, more differences can be discerned.\n\nAccording to Shankara, Hinduism believes in the existence of Atman, while Buddhism denies this. Shankara citing Katha Upanishad, asserted that the Hindu Upanishad starts with stating its objective as\nBuddhists and Lokāyatas, wrote Shankara, assert that soul does not exist.\n\nThere are also differences in the understanding of what \"liberation\" means. Nirvana, a term more often used in Buddhism, is the liberating realization and acceptance that there is no Self (anatman). Moksha, a term more common in Hinduism, is liberating realization and acceptance of Self and Universal Soul, the consciousness of one's Oneness with all existence and understanding the whole universe as the Self.\n\nStcherbatsky in 1927 criticized Shankara for demanding the use of logic from Madhyamika Buddhists, while himself resorting to revelation as a source of knowledge. Sircar in 1933 offered a different perspective and stated, \"Sankara recognizes the value of the law of contrariety and self-alienation from the standpoint of idealistic logic; and it has consequently been possible for him to integrate appearance with reality.\"\n\nRecent scholarship states that Shankara's arguments on revelation are about \"apta vacana\" (Sanskrit: आप्तवचन, sayings of the wise, relying on word, testimony of past or present reliable experts). It is part of his and Advaita Vedanta's epistemological foundation. Advaita Vedanta school considers such testimony epistemically valid asserting that a human being needs to know numerous facts, and with the limited time and energy available, he can learn only a fraction of those facts and truths directly. Shankara considered the teachings in the Vedas and Upanishads as \"apta vacana\" and a valid source of knowledge. He suggests the importance of teacher-disciple relationship on combining logic and revelation to attain moksha in his text Upadeshasahasri. Anantanand Rambachan and others state Shankara methodology did not rely exclusively on Vedic statements, but included a range of logical methods, reasoning methodology and pramanas.\n\nDespite Adi Shankara's criticism of certain schools of Mahayana Buddhism, Shankara's philosophy shows strong similarities with the Mahayana Buddhist philosophy which he attacks. According to S.N. Dasgupta,\nAccording to Mudgal, Shankara's Advaita and the Buddhist Madhyamaka view of ultimate reality is compatible because they are both transcendental, indescribable, non-dual and only arrived at through a via negativa (neti neti). Mudgal concludes therefore that\n\nShankara lived in the time of the so-called \"Late classical Hinduism\", which lasted from 650 till 1100 CE. This era was one of political instability that followed Gupta dynasty and King Harsha of the 7th century CE. It was a time of social and cultural change as the ideas of Buddhism, Jainism and various traditions within Hinduism were competing for members. Buddhism in particular had emerged as a powerful influence in India's spiritual traditions in the first 700 years of the 1st millennium CE. Shankara, and his contemporaries, made a significant contribution in understanding Buddhism and the ancient Vedic traditions, then transforming the extant ideas, particularly reforming the Vedanta tradition of Hinduism, making it India's most important tradition for more than a thousand years.\n\nShankara has an unparallelled status in the tradition of Advaita Vedanta. He travelled all over India to help restore the study of the Vedas. His teachings and tradition form the basis of Smartism and have influenced Sant Mat lineages.\n\nHe introduced the form of worship, the simultaneous worship of five deities – Ganesha, Surya, Vishnu, Shiva and Devi. Shankara explained that all deities were but different forms of the one Brahman, the invisible Supreme Being.\n\nBenedict Ashley credits Adi Shankara for unifying two seemingly disparate philosophical doctrines in Hinduism, namely Atman and Brahman. Isaeva states Shankara's influence included reforming Hinduism, founding monasteries, edifying disciples, disputing opponents and engaging in philosophic activity that, in the eyes of Indian tradition, help revive \"the orthodox idea of the unity of all beings\" and Vedanta thought.\n\nPrior to Shankara, views similar to his already existed, but did not occupy a dominant position within the Vedanta. According to Nakamura, it was only after Shankara that \"the theologians of the various sects of Hinduism utilized Vedanta philosophy to a greater or lesser degree to form the basis of their doctrines,\" whereby \"its theoretical influence upon the whole of Indian society became final and definitive.\"\n\nSome scholars doubt Shankara's early influence in India. The Buddhist scholar Richard E. King states,\nAccording to King and Roodurmun, until the 10th century Shankara was overshadowed by his older contemporary Mandana-Misra, the latter considered to be the major representative of Advaita. Other scholars state that the historical records for this period are unclear, and little reliable information is known about the various contemporaries and disciples of Shankara. For example, Advaita tradition holds that Mandana-Misra is the same person as Suresvara, a name he adopted after he became a disciple of Shankara after a public debate which Shankara won.\n\nSome scholars state that Maṇḍana-Miśra and Sureśvara must have been two different scholars, because their scholarship is quite different. Other scholars, on the other hand, state that Mandana-Miśra and Shankara do share views, because both emphasize that Brahman-Atman can not be directly perceived, rather it is discovered and defined through elimination of division (duality) of any kind. The Self-realization (Soul-knowledge), suggest both Mandana Misra and Shankara, can be described cataphatically (positive liberation, freedom through knowledge, jivanmukti moksha) as well as apophatically (removal of ignorance, negation of duality, negation of division between people or souls or spirit-matter). While both share core premises, states Isaeva, they differ in several ways, with Mandana Misra holding Vedic knowledge as an absolute and end in itself, while Shankara holds Vedic knowledge and all religious rites as subsidiary and means to the human longing for \"liberation, freedom and moksha\".\n\nSeveral scholars suggest that the historical fame and cultural influence of Shankara grew centuries later, particularly during the era of Muslim invasions and consequent devastation of India. Many of Shankara's biographies were created and published in and after 14th century, such as the widely cited Vidyaranya's Śankara-vijaya. Vidyaranya, also known as Madhava, who was the 12th Jagadguru of the Śringeri Śarada Pītham from 1380 to 1386, inspired the re-creation of the Hindu Vijayanagara Empire of South India in response to the devastation caused by the Islamic Delhi Sultanate. He and his brothers, suggest Paul Hacker and other scholars, wrote about Śankara as well as extensive Advaitic commentaries on Vedas and Dharma. Vidyaranya was a minister in Vijayanagara Empire and enjoyed royal support, and his sponsorship and methodical efforts helped establish Shankara as a rallying symbol of values, and helped spread historical and cultural influence of Shankara's Vedanta philosophies. Vidyaranya also helped establish monasteries (\"mathas\") to expand the cultural influence of Shankara. It may be these circumstances, suggest scholars, that grew and credited Adi Shankara for various Hindu festive traditions such as the Kumbh Mela – one of the world's largest periodic religious pilgrimages.\n\nShankara is regarded as the founder of the of Hindu monasticism and of Smarta tradition. He unified the theistic sects into a common framework of Shanmata system. Advaita Vedanta is, at least in the west, primarily known as a philosophical system. But it is also a tradition of renunciation. Philosophy and renunciation are closely related:\nShankara, himself considered to be an incarnation of Shiva, established the Dashanami Sampradaya, organizing a section of the Ekadandi monks under an umbrella grouping of ten names. Several other Hindu monastic and Ekadandi traditions remained outside the organisation of the Dasanāmis.\n\nAdi Sankara organised the Hindu monks of these ten sects or names under four (Sanskrit: ) (monasteries), with the headquarters at Dvārakā in the West, Jagannatha Puri in the East, Sringeri in the South and Badrikashrama in the North. Each math was headed by one of his four main disciples, who each continues the Vedanta Sampradaya.\n\nYet, according to Pandey, these Mathas were not established by Shankara himself, but were originally ashrams established by Vibhāņdaka and his son Ŗșyaśŗnga. Shankara inherited the ashrams at Dvārakā and Sringeri, and shifted the ashram at Śŗngaverapura to Badarikāśrama, and the ashram at Angadeśa to Jagannātha Purī.\n\nThe advaita sampradaya is not a Saiva sect, despite the historical links with Shaivism:\nNevertheless, contemporary Sankaracaryas have more influence among Saiva communities than among Vaisnava communities. The greatest influence of the gurus of the advaita tradition has been among followers of the Smartha Tradition, who integrate the domestic Vedic ritual with devotional aspects of Hinduism.\n\nAccording to Nakamura, these mathas contributed to the influence of Shankara, which was \"due to institutional factors\". The mathas which he built exist until today, and preserve the teachings and influence of Shankara, \"while the writings of other scholars before him came to be forgotten with the passage of time\".\n\nThe table below gives an overview of the four Amnaya Mathas founded by Adi Shankara, and their details.\n\nTraditionally, Shankara is regarded as the greatest teacher and reformer of the Smarta.\n\nAccording to Alf Hiltebeitel, Shankara established the nondualist interpretation of the Upanishads as the touchstone of a revived \"smarta\" tradition:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48481273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48481273", "title": "Amos Norton Craft", "text": "Amos Norton Craft\n\nAmos Norton Craft (1844-1912) was an American Methodist and early skeptic writer.\n\nCraft was born in Mecca, Ohio. He is most well known for his \"Epidemic Delusions\" (1881). According to skeptic Daniel Loxton the book is a \"critical gaze over spirit mediums, end of the world panics, bogus religious relics, witch-hunting manias, haunted houses, clairvoyance, and mesmerism. Again and again he hammered home the point that paranormal claims rest upon arguments from ignorance.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55700543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55700543", "title": "Amy Jadesimi", "text": "Amy Jadesimi\n\nAmy Jadesimi (born 1976) is a Nigerian physician, businesswoman, entrepreneur, and corporate executive, who serves as the chief executive officer of the Lagos Deep Offshore Logistics Base (LADOL), a privately owned state-of-the-art logistics and engineering facility in an industrial Free Zone, located on an island within the Port of Lagos, in Nigeria.\n\nShe was born in Nigeria circa 1976. Her father, a successful entrepreneur, is Chief Oladipo Jadesimi, the Executive Chairman of LADOL. Her mother, Alero Okotie-Eboh, was a former broadcaster turned stay-home-mom. Her maternal grandfather, Chief Festus Okotie-Eboh, was the Nigerian Minister of Finance. Through her father's affair with British socialite Suzanna McQuiston, she is a half-sister of the British aristocrat Emma Thynn, Viscountess Weymouth.\n\nJadesimi attended boarding school in the United Kingdom. She was admitted to the University of Oxford, first graduating with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in Physiological Sciences and later with a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (BMBCh) degree, in 1999. Later, she graduated with a Master of Business Administration from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.\n\nAfter medical school, she was recruited by Goldman Sachs. She started work in the Investment Banking division of the firm, based in their offices in London, focusing on mergers, acquisitions and corporate finance. She worked there for three years. Even though Jadesimi is better known as a businesswoman, she never intended to leave the medical field and pursue another career. She was offered a job by Goldman Sachs while working with a firm in Oxford. After working there for three years, she never went back to the hospital or her previous job and instead went on to pursue an MBA at Stanford.\n\nFollowing graduation from Stanford University, she interned for one year at Brait SE in Johannesburg, South Africa, where she worked in the private equity division, as a transaction executive. In 2004, she relocated back to her homeland and joined LADOL, the logistics firm that her father started in 2001. Over time, she rose through the ranks and in 2009, she was appointed by the board as the Chief Executive Officer of the business. Through LADOL, Jadesimi joined the Venture Strategies for Health and Development (VSHD) organization where she works with others Nigerian doctors and birth attendants to reduce the high rate of maternal mortality in Nigeria. Upon addressing the many cases, Jadesimi and other practitioners noticed that the drugs used to help reduce the maternal mortality were expensive; therefore, not many pregnant women could afford them. The VSHD came up with a drug that was well suited for maternal mortality and was better for the market. Under Jadesimi's supervision, the organization partnered with a leading pharmaceutical company in Nigeria, Emzor Pharmaceuticals, to distribute the drugs through Nigeria. Beyond LADOL, she is on the Prince's Trust International global advisory board, a founding commissioner of the Business and Sustainable Development and Commission and a Forbes contributor.\n\nIn 2012, Jadesimi was named an Archbishop Desmond Tutu Fellow. In 2013, she was named as a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum. Also that year she given the title of Rising Talent by the Women's Forum for the Economy and Society. Forbes included her in the 2014 20 Youngest Power Women in Africa article. The Financial Times named her one of the top 25 Africans To Watch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22550609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22550609", "title": "Associate attorney", "text": "Associate attorney\n\nAn associate attorney is a lawyer and an employee of a law firm who does not hold an ownership interest as a partner.\n\nAn associate may be a junior or senior attorney, but normally does not hold an ownership interest in the firm even if associated with the firm for many years. First-year associates are entry-level junior attorneys and are generally recent law school graduates in their first year of law practice.\n\nGenerally, an associate has the goal of being made a partner in the firm, after a number of years gaining practice experience and being assigned to increasingly important and remunerative tasks. At firms with an \"up or out\" policy, associates who are repeatedly passed over for promotion to partner may be asked to resign. Some firms will also have \"non-partner-track\" associates who, though performing satisfactorily as employees, for whatever reason, will not be promoted to partner.\n\nJunior attorneys were formerly called \"law clerks\"; the term \"associate attorney\" was coined by Emory Buckner, hiring partner of Root, Clark & Bird (which subsequently became Dewey Ballantine) in the 1920s. The term \"law clerk\" now generally refers to an attorney who serves as a research and writing assistant in a judge's chambers, although some law firms use the term to refer to a lawyer or non-lawyer who has specialized knowledge in one of the firm's practice areas but is not classified as a practicing attorney at the law firm.\n\nSummer associates are current law students who have usually completed their second year of school (or in some cases, their first year of law school) and are interning at the firm for the summer. Summer associates have not passed the bar exam and are not attorneys. The summer associate program is often the primary method by which a law firm recruits for full-time associate positions.\n\nAccording to published data from the New York Times, the annual base salary for partner-track first year associate attorneys at top law firms in major U.S. legal markets such as New York, California, Massachusetts, the District of Columbia, and Texas can range from $160,000 to $180,000 per year—with salary varying depending on the size and reputation of the firm.\n"}
{"id": "2989153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2989153", "title": "Awn Al-Khasawneh", "text": "Awn Al-Khasawneh\n\nAwn Shawkat Al-Khasawneh () (born 22 February 1950) was the prime minister of Jordan from October 2011 to April 2012. He was also formerly a judge of the International Court of Justice.\n\nKhasawneh was born in Amman on 22 February 1950. He received his university education at Queens' College, Cambridge in England, where he attained a bachelor's degree in history and law. He also received a master's degree in international law.\n\nFrom 1980 until 1990, Khasawneh held senior legal posts in the Jordanian ministry of foreign affairs. From 1991 to 1994, he was legal adviser to the Jordanian delegation to the peace negotiations between Israel and Jordan.\n\nIn 1995, Khasawneh became adviser to the King Hussein and adviser of the State on international law with the rank of cabinet minister. He was appointed chief of the Royal Hashemite Court from 1996 to 1998. Khasawneh has also been a member of numerous international law bodies during his career.\n\nHe was elected to the International Court of Justice in 1999 and re-elected in 2008. He served in this post from 6 February 2000 to 31 December 2011. He also served as vice-president of the Court from 2006 to 2009. He resigned from the Court by letter dated 20 November 2011.\n\nOn 17 October 2011, he was appointed by King Abdullah II as prime minister of Jordan, replacing Marouf al-Bakhit (who had been accused of corruption during an earlier tenure as prime minister). \"The Guardian\" reported that Khasawneh has a reputation as a clean politician and is a noted legal expert.\n\nOn 26 April 2012, Khasawneh submitted his resignation to King Abdullah, who, in turn, accepted the resignation. Fayez al-Tarawneh succeeded Khasawneh as prime minister.\n\nIn November 2016, Al-Khasawneh was appointed by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to the High-Level Panel on Access to Medicines, co-chaired by Ruth Dreifuss, former President of Switzerland, and Festus Mogae, former President of Botswana.\n\nOrder of Independence (Jordan), First Class (1993); Kawkab Order, First Class (1996); Nahda Order, First Class (1996) (Jordan). Légion d'Honneur, Grand Officier (1997) (France) International Jurists Award, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "34225015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34225015", "title": "Bhagyakul Roy family", "text": "Bhagyakul Roy family\n\nThe Bhagyakul Roy family also known as The Roys of Bhagyakul, was originally based out of a place called Bhagyakul (near Dhaka, Bangladesh) in undivided Bengal (now in Munshiganj district of Bangladesh).\n\nDuring the first half of the 18th century, the family branched out to the salt business and soon acquired vast fortunes, culminating in becoming landlords (zamindars) of chiefly Bhagyakul and many other estates in then undivided Bengal (pre-1947). Erstwhile zamindary estates spread out almost all over the undivided Bengal and also Bihar. The most significant phenomenon was that they didn't stick to feudalism/zamindary system and established inland water/steam navigation services along with shipping dockyards and then founded one of the biggest jute mills, M/S. Prem Chand Jute Mills Ltd, then founded banking institution, namely United Industrial Bank. Though originally 'Kundu', they were awarded the title of Roy Bahadur to Sri Gunendra Krishna Roy, one of the members of this family & rest with 'Roy/Raychowdhary' by the colonial British government, now the family uses as its surname as Ray / Roy. A few members of the family was also honoured with the title of 'Raja' by the British government.\n\nLater the family diversified into steamships, banking, real estate and manufacturing industry. Many in the family entered public life, developed professional careers and created institutions of social importance that collectively constitute a major influence on the Bengali society even today. \n\nThe family was instrumental in setting up the East Bengal Club in August 1920.\nIt is also known that the family provided Pandit Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar with the loan to start the Vidyasagar College.\n\nDuring the colonial period, the family contributed towards the freedom struggle by actively participating in the Sixth Indian National Congress session (Tivoli Garden, Calcutta, December 1890) and opposing the partition of Bengal.\n\nCurrently the family is divided into Four Hishas, namely Baro Hisha, Mejho Hisha(Arai), Sejo Hisha and Choto Hisha\n\nThough the family maintained its estates in British India, with the coming of Independence (and partition of India - 1947) the entire family shifted to Kolkata before partition and now are based mostly around Shobhabazar, South Sinthee Road, Gourbari, Dutta Bagan, Lee Road, Elgin Road, Kumartuly, Beliaghata, Goriahut, and in & around of various parts Calcutta. Old palatial house in the erst while zamindari in Bhagyakul are either being used as government offices or encroached upon and in dis-repair.\n\nThe family worships God Lakshminarayan as its family deity, with the current temple situated on Sovabazar street, Kolkata. Krishna Jibon Roy was first to established the worship of God Lakshminarayan at his country residence in the village of Nurpur in seventeen hundreds, however the seat of workship was transferred to Kolkata after the partition.\n\nAnnual Durga Puja is organized with much festivity and gusto by each of the branches in rotation. Generally takes approximately 10 years for each rotation, however with increase in the family size, rotation period is expected to increase. Some time about 50 years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1573286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1573286", "title": "Binyamin Kahane", "text": "Binyamin Kahane\n\nBinyamin Kahane (), 5 March 1911 – 30 October 1956, was an Israeli air force officer and pilot who was killed during a reconnaissance sortie. He was awarded the Medal of Courage by the Israeli Defense Forces posthumously. The aerial tactics he used are taught at military air academies worldwide.\n\nBinyamin Kahane was born in Jaffa in what was then the Mutasarrifate of Jerusalem, an administrative district of the Ottoman Empire, to a family with roots in the First Aliyah (immigration) from Belarus. Kahane was the youngest of three brothers and a sister. He attended a trade school in Tel Aviv, an agricultural high school (Mikve Israel), the Polytechnic School, and the Montefiore Technical School in Tel Aviv.\n\nBoth of Kahane’s parents were involved with Zionist movements: His mother, Miriam Kahane, was part of the Bilu movement, a small pioneer group brought to Israel and led by her cousin, Israel Belkind. Another cousin was Fannie Belkind, Avshalom Feinberg's mother. Kahane’s Father, Ephraim, assisted the Nili underground in its activities to support the British forces during World War I. Because of his familiarity with the Sinai Peninsula and the routes in Palestine (and also as a carriage driver and owner), he was selected by Avshalom Feinberg to accompany him on his first trip to the British lines in Egypt through the northern Sinai in December 1915. Kahane engaged in boxing, fencing and Jujitsu, but his main activity was in the motorcycle riding. He took part in many riding competitions, and according to press reports from 1934, he was \"one of the best motorcycle riders in the country.\" He won first place in the first motorcycle race held in the dunes of Rishon Letzion. In 1934 Kahane co-organized and co-led a motorcycle tour to Jewish communities in Europe to encourage immigration to Palestine. \n\nHe joined the Betar movement in 1927, and like many members of Betar, proceeded to join the Irgun upon its establishment. He attended training, and participated in operations intended to help secure Jewish settlements. He applied his skills as a motorcyclist as part of reprisals conducted by the Irgun during the Great Arab Revolt. After the establishment of the Notrim Corp, Kahane joined it, and attended its command training course in 1937.\n\nKahane was an avid aviator since his early twenties. His first aerial activity was sky gliding, as a member of The Aero Club of Israel. Devoting himself in aviation, Kahane developed extraordinary skills and achieved notoriety, also turning to training others along the Mediterranean coast. On his website \"Air Space\" that specializes in aviation history, Avinoam Misnikov cites that in April 1938, at the gliding camp of Children Village, Kahane reached an altitude of 1,250 feet above the point of origin while flying a Chaika glider. In 1936 Kahane participated in the first gliding training course sponsored by the Palestine Aviation Club and held at Givat Brenner.\nThe Irgun opened a flying school at Lod airport headed by Moshe Haim Katz. Kahane’s pilot license carried the serial number 6. Kahane was the only graduate who maintained his pilot license current, leading to his becoming a pilot in the Israeli Air Force later on.\nBetar estimated that there were two thousand Jewish pilots around the world who could form the basis of a network of clubs and pilots who could be recruited for action when needed. To that effect, the Pilots Club Tel Aviv was established, and an RWD-15 single engine plane was purchased in Poland using contributions by the Jewish community. On August 20, 1939 three pilots (Abraham Schechterman, Binyamin Kahane, and Yitzhak Barash) were sent to Poland to bring the plane to Israel. World War II, which broke out only eleven days later, prevented their arrival in Poland, and the plane was never delivered.\n\nIn an attempt to contribute to the war effort against the Nazis, Kahane applied as a volunteer pilot to the Royal Air Force (RAF), but was turned down. Continued efforts by the Irgun to secure a plane finally succeeded. In 1941 a two-seater Czechoslovak Zlin XII airplane was purchased in Egypt with funds from a prominent local Jew. Kahane was sent to Egypt to fly the plane from Cairo to Lod.\n\nChronic lack of resources made it impossible to keep the plane operational, so it was placed in makeshift storage in a Tel-Aviv basement. Abraham Schechterman was recruited to manage the potassium factories in Sodom in 1943. His condition for accepting the position was that an air link to the factory was to be established: an airstrip was to be built, the plane was to be taken out of storage, and based at the factory with a pilot. Management finally relented, and Kahane was appointed the company pilot.\n\nSchechterman writes in his memoirs: \"The airport was beneficial in light of the many floods that take place in the area regularly. Most importantly, the air link saved the plant from surrendering during the Israeli War of Independence directly causing the factory to remain inside the Israeli border. Thanks to the airport Sodom could receive supplies and equipment that kept it going. The only connection to the outside world was via air, that allowed not only to hold Sodom, but also to expand beyond it to Ein Gedi to its north and Eilat to its south.\"\n\nAs a former member of the Irgun it was not easy for Kahane to be accepted to the newly formed Israeli Air Force as a pilot. However, after repeated efforts, he was allowed on April 5, 1948, and attached to squadron A. His requests for assignment to fighter planes were turned down (perhaps due to his age, 37), but in 1949 he was allowed to train flying dual engine airplanes. Since the second half of 1948 Kahane was attached to squadron 35 based at Ekron where he flew the UC-64A Norseman, with sorties also to the besieged Sodom, thus completing a personal circle. In January 1949 Kahane was assigned to a light aircraft squadron flying Pipers; in June 1950 he completed instructor training, and was appointed a Piper flight instructor.\n\nHe was at odds with the rest of the squadron both because of his background with the Irgun, and his age. Kahane was excluded from some activities, for example, Operation Shnunit in June 1954 (rescue of the crew and commandos off a stranded Israeli Navy near the Saudi coast). Perhaps as a result, he was never promoted beyond the rank of Seren (Captain). This was reflected in letters he wrote to his friend Zvi (\"Gammy\") Rin, also a former Irgun member, who in 1950 left Israel to study in the United States.\n\nIn March 1956 the Kahane family moved to Eilat, and Kahane became the liaison pilot of the regional headquarters. During the second day of the Suez Campaign, on October 30, 1956, several attacks on the IDF's ground forces by pairs of Egyptian MiG-15 were reported. The first two targeted forces at Temed\nand the Mitla Pass, and at 10:00 a third pair attempted attacking an Israeli column advancing toward Kuntila.\n\nWhat happened next is described in the citation of the Medal of Courage Kahane received posthumously for his heroism:\n"}
{"id": "13439099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13439099", "title": "Black Jack (manga character)", "text": "Black Jack (manga character)\n\nHis odd appearance comes from a childhood incident, in which both he and his mother were terribly injured in an explosion. Although Kurō's mother succumbed to her injuries, and Kurō's own body was nearly torn to shreds, he was rescued, thanks to a miraculous operation by Dr. Honma. Although Kurō survived, part of his hair turned white due to stress and shock. The skin covering the left side of Kurō's face is noticeably darker due to getting a skin graft from his best friend, who is half African. Kurō refused to have plastic surgery to match the skin color as a sign of respect for his friend. Marked by this experience, Kurō decided to become a surgeon himself, taking the name of Black Jack.\n\nDespite his medical genius, Black Jack has chosen not to obtain a surgical license, choosing instead to operate from the shadows, free from rules and the corrupt bureaucratic establishment. Although he usually treats those he meets in chance encounters who have heard of his legendary skills, he occasionally travels to hospitals around the world to covertly assist terminally ill patients.\n\nBlack Jack's real name is . In chapter 68, \"The Most Beautiful Woman in the World\" (published April 14, 1975), Black Jack explains the meaning behind both of his names: \"Kurō\" is written with the Japanese characters for \"black\" and \"man;\" as \"Jack\" is a common name for a man, he translates his name as \"Black Jack.\" His name in the manga is spelt \"Kuro'o\". In Volume 10 Chapter 2: \"The Mask Chosen,\" he explains to Pinoko that in Japanese, means black and the second represents a jack in a deck of cards.\n\nBlack Jack presents himself as a medical mercenary, selling his skills to whomever will pay his price. He is a shadowy figure, with a black cape, eerie black-and-white hair, and surgical scars snaking all over his body, the most prominent of which being across his face. His appearance and strange, anti-social mannerisms frighten many away from him, but his friends and acquaintances overlook his appearance and idiosyncrasies, knowing him to be principled, skilled, and above all, completely dedicated to the highest ideals of the medical profession.\n\nAlthough his age is not explicitly stated, he is in his late 20s or 30s. He performs some surgeries at home where he has his own operating room, but he more typically travels the world to meet his patients. (He is able to speak multiple languages, including Spanish and English.) He is often seen driving his black car, matching his usual costume, although he also takes public transportation where he is called upon in the event of an on-board emergency.\n\nBlack Jack cures patients indiscriminately, from common folk, to presidents, to yakuza leaders, and even to supernatural beings, from the very poor to the very rich. However, he charges all of his patients shockingly large sums (from 10 million to billions of yen), sometimes even causing them to jump out of their clothes in surprise (in the manga). A colleague even names a disease after him, because of the outrageous fee he charges for the surgery. Even for those who beg for mercy, Black Jack (at least initially) refuses to lower his price. This has given him a reputation for callousness and greed, an image which he cultivates with care.\n\nContrary to external appearances however, Black Jack possesses a complex personal code. He will cure a patient for free if they move him with the story of their suffering; however, he always establishes a patient's willingness to pay beforehand. If Black Jack cannot discover a redeeming story behind a patient, his fee stands. He also makes exceptions in exigent circumstances, and may change his mind if proven incorrect in his assumptions. He also always ensures that his patients recover completely.\n\nBlack Jack gives much of the money he earns to charity, paying for other doctors' surgeries as well as his own, and buying up land to protect nature from commercial development. When his patient is wealthy, he usually increases his fee substantially, and often will attach non-quantifiable conditions to his services, such as an agreement to leave erstwhile victims alone, or to protect the environment. Although he gives back most of his earnings to the community, Black Jack occasionally faces robbers seeking the money they believe he hoards.\n\nBlack Jack is a highly skilled doctor, able to handle scalpels and other medical tools quickly and precisely. He frequently reattaches and transplants limbs, performs near-perfect cosmetic surgery, and takes on cases that other surgeons have abandoned and despaired of, even when the other surgeons are widely recognized experts in their field.\n\nBlack Jack is also known to use his tools for self-defense, showing himself to be capable of clogging the barrel of a gun with a scalpel from some distance. He is also shown to be a ruthless combatant, once even strangling an attacker with surgical tubing.\n\nAside from his speed, precision and ingenuity, Black Jack also has extraordinary fortitude and stamina. In several chapters and episodes, he performs surgeries on himself, and on occasion performs solo operations for 24 consecutive hours. In one instance, he operates on 40 patients simultaneously.\n\nWhile some doctors openly praise Black Jack's for his surgical abilities, others disdain him for not having a license. The manga explains that he lost his medical license when he went against his superiors orders and performed a surgery on his lover who was suffering from the late stages of ovarian cancer. His superiors had said that her illness was too far along to even bother with surgery, but he proceeded anyway and saved her life. As a consequence he lost his medical license. However, since they exiled Black Jack from the medical association he has been able to excel in his medical studies and abilities thus avoiding the restrictions that other doctors must abide in. Later, when Black Jack is featured in a film, the World Medical Association objects to him being the star, and so his surgical skills are edited out of the final cut.\n\nThere are many instances where Black Jack operates on animals. Before he completed medical school, he practiced making sutures on his own with meat from the local market and even with live fish. He ate them when he was done. Following is a partial list of animal surgeries after his finishing medical school:\n\n\nAlthough Black Jack claims not to believe in supernatural phenomena in medicine, he has nevertheless brushed with the paranormal many times:\n\n\nBlack Jack has a large patch of white hair on the right half of his head and black on the rest. His body is lined with stitches, including a particularly long one on his face. The left side of this scar on his face is a darker color than the right. He is possibly in his late 20s or 30s throughout the main story, and is often seen wearing a black overcoat.\n\nWhen Black Jack was eight years old, he and his mother and father lived in an abandoned military base. Although most of the mines were removed properly, some were left behind. While passing through the minefield, he and his mother triggered a forgotten mine, which suddenly detonated with tragic results. His mother lost all of her limbs and her voice, falling to a coma before passing away. Black Jack himself was all but dead, blasted into 18 different pieces, but he survived with the surgical skills and devotion of Dr. Jōtarō Honma. During this ordeal, Black Jack's friend Takashi (who is half-African) donated some of his skin for a dermal graft, resulting in him having different skin tones for half of his face, which Black Jack later refused to have color-matched out of respect for his friend. Out of worry for his mother, part of his hair turned prematurely white. Unable to handle the situation, his father ran away with a lover.\n\nFrom that time onward, Black Jack stopped laughing. Wanting revenge, he sought the five people who ruined his mother's life. Among these were Ichigahara and Takuzo Ubamoto.\n\nThe explosion caused damage to young Black Jack's lungs, giving him pneumothorax. For long afterwards, when meeting a patient with similar pulmonary damage, Black Jack would involuntarily feel sympathetic agony, which developed into an acute phobia. Dr. Yamadano helps cure Black Jack of this fear.\n\nWhile still in medical school, Black Jack becomes friends with the dedicated medical intern Maiko Okamoto. They meet when the rest of the school is embroiled in a protest and strike over intern wages, and a three-way accident between a bicycle, bus and train catches the school's hospital understaffed. Although about to pass over the young Black Jack for his strange personality (she finds him sitting on a bench with his eyes closed, muttering and practicing surgery in thin air), she approaches him for help anyway out of desperation. Admiring his skill in action, she remarks to herself, \"Patches [Black Jack] isn't half bad!\" From there, their relationship deepens as she finds out more about his past and reinforces his emotional development with more compassion and warmth.\n\nThroughout the series, Pinoko (his adopted daughter) has expressed love towards Black Jack which even she herself admits is impossible due to her small body. She often daydreams of going on dates with him and refers to herself as his wife to several people they meet though she does on occasion show attraction to other handsome young men. Black Jack himself denies these claims and often tells her she is his daughter. He even admits to her at one point that he is not suited for love and claimed he only saved her to use her to blackmail her family (this is heavily implied to be a lie). Nonetheless, there are times he does seem to respect her feelings. When he thought she was dying, he built her a human adult body and promised to marry her during her final moments but managed to save her and never gave her the adult body. She also writes multiple love letters to him which he is exasperated by. In addition, when he has a dream about the people that he has met and impacted him, Pinoko appears as an adult and asks to be told he loves her. While he does not state it, he does refer to her as his wife. Overall, it is evident he does love her but his feelings don't seem to go beyond a paternal love mainly because of her body and childish personality.\n\nIt is mentioned in Volume 1 chapter 6 that after graduating and becoming an intern, Black Jack fell in love with Megumi Kisaragi. Tragically, she had ovarian cancer, and after having her ovaries removed, she began living her life as a man, taking on the name Kei.\n\nIn Volume 1 chapter 9, there was a female surgeon named Konomi Kuwata (nicknamed Black Queen due to her ability to perform amputations without batting an eye) whom he became interested in because she seemed similar to him. In the manga, he was going to give her a letter but upon seeing her grief over having to amputate her own fiancé's leg, decides to do the surgery himself and leaves before telling her of his feelings. In the anime, his feelings for her are less definite (it is implied he may have developed some feeling for her though not to the extent as in the manga) and the two meet again in Black Jack 21 as good friends and colleagues, with her still as a surgeon.\n\nA teenage cancer patient named Michiru obsessed with marriage announces her desire to marry Black Jack, much to Pinoko's dismay. To lift her spirits and improve her chances of survival, Black Jack agrees to play the part of the groom. After the surgery however, he tells her that it was a fantasy to begin with, and says that he is not fit for love or marriage.\n\nIn volume 3 \"Black Jack in Hospital\" A young inexperienced female doctor who has been in love with Black Jack meets him after he breaks his arm and her brother performs a surgery on him, though at the same time voices his dislike for Black Jack. Despite this the older brother doctor asks Black Jack to marry his sister or never appear before her again. Black Jack agrees and leaves but meets with her one last time to perform the operation on her brother after he is hit by a truck.\n\nIn addition, in Volume 10 chapter 9 \"Burglary\", a woman who was on a honeymoon drive with her husband barely survived a landslide. She had to have her arms amputated by Black Jack who also took care of her rehabilitation. She fell in love with him and her husband, realizing this, had her leave. She later had her prosthetic stolen but refused to retrieve them. Black Jack managed to find them along with discovering letters and photos of himself among the prosthetic, revealing her feelings for him. He returns the prosthetic to her but rejects her feelings and wishes for her happiness.\n\nIn Volume 15 Chapter 2 \"A Star is Born\" a young woman named Igusa Suginami fell in love with Black Jack after he gave her plastic surgery and operated on her face to make her prettier and to make her a bigger star. Black Jack, however, believed she was better with her original face and due to interference by Suginami's manager, she is forced to leave and give up on Black Jack.\n\nIn Volume 15 chapter 7, a woman suffering from a type of schizophrenia called Catatonia ran away from home and fell off a cliff. Black Jack tried discussing with the dad to save her (for 30 million yen). When he finds her, the two end up stuck on the mountain due to heavy rain for ten days. The two get to know each other and it is revealed the father decided not to pay to cure his daughter's surgery and instead abandoned her but Black Jack still went to save her because she reminded him of himself. While dying from her wounds from her fall off the cliff and her illness, she admits she loves him and asks him to marry her. He tries to save her as help arrives, but it is implied she died.\n\nLater, when Black Jack visits the grave of a fellow surgeon on a remote island to pay his respects, he meets his colleague's sister, Dr. Shimizu Ikuo. The sole doctor of the island, she originally came to help her brother, and develops feelings for Black Jack. However, she is killed saving a child from a rockslide; with her dying breath, she asks Black Jack to mimic his facial graft on her skin so that they can be together forever though he chooses not to as he believes she was too beautiful to carve a scar on and her body is buried with her brother's. In the anime, she instead survives though he leaves the island as he sees that the island needs a doctor like her.\n\nThe doctor is usually in the company of his ward, Pinoko (also spelled Pinoco). Although she was originally absorbed in utero by her twin sister, Black Jack surgically extricated her, and gave her a synthetic body in the form of a child, adopting her as his daughter. Although she appears to be a fully functional human, Pinoko is incapable of physical growth, and despite having the knowledge of an 18-year-old (her age from birth), she has the personality of a first grader. Pinoko capably acts as housekeeper, cook and surgical assistant (especially in his home clinic and operating room), but more importantly provides moral support and human warmth to the otherwise emotionally distant doctor.\n\nIn addition to his medical skills, Black Jack is a skilled fighter. While not violent by nature, he will not hesitate to use force to defend himself or others. Though preferring to fight with his fists, he can use a gun and throw scalpels like darts, having been skilled at darts even as young boy. He carries many extra scalpels in his signature black coat for emergencies, allowing it to double as a bullet-proof vest. As such, he wears his coat even on sunny days.\n\nBlack Jack knows how to operate a motorboat and is fluent in Morse Code (Volume 17 Chapter 4: \"Captain Park\").\n\nBlack Jack usually drinks tea or coffee with his rice when he goes to a poor house, and eats curry at restaurants. He is sometimes seen smoking a cigarette or a pipe. He always tries to heal his patients but he will get very emotionally upset if: 1) someone takes his patients; 2) his patients commit suicide; 3) someone kills his patients; or 4) death was inevitable. There were times where people attacked him and was very near death. He even went to jail a few times. Volume 10 Chapter 7: \"The Man who Threw up Capsules\" was the only time Black Jack is seen with a beard. While his preference in food is never mentioned, he is often shown eating curry or tea over rice (chazuke).\n\nBlack Jack enjoys watching oil painting shows.\n\nBlack Jack's single-floor cottage was designed and constructed by the somewhat vain carpenter Ushigoro in 1932, using the French colonial or Creole style. In the manga, Pinoko finds a hand print on the house left by Ushigoro, a maker's mark that he leaves on every house he builds in lieu of a signature. If his customer objects to the hand print, he leaves it in the attic. At least 40 years old by the time Black Jack buys the house, fresh from school, it tends to leak during the rainstorms frequenting the coastal area (especially in the OVA, \"Black Jack 21\"). It sits on a sheer cliff, with a rear porch topped by a châteauesque conical spire overlooking the sea, while a dirt road leads up the hill to the full-width veranda in the front.\n\nThe house has two bedrooms, with one for guests and one Black Jack and his adopted daughter Pinoko, who sleep in separate twin beds. Unusually, the house also features a small operating room, which Black Jack and Ushigoro built together after Black Jack moved in. Although he usually performs surgeries in more-fully-equipped and staffed hospital operating rooms, and even on-site when in more pressing situations, his own operating room sees use in the televised anime, episode 7, when he removes a tumor from a lion cub, and again in episode 22 when treating a boy with mirrored organs and a congenitally enlarged bile duct.\n\nThe house later collapses during an earthquake, and is finally destroyed in a typhoon many volumes later.\n\nBesides being a manga artist, Osamu Tezuka was also a licensed physician. He created many manga titles with medical themes and physician protagonists, and Black Jack may be a personification of himself. Black Jack has been called Tezuka's alter ego, the kind of doctor he wished he could have been. The character was created for the 40th anniversary of Tezuka's professional manga career. It was originally intended as a five-part miniseries but, thanks to the audience reception, Tezuka's engagement with the character was extended to five years.\n\nBlack Jack's attitude and matter of dress are meant to remind readers of the archetypal pirate: rebellious and clever, a man who operates outside the restricting bureaucracy of modern life. His scar embodies the principle of the flawed hero: his half-black, half-white face foregoes any claim to \"purity\"—be it cultural or ideological—and betrays the complexity of the character. A pirate carrying a similar scar, Captain Harlock, was introduced in 1953's \"Adventures of a Honeybee\" prior to Black Jack's creation, however Black Jack became the star of his own manga series years before Harlock did.\n\nIn the end, Black Jack is capable of great kindness as well as brutal cruelty.\n\nAs part of \"Osamu Tezuka's Star System\", Black Jack has appeared in several of the artist's works.\n\nBlack Jack starred as a side character in episode 27, \"The Time Machine,\" of the 1980 animated adaptation of Tezuka's \"Astro Boy\". Both he and Astro were recruited by a detective from the distant future, and taken back to a medieval castle to catch a man attempting to alter the timeline, where Black Jack was to heal a sick prince (actually Tezuka character Princess Knight) while Astro was to protect the castle from an evil sorcerer. While Astro attempts to fight the beasts sent by the sorcerer, Black Jack discovers that the prince is actually a princess, and, using clever deception, manages to heal her as Astro defeats the sorcerer. In true Black Jack fashion, he tells the town to learn to accept that they have a female ruler, and refuses payment, instead taking a commemorative coin before returning to the future, which Astro values the mint condition artifact to today be worth several million dollars.\n\nBlack Jack makes cameo appearances in 1979's \"Marine Express\", in 1980's \"Phoenix 2772\" as the foreman of the prison planet labor camp, and in the 2004 video games \"Astro Boy\" and \"\". He also appears in one panel in Tezuka's work \"Buddha\" as a hallucination as well as a cameo under a different name and somewhat different appearance in \"Phoenix\" in the volume titled \"Nostalgia\", where he apparently holds some degree of power over a group of thugs about to take advantage of the main character Romy.\n\nBlack Jack is also ambiguously referenced in the manga \"Pluto\", a remake of Astro Boy created by Naoki Urasawa with approval from Osamu Tezuka before his death.\n\nIn 2010, a short was released showing Black Jack teaming up with Dr. House to promote the DVD release of the show's fourth season. In it, Black Jack was hired to replace Kutner. House immediately takes a dislike to him, and vice versa, but Black Jack quits on amicable terms with House after they cooperate on a difficult surgery.\n\nBlack Jack appears alongside fellow Tezuka character Atom as a playable character in the upcoming crossover puzzle game \"Crystal Crisis\".\n\nBlack Jack is one of Tezuka's most beloved characters and his popularity is rivaled only by Astro Boy.\n\nOther manga artists have paid homage to Tezuka's surgeon. Shūhō Satō's \"Say Hello to Black Jack\" is named after Tezuka's character. A surgeon, identified only as B.J., appears in Akihito Yoshitomi's \"Ray\". In the story, B.J. operates on the title character, giving her X-ray vision. The character of former police coroner and serial killer Shingo Zuhaku, whose design is based on Tezuka's Black Jack, appears in horror manga The Kurosagi Corpse Delivery Service by Eiji Ōtsuka and Housui Yamazaki.\n\nKamen Rider Den-O's Imagin Anime OVA parodized Black Jack by having Ryutaros cosplay as him in a doctor sketch.\n\nDuring the 2007 batsu game for Downtown no Gaki no Tsukai ya Arahende!!, which took place at a hospital, comedian Itsuji Itao repeatedly appeared during the game dressed up as Black Jack, with requisite black cape, hair and scar. Pinoko also appears by his side. He'd leave the scene after being spotted, with an announcer saying \"Itsuji Itao presents: Black Jack!\"\n\nIGN ranked him as the 24th greatest anime character of all time, saying he \"did what few characters in anime have achieved: he made an everyday profession into something heroic.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58482514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58482514", "title": "Boris Serebryakov", "text": "Boris Serebryakov\n\nBoris Efimovich Serebryakov (born August 18, 1941 in Malgobek, Chechen-Ingush ASSR - 1971 in Syzran Prison), known as the \"Kuybyshev Monster\", was a Soviet-Russian serial killer and mass murderer who operated in Kuybyshev (present-day Samara). He killed 9 people with special cruelty, caused two people serious bodily injury, and more than a dozen victims received from mild to moderate psychological disorders.\n\nSerebryakov was born on August 18, 1941 in the Chechen-Ingush ASSR, in the city of Malgobek. Since childhood he showed criminal tendencies - possessing violent character and a craving for alcohol, repeatedly getting into fights with strangers, his colleagues and relatives, for which he was repeatedly detained by law enforcement. He also fell into the field of view of the police for inflicting bodily harm, theft, arson and rape, but his guilt could not be proven. In January 1967, after being demobilized from the ranks of the Soviet Army, he moved to Kuybyshev to his sister. He began work at the Kuybyshev Cable Plant.\n\nOn September 4, 1967, Serebryakov tried to rape Yekaterina Kharitonova, a dispatcher in one of the Kuybyshev tram depots. He rushed into the control room wearing only swimming trunks and with a knife in hand. The woman was stabbed in the neck and arm, but Serebryakov, frightened by her resistance, fled.\n\nThe first killings Serebryakov committed on the night of April 27 to 28, 1969. He penetrated through a window into one of the living rooms of a 24-room one-story dormitory belonging to the Progress plant (now Litvinov) he killed Stepan Zorkin, his 5-year-old son Lyonya and his wife Maria by hitting them with a brick. After raping the dead woman, he stole 135 rubles and set fire to the deceased's clothes. Several rooms of the hostel were damaged from the fire, with suspicion falling on Maria's ex-husband.\n\nThe next crime Serebryakov committed happened a year later. On the night of April 30, 1970, after entering an apartment on Aeroflot Street, he beat the landlady Ekaterina Kutsevalova and her daughter Olga with the bottom side of an axe he had taken with him. He began to rape the mother, thinking she was dead, but her daughter regained consciousness and started screaming, waking up the neighbors and frightening the maniac. Both of them survived. While searching for victims, Serebryakov traveled around the city on a bicycle \"Ukraine\". On the night of May 8 to 9, 1970, Serebryakov killed 70-year-old mistress Praskovya Salova and another 30-year-old woman named Nina Vasilieva, with an axe. Soon a man named Timofeev came to the police, who claimed to have committed the murders, but verification proved that he was lying.\n\nAfter that, panic ensued in Kuybyshev. In 1970, the USSR was supposed to hold elections for the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. Residents refused to let agitators into their apartments, even when accompanied by police officers, and directly stated: \"Until the killer is caught, we will not vote.\"\n\nOn the night of June 4 to 5, 1970, in a house on Podgornaya Street, in the Oktyabrsky District near the Country Park, Serebryakov hacked to death the Malomanov family - father, mother and two children - with an axe. After violating the woman's corpse, the maniac set fire to the house and fled on his bicycle.\n\nOn May 22, 1970, an investigative brigade was created, headed by General Igor Karpets. Militia patrols on the streets were reinforced, and the number of volunteers increased. Near one of the crime scenes a key to Serebryakov's bicycle with the brand of the Kharkov bicycle factory was found. After that, special attention was paid to cyclists.\n\nOn June 8, 1970, Serebryakov, who was riding a bicycle on a side street near the Airport Highway, was noticed by the druzhinnik Zagfar Gayfullin. He initially did not cause any suspicion, but when a gust of wind opened his cloak, his axe was seen, after which a chase began. Serebryakov jumped into the courtyard of a private house and hid himself in a street toilet. The druzhinnki, along with the owner of the house who was awakened by them, began to search the yard. One of the men, Victor Kochanov, opened the toilet and got a blow to the face, then a brick to the head. Serebryakov ran to the railway station \"Internatnaya\", near which at that time there was a freight train consisting of tanks and fuel oil. He climbed on the ladder of one of the tanks and wanted to leave by train, but was seen by one of the machinist's assistants, forcing him to run to the other side of the railway to the asphalt plant. There he climbed a tree and jumped off at the territory of the Progress Rocket Space Center. The alarm went off, and soon Serebryakov was detained by security guards of the plant, and then taken to the police. The maniac's arrest took place a week before the election. The policeman who arrested the maniac was promoted two ranks, from senior lieutenant to major.\n\nSerebryakov's fingerprints and blood type matched with the corresponding characteristics of the murderer, and in his room, stolen items from the victims were found. He soon confessed. The forensic psychiatric examination found that Serebryakov did not suffer from mental illness, and although he had obvious deviations in behavior, this did not become an obstacle to his criminal prosecution.\n\nDuring the court hearing, people who did not fit in the hall looked through the windows, everyone wanted to see the man who had been holding the whole city in fear for almost a year and a half. In the fall of 1970, the Kuybyshev Regional Court sentenced Serebryakov to death. When they announced the verdict, those present in the audience applauded, and Serebryakov himself said: \"I'll be back.\". All petitions for a pardon were rejected. In early 1971, Boris Serebryakov was executed in the Syzran Prison.\n\nFor the detention of the particularly dangerous criminal, all of the militiamen were awarded a medal for \"an excellent service for the protection of public order\".\n\n \n"}
{"id": "48936608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48936608", "title": "Chucrallah-Nabil El-Hage", "text": "Chucrallah-Nabil El-Hage\n\nChucrallah-Nabil El-Hage (in Arabic: شكرالله نبيل الحاج), also Nabil Hage, (born on 26 February 1943 in Hajjé, Lebanon) is the current Archeparch of the Maronite Catholic Archeparchy of Tyre.\n\nEl-Hage was born in Hajjé, a village in the district of Sidon, the government of Southern Lebanon He entered into the seminary of the Maronite Patriarchate in Rasir in 1957, and there he attended his secondary education until 1962. Later in 1963 El-Hage entered in the Saint Joseph University in Beirut, where he studied philosophy and theology. On 13 June 1970 El-Hage was ordained to the priesthood.\n\nIn 1977 he obtained a degree in French language by the Lebanese University and got a grant from the government to study in France, where he obtained a Diploma of Advanced Studies (DEA) from the Provence University, and later obtained a doctorate in 1981 in the French language. On his return to Lebanon, he taught at the Saint Joseph University and the Lebanese University.\n\nIn June 2003 he was elected Archbishop of Tyre. After the confirmation by the Holy See on September 25, 2003 he was ordained by Maronite Patriarch of Antioch, Cardinal Nasrallah Boutros Sfeir, and his co-consecrators were Roland Aboujaoudé, Auxiliary bishop of Antioch and Maroun Khoury Sader, Emeritus Archeparch of Tyre on 29 November 2003.\n\nOn the Special Assembly of the Synod for the Middle East, the Archbishop took the view that the Christians should not lead lonely battle, but in solidarity should live with all citizens. As an example for the coexistence of Christians and Muslims, he cited the ADYAN Foundation. In many sermons and contributions he previously urged the Lebanese Christians not to leave the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "3648560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3648560", "title": "Damien Thorn", "text": "Damien Thorn\n\nDamien Thorn is a fictional character and the primary antagonist of \"The Omen\" series. He is the Antichrist and the son of the Devil. The character has been portrayed by Harvey Spencer Stephens, Jonathan Scott-Taylor, Sam Neill, Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick and Bradley James.\n\n\nThe name \"Damien\" sounds vaguely like the English \"demon\", but is not at all etymologically related (meaning \"he subdues\").\nDamien is the French form of the English name Damian (Greek \"Damao\", meaning \"to tame\"), popular as the name of a martyred Christian saint of the third century (see Saints Cosmas and Damian). Another prominent Damien was Father Damien of Hawaii, who died while establishing leper colonies there. Damien is also the first name of Father Karras in \"The Exorcist\".\n\nIn the first film and its 2006 remake, Damien was born on the sixth day of June at six o'clock in the morning, from a jackal that died giving birth to him and was buried in Cerveteri under the alias Maria Scianna. The orphaned Damien is then adopted by the future American ambassador to Great Britain Robert Thorn, who was told his child was stillborn, with his wife Katherine unaware of the replacement. It would be five years later, after Thorn becomes US ambassador of the Court of St. James's, that Damien's powers begin to manifest when his nanny mysteriously hangs herself at his birthday party, claiming to have done it for him. The strange events continue with new nanny Ms. Baylock, who is later revealed to be one of the Satanists who have been waiting for the boy and acting on his behalf from the shadows, as Damien's true nature starts to manifest, from his violent reaction to church to most animals reacting fearfully at the sight of him (save for the black dog that Ms. Baylock adopted).\n\nFather Brennan, a priest from Italy who was present at Damien's birth, warns Robert about his son being the Antichrist, stating that Damien would eventually kill him and his wife. But Robert refuses to accept it until Katherine, revealed to be pregnant with another child, is hospitalized after being knocked off a balcony by Damien with his tricycle, a fall that kills the unborn baby. Accompanied by photojournalist Keith Jennings, who is eventually decapitated in a freak accident, Robert learns both the truth of Damien's heritage and the fact that his own child was actually murdered to ensure Damien's being placed in his care, so that he may rise up through the world of politics. An exorcist in Megiddo, Israel named Karl Bugenhagen gives Robert seven ancient daggers he inherited that can kill the Antichrist. Robert is initially against killing the boy until he finds the 666 birthmark that confirms his identity as the Antichrist. But when Robert brings Damien to a church to commit the deed, he is killed by police before Damien is harmed. At Robert's funeral, Damien is seen in the company of the President of the United States before being adopted by his uncle, Richard Thorn. To ensure that the last of his enemies are dealt with, Damien's subconscious will kills off Bugenhagen, who attempted to have Michael Morgan deliver a box containing the Daggers of Megiddo to Richard before the two were buried alive in the ruins.\n\nIn the , set seven years after the first movie, the twelve-year-old Damien lives with his uncle's family: Richard's second wife, Ann, and his son from his first marriage, Mark. Originally, as with the first film, Damien is unaware of his powers, subconsciously killing any who learn his secret and pose a threat to him. Furthermore, besides Ms. Baylock, Damien is supported by other Satanic acolytes who eventually help him learn his true nature during his time in military school. Though frightened at first, Damien accepts his unholy lineage and his destiny, though it's with reluctance that he kills Mark when the latter learns the truth and refuses to join him. Though disbelieving Damien's lineage at first, Richard learns the truth and attempts to set a trap for Damien, to kill him with the Daggers of Megiddo. But Ann, revealed to be a Satanist, kills Richard before Damien incinerates her out of disgust while burning the Thorn museum to the ground. From there, as revealed in the third film, Damien eventually takes over his uncle's company and turns it into a global business corporation.\n\nBy the events of \"\", revealed to have attended Oxford, the adult Damien arranges his appointment as Ambassador to Great Britain and overseer of the United Nations Youth Associations. But his reason for taking on his father's position is that England is where the Second Coming will occur during an alignment in the Cassiopeia constellation and he needs to find and kill the Christ-child before his power completely wanes. While dealing with assassins under Father DeCarlo, who each possess a dagger of Megiddo salvaged from the ruins of the Thorn museum, Damien has his numerous followers kill every male English child born on the morning of March 24. But the Christ-child is revealed to have eluded Damien's followers. But another hindrance to his dominion comes from journalist Kate Reynolds and her adolescent son Peter, Damien's fascination with them proving to be his undoing as he is eventually killed when Reynolds stabs him in the back while he attempts to kill DeCarlo (after using Peter as a shield). Damien lives long enough to see a vision of Christ and dies telling Him that He has won nothing.\n\nIn \"\", Damien is revealed to have a biological child in Delia, who was originally assumed to be the Antichrist reborn. However, the Satanists who are responsible for orchestrating Delia's birth reveal that she is actually the protector of the new Antichrist, her embryonic twin brother, who was inside her body before being transferred into Delia's adoptive mother Karen. Once born, the newborn Alexander York survives his mother's death, after which he, Delia, and their father Gene attend Karen's funeral.\n\nA Hollywood remake was made featuring Liev Schreiber, Julia Stiles and Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick. The plot of the remake closely follows that of the original film. \"The Omen\" was also remade in Tamil in 1991 under the title \"Jenma Natchathiram\".\n\nGeorge Ochoa, in his book \"Deformed and Destructive Beings: The Purpose of Horror Films\", identifies Damien Thorn from \"The Omen\" films as a \"deformed and destructive being\". Ochoa writes that horror film audiences possess an ambivalence of horror and delight over the continued existence of the film's \"monster\". He says of Damien, \"It is horrifying to realize that the boy survived the final battle with his adoptive father... but it is also pleasing, because Damien—in company with... [the] ever-present Satan—is a well-realized DDB.\" He says the presentation of Damien as a character in the original \"The Omen\" is accentuated by his defeat of his adoptive father, who is played by Gregory Peck, known for leading man and heroic roles. In the remake, however, Damien defeats his adoptive father, played by Liev Schreiber, who is \"not associated with playing heroes\". Ochoa concludes, \"The result was that [Schreiber's character's] defeat by the little boy was neither exceptional nor horrifying, just forgettable.\"\n\nJames F. Iaccino analyzed Damien in \"The Omen\" with Jungian psychology, \"To paraphrase Jung, his psyche is animalistic, primordial, and monstrous to behold. It further contains within its very core an awesome supernatural element, setting the bearer apart from all others.\" Since Damien is an orphan on Earth, his survival means he has \"accomplished something truly godlike\". When Damien uses his powers, Iaccino says \"they are typically accompanied by a fierceness and rage\" that reflects the Jungian interpretation of \"the primordial child's being depicted as an inhuman\". Damien has a relationship with wild dogs that indicates \"his mystical link with the barbaric world of the primitive\". Iaccino says that Damien's life (in the original film) is spared because Damien \"can appear angelic and pure to those around him while concealing his depraved nature\", which is why his adoptive father hesitates to kill him. In \"Omen II\", Iaccino notes Damien's relationship with the raven, which \"is one of the devil's common guises\" in fairy tales. When satanists help educate Damien \"in the ways of evil\", the growing boy becomes fully conscious of his true nature. Iaccino explains, \"He is able to detach himself somewhat from the instinctual sphere of the beast (as well as the innocence of the child) in order to develop a stronger, more liberating identity.\" After Damien's realization, the raven no longer appears in the film, indicating that it has been \"integrated into Damien's conscience\". In \"Omen III: The Final Conflict\", Damien is an adult with an empire that thrives \"on the misfortunes of others\". He lacks faith or trust in others and does not want to admit needing anyone to survive. When he questions the Christ replica, he is \"the Jungian image of archaic man\" who believes that any action \"must produce a significant reaction in the world\", which is why he forces the crown of thorns on the replica's head.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1143760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1143760", "title": "David Corn", "text": "David Corn\n\nDavid Corn (born February 20, 1959) is an American political journalist, author, and the chief of the Washington bureau for \"Mother Jones\". He has been Washington editor for \"The Nation\" and appeared regularly on FOX News, MSNBC, National Public Radio, and BloggingHeads.tv opposite James Pinkerton or other media personalities.\n\nIn February 2013, he was named winner of the 2012 George Polk Award in journalism in the political reporting category for his video and reporting of the \"47 percent story,\" Republican nominee Mitt Romney's videoed meeting with donors during the 2012 presidential campaign.\n\nAs an author, Corn's output includes nonfiction and fiction and generally deals with government and politics. Corn has also been a book reviewer. On one occasion, he criticized his own organization when Nation Books published the translation of a controversial French book on Osama bin Laden and the 9/11 attacks. \"Forbidden Truth: US-Taliban Secret Oil Diplomacy and the Failed Hunt for Bin Laden\", by Jean-Charles Brisard and Guillaume Dasquié, suggests that the attacks resulted from a breakdown in talks between the Taliban and the United States to run an oil pipeline through Afghanistan. Corn argued that publishing \"contrived conspiracy theories\" undermined the ability to expose actual governmental misbehavior.\n\nOn November 1, 2017, \"Politico\" reported that David Corn's employer, \"Mother Jones\" magazine, had opened an investigation into allegations that Corn had engaged in inappropriate workplace behavior.\n\nCorn was raised in a Jewish family in White Plains, New York. He attended Brown University where he majored in history and worked for \"The Brown Daily Herald\". After his junior year, he interned at \"The Nation\" where he accepted a job as editorial assistant instead of returning to finish his degree. He earned his remaining credits at Columbia University and received a B.A. from Brown University in 1982. He joined Mother Jones in 2007.\n\nCorn's first book was a 1994 biography of longtime Central Intelligence Agency official Ted Shackley, which received mixed reviews. The book used Shackley's climb through the CIA bureaucracy to illustrate how the Agency worked and to follow some of its Cold War-era covert operations. In the \"Washington Post\", Roger Warner called it \"an impressive feat of research\"; but, in the \"New York Times\", Joseph Finder claimed Corn was seriously distorting history to blame Shackley for a series of CIA failings.\n\nCorn moved on to fiction with a contribution to \"Unusual Suspects\" (1996), a paperback collection of crime stories published as a fundraiser to combat world hunger. His first novel, \"Deep Background\", was a conspiracy thriller about the assassination of a president at a White House press conference and the ensuing investigation. Reviews praised Corn's mastery of the political atmosphere and characters, although they split on whether this was a virtue or, coming at the conclusion of the Clinton years, already all-too-familiar territory.\n\nWith the arrival of George W. Bush, Corn became a harsh critic of the President. His next book, \"The Lies of George W. Bush\", charged that Bush had systematically \"mugged the truth\" as a political strategy; and he found fault with the media for failing to report this effectively. The book also broke with journalistic practice for its explicit charge of lying, a word usually avoided as editorializing.\n\nIn particular, Corn criticized many of the arguments offered to justify the 2003 Invasion of Iraq; and he challenged \"New York Times\" columnist William Safire for claiming links between Saddam Hussein and Al-Qaeda. In \"Hubris\", written with Michael Isikoff of \"Newsweek\", Corn analyzed the Bush administration's drive toward the invasion.\n\nCorn announced on \"The Rachel Maddow Show\" on 9/12/2017 that he and Michael Isikoff were working on a new book about the Trump campaign and administration's ties with Russia and the Russian hacking during the 2016 Presidential campaign, as well as a history of Russian tactics; which was released on March 13, 2018 and entitled \"\".\n\nCorn was personally involved in the early coverage of the controversy over leaks to the media of the name of CIA officer Valerie Plame. After Robert Novak revealed Plame's identity in his July 14, 2003, column, Corn was the first to report, three days later, that Plame had been working covertly; and he raised the possibility that the leak of her identity violated the Intelligence Identities Protection Act.\n\nNovak, for his part, disputed that Plame had been a covert operative at the time her identity was revealed. He also objected to the negative portrayal of himself in \"Hubris\", for which he blamed Corn more than Isikoff. He said of Corn, \"Nobody was more responsible for bloating this episode.\" Novak felt that Corn was too close with former ambassador Joseph Wilson, Plame's husband and a key figure in criticism of the administration's arguments for invasion.\n\nHowever, in early 2007, an unclassified summary of Valerie Plame's employment history at the CIA was disclosed for the first time in a court filing and confirms that Plame was indeed a covert operative at the time her name was made public by Novak.\n\nIn announcing Corn's being awarded the George Polk Award for 2012, the sponsors wrote: David Corn of Mother Jones will receive the George Polk Award for Political Reporting for a story that rocked the nation and perhaps cost Mitt Romney the Presidential election. Through persistent digging and careful negotiation with a source, Corn secured a full recording of Romney at a $50,000-a-plate Florida fundraiser declaring that 47 percent of Americans — those who back president Obama — are “victims” who are “dependent upon government” and “pay no income tax.” Corn worked for weeks to obtain the recording, but it was his years of high-impact journalism that helped lead him to the source of the recording. Furthermore, it was Corn’s extensive previous reporting on Romney that convinced the source to trust him with its release.\n\nDavid Corn's story that introduced the secret tape was published in \"Mother Jones\" on September 17, 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3776369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3776369", "title": "David Wright (British diplomat)", "text": "David Wright (British diplomat)\n\nSir David John Wright (born 16 June 1944) is a former British diplomat who served as British Ambassador to Japan 1996–1999.\n\nWright was educated at Wolverhampton Grammar School, and at Peterhouse, University of Cambridge.\n\nHe joined the Foreign Office in 1966 and was posted as Third Secretary, later Second Secretary, to Tokyo. He returned to the FCO in 1972 and was promoted in London to First Secretary before attending the École nationale d'administration in Paris in 1975. From 1976 to 1980 he was posted as First Secretary to the Paris Embassy. He was seconded to be Private Secretary to the Secretary of the Cabinet (1980–1982), as a Grade 7 civil servant. From 1982-1985 he was Counsellor (Economic) in Tokyo.\n\nReturning again to the FCO, he was Head of the Personnel Services Department from 1985 to 1988. From there he was seconded to be Deputy Private Secretary to the Prince of Wales (1988–1990).\n\nSir David was appointed Ambassador to South Korea in 1990 and four years later returned to London as Deputy Under Secretary of State in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. From 1996 to 1999 he was appointed Ambassador to Japan, a post which he left to become Chief Executive of British Trade International, which promotes British exports and inward investment. He retired in 2002.\n\nAs of 2014, he is the Chairman of the Governing Body of the Perse School, Cambridge.\n\nAfter retiring from HM Diplomatic Service, Sir David Wright joined Barclays Capital, the investment banking arm of the Barclays group, as Vice Chairman where he is responsible for banking client relations in Asia-Pacific and Barclays links with UK government and other public entities. He is also Vice-President of the China-Britain Business Council, a member of the International Advisory Board of All Nippon Airways, and a Governor of the Royal Shakespeare Company. He is the current Chair at the Korean British Business Council.\n\nHe was made a LVO in 1990, CMG in 1992, promoted to in 1996 and further promoted to GCMG in 2002.\n\nAs of December 2017, Sir David Wright is Chairman of the board at Skarbek Associates.\n\n"}
{"id": "6124029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6124029", "title": "Devon A. Mihesuah", "text": "Devon A. Mihesuah\n\nDevon Abbott Mihesuah (born 2 June 1957) is a Choctaw historian and writer, and a previous editor of the American Indian Quarterly.\n\nMihesuah's non-fiction work concentrates on stereotypes and misrepresentations of Native American peoples, customs and beliefs in academic writing.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "284402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284402", "title": "Evelyn Lau", "text": "Evelyn Lau\n\nEvelyn Lau (); is a Canadian poet and novelist.\n\nLau was born in Vancouver, British Columbia on July 2, 1971 to Chinese-Canadian parents from Hong Kong, who intended for her to become a doctor. Her parents' ambitions for her were wholly irreconcilable with her own; consequently, her home and school lives were desperately unhappy. Lau attended Templeton Secondary School in Vancouver. In 1986 Lau ran away from her unbearable existence as a social outcast and pariah in school and a tyrannized daughter at home.\n\nEvelyn Lau began publishing poetry at the age of 12; her creative efforts helped her escape the pressure of home and school. In 1985, at age 14, Lau left home and spent the next several years living itinerantly in Vancouver as a homeless person, sleeping mainly in shelters, friends' homes, and on the street. She also became involved in prostitution and drug abuse.\n\nDespite the chaos of her first two years' independence, she submitted numerous poems to journals and received some recognition. A diary she kept at the time was published in 1989 as \"Runaway: Diary of a Street Kid.\" The book was a critical and commercial success; Lau received praise for frankly chronicling her relationships with manipulative older men, the life and habits of a group of anarchists with whom she stayed immediately after leaving home, her experiences with a couple from Boston who smuggled her into the United States, her abuse of various drugs, and her relationship with British Columbia's child support services. The diary was adapted as a film \"The Diary of Evelyn Lau\" (1993), starring Canadian actress Sandra Oh.\n\nLau had a well-publicized romantic relationship with W. P. Kinsella, a University of Victoria creative writing professor and poet more than 30 years her senior. After she published a personal essay in 1997 about the relationship, Kinsella sued her for libel. (\"Me and W.P.\" won a Western Magazine Award for Human Experience, and was shortlisted for the Gold Award for Best Article). \n\nHer work in magazines has won four Western Magazine Awards and a National Magazine Award; she also received the Air Canada Award, the Vantage Women of Originality Award, the ACWW Community Builders Award, and the Mayor's Arts Award for Literary Arts. Her poems were selected for inclusion in Best American Poetry (1992) and Best Canadian Poetry (2009, 2010, 2011, 2016). Lau has also worked as writer-in-residence at the University of British Columbia, Kwantlen University, and Vancouver Community College, and was Distinguished Visiting Writer at the University of Calgary.\n\nLau lives in Vancouver, where she is a manuscript consultant in Simon Fraser University's Writing and Publishing Program. On Oct. 14, 2011, Lau was named the poet laureate for the city of Vancouver. She is the third poet to hold this honorary position; her plan is to offer ‘poet-in-residence consultations with aspiring poets’.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "480188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=480188", "title": "Fox sisters", "text": "Fox sisters\n\nThe Fox sisters were three sisters from New York who played an important role in the creation of Spiritualism: Leah (1831–1890), Margaret (also called Maggie) (1833–1893) and Kate (also called Catherine) Fox (1837–1892). The two younger sisters used \"rappings\" to convince their older sister and others that they were communicating with spirits. Their older sister then took charge of them and managed their careers for some time. They all enjoyed success as mediums for many years.\n\nIn 1888, Margaret and Kate confessed that their rappings had been a hoax and publicly demonstrated their method. Margaret attempted to recant her confession the next year, but their reputation was ruined and in less than five years they were all dead, with Margaret and Kate dying in abject poverty. Despite their confession, the Spiritualism movement continued to grow in popularity.\n\nIn 1848, the two younger sisters – Kate (age 12) and Margaret (age 15) – were living in a house in Hydesville, New York, with their parents. Hydesville no longer exists but was a hamlet that was part of the township of Arcadia in Wayne County, New York, just outside Newark. The house had some reputation for being haunted, but it wasn't until late March that the family began to be frightened by unexplained sounds that at times sounded like knocking and at other times like the moving of furniture.\n\nIn 1888, Margaret told her story of the origins of the mysterious \"rappings\":\n\nDuring the night of March 31, Kate challenged the invisible noisemaker, presumed to be a \"spirit\", to repeat the snaps of her fingers. \"It\" did. \"It\" was asked to rap out the ages of the girls. \"It\" did. The neighbours were called in. Over the course of the next few days a code was developed where raps could signify yes or no in response to a question or be used to indicate a letter of the alphabet.\n\nThe girls addressed the spirit as \"Mr. Splitfoot\" which is a nickname for the Devil. Later, the alleged \"entity\" creating the sounds claimed to be the spirit of a peddler named Charles B. Rosna, who had been murdered five years earlier and buried in the cellar. In his writings on the Fox sisters, Arthur Conan Doyle claimed the neighbors dug up the cellar and found a few pieces of bone, but it wasn't until 1904 that a skeleton was found, buried in the cellar wall. No missing person named Charles B. Rosna was ever identified.\n\nMargaret Fox, in her later years noted:\n\nKate and Margaret were sent to nearby Rochester during the excitement – Kate to the house of her sister Leah (now the married Leah Fox Fish), and Margaret to the home of her brother David – and the rappings followed them. Amy and Isaac Post, a radical Quaker couple and long-standing friends of the Fox family, invited the girls into their Rochester home. Immediately convinced of the genuineness of the phenomena, they helped to spread the word among their radical Quaker friends, who became the early core of Spiritualists. In this way appeared the association between Spiritualism and radical political causes, such as abolition, temperance, and equal rights for women.\n\nOn 14 November 1849, the Fox sisters demonstrated their spiritualist rapping at the Corinthian Hall in Rochester. This was the first demonstration of spiritualism held before a paying public, and inaugurated a long history of public events featured by spiritualist mediums and leaders in the United States and in other countries.\n\nThe Fox girls became famous and their public séances in New York in 1850 attracted notable people including William Cullen Bryant, George Bancroft, James Fenimore Cooper, Nathaniel Parker Willis, Horace Greeley, Sojourner Truth and William Lloyd Garrison. They also attracted imitators; during the following few years, hundreds of people claimed the ability to communicate with spirits.\n\nKate and Margaret became well-known mediums, giving séances for hundreds of people. Many of these early séances were entirely frivolous, where sitters sought insight into \"the state of railway stocks or the issue of love affairs,\" but the religious significance of communication with the deceased soon became apparent. Horace Greeley, the prominent publisher and politician, became a kind of protector for them, enabling their movement in higher social circles. But the lack of parental supervision was pernicious, as both of the young women began to drink wine.\n\nThe cracking of joints was the theory scientists and skeptics most favored to explain the rappings, a theory dating back to 1850. The physician E. P. Longworthy investigated the sisters and noted how the knockings or raps always came from under their feet or when their dresses were in contact with the table. He concluded that Margaret and Kate had produced the noises themselves. John W. Hurn who published articles in the \"New-York Tribune\" also came to a similar conclusion of fraud. The Reverend John M. Austin would later claim the noises could be made by cracking toe joints. The Reverend D. Potts demonstrated to an audience that the raps could be made by this method.\n\nIn 1851, the Reverend C. Chauncey Burr wrote in the \"New-York Tribune\" that by cracking toe joints the sounds were so loud, they could be heard in a large hall. In the same year three investigators Austin Flint, Charles E. Lee and C. B. Coventry from the University at Buffalo examined the raps produced by the sisters and concluded they were produced by cracking their bone joints such as toes, knees, ankles or hips. From a control, they discovered the raps did not occur if the sisters were placed on a couch with cushions under their feet.\n\nIn 1853, Charles Grafton Page of Washington, D.C., investigated the Fox sisters. As a patent examiner and patent advocate, Page had developed a keen eye for detecting fraudulent claims about science. He applied these skills in exposing some of the deceptions employed by the Fox sisters during two sessions which he attended. In his book \"Psychomancy\" (1853), Page observed that the rapping sounds came from underneath the girls' long dresses. When he asked if the spirits could produce a sound at a distance from their own bodies, one girl climbed into a wardrobe closet where her dress touched the wood, whence the sound transmitted into the wood plank — however, she was unable to control this sound sufficiently to produce spirit communications. Page devised contraptions that emulated the rapping sounds produced by the girls, which could be concealed under long clothing. He declaimed the girls' means of hiding from bodily examination that would expose their fraud:\n\nIn 1857, the \"Boston Courier\" set up a prize of $500 to any medium who could demonstrate paranormal ability to their committee. The Fox sisters attempted to win the prize and were investigated by three Harvard professors. They failed the test, the committee concluded the raps were produced by bone and feet movements.\n\nA report by the Seybert Commission in 1887 stated that after investigating various mediums including Margaret; the phenomena could have easily been produced by fraudulent methods. The report noted that the raps were heard close to Margaret and a séance sitter, Professor Furness had felt pulsations in her foot.\n\nKate was one of mediums examined by William Crookes, the prominent physicist, between 1871 and 1874, who concluded the raps were genuine. However, Crookes was described as gullible and the mediums he investigated were caught using trickery.\n\nIn 1904, the body associated with the peddler spirit was supposedly found in the cellar when a false wall fell down. The \"Boston Journal\" published a story about the discovery on November 22, 1904. The tin box of the peddler was found in the cellar and is now in the Lily Dale Museum. Skeptical researcher Joe Nickell concluded after researching the box and the primary sources of the bones that they constituted further hoaxing. The bones were, at least in part, those of animals. There has been no confirmation that the peddler existed. Also, the alleged false wall appears to be due to an expansion of the foundation, not concealment of a secret grave.\n\nLeah, on the death of her first husband, married a successful Wall Street banker. Margaret met Elisha Kane, the Arctic explorer, in 1852. Kane was convinced that Margaret and Kate were engaged in fraud, under the direction of their sister Leah, and he sought to break Margaret from the group. Kane married Margaret nonetheless, and Margaret converted to the Roman Catholic faith. When Kane died in 1857, Margaret returned to her activities as a medium. In 1876 she joined her sister Kate, who was living in England.\n\nKate had traveled to England in 1871, the trip paid for by a wealthy New York banker, so that she would not be compelled to accept payment for her services as a medium. The trip was apparently considered missionary work, since Kate sat only for prominent persons, who would let their names be printed as witnesses to a séance. In 1872, Kate married H.D. Jencken, a London barrister, legal scholar, and enthusiastic Spiritualist. Jencken died in 1881, leaving Kate with two sons. Kate died at her home, 609 Columbus Avenue in New York City, on July 3, 1892. Less than a year later, Margaret, deep in alcoholism, was living on charity as the sole tenant of an old tenement house at 456 West 56th Street. She was taken to the home of Spiritualist Mrs. Emily B. Ruggles, 492 State Street in Brooklyn, where she died on March 8, 1893.\n\nIn 1851, Mrs. Norman Culver, a relative of the Fox family, admitted in a signed statement that she had assisted them during their séances by touching them to indicate when the raps should be made. She also claimed that Kate and Margaret revealed to her the method of producing the raps by snapping their toes and using their knees and ankles.\n\nOver the years, sisters Kate and Margaret had developed serious drinking problems. Around 1888, they became embroiled in a quarrel with their sister Leah and other leading Spiritualists, who were concerned that Kate was drinking too much to care properly for her children. At the same time, Margaret, contemplating a return to the Roman Catholic faith, became convinced that her powers were diabolical. Eager to harm Leah as much as possible, the two sisters traveled to New York City, where a reporter offered $1,500 if they would \"expose\" their methods and give him an exclusive on the story. Margaret appeared publicly at the New York Academy of Music on October 21, 1888, with Kate present. Before an audience of 2,000, Margaret demonstrated how she could produce – at will – raps audible throughout the theater. Doctors from the audience came on stage to verify that the cracking of her toe joints was the source of the sound.\n\nMargaret told her story of the origins of the mysterious \"rappings\" in a signed confession given to the press and published in \"New York World\", October 21, 1888. In it, she explained the Hydesville events.\n\nShe expanded on her career as a medium after leaving the homestead to begin her Spiritualist travels with her older sister, Mrs. Underhill:\n\nShe also wrote:\n\nHarry Houdini, the magician who devoted a large part of his life to debunking Spiritualist claims, provided this insight:\n\nPressured by the Spiritualist movement and her own dire financial circumstances, Margaret recanted her confession in writing in November 1889, about a year after her exhibition. She had attempted to return to Spiritualist performances, but never again attracted the attention or paying clientele of the sisters' earlier careers. Within a few years, both sisters died in poverty, shunned by former supporters and were buried in pauper's graves. All three sisters are interred in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nMargaret and Katie made very strong statements against Spiritualism:\n\nThe Fox sisters have been widely cited in parapsychology and spiritualist literature. According to psychologists Leonard Zusne and Warren Jones, \"many accounts of the Fox sisters leave out their confession of fraud and present the rappings as genuine manifestations of the spirit world.\" C. E. M. Hansel notes that \"remarkably, the Fox sisters are still discussed in the parapsychological literature without mention of their trickery.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5834321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5834321", "title": "Gautama Buddha in Hinduism", "text": "Gautama Buddha in Hinduism\n\nIn Vaishnava Hinduism, the historic Buddha or Gautama Buddha, is considered to be an avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu. Of the ten major avatars of Vishnu, Vaishnavites believe Gautama Buddha to be the ninth and most recent incarnation.\n\nBuddha's portrayal in Hinduism varies. In some texts such as the Puranas, he is portrayed as an avatar born to mislead those who deny the Vedic knowledge. In others, such as the 13th-century \"Gitagovinda\" of Vaishnava poet Jayadeva, Vishnu incarnates as the Buddha to teach and to end animal slaughter. In contemporary Hinduism, state Constance Jones and James D. Ryan, Buddha is revered by Hindus who usually consider \"Buddhism to be another form of Hinduism\".\n\nThe Buddha has been important to Hinduism since the ancient times, given his teachings and royal support. The Hindu views (Brahmanical tradition) for the Buddha have neither been consistent nor constant. They have ranged from actively contesting the Buddhist premises and theology to sharing or adopting terminology, concepts as well as more recently, the persona of the Siddhartha as someone who was born in and matured into the Buddha in a Brahmanical system. One such integration is through its mythology, where in Vaishnava Puranas, the Buddha is adopted as the ninth avatar of Vishnu.\n\nBuddha is considered as an avatar of Vishnu, by traditions within Hinduism. Buddhists traditionally do not accept the Buddha to be a Vishnu avatar. The adoption of Buddha may have been a way to assimilate Buddhism into the fold of Hinduism. Much like Hinduism's adoption of the Buddha as an avatar, Buddhism legends too adopted Krishna in its Jataka Tales, claiming Krishna (Vishnu avatar) to be a character whom Buddha met and taught in his previous births. The adoption of the Buddha in texts relating to Hindu gods, and of Hindu gods in Buddhist texts, is difficult to place chronologically. According to Alf Hiltebeitel and other scholars, some of the stories in Buddha-related Jataka tales found in Pali texts seem slanderous distortions of Hindu legends, but these may reflect the ancient local traditions and the complexities of early interaction between the two Indian religions.\n\nIn contemporary Hinduism, state Constance Jones and James D. Ryan, Buddha is revered by Hindus. They usually consider \"Buddhism to be another form of Hinduism\". However, regional Hindu texts over the centuries have presented a spectrum of views on Buddhism, possibly reflecting the competition between Buddhism and the Brahmanical traditions. Some pre-13th-century Hindu texts portray the Buddha as born to mislead the asuras to the false path, some to stop all killing of animals. Some pre-14th-century Hindu temples include Buddha reliefs with the same reverence they show for other avatars of Vishnu. In recent and contemporary Hinduism in India, Buddha is considered a holy being and revered as one who was awakened. Outside India, some contemporary Hindus revere the Buddha along with other gods during their festivals.\n\nScholars contest whether the Hindu perceptions and apologetic attempts to rationalize the Buddha within their fold is correct. Though an avatar of Vishnu, the Buddha is rarely worshipped like Krishna and Rama in Hinduism. According to John Holt, the Buddha was adopted as an avatar of Vishnu around the time the Puranas were being composed, in order to subordinate him into the Brahmanical ideology. Further adds Holt, various scholars in India, Sri Lanka and outside South Asia state that the colonial era and contemporary attempts to assimilate Buddha into the Hindu fold is a nationalistic political agenda, where \"the Buddha has been reclaimed triumphantly as a symbol of indigenous nationalist understandings of India's history and culture\".\n\nAccording to Lars Tore Flåten, Hindu perceptions, particularly in the literature by Hindu nationalists, are that \"Buddha did not break away from the spiritual ideas of his age and country\". They claim that scholars such as Hermann Oldenberg, Thomas Rhys Davids and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan state there is much in common between \"Buddhism and the contemporary Hinduism\". These perceptions cite, for example, the Pali scholar Rhys Davids' analysis in \"Buddhism: Being a Sketch of the Life and Teachings of Gautama, the Buddha\", where he wrote, \"But the foregoing account will be sufficient, I hope, to remove at least one misconception – the prevalent notion that Gautama was an enemy to Hinduism, and that his chief claim on the gratitude of his countrymen lies in his having destroyed a system of iniquity and oppression and fraud. This is not the case. Gautama was born, and brought up, and lived, and died a Hindu\". In present-day scholarly consensus, Buddhism is considered very different from pre-Buddhist Indian religion, however. For example, Indologist Richard Gombrich wrote that the Buddha was a radical religious reformer, making religious practice and salvation a more personal matter than it was before the arising of Buddhism.\n\nThe Oxford professor and later President of India, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan states that \"as a matter of fact, nowhere did Buddha repudiate the Upanishad conception of Brahman, the absolute\", that Buddha, if anything, \"accepted the Upanishad's position\". Buddhologists like K.R. Norman and Richard Gombrich meanwhile, argue that the Buddha's anatta theory does indeed extend to the Brahmanical belief expounded in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad that the Self (Atman) is the Universal Self, or Brahman.They point to the Pali \"Alagaddūpama-sutta\", where the Buddha argues that an individual cannot experience the suffering of the entire world.\n\nGombrich and other scholars have argued that the Buddha did not begin or pursue social reforms, nor was he against caste altogether, rather his aim was at the salvation of those who joined his monastic order. According to Gombrich, modernists keep picking up these erroneous assumptions \"from western authors\".\n\nB. R. Ambedkar, the Dalit leader who in 1935 declared his intention to convert from Hinduism to Buddhism and converted about 20 years later, rejected that Buddha was an incarnation of Vishnu. Ambedkar, while he was a Hindu and before he launched a new form of Buddhism, reinterpreted Buddha's teachings into what he called Navayana, wherein he developed a Marxist interpretation of Buddha's teachings. He founded and converted to a new version of Buddhism, a version which criticized and rejected Hinduism, but also Theravada Buddhism and Mahayana Buddhism because, according to Ambedkar, they all misrepresented the Buddha.\n\nAccording to Donald Swearer, the understanding of Buddha in Hinduism is a part of his wider and diverse influences. Even within Buddhism, states Swearer, Buddha and his ideas are conceptualized differently between Theravada, Mahayana, Tibetan, Japanese and other traditions. Similarly, in various traditions of Hinduism (and elsewhere), Buddha is accepted and interpreted in different ways.\n\nThe Buddha is mentioned as an avatar of Vishnu in the Puranas and the epics such as:\n\nIn the Puranic texts, he is mentioned as one of the ten Avatars of Vishnu, usually as the ninth one. Another important scripture that mentions him as an avatar is Parashara's \"Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra\" (2:1-5/7).\n\nHelmuth von Glasenapp attributed these developments to a Hindu desire to absorb Buddhism in a peaceful manner, both to win Buddhists to Vaishnavism and also to account for the fact that such a significant heresy could exist in India.\n\nThe times ascribed to one \"Buddha\" figure are contradictory and some put him in approximately 500 CE, with a lifetime of 64 years, describe him as having killed some persons, as following the Vedic religion, and having a father named Jina, which suggest that this particular figure might be a different person from Siddhārta Gautama.\n\nChakra has been a historic identifier of Vishnu's dharma, but it as Dharmachakra is also an esteemed symbol in Buddhism for the Buddha's doctrine.\n\nWhile Hinduism adopted the Buddha in its mythology, Buddhism adopted the Hindu god Krishna in its own mythology. The story of Krishna occurs in the Jataka tales in Buddhism, for example. The \"Vidhurapandita Jataka\" mentions \"Madhura\" (Sanskrit: Mathura), the \"Ghata Jataka\" mentions Kamsa, Devagabbha (Sk: Devaki), Upasagara or Vasudeva, Govaddhana (Sk: Govardhana), Baladeva (Balarama), and Kanha or Kesava (Sk: Krishna, Keshava).\n\nThe Arjuna and Krishna interaction is missing in the Jataka version. In the Buddhist version, Krishna laments in uncontrollable sorrow when his son dies, and a Ghatapandita feigns madness to teach Krishna a lesson. The Jataka tale also includes an internecine destruction among his siblings after they all get drunk. Krishna also dies in the Buddhist legend by the hand of a hunter named Jara, but while he is traveling to a frontier city. Mistaking Krishna for a pig, Jara throws a spear that fatally pierces his feet, causing Krishna great pain and then his death.\n\nAt the end of this \"Ghata-Jataka\" discourse, the Buddhist text declares that Sariputta, one of the revered disciples of the Buddha in the Buddhist tradition, was incarnated as Krishna in his previous life to learn lessons on grief from the Buddha in his prior rebirth:\n\nWhile the Buddhist Jataka texts co-opt Krishna-Vasudeva and make him a student of the Buddha in his previous life, the Hindu texts co-opt the Buddha and make him an avatar of Vishnu.\nSimilarly, in \"Dasaratha Jataka\" Buddha identifies himself as Rama.\n\nBuddhism, like Hinduism and other major Indian religions, asserts that everything is impermanent (anicca), but, unlike them, also asserts that there is no permanent self or soul in living beings (\"anattā\"). The ignorance or misperception (\"avijjā\") that anything is permanent or that there is self in any being is considered a wrong understanding in Buddhism, and the primary source of clinging and dukkha.\n\nBuddha endorsed and taught the concept of rebirth. This refers to a process whereby beings go through a succession of lifetimes as one of many possible forms of sentient life, each running from conception to death. In Buddhist thought, however, this rebirth does not involve any soul, unlike Hinduism and Jainism. According to Buddhism the atman concept is incorrect, untrue.\n\n"}
{"id": "7286308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7286308", "title": "George W. Morgan", "text": "George W. Morgan\n\nGeorge Washington Morgan (September 20, 1820 – July 26, 1893) was an American soldier, lawyer, politician, and diplomat. He fought in the Texas Revolution and the Mexican-American War, and was a general in the Union Army during the American Civil War. Morgan later served as a three-term postbellum United States Congressman from Ohio.\n\nMorgan was born in Washington County, Pennsylvania, to a prominent family. His grandfather, Col. George Morgan, was the first to give President Thomas Jefferson the information regarding Aaron Burr's conspiracy. G. W. Morgan was educated in local schools, and then in 1836, he withdrew from Washington College at the age of 16 and enlisted in a military company that was commanded by his older brother, Thomas Jefferson Morgan. They traveled south to Mexican Texas to fight in the struggle for independence from Mexico. Morgan received a commission in the regular Texas Army under Sam Houston as a lieutenant, and rose to captain commanding the post at Galveston. He served with Captain Robertson's rangers and Company B of the First Regiment of Texas Rangers. He resigned in 1839 to return to Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1841, he entered the United States Military Academy, but left in 1843 due to poor grades. He moved to Mount Vernon, Ohio, studied law, passed the bar exam, and established a law practice there in 1845. He served as prosecutor for Knox County.\n\nWhen war erupted with Mexico, Morgan was appointed Colonel of the 2nd Ohio Volunteer Infantry. He subsequently was commissioned as Colonel of the 15th U.S. Infantry in March 1847, serving under General Winfield Scott. To put an end to the guerrilla warfare and murder of American soldiers, Colonel Morgan seized a number of prominent Mexican citizens and issued a proclamation announcing that for every American soldier killed by the guerrillas, a citizen would be executed. The murders ceased at once. He was breveted to brigadier general in 1848 for his gallantry at the battles of Contreras and Churubusco, where he was severely wounded. Returning to Ohio to recuperate, he received the formal thanks of the Ohio legislature.\n\nMorgan resumed his law practice in Mount Vernon. He married Sarah H. Hall of Zanesville, Ohio, on October 7, 1851, and they had two children.\n\nHe was a lawyer until 1856, when he was appointed by President James Buchanan as the United States Consul to Marseilles. Two years later, he became the Minister to Portugal, which post he held until 1861, when he returned to the United States following the outbreak of the Civil War.\n\nMorgan, due to his previous military experience in two wars, was appointed as a brigadier general in the Union Army on November 21, 1861, reporting to Maj. Gen. Don Carlos Buell in the Western Theater. In March 1862, Morgan assumed command of the 7th Division of the Army of the Ohio and was ordered to southeastern Kentucky to drive the Confederates from the strategic Cumberland Gap and occupy it. Moving quickly, Morgan defeated Carter L. Stevenson's Confederates and chased off the defenders on June 18, 1862. He then successfully manned the gap with his four brigades of infantry, augmented by artillery placed on the heights.\n\nHowever, in September, he was forced to hastily retreat towards the Ohio River as Braxton Bragg invaded Kentucky, cutting off his supply routes. Morgan conducted a masterful retreat in the face of the much superior enemy force, despite being harassed by constant attacks from Col. John H. Morgan's guerrillas. George Morgan's 8,000 men marched over 200 miles from Cumberland Gap in sixteen days to Greenup, Kentucky, arriving there on October 3 on their way to Camp Dennison in Ohio.\n\nIn November, Morgan served with Maj. Gen. Jacob D. Cox in western Virginia (now West Virginia) in the Kanawha River Valley, defending Charleston.\n\nThe following year, Morgan commanded the 3rd Division of the XIII Corps under Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman during the Vicksburg Campaign. Sherman, however, was upset with Morgan's performance at the battle of Chickasaw Bluffs, when he failed to carry out orders for a planned attack. Morgan soon redeemed himself as he subsequently led the XIII Corps force that captured Fort Hindman in Arkansas. His health having deteriorated from the lengthy campaigning, and dissatisfied with the use of black troops, Morgan resigned his commission on June 8, 1863, and returned to Ohio and civilian life.\n\nWhile strongly in favor of maintaining the Union at any cost, Morgan was equally opposed to any governmental interference with the state institution of the South, slavery, and believed that the Federal government had no legal right to abolish the practice. Morgan campaigned in Ohio for former army general George B. McClellan in the 1864 Presidential Election. In 1865 he was the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for Governor of Ohio, being defeated by his former commander in the Kanawha Valley, Jacob D. Cox.\n\nNonetheless, he continued to pursue a political career, and in 1866 was elected to the Fortieth United States Congress from Ohio's 13th District, serving on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There, he voted against the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson. Two years later, he appeared to have won reelection. However, his seat was contested by the defeated Republican candidate, Columbus Delano, who supplanted him on June 3, 1868. Not deterred, Morgan campaigned again in 1870 and was elected to another term, holding his Congressional seat until 1873, serving on the committees on foreign affairs, military affairs, and reconstruction. He was an outspoken critic of the administration's harsh policies on Reconstruction and constantly battled with the Radical Republicans. Morgan ran for Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, but was defeated by James G. Blaine.\n\nFollowing his retirement from Congress, Morgan was a delegate-at-large to the 1876 Democratic National Convention in St. Louis.\n\nHe died at Fort Monroe, Virginia, and was buried in Mound View Cemetery in Mount Vernon, Ohio.\n\n\n\n\n\n Retrieved on 2008-08-13\n"}
{"id": "57711090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57711090", "title": "Ghébrē-Michael", "text": "Ghébrē-Michael\n\nBlessed Ghébrē-Michael (1791 - 30 July 1855) was an Ethiopian Roman Catholic priest and postulant from the Congregation of the Mission. He became a monk in the Coptic Orthodox Church in 1813 when he became professed and later met Saint Giustino de Jacobis on a pilgrimage. That chance meeting later happened to transform his life since the saint would later receive him into Catholicism and ordain him as a priest. But the Coptic Orthodox bishop - the single Orthodox bishop in Ethiopia - took an intense disliking of him and set out to eliminate both him and his patron de Jacobis. He was soon imprisoned and tortured and later died in prison due to ill treatment under a cedar tree.\n\nHis beatification process launched in 1920 under Pope Benedict XV and Pope Pius XI later beatified him not long after on 3 October 1926.\n\nGhébrē-Michael was born in Ethiopia in Dibo in 1791. He was part of one of the three Ethiopian religious sects called the Kevats. He was educated in Dibo then aged twelve began his high school studies in one of the monastic schools where he was known for his shrewd manner of learning.\n\nIn his childhood he lost one eye in an accident that in his culture would have rendered him unfit for most forms of work. He received an education and then began his studies in one of the monasteries where he became a gifted student. He became professed as a monk in 1813. He had not prepared for ordination in the Coptic Orthodox Church since monks did not become priests but he became fascinated instead with declining standards in monasteries and set out to find out what the causes were. His superiors helped facilitate his research and he was also allowed to travel across the nation visiting these monasteries and doing further research in their libraries. He also decided that these matters required further research and so decided to go to Jerusalem for additional studies.\n\nIn order to do this he joined a small delegation of Orthodox faithful who attempted to go to Alexandria - and then Cairo - to ask the Coptic Patriarch to appoint a new Orthodox bishop since the sole position had been rendered vacant. He also learnt that the bishop Saint Giustino de Jacobis would become part of it due to high esteem for the latter. De Jacobis had been reluctant to accept but compromised that he would go with the delegation if it headed to Rome on the sojourn back to Ethiopia. The delegation was not all too pleased with the bishop appointed since he had received part of his education from Protestants and this bishop would go on to cause trouble for Catholicism in Ethiopia and had a particular disliking for Ghébrē-Michael and de Jacobis. The delegation then headed to Rome to meet Pope Gregory XVI which the rector of the Irish College in Rome Paul Cullen (later a cardinal) detailed in a 19 August 1841 letter to the Archbishop of Dublin Daniel Murray.\n\nHe first met de Jacobis during that pilgrimage in September 1843 and the bishop advised him to return home via a different route since de Jacobis believed that his research would cause him to make enemies. The delegation returned to the Red Sea port of Massawa and he himself returned sometime later on his own as de Jacobis advised. The two would meet on a regular basis for the next six months and the two together visited monasteries before de Jacobis himself received him into Catholicism in February 1844; this led to six other Coptic monks asking for admission too after having seen his example.\n\nIn 1850 he and de Jacobis were in conversation when the latter asked him if he desired becoming a priest. De Jacobis later ordained him to the priesthood on 1 January 1851. The new Orthodox bishop instigated persecution of Catholicism and at one stage - when he was set to enter the Congregation of the Mission as a postulant - he and de Jacobis were arrested with four others. De Jacobis was kept hidden from the others while their captors hoped extreme isolation and torture would cause them to abandon Catholicism. But de Jacobis was later released and in late 1854 the Orthodox bishop failed through torture to get him and the others to apostatize. Tewodros II was crowned as the king in 1855 and the king also sought to torture him to get him to apostatize to no avail. To that end the emperor kept him in chains and would have him brought with him whenever and wherever he travelled. In May 1855 the British Consul visited the emperor and the latter decided to put the priest on trial in the consul's presence. But he refused to abandon his faith and the court deemed that he should be shot dead. But the consul asked for him to be spared and the emperor agreed which left the priest back in chains and moved from place to place as the emperor travelled.\n\nHe later died due to ill treatment on a road under a cedar tree. His remains were never found.\n\nDe Jacobis later explained in a letter to the order's Superior-General Jean-Baptiste Etienne that the late priest could be considered a member in the order despite his having been a postulant; in his words \"he belonged in his heart and in his spirit to the congregation\".\n\nThe informative phase in investigation into potential beatification opened and closed in Addis Ababa in 1904 as did a similar process in Asmara in 1909; the formal introduction to the cause came under Pope Benedict XV on 25 January 1920 and he became titled as a Servant of God. The apostolic process was later held from 1921 to 1922 after which point the Congregation for Rites validated the previous processes on 11 December 1923. His theological and other spiritual writings received approval on 19 May 1925. An antepreparatory committee approved the cause on 22 December 1925 as did a preparatory one on 23 February 1926 and a general one on 27 April. On the following 22 May his beatification received formal approval from Pope Pius XI who beatified him later that 3 October.\n\n"}
{"id": "894510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=894510", "title": "Giorgos Mitsikostas", "text": "Giorgos Mitsikostas\n\nGiorgos Mitsikostas () (born 12 October 1968) is a famous Greek comedic impressionist in Greece.\n\nHe started his professional career by impersonating Greek public figures, mainly sports people (e.g famous sportscaster Giannis Diakogiannis and Filippas Sirigos) and politicians (prime ministers Konstantinos Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou) on radio satiric shows on FM Radio station \"Athens 98.4\". The name of his show had the -completely- random title, \"The conspirators of the night, in the conspiracy of the patsas\" (Greek: \"Οι συνωμότες της νύχτας, στη συνωμοσία του πατσά\"), in which his co-presenator was, the later well-known TV presenter, Nikos Evaggelatos.\n\nBut he was doing amateur radio shows some time before as university student (in the Buness Management department of AUEB) on college radio. His debut on TV was in 1990. Since then he has been on many Greek channels, and afterwards started to impersonate actors, singers and journalists as well, and changed the form of his shows. All of the titles of his shows are a word play, usually with his name.\n\nIt is said that sometimes when a Greek celebrity called a restaurant or a hotel to book a seat, the persons on the other end of the line thought it was Mitsikostas making pranks. Mitsikostas has admitted he has done such things in the past.\n\nThere is a famous political anecdote concerning the Greek politician and former prime minister of Greece for many years Andreas Papandreou, who upon first hearing the then mostly unknown Mitsikostas imitating him on the radio having a conversation with leader of the then opposition and also former Prime Minister Konstantinos Karamanlis, called his minister, alarmed about a scam being raised against his party by imposters.\n\nMitsikostas also impersonates sports people from Greece. Such persons include Giorgos Georgiou, Kostas Karamanlis, Vassilios Tsiartas, Giorgos Karagounis, Nikos Alefantos, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Dušan Bajević, Sakis Rouvas, Vassilis Leventis, Antonios Nikopolidis, Sotiris Ninis, Dimitris Ververelis and Adonis Georgiades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21846750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21846750", "title": "Harold Bollers", "text": "Harold Bollers\n\nSir Harold Brodie Smith Bollers (5 February 1915 – 26 December 2006) was a Guyanese born lawyer, who served as Chief Justice of Guyana.\n\nBollers was born in Georgetown, Guyana, educated at Queen College, Guyana and read law at Kings College, London. From 1966 to 1980 he was the first Chief Justice of Guyana following Guyana's independence.\n\nHis honours include Knight Bachelor (KB) in 1969, the Cacique's Crown of Honour (CCH) in 1982, and the Order of Roraima (OR) in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "16987693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16987693", "title": "Hunt Slonem", "text": "Hunt Slonem\n\nHunt Slonem (born Hunt Slonim, July 18, 1951) is an American painter, sculptor, and printmaker. He is best known for his Neo-Expressionist paintings of tropical birds, often based on a personal aviary in which he has been keeping from 30 to over 100 live birds of various species. Slonem's works are included in many important museum collections all over the world; he is exhibiting regularly at both public and private venues, and he has received numerous honors and awards.\n\nHunt Slonem was born in Kittery, Maine, in an upper middle class family, the eldest of four children. His father was a Navy officer, and mother – a homemaker who spent much of her time doing volunteer work. As a result of his father's military career, Slonem's family moved around as frequently as every two to three years. He lived in Hawaii, Virginia, Connecticut, California and Washington State. Slonem's grandmother was a Tennessee native who married a Minnesota-born amateur artist and educator who became the Superintendent of Public Schools in Duluth, Minnesota. It was Slonem's grandfather who always encouraged young Hunt to paint. \"I grew up around painting, and my parents dabbled in painting themselves. I was given paints as a child, and I wanted to be a painter from first grade onwards,\" Slonem told the online magazine \"Art Interview\". His younger brother, Jeffrey Slonim, is a prolific journalist, and contributing editor of the \"Interview Magazine\", and his cousin is the best-selling author Tama Janowitz.\n\nAfter completing school, which included living in Nicaragua as an exchange student when he was 16 years old, Slonem commenced undergraduate studies at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee. He then spent about six months of his sophomore year at the University of the Americas in San Andrés Cholula, Puebla, Mexico, but later graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Painting and Art History from Tulane University in New Orleans, Louisiana. He also took courses at the reputable Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine, where he was exposed to such influential artists from the New York area as Louise Nevelson, Alex Katz, Alice Neel, Richard Estes, Jack Levine, and Al Held. During that period, Slonem altered the \"i\" to an \"e\" in his family name as a nod to numerology. He moved to New York in 1973 to further his art practice, and Manhattan had become his consistent base ever since.\n\nHunt Slonem's artistic career began in New York, in the late 1970s. When he first came to Manhattan, in 1973, he was hired by the Department of Social Services to teach painting to senior citizens. He was unhappy at his job and seriously considered moving to Amsterdam when, unexpectedly, in 1975, he got a call from artist Janet Fish who offered him her studio for the summer. That telephone call turned Slonem's life around. Shortly afterwards, In 1976, Hunt Slonem received a painting grant from the Elizabeth Greenshields Foundation in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, and began painting in earnest. His first solo show was held at New York's Harold Reed Gallery in 1977, followed by a major exhibition at the prestigious Fischbach Gallery. As Slonem's career progressed, he was introduced to people like Andy Warhol, Liza Minnelli, Sylvia Miles, and Truman Capote. Through Jeffrey Slonim, who would later serve as an usher at Andy Warhol's funeral, he also met and befriended the Belgian-born actress Monique van Vooren, the star of Warhol's film \"Flesh for Frankenstein\". He soon became a habitué of New York's trendiest hot spots and an active participant in the city's burgeoning art scene.\n\nSlonem's move to New York had a profound influence on his development as an artist. According to the \"New York Times\", he fell in love with \"a very particular kind of New York life, one most people can only fantasize about. But people this determinedly unusual do exist here, and that is one of the city's surest charms. They feed off the city and the city feeds off them.\" Novelist Tama Janowitz put it succinctly, saying, \"His pictures are the subtext of Manhattan, an imaginary, vivid and grotesquely evocative world that bubbles beneath the paved-over, gray city of New York which he physically inhabits -- a city where people have come from all over the world, bringing their images of other places and other lives with them.\"\n\nDespite living in the heart of Manhattan, Slonem remained true to his boyhood fascination with exotica, which he had developed as a youth in Hawaii and during his time as a foreign exchange student in Managua, Nicaragua. His paintings expressed a strong affinity for nature, especially the various species of exotic butterflies and tropical birds living on the island. He soon became well known for creating grisaille paintings of small birds in their cages. He often painted them wet-on-wet and grit off the surfaces to denote wire enclosures after the birds had been strategically placed. Art critic Roberta Smith wrote in the \"New York Times\" that Slonem's \"witty Formalism strategy meshes the creatures into the picture plane and sometimes nearly obliterates them as images, but it also suspends and shrouds them in a dim, atmospheric light that is quite beautiful. If Joseph Cornell had concentrated on painting, the results might have looked like this.\" Birds also fill the surface of his largest project yet – a 6-foot by 86 foot mural he painted for the iconic Bryant Park Grill Restaurant in New York City, completed in 1995. According to \"The New Yorker\", \"The most notable aspect of the [restaurant's] interior is an 86-foot long mural by the artist Hunt Slonem, which depicts hundreds of birds, similar to those found in the artist's studio, where he can be found painting away with a bird or two perched on his shoulders.\"\n\nHunt Slonem's oil paintings pivot between the fantastic and the natural. These natural forms ultimately become the subjects for many of his artworks, appearing in large lavishly colored paintings and constructed sculptures. As an artist, he endeavors to explore the many expressive faculties of color. His paintings are layered with thick brushstrokes of vivid color, often cut into in a cross-hatched pattern that adds texture to the overall surface of the painting. Slonem often hides his subjects \"behind a grid of incised lines, blurring their contours and emphasizing the paint's tactile quality.\" This surface patterning combines with the rich colors and recognizable subject matter to create paintings that are physically and aesthetically rich. Poet and critic John Ashbery observed, \"From the narrow confines of his grids, half cage, half perch, Slonem summons dazzling explosions of the variable life around us that need only to be looked at in order to spring into being.\"\n\nSlonem's obsessive and repetitive rendering of his subjects reflects his desire to explore issues of spatial complexity, compression and density in what the acclaimed Metropolitan Museum of Art curator Henry Geldzahler deemed \"a consistent investigation of post-cubist abstraction.\" The repetitive imagery also makes a reference to Andy Warhol. \"I was influenced by Warhol's repetition of soup cans and Marilyn,\" says Slonem. \"But I'm more interested in doing it in the sense of prayer, with repetition... It's really a form of worship.\" He is not interested in realism or, unlike Warhol, in advertising or media, and his paintings are neither narrative nor specific in detail. Rather, Slonem's work is deeply rooted in the act of painting. His jarring color choices, spontaneous mark making, and scratched hatch marks are the result of his ongoing fascination with the manipulation and implementation of paint. For Slonem, cross-hatching has \"a feeling of a tapestry, it's like weaving. I'm making colors bleed into each other, I'm revealing the under-painting. I'm making these marks to allow the light to come through, basically. So you're seeing about five levels of paint, instead of one.\" It is this kind of devotion to the process of painting that prompted Henry Geldzahler to observe in 1993 that \"Slonem is a painter, a painter's painter with an enormous bag of technical tricks which become apparent to the viewer the longer he stands before the work.\"\n\nAnother recurring theme of Slonem's pictorial work is portrait painting, and that of Abraham Lincoln in particular. He is interested in history and memorabilia, and for him, the \"larger-than-life\" Lincoln is a catchall. In Slonem's words, \"On Marilyn [Monroe]'s desk, she had a picture of her mother and a picture of Lincoln. And she said, 'I really didn't know who my father was, so it might as well be Abraham Lincoln.'\" According to the \"Interview Magazine\", \"Slonem's portraits of Lincoln feel personal, and in surprising ways, he's close to the long-deceased.\" \"I work with diviners and mystics, and one of them started channeling Lincoln in my house,\" says Slonem. \"[Lincoln] guided me to paint certain things, like my doves: he wanted me to paint them as a symbol of freedom.\"\n\nIn the early 1980s, Slonem began working on a new series of so-called \"Rabbit paintings.\" The idea for this critically acclaimed series came to him after he had discovered that the year of his birth, 1951, was the year of the Rabbit in the Chinese zodiac calendar. He often repeats imagery in this series, just like in his other series, because, he told the \"Wall Street Journal\", the act is similar to spiritual meditation: \"Mantras are holy because you repeat them.\" This theme continued to inspire Slonem over the years, and the series is as prominent in his work today as it was over thirty years ago.\n\nApart from painting, Slonem is also making sculptures, like the sizable, \"Tocos,\" an 18-foot acrylic and aluminum tower of toucans exhibited at the Polk Museum of Art in 2012. He has also restored several historic houses. \"I consider it part of my art form,\" Slonem said in an interview with \"NewsChief.com\". His \"art form\" also includes Gothic revival furniture - in his homes, studios, and exhibits. In 2009, Bergdorf Goodman, a luxury department store in New York City, recreated Slonem's distinct art-filled living room for its windows display. In Slonem's view, \"Art incorporated with furniture becomes a work of art itself.\"\n\nIn 2008, German automaker Audi enlisted Hunt Slonem to create an exclusive design for its sleek new A5 coupe, and he created a one-of-a-kind design based on one of his oil painting for the car's exterior. \"It's an earlier work of mine with birds flying through the sky; the original work is in the collection of the Colby Museum in Maine, where I was born,\" said Slonem of the piece, which is painted in blues, blacks, reds, and whites with cockatoos. The mobile artwork was unveiled in conjunction with the New York International Auto Show at the Audi Forum in Manhattan. The \"Hunt Slonem Audi A5,\" as it was dubbed, then toured Audi dealerships throughout the United States, before returning to New York where it was auctioned off to benefit a cancer research charity.\n\nIn 2010, Albert Maysles, the Oscar-nominated documentary filmmaker (Salesman, Gimme Shelter, Grey Gardens), announced that he will be shooting a feature-length documentary on Hunt Slonem's life and his art.\n\nIn 2014, he collaborated with fashion accessories company Echo Design Group for a limited edition scarf and handbag collection.\n\nSince 1977, Slonem had solo shows at many prestigious contemporary art galleries including the Fischbach Gallery in New York and the Serge Sorokko Gallery in San Francisco. His work has been exhibited globally, including in Madras, Quito, Venice, Gustavia, San Juan, Guatemala City, Paris, Amsterdam, Madrid, Stockholm, Oslo, Cologne, Tokyo, and Hong Kong. His work has been shown in thirty-one different museums including the Hunter Museum of American Art in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in 1981; the in Venice, Italy, in 1986; the Albany Museum of Art in Albany, Georgia, in 2007; the Istanbul Museum of Modern Art in Istanbul, Turkey, in 2007; in San Salvador, El Salvador, in 2010; the National Gallery for Foreign Art in Sofia, Bulgaria, in 2010; the Alexandria Museum of Art in Alexandria, Louisiana in 2011, and the Polk Museum of Art in Lakeland, Florida in 2012, to name just a few.\n\nSlonem has been an active participant in the Art in Embassies Program sponsored by the United States Department of State, alongside other American artists including Jim Dine, Julian Schnabel, Sol LeWitt, Jasper Johns, Ellsworth Kelly, and Jeff Koons, who received the first ever Medal of Arts from the Department of State for his \"outstanding commitment\" to the program. Through Art in Embassies, Slonem's paintings have been exhibited globally revealing, as Hillary Clinton put it, \"the rich history and cultural heritage of the United States and the experiences that we share with peoples of different countries, backgrounds and faiths. Every exhibition reminds us of the diversity of mankind and the values that bind us together.\"\n\nHunt Slonem's paintings are widely represented in important private collections all over the world. According to the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", \"Slonem's work has attracted many well-known [Hollywood] art collectors including Sharon Stone, Gina Gershon, Brooke Shields, Julianne Moore, Mandy Moore, Kate Hudson, and J.Lo\", among others. \"I'm a big fan of Hunt's work,\" Brooke Shields told \"Daily Front Row\". \"It's whimsical without being too sweet.\" A March 2012 issue of \"Architectural Digest\" features Shields's Manhattan townhouse, with three of Slonem's \"rabbit paintings\" prominently displayed on her living room wall.\n\nOver fifty museums internationally include Hunt Slonem's paintings in their collections, among them the Smithsonian American Art Museum; the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.; the Brooklyn Museum of Art in Brooklyn, NY; the Boston Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts; Fundació Joan Miró in Barcelona, Spain; the Würth Museum in Künzelsau, Germany; the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum all in New York.\n\nHunt Slonem has never been married and has no children. Until 2010, he occupied a Tenth Street studio in Manhattan that was 40,000 square feet, divided into 89 rooms. In 2010, Slonem moved to a 15,000 square foot fourth floor former headquarters of the film company Moviola, on West 45th Street. The space served as his painting studio and was divided into a number of small rooms, all of which Slonem painted in old Louisiana plantation-house colors. The studio housed his ever-expanding quirky collections, from Neo-Gothic chairs to top hats, to marble busts of Marie Antoinette, to various \"objets d'art\", mined from flea markets and antique fairs. In an interview in Vincent Katz's book \"Pleasure Palaces: The Art & Homes of Hunt Slonem,\" he describes his collecting technique as \"cluttering.\" For him, objects are \"friends;\" the more there are, the more he is inspired. \"I have to have a certain amount of stuff in place before I can function and paint,\" he says. Although, Slonem still lives in the loft apartment he moved into in 1973, according to the \"Wall Street Journal\", he does nearly all his entertaining at his new 25,000 square foot West 34th Street studio in the industrial Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan where he moved in 2011. He christened the third floor loft space with a birthday party attended by more than 200 people.\n\nHunt Slonem also owns two historically important Louisiana plantations—one called Albania Plantation, on the Bayou Teche in St. Mary Parish, about two hours' drive northwest of New Orleans, and the other – the Lakeside Plantation, in a remote location near the town of Batchelor, one hour north of Baton Rouge. According to the \"New York Times\", the Batchelor property includes \"an 1832 plantation house called Lakeside, pink if you please, as surprising in this community of shoebox houses as an aged diva in a pink organdy dress at McDonald's. Also as indifferent, inasmuch as a house can be indifferent, to the bruising of time.\" It was once owned by Marquis de La Fayette whose close relationship with lifelong friends such as Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, James Monroe, John Adams, and Robert Livingston played a pivotal role in the Louisiana Purchase. In a show of gratitude, the United States gave La Fayette land which is known today as Lakeside Plantation. The property is listed in the National Register of Historic Places listings in Louisiana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43716855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43716855", "title": "Igor Decraene", "text": "Igor Decraene\n\nIgor Decraene (26 January 1996 in Waregem – 30 August 2014 in Zulte) was a Belgian cyclist. He had ridden professionally since 2012. In 2013, he became the UCI world junior men's time trial champion. The event took place on 24 September in Florence, Tuscany, Italy. In 2013 and 2014 he was also the Belgian national champion in the time trial for juniors men. At the time of his death, he was preparing to defend his junior world time trial title at the 2014 UCI Road World Championships in Ponferrada, Spain on 23 September.\n\nDecraene, aged 18, died in an accident on 30 August 2014 near Zulte, East Flanders. Initial media reports suggested that he had taken his own life, however the family and police denied this was the case. He was riding home from a party when he was hit and killed by a train.\n\n"}
{"id": "5206043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5206043", "title": "Imogen Thomas", "text": "Imogen Thomas\n\nImogen Mary Thomas is a Welsh model and television personality. She came to prominence in 2003, after winning Miss Wales, and achieved further notability in 2006, when she lasted three months on the seventh series of Channel 4 reality television programme \"Big Brother\". In 2011, her alleged extramarital relationship with footballer Ryan Giggs was the subject of a controversial gagging order in the UK.\n\nImogen Mary Thomas was born in the town Gorseinon, within the city of Swansea, Wales.\n\nThomas started working as a model at age 13, and at the age of 17 moved to London to become a professional model. Working in bars to pay for her living costs, she was rejected by many modelling agencies due to her height.\n\nShe was crowned Miss Wales in 2003, beating future \"Big Brother\" 9 winner Rachel Rice, who came third. She went on to represent Wales at Miss World in China. This prompted her to return to London to try glamour modelling, and also working as a bar hostess at London's Sanderson Hotel.\n\nIn 2006, Thomas was selected as a housemate for the seventh series of \"Big Brother\". She was evicted on Day 86 with 62% of the public vote. Since her time on \"Big Brother\", Thomas has become a glamour model.\n\nLike other contestants, Thomas has taken part in many \"Big Brother\" spin-off programmes, including \"Big Brother's Little Brother\" and \"Big Brother's Big Mouth\". She also co-presented with other housemates for T4.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38147361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38147361", "title": "Isaiah Austin", "text": "Isaiah Austin\n\nIsaiah Charles Austin (born October 25, 1993) is an American professional basketball player for Nanjing Monkey King of the Chinese Basketball Association (CBA). He played two years of college basketball for Baylor University. He had been considered a first-round prospect in the 2014 NBA draft until he was diagnosed with Marfan syndrome. In 2016, he was cleared to continue playing basketball after a two-year stint away from the game due to Marfan syndrome.\n\nAustin attended Grace Preparatory Academy in Arlington, Texas. As a senior in 2011–12, he averaged 15 points, 11 rebounds and five blocks per game, earning back-to-back \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram Super Team\" Player of the Year honors. Austin participated in the 2012 McDonald's All-American Game, 2012 Adidas Nations and the 2012 Jordan Brand Classic. He was named to the ESPNHS All-American Elite second team and was the nation's no. 3 recruit according to ESPN.\n\nAs a freshman at Baylor in 2012–13, Austin earned third-team All-Big 12 and Big 12 All-Rookie Team honors. On April 4, 2013, he recorded 15 points, nine rebounds, five blocks, four assists and two steals in the NIT championship game in which Baylor defeated Iowa 74–54. In 35 games (all starts), he averaged 13.0 points, 8.3 rebounds, 1.1 assists and 1.7 blocks in 29.9 minutes per game.\n\nIn April 2013, Austin declared for the 2013 NBA draft, but later returned to Baylor due to a shoulder injury.\n\nAs a sophomore in 2013–14, Austin earned Big 12 All-Defensive Team honors. In 38 games, he averaged 11.2 points, 5.5 rebounds, 1.4 assists and 3.1 blocks in 28.0 minutes per game.\n\nOn April 22, 2014, Austin declared for the 2014 NBA draft, forgoing his final two years of college eligibility.\n\nOn June 22, 2014, Austin learned that he had been diagnosed with Marfan syndrome, a genetic disorder that affects the body's connective tissue. In an emotional interview with ESPN's Holly Rowe, Austin said that he could no longer play basketball at a competitive level since the arteries in his heart were abnormally large, and there was too much risk of his aorta rupturing if he continued to play. In response, NBA commissioner Adam Silver invited Austin to attend the draft as his guest. Shortly after Austin's diagnosis was made public, his agent revealed that Austin had taken out an insurance policy against career-ending disability through a special NCAA program, which was worth at least $1 million. The policy would not have paid out if Austin's career ended due to his eyesight or his shoulder, but was expected to pay out due to his Marfan diagnosis.\n\nOn June 26, 2014, between the 15th and 16th picks of the 2014 NBA draft, NBA Commissioner Adam Silver made Austin a ceremonial pick, which fulfilled his dream of getting drafted. The crowd gave him a standing ovation as he walked up to the podium. He was offered a job in the NBA by Adam Silver, with the stipulation that he finishes his degree at Baylor University.\n\nOn November 30, 2016, Austin was medically cleared to play basketball and began considering offers from overseas. On January 7, 2017, he signed his first professional contract with Serbian club FMP. He made his debut for FMP on January 15, 2017, recording nine points and four rebounds in a 92–85 win over Mornar Bar. In 12 KLS games, he averaged 7.6 points and 3.9 rebounds per game. He also averaged 9.1 points, 3.2 rebounds and 1.2 blocks in nine Adriatic League games.\n\nIn July 2017, Austin joined Guangzhi Weizhuang of the Chinese NBL. In 16 games for Guangxi, he averaged 34.6 points, 13.4 rebounds, 2.8 assists, 1.1 steals and 4.3 blocks per game.\n\nOn November 11, 2017, Austin signed with the Yulon Luxgen Dinos of the Super Basketball League. He appeared in three games for Yulon before leaving the team in mid-December.\n\nOn January 20, 2018, Austin signed with Champville of the Lebanese Basketball League. He appeared in four games for Champville before leaving the team in February.\n\nIn June 2018, Austin re-joined Guangxi Rhino of the Chinese NBL.\n\nOn October 16, 2018, Austin signed with Nanjing Monkey King of the Chinese Basketball Association.\n\nIn September 2017, the Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas began the process of including Austin in their men's national basketball team, to be considered as a naturalized player in the future. He suited up as an import for Chooks-to-Go Pilipinas, the national team competing as a club, at the 2017 FIBA Asia Champions Cup. They finished the tournament in fifth place, with Austin recording 37 points, 15 rebounds, six assists and six blocks in their final game of the tournament.\n\nAustin is blind in his right eye from a spontaneous retinal detachment that occurred during middle school. He had kept the visual loss a secret, known only to his teammates and close friends until January 17, 2014.\n\nOn December 16, 2014, Austin was put into 2K Sports' NBA 2K15 as a free agent.\n\nAustin is the nephew of nine-year NBA veteran Isaac Austin.\n\n"}
{"id": "19892083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19892083", "title": "Jane Corwin", "text": "Jane Corwin\n\nJane Lewis Corwin (born February 29, 1964) is an American politician and businesswoman who has served as a Republican Party member of the New York State Assembly from 2009 to 2016. She represented the 144th Assembly District which covers parts of Erie and Niagara counties. Corwin was also the Republican Party nominee in the special election held on May 24, 2011 to fill Western New York's 26th district seat in the U.S. House of Representatives previously held by Republican Chris Lee. She faced three other candidates in the election; losing to Democrat Kathy Hochul 47 percent to 43 percent, according to unofficial results. Independent Jack Davis who ran on a Tea Party line garnered 9 percent of the vote, and Green Party candidate Ian Murphy got 1 percent.\n\nBefore entering politics, Corwin was on the board of directors of the family business, and worked at a financial firm while earning her master's degree in business administration.\n\nCorwin has said she spent 36 years working in the private sector, beginning her business career at age eight by delivering phone books for The Talking Phone Book, the family business that had been founded by her father, Wilbur Lewis, a former salesman. During her teen years, she proof-read the company's publications, and while in college, she was vice president of marketing. Corwin has stressed she did not grow up wealthy, noting that in the 1980s, her family almost lost their home.\n\nShe began college at the private Ithaca College and had to transfer to the State University of New York at Albany because of cost concerns. She earned a B.A. degree in psychology from SUNY in 1985, and then attended Pace University earning an M.B.A. in finance in 1990.\n\nShe worked on Wall Street from 1987 to 1990 as a research director for Henry Ansbacher, Inc., a British financial firm that helped large media conglomerates acquire small, locally owned newspapers. She also served on the board of directors of the Talking Phone Book as Secretary-Treasurer beginning in 1987, making strategic decisions for the company. After completing her education in 1990, she returned to Western New York State to marry Philip M. Corwin II whom she had met in graduate school. The couple worked at The Talking Phone Book with Philip serving as chief financial officer. She also began a family, and has said of this time, \"I didn't go into the office every day ... We had more board discussions over the kitchen table than the board room.\" The business was sold to Hearst Corporation in 2004 for $400 million, making Corwin and her siblings wealthy, according to the \"Buffalo News\". Campaign disclosure forms have indicated Corwin's personal assets is between $58 and $158 million, mainly derived from her family's business.\n\nSince 2004, Corwin has been President of the Philip M. and Jane Lewis Corwin Foundation to provide direct funding to educational, medical and religious charities that benefit children. A review of the foundation's financials by the \"Buffalo News\" indicated that more than half of its distributions have gone to Boston College, Philip Corwin's \"alma mater\"; the second largest recipient has been a school the Corwin children attended. In recent years, she has given $500 college scholarships to local public high school students, and has indicated she has not taken any tax benefits for her donations. She has also been a community volunteer, serving as president of a committee of the Women and Children’s Hospital of Buffalo, as confirmation leader at her church, and as a member of a committee of the Community Foundation for Greater Buffalo. She served on the board of directors of Brookfield Country Club Women's Association and became a private sector \"protégé\" of Erie County Executive Christopher Collins serving as an assistant treasurer for his campaign from 2007–2008, according to the \"Buffalo News\".\n\nCorwin has said she entered politics in 2008 because she \"could not stand idly by and watch state government spend away our children's future.\" During her first campaign for the Assembly, she said the State needed to adopt a business-like approach, cut spending, cut taxes, end \"unfunded mandates\" and improve the business environment. She won the primary for the 142nd Assembly District seat against three other Republican candidates including incumbent Assemblyman Mike Cole, who had the Republican party endorsement, but who had been censured for fraternizing with an intern one year earlier. Corwin went on to defeat Working Families Party candidate Jeffrey Bono in the November 2008 general election, receiving 89 percent of the vote. She ran uncontested in the November 2010 general election, receiving endorsements from the Conservative and Independence parties of New York State.\n\nWhile in the State Assembly, Corwin was appointed chair of the Assembly Minority Manufacturing Task Force and became ranking minority member of the Corporations, Authorities and Commissions Committee. She opposed a bill that would legalize gay marriage. She also opposed a loosening of state drug laws that would reduce long prison terms and give judges more leeway in sentencing, and voted \"no\" on a bill that required the unshackling of prisoners while giving birth. Based on her Assembly voting record on fiscal matters, the state Conservative Party placed her near the top in its 2009 and 2010 annual rankings of Assembly members.\n\nIn February 2011, U.S. Representative Chris Lee resigned abruptly after reports surfaced that he had been flirting with a woman on Craigslist. Later that month, Corwin was unanimously chosen by Republican Party leaders to be the Party's nominee in the special election to fill the seat. (State law does not provide for primary elections prior to special elections.) Corwin also received the endorsements of the New York Conservative Party and the Independence Party of New York. She vied for the congressional seat against local businessman Jack Davis, an independent candidate running on the Tea Party ballot line; Erie County Clerk Kathy Hochul, a Democrat; and writer Ian Murphy the Green Party candidate. The election was held on May 24.\n\nCorwin said that if elected, she would work to cut federal government spending, reduce taxes and repeal the health care overhaul that was enacted by the Democratic majority Congress in 2010. She signed a tax pledge, promising to oppose all efforts to increase marginal tax rates on individuals and businesses, and to oppose reductions of tax credits or deductions that are not matched by reductions in tax rates.\n\nShe strongly supported U.S. Representative Paul Ryan's proposal to reform the Medicare program for senior citizens by turning it into a program that would give seniors vouchers to purchase private health insurance coverage. Corwin said the plan would protect Medicare for future generations by putting it on solid financial ground. On May 17, Corwin's campaign announced that Corwin would consider alternatives to the Ryan voucher plan, if they would help keep Medicare solvent. Corwin called her Democratic opponent's proposals to raise taxes on the wealthy an attack on those \"who help our jobs grow and who will keep Medicare from going into bankruptcy\", and has said that the Democrats, including Hochul, have offered no alternative to the Republicans' voucher plan.\n\nWhen answering Project Vote Smart's \"Political Courage\" survey in 2008, Corwin replied that she believes abortion should be legal in the first trimester of pregnancy and in cases of rape, incest and when the life of the mother is endangered. When interviewed toward the end of her 2011 campaign for Congress, Corwin stated she would vote for any bill that restricted taxpayer funding of abortion, but indicated that abortion was \"a woman's decision in the first trimester.\" \n\nThe special election was initially thought to be a \"certain victory\" for the Republican candidate, but became \"fiercely competitive\", according to \"The New York Times\", because of a U.S. House Republican plan to privatize Medicare. The Times has also cited the candidacy of third party candidate Davis as a factor which is \"siphoning support\" from Corwin. \"The Hill\" said the Medicare issue seemed to be boosting Hochul's campaign, though it was difficult to handicap the race because of the presence of the third party candidate.\n\nA late April poll by Sienna College had Corwin in the lead with 36 percent, followed by Hochul with 31 percent and Davis with 23 percent of the vote. An early May poll by the Democratic-leaning Public Policy Institute showed Hochul at 35 percent, Corwin at 31 percent and Davis at 24 percent. The non-partisan \"Rothenberg Political Report\" called the race a \"toss-up\" but tilting Democratic as of May 16. Additional polling by Sienna and PPP in the days immediately preceding the election had Hochul leading by four and six point margins. Corwin ultimately lost to Hochul 47 to 43 percent in the special election. Independent candidate Jack Davis received 9 percent, and Green Party candidate Ian Murphy received 1 percent of the vote.\n\nNational media attention was given to a 15-second video clip that appeared to show Corwin's Assembly chief of staff, Michael Mallia, repeatedly asking the 78-year-old Davis why he had skipped a campaign debate, followed by Mallia shrieking as Davis apparently shoved him or flapped at the camera. The video clip was circulated by local and national Republican organizations and prompted bipartisan criticism of both Davis and Mallia. Requests to see a longer tape and a tape made by second camera were refused by Corwin and her campaign. In an interview with the \"National Journal\", Corwin said she thought the video was self-explanatory, and indicated that Mallia had been acting on his own free time, and not as her employee while he was tracking and taping her opponent, Davis. In response to Davis' complaints that he had been harassed, Corwin said, \"I've had cameras on me for two months now, and I've never hit anybody ... and I think that's the difference is how you handle a situation like that.\" One week after the election, Mallia resigned his position as Corwin's chief of staff as a result of the controversy.\n\nCorwin responded to attacks that she basically wants to eliminate Medicare, by airing an ad claiming her opponent Hochul wanted to cut Social Security and Medicare. Corwin's ad was based on Hochul's debate statement that budget talks should put everything on the table. A FactCheck.org representative called Corwin's ad, \"bogus\"; Corwin's campaign responded that Hochul also supports Obama's health care law which includes $500 billion in reductions in payments to Medicare Advantage private insurers.\n\nAmerican Crossroads endorsed and provided support to Corwin's campaign, reflecting the national importance of the contest. The \"New York Post\" and the Rochester Business alliance endorsed Corwin, as did the FreedomWorks PAC. The Tea Party Express and TEA New York also endorsed Corwin with their leaders visiting Buffalo and Rochester to make it clear that Corwin was favored by the Tea Party, and to criticize Davis' use of the moniker.\n\n\"Roll Call\" reported that Corwin had invested nearly $2.5 million of her own funds in the campaign as of May 13; Davis had promised to spend as much as $3 million of his own funds; and outside funds coming from both liberal and conservative groups had already \"turned the Buffalo and Rochester airwaves into a steady stream of campaign ads.\"\n\nOn election day morning, Corwin obtained a court order from a Justice of the New York Supreme Court that took effect when the polls closed. The order would impound all voting equipment, temporarily enjoin the canvas of paper ballots and bar the certification of the winner pending further court proceedings. Corwin's campaign said such orders are usual in close elections. According to \"The Buffalo News\", however, the order was likely rendered moot by Corwin's concession, also on May 24, 2011.\n\nCorwin and her husband Philip have been married for 21 years. The couple have three children and reside in Clarence, New York. Philip was previously the chief financial officer of the Talking Phone Book and has been active in Erie County politics. He is vice chair of Erie County Industrial Development Agency, Erie County director of economic development, and a member of board of Buffalo Niagara Enterprise which gives economic development assistance to companies in Western New York State.\n\n"}
{"id": "39341554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39341554", "title": "Janvi Chheda", "text": "Janvi Chheda\n\nJanvi Chheda is an Indian television actress.\n\nShe was in \"CID\" as Inspector Shreya. Her first episode in \"CID\" was \"Secret Of Head And Hand\" which was aired on 30 June 2012. Shreya in \"CID\" was shown as a brave and intelligent officer who could handle personal and professional life with the same ease. Janvi Chheda is now widely recognized for her role in \"CID\" as Inspector Shreya.\n\nJanvi Chheda is a Gujarati whose native place is Mandvi, Kutch. She was born and brought up in Mumbai but visited Mandvi as a child, where she celebrated Diwali for a number of years. She also loves to travel. She eats all kinds of cuisines at home. \n\nShe married her long-time beau Nishant Gopalia in 2011 with whom she has a daughter, Nirvi, born in 2017.\n\nJanvi Chheda started her career as an anchor for a Gujarati television channel, and then did Gujarati TV shows, after which she made her way to the Hindi show Chhoona Hai Aasman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7170714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7170714", "title": "Jeffrey Goldberg", "text": "Jeffrey Goldberg\n\nJeffrey Mark Goldberg (born September 22, 1965) is an American journalist and the editor-in-chief of \"The Atlantic\". During his nine years at \"The Atlantic\" prior to becoming editor, Goldberg became known for his coverage of foreign affairs. He has won many awards and written eleven cover stories for the magazine.\n\nGoldberg was born to a Jewish family in Brooklyn, New York, the son of Ellen and Daniel Goldberg, whom he describes as \"very left-wing.\" He grew up in suburban Malverne on Long Island, where he recalled being one of the few Jews in a largely Irish-American area. During his first trip to Israel as \"a powerless 13-year-old boy suffering at the hands of Irish pogromists, juvenile pogromists,\" he found the Jewish empowerment embodied by Israeli soldiers exciting, \"So, I became deeply enamored of Israel because of that.\"\n\nHe attended the University of Pennsylvania, where he was editor-in-chief of \"The Daily Pennsylvanian\". While at Penn he worked at the kitchen serving lunch to students. He left college to move to Israel, where he served in the Israeli Defense Forces as a prison guard during the First Intifada at Ktzi'ot Prison, a prison camp set up to hold arrested Palestinian participants in the uprising. There he met Rafiq Hijazi, a Palestine Liberation Organization leader, college math teacher and devout Muslim from a refugee camp in the Gaza Strip, whom Goldberg describes as \"the only Palestinian I could find in Ketziot who understood the moral justification for Zionism\".\n\nGoldberg lives in Washington, D.C., with his wife, Pamela (née Ress) Reeves, and their three children.\n\nGoldberg returned to the United States and began his career at \"The Washington Post\", where he was a police reporter. While in Israel, he worked as a columnist for \"The Jerusalem Post\", and upon his return to the US served as the New York bureau chief of \"The Forward\", a contributing editor at \"New York\" magazine, and a contributing writer at \"The New York Times Magazine\". In October 2000, Goldberg joined \"The New Yorker.\"\n\nIn 2007, he was hired by David G. Bradley to write for \"The Atlantic\". Bradley had tried to convince Goldberg to come work for \"The Atlantic\" for nearly two years, and was finally successful after renting ponies for Goldberg's children. In 2011, Goldberg joined \"Bloomberg View\" as a columnist, and his editorials are also syndicated online, often appearing on such media sites as \"Newsday\" and Newsmax. Goldberg concluded writing for Bloomberg in 2014.\n\nGoldberg was a journalist with \"The Atlantic\" before becoming editor-in-chief. Goldberg wrote principally on foreign affairs, with a focus on the Middle East and Africa.\n\nMichael Massing, an editor of the \"Columbia Journalism Review\", called Goldberg \"the most influential journalist/blogger on matters related to Israel,\" and David Rothkopf, the CEO and editor of the FP Group, called him \"one of the most incisive, respected foreign policy journalists around.\" He has been described by critics as a neoconservative, a liberal, a Zionist and a critic of Israel. \"The New York Times\" reported that he \"shaped\" the magazine's endorsement of Hillary Clinton in the 2016 United States presidential election, only the third endorsement in the magazine's 160-year history.\n\nIn \"The Great Terror\", Goldberg investigates the nature of the Iraqi Army's chemical attack on the Kurds in Halabja in 1988 that resulted in the deaths of between 3,200 and 5,000 people and injured 7,000 to 10,000 more, most of them civilians.\n\n\"The Great Terror\" won the Overseas Press Club's Joe & Laurie Dine Award for international human rights reporting. In a March 2002 CNN interview, former CIA director, James Woolsey said, \"I think Jeff Goldberg's piece is quite remarkable, and he and The New Yorker deserve a lot of credit for it.\"\n\nIn October 2002, Goldberg wrote a two-part examination of Hezbollah, \"In the Party of God.\" Part I recounts his time in the village of Ras al-Ein, located in Lebanon's Bekaa Valley, meeting with Hezbollah officials, including Mohammad Hussein Fadlallah, Hezbollah's former spiritual leader, and Hussayn al-Mussawi, founder of the now-defunct pro-Iranian Islamist militia Islamic Amal in 1982. Part II examines Hezbollah's activities in South America, specifically in the area known as the Triple Frontier, a tri-border area along the junction of Paraguay, Argentina, and Brazil.\"\n\nIn 2003, \"In the Party of God\" won the National Magazine Award for reporting.\n\nIn April 2010, Goldberg published \"The Hunted\", a \"New Yorker\" article on Mark and Delia Owens, a conservationist couple based in Zambia, who resorted to vigilantism in an effort to stop elephant poachers in North Luangwa National Park. Goldberg chronicles the Owens’ attempts to counter the poachers’ activity in Zambia in the 1970s/80s, which began with creating incentives such as bounty programs for the park’s scouts, but as the poaching continued, the Owenses methods turned more confrontational. \"New York Times\" columnist Ross Douthat praised \"The Hunted\", noting that “Goldberg builds an extensive, persuasive case that the Owenses' much-lauded environmental activism in the Zambian hinterland led to at least one murder, and maybe more.”\n\nIn September 2010, Goldberg wrote the cover story for \"The Atlantic\", which examined the potential consequences of an Israeli attack on Iran's nuclear facilities. Based on his interviews with high level Israeli and American government and military officials, including, Benjamin Netanyahu, Shimon Peres, Ephraim Sneh, Ben Rhodes, Rahm Emanuel, and Denis McDonough, Goldberg writes, \"I have come to believe that the administration knows it is a near-certainty that Israel will act against Iran soon if nothing or no one else stops the nuclear program; and Obama knows—as his aides, and others in the State and Defense departments made clear to me—that a nuclear-armed Iran is a serious threat to the interests of the United States, which include his dream of a world without nuclear weapons.\"\n\nAfter reading the article, Fidel Castro invited Goldberg to Cuba to talk about the issue. Goldberg published a series of articles on their interviews, including his views on anti-Semitism and Iran, Soviet-style Communism, and theories on President John F. Kennedy's assassination When asked by Goldberg if the Soviet-style Communism was still worth exporting, Castro famously replied that \"the Cuban model doesn't even work for us anymore.\"\n\nIn April 2013, Goldberg published an article on the Jordanian King Abdullah and his government's approach to reform in the wake of the 2011 protests around the Arab world.\n\nIn discussing a meeting between the King and the Jordanian tribes, Goldberg quotes the King as saying \"I’m sitting with the old dinosaurs today.” This quote garnered a lot of controversy when published, and the King's Royal Court even issued a statement claiming the article contained many “fallacies” and that his words “were taken out of their correct context.” However, in defending the accuracy of his quotes, Goldberg later tweeted, \"I just spoke to a top official of the Jordanian royal court. He said they are not contesting the accuracy of quotes in my Atlantic piece.\"\n\nIn April 2015, Goldberg published \"Is It Time for the Jews to Leave Europe.\" Goldberg's essay explores the state of the Jewish communities across Europe, especially in light of the resurgence of anti-Semitism and attacks against Jews in Europe.\n\nHistorian Diana Pinto, who is of Italian Jewish descent, wrote a rejoinder to Goldberg's article in \"The New Republic\", arguing that his article is excessively dire. She wrote: \"If a plaster cast may be permitted to speak, I would say that Goldberg and his colleagues aren’t describing my reality; the world I come from isn't already destroyed; and the story of the Jews in Europe isn’t yet ready to be relegated to museums or to antiquarian sites like Pompeii.\"\n\nGoldberg has conducted five major interviews with President Barack Obama since 2008. Goldberg's interviews have centered around President Obama's views on U.S.-Israel relations, Zionism, the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and other issues concerning U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nPeter Baker, the White House correspondent for \"The New York Times\", recommended Goldberg's interviews with President Obama, writing, \"For much of his time in office, President Obama has been having sort of a running conversation about the Middle East with Jeffrey Goldberg of \"The Atlantic\", one of the premier writers on the region based in Washington. In this latest interview, Mr. Obama defends his approach to the war against the Islamic State, warns Arab leaders not to pursue nuclear programs to match Iran and discusses his feud with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. Along the way, Mr. Obama and Mr. Goldberg hash over the nature of the sometimes turbulent Israeli-American relationship.\"\n\nIn April 2016, Goldberg published \"The Obama Doctrine\", which was featured as the Atlantic's April 2016 cover story. This essay covers many foreign policy issues, including his views of the U.S. role in Asia, the Middle East, ISIS, Russia, and Europe, focusing on the nature of American leadership in these different regions and the relative power that the United States wields in developing and executing policies that reflect American interests abroad.\n\nGoldberg's \"The Obama Doctrine\" was praised for its detailed accounting of the president's foreign policy views and sparked a debate about Obama's foreign policy legacy. Brian Katulis, a Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress, wrote in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Jeffrey Goldberg’s analysis of President Barack Obama’s foreign policy (“The Obama Doctrine“) is required reading for those looking at the big picture on U.S. national security.\"\n\nIn a response piece in \"The Atlantic\", Martin Indyk praised the article, writing, \"Jeffrey Goldberg’s fascinating article taps into President Obama's thinking about foreign policy and reveals its wellsprings. In that sense, he does more to help the president define and explain 'the Obama Doctrine' than previous efforts by the White House itself, captured in those memorable lines 'don’t do stupid shit' and 'leading from behind', which do not do justice to a doctrine that is both complicated and far-reaching in its implications for American foreign policy.\"\n\nGoldberg has conducted interviews with President Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, David Cameron, John Kerry, Benjamin Netanyahu, Isaac Herzog, Marco Rubio, Chris Christie, Ashton Carter, Ben Rhodes, Yair Lapid, Michael Oren, King Abdullah of Jordan, Ta-Nehisi Coates, David Gregory, and Tom Cotton, among others.\n\n\"Prisoners: A Muslim and a Jew Across the Middle East Divide\" (New York: Knopf, 2006), describes Goldberg's experiences in Israel working at the Ketziot military prison camp as well as his dialogue with Rafiq, a prisoner whom Goldberg would later befriend in Washington, DC.\n\n\"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", and the \"Los Angeles Times\" named it one of the best books of 2006.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" critic wrote, \"Realization of the humanity of the ‘other’ is at the heart of \"New Yorker\" magazine correspondent Jeffrey Goldberg's sharply observed and beautifully written memoir.\" \"The New York Times\" critic wrote, \"Mr. Goldberg, a talented and ambitious writer for the \"New Yorker\"...takes an engagingly personal approach to the issue in his story of a quest for mutual understanding with a Palestinian activist who had been his prisoner ... For the bittersweet complexity of that moment, offered in the context of all that has preceded it, this is a genuinely admirable book.”\n\n\"The Washington Post\" review of the book noted, \"\"Prisoners\" is Jeffrey Goldberg’s sensitive, forthright and perceptive account of his years as a soldier and journalist in Israel—and of his long-running conversation with a Palestinian whom he once kept under lock and key. It is a forceful reminder of how rewarding, and how difficult, discourse between Israelis and Palestinians can be.” CBS News critic wrote, \"There is no shortage of histories, polemics and policy manuals about the Middle East. An honest but complex story, from what happens to be a personal perspective that many Americans can at least conjure, is a rarer opportunity for insight. And that is what Jeffrey Goldberg, a reporter for The \"New Yorker\", delivers in \"Prisoners\". To those of us who have followed Jeffrey Goldberg’s reporting on the Muslim world, the publication of his first book is cause for real pleasure...because his writing on the subject has always been exceptional: wise, unpretentious, and at times, unexpectedly funny.”\n\nBoris Kachka, a contributing editor for \"New York\" magazine, interviewed Goldberg in October 2006 about \"Prisoners\" in addition to other issues pertaining to journalism and the Middle East.\n\nIn 2002, Goldberg's \"The Great Terror\" published in \"The New Yorker\" argued that the threat posed to America by Saddam Hussein was significant, discussing the possible connection between Saddam Hussein and Al Qaeda as well as the Iraqi nuclear program, averring that there was \"some debate among arms-control experts about exactly when Saddam will have nuclear capabilities. But there is no disagreement that Iraq, if unchecked, will have them soon ... There is little doubt what Saddam might do with an atomic bomb or with his stocks of biological and chemical weapons.\"\n\nIn a late 2002 debate in \"Slate\" on the question \"Should the U.S. invade Iraq?\", Goldberg argued in favor of an invasion on a moral basis, writing, \"So: Saddam Hussein is uniquely evil, the only ruler in power today—and the first one since Hitler—to commit chemical genocide. Is that enough of a reason to remove him from power? I would say yes, if 'never again' is in fact actually to mean 'never again.'\"\n\nGlenn Greenwald called Goldberg \"one of the leading media cheerleaders for the attack on Iraq\", claiming Goldberg had \"compiled a record of humiliating falsehood-dissemination in the run-up to the war that rivaled Judy Miller's both in terms of recklessness and destructive impact.\" In 2008, in an article in \"Slate\" entitled \"How Did I Get Iraq Wrong?\", Goldberg explained the reasons behind his initial support of the Iraq War and wrote that he \"didn't realize how incompetent the Bush administration could be.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16562350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16562350", "title": "John A. Gilruth", "text": "John A. Gilruth\n\nDr John Anderson Gilruth (17 February 1871, Auchmithie, Scotland – 4 March 1937, South Yarra, Melbourne) was a veterinary scientist and administrator. He is particularly noted for being Administrator of the Northern Territory from 1912 to 1918, when he was recalled after an angry mob demanded that he resign. This incident is known as the Darwin Rebellion.\n\nHe was born in Auchmithie near Arbroath on 17 February 1871, the son of Andrew Gilruth.\n\nHe was educated at Arbroath High School and the High School of Dundee, then served two years as clerk to an Arbroath solicitor before going to Glasgow Veterinary College, now the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Glasgow in 1887. He was admitted to membership of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons, London, in 1892. He then accepted appointment as a government veterinary surgeon in New Zealand.\n\nIn New Zealand from 1893, he spent three years investigating stock diseases, then a year at the Pasteur Institute in Paris. In 1896, on returning to New Zealand, he was appointed chief veterinarian and government bacteriologist. He was appointed a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1907. In 1908, he accepted the foundation chair of veterinary pathology at the University of Melbourne.\n\nIn 1907 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Frederick Hobday, Sir John McFadyean, John Berry Haycraft, and Sir Edward Albert Sharpey-Schafer.\n\nHe was married to Jennie McKay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "151585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151585", "title": "Jonathan Ross", "text": "Jonathan Ross\n\nJonathan Stephen Ross (born 17 November 1960) is an English television and radio presenter, film critic, actor and comedian best known for presenting the BBC One chat show \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\" during the 2000s. Ross also hosted his own radio show on BBC Radio 2, and acted as a film critic and presenter of the \"Film\" programme. After leaving the BBC, Ross then began hosting a new chat show on ITV, \"The Jonathan Ross Show\". Other regular roles have included being a regular panellist on the comedy sports quiz \"They Think It's All Over\" and being a regular presenter of the British Comedy Awards.\n\nRoss began his television career as a programme researcher, before débuting as a television presenter for \"The Last Resort with Jonathan Ross\" on Channel 4 in 1987. Over the next decade he had several radio and television roles, many through his own production company, Channel X. In 1995 he sold his stake in Channel X, and embarked on a career with the BBC. In 1999, Ross took over presenting the \"Film\" programme from Barry Norman, and also began presenting his own radio show, while two years later he began hosting \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\". For the chat show, Ross won three BAFTA awards for Best Entertainment Performance, in 2004, 2006 and 2007. By 2006 Ross was believed to be the BBC's highest paid star.\n\nIn 2005, Ross was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to broadcasting. Ross has been involved in controversies throughout his broadcasting career. As a result, in 2008 he wrote a semi-autobiographical work titled \"Why Do I Say These Things?\", detailing some of his life experiences.\n\nRoss has been married to the author, journalist and broadcaster Jane Goldman since 1988; they have three children. Ross and Goldman have together established the television production company Hotsauce TV. Ross is known as an avid fan and collector of comic books and memorabilia, and has written his own comic books, \"Turf\" and \"America's Got Powers\". Ross is known for his distinctive voice, flamboyant style of dress, light-hearted banter and his characteristic difficulty in pronouncing the letter 'R'.\n\nThe son of a lorry driver father and an actress mother, Martha, Ross was born in St Pancras, London, England, on 17 November 1960, but grew up in Leytonstone. He is the brother of journalist, television editor, and media personality Paul Ross; TV producer/actor Miles Ross; TV producer Simon Ross, and music industry professional Adam Ross.\n\nTheir mother put all of her children forward for roles in television advertisements. Ross first appeared in a television advertisement for the breakfast cereal Kellogg's Rice Krispies in 1970, when he was 10 years old. He also appeared in an ad for the laundry detergent Persil.\n\nRoss was educated at Norlington School for Boys, a comprehensive school and at Leyton County High School for Boys, a comprehensive school. He then studied Modern European History at the School of Slavonic and East European Studies (SSEES) in London, which today forms part of University College London.\n\nRoss began his adult career as a researcher on the Channel 4 show \"Loose Talk\". After leaving this, he worked on various other shows before beginning another research job on \"Soul Train\", which became \"Solid Soul\". It is believed his first appearance on television was as an extra in the 1981 \"It Ain't Half Hot, Mum\" episode, \"The Last Roll Call\".\n\nWhilst on \"Solid Soul\", he met fellow researcher Alan Marke, and the two devised what would prove to be a breakthrough hit for Ross in 1987, \"The Last Resort with Jonathan Ross\".\n\nThe two men based their concept on the successful American show \"Late Night with David Letterman\", and formed a new production company called Channel X, to produce a pilot. Ross had not planned to be the show's host, but he presented the show from its debut in January 1987.\n\nWhile the series was initially a co-production with Colin Callender, ownership transferred to Marke and Ross, meaning that the latter retained a great deal of control as well as being presenter. The show was successful for both Ross and for Channel 4, making him one of the major personalities on the channel. A year later, his documentary series \"The Incredibly Strange Film Show\" introduced many to the works of cult filmmakers like Sam Raimi and Jackie Chan.\n\nIn 1990 and 1991, his television documentary series \"Jonathan Ross Presents for One Week Only\" profiled and interviewed directors including Alejandro Jodorowsky, David Lynch, Aki Kaurismaki and in 2014, the Spanish filmmaker, Pedro Almodovar.\n\nIn 1989, he co-presented the biennial BBC charity telethon \"Comic Relief\", the same year he launched \"One Hour with Jonathan Ross\" a short lived chat show on Channel 4. Its game show segment, \"Knock down ginger\", introduced comedians such as Vic Reeves, Bob Mortimer, Paul Whitehouse and Charlie Higson to television. In December 1989, Ross appeared on \"Cilla's Goodbye to the 80s\" and presented all four members of Queen with the \"Top Band of the Eighties\" prize in a broadcast for ITV which would turn out to be Freddie Mercury's penultimate public appearance before his death from AIDS in 1991.\n\nRoss presented the annual \"British Comedy Awards\" each year from 1991 to 2014 with the exception of 2008 following his suspension from the BBC. In 1992 he presented an interview with Madonna about her \"Erotica\" album and \"Sex Book\" promotion.\n\nRoss has appeared in numerous television entertainment programmes on several channels throughout the 1990s and 2000s. He was a regular panellist on the sports quiz \"They Think It's All Over\", and hosted the panel game \"It's Only TV...But I Like It\". Other projects include the BBC joke-quiz \"Gagtag\", the Channel 4 variety show \"Saturday Zoo\", new-acts showcase \"The Big Big Talent Show\", and the ITV programme \"Fantastic Facts\".\n\nIn 1995, he left Channel X, despite its profitable nature. He was quoted in a 1998 article as stating:\nIn 1995, he presented \"Mondo Rosso\", a programme about old cult films. He took over presenting of the Film programme, the BBC's long-running cinema review series, in 1999 after Barry Norman left the show. Ross himself has made a number of cameo appearances in films, playing himself in the Spice Girls' film \"Spice World\" (1997) and voicing the character of Doris in the UK version of \"Shrek 2\" (2004). In 2001 he also played himself in \"Only Fools and Horses\", presenting \"Goldrush\", a fictional television quiz on which the main character, Del, was a contestant. In 2001 he voiced characters in two episodes of the animated comedy series \"Rex the Runt\". He also appeared on the first pilot show for \"Shooting Stars\", acting as a team captain.\n\nRoss' first radio work was on BBC Radio 1 in 1987, when he sat in for Janice Long for two weeks. Ross began presenting a Saturday morning show on BBC Radio 2 in 1999. He has also presented radio shows for Virgin Radio (having previously worked on Richard Branson's earlier venture, \"Radio Radio\"), as well as the now-defunct commercial radio network service \"The Superstation\", where his producer was Chris Evans. Ross' show on Radio 2 last aired on 17 July 2010 when his contract at the BBC ended.\n\nIn August 2014, he returned to Radio 2 as a stand-in presenter on Steve Wright's afternoon show for four days. \nIn March 2015 Jonathan sat in for Steve Wright again from 16–27 March 2015. In February 2016 Ross returned to Radio 2 on a regular basis to present the weekly arts show. From January 11, 2018, Anneka Rice took over the arts show.\n\nOn 2 November 2001, Ross began presenting his BBC One comedy chat show \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\".\n\nIn 2004, Ross presented a documentary on one of his favourite subjects, punk rock, for the BBC.\n\nIn 2005, Ross anchored the BBC television coverage of the Live 8 concerts. Later that year he was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the Queen's Birthday Honours for services to broadcasting. He celebrated the news by playing \"God Save the Queen\" by The Sex Pistols (which was banned by the BBC when released in 1977) on his BBC Radio 2 Saturday morning show. On 21 June 2006, Ross was made a Fellow of University College London, where he studied.\n\nIn early 2006, Ross announced that after eight years he was quitting his regular panellist seat on the sport/comedy quiz show \"They Think It's All Over\" explaining: \"I need time now to focus on my other commitments and so regrettably I won't be back for the 20th series.\" After Ross's departure, only two more episodes of the show were made before it was cancelled.\n\nIn January 2006 he presented \"Jonathan Ross' Asian Invasion\", broadcast on BBC Four. The three-part documentary followed Ross as he explored the film industry in Japan, Hong Kong and South Korea, interviewing directors and showcasing clips. His interest in East Asian culture and his self-confessed love for Japanese anime and video games led him to making three series of BBC Three show \"Japanorama\", as well as producing another television series for the same channel called \"Adam and Joe Go Tokyo\", starring Adam Buxton and Joe Cornish. He produced the latter programme through his own television production company Hot Sauce.\n\nIn June 2006, a bidding war was sparked between BBC and other broadcasters for Ross's services. Although other broadcasters were unsuccessful in poaching Ross, it is believed that their bids were higher than the BBC during negotiations. ITV, who bid for Ross, poached chat host Michael Parkinson around the same time. Ross became the highest paid television personality in Britain, when a new BBC contract secured his services until 2010, for a reported £18 million (£6 million per year). That same month, he was named by \"Radio Times\" as the most powerful person in British radio.\n\nOn 25 June 2006, he performed at the Children's Party at the Palace for the Queen's 80th birthday. In August 2006, Ross was enlisted to ask the first question since the transition from beta for the Yahoo Answers in UK and Ireland.\n\nOn 16 March 2007, Ross hosted Comic Relief 2007 alongside Fearne Cotton and Lenny Henry.\n\nOn 7 July 2007, Ross co-presented (with Graham Norton) BBC television coverage of the Live Earth climate change awareness concerts, which became the subject of controversy due to the foul language used by performers including Phil Collins, Madonna and Johnny Borrell, resulting in one of Ofcom's toughest sanctions to date on the BBC. Ross had been required to apologise on the day for the language used by Collins and Borrell.\n\nStarting on 10 September 2007, he presented the BBC Four series \"Comics Britannia\", about the history of the British comic. This forms the core of a Comics Britannia season, which includes another documentary, \"In Search of Steve Ditko\", by Ross. Ross is also greatly interested in Japan, presenting a BBC-TV series on many different aspects of Japanese culture, \"Japanorama\", for three series between 2002–07.\n\nIn May 2008, Ross won the Sony Gold Award \"Music Radio Personality of the Year\".\n\nOn 3 August 2008, he hosted \"Jonathan Ross Salutes Dad's Army\", a BBC One tribute to the popular sitcom set during World War II.\n\nIn 2010, Ross took part in \"Channel 4's Comedy Gala\", a benefit show held in aid of Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital, filmed live at the O2 Arena in London on 30 March.\n\nOn 7 April 2010, Ross's first comic book was published. Turf was written by Jonathan himself and drawn by artist Tommy Lee Edwards. In 2011, Ross wrote an introduction for \"The Steve Ditko Omnibus Vol. 1\", a collection of work by the American comics artist featured in Ross's 2007 documentary.\n\nOn 7 January 2010, Ross confirmed that he would leave the BBC in July 2010. This would see him leave all his regular BBC roles, namely his Friday night chat show, Radio 2 show and a film review programme, although he would be continuing with some specials, such as Comic Relief and the BAFTA Awards.\n\nRoss said that while he \"had a wonderful time working for the BBC\" he had \"decided not to re-negotiate when my current contract comes to an end,\" a choice which was \"not financially motivated\". The announcement came a day after it became public knowledge that Graham Norton had signed a two-year deal with the BBC. Torin Douglas, the Corporation's media correspondent speculated Norton would be a ready-made replacement for Ross's chat show role, while Mark Kermode of BBC Radio 5 Live was a potential successor in the film review role, but that \"replacing Ross on radio will be harder.\" Ross last appeared on the film programme in Episode 10 of \"Film 2010 with Jonathan Ross\" aired on 17 March 2010. After Kermode publicly ruled himself out on 26 March, Claudia Winkleman was announced 30 March 2010 as his replacement as host of the \"Film\" programme.\n\nRoss's final \"Friday Night\" chat show episode aired on 16 July 2010, with David Beckham, Jackie Chan, Mickey Rourke, and Roxy Music as guests. Ross ended the show with an affectionate tribute to his guests and to the audience, while mentioning that he had promised Morrissey that he would remain composed and \"wouldn't cry.\" His final Radio 2 show was broadcast the following day. Patrick Kielty initially took over Ross' Radio 2 slot from 24 July 2010 after which Graham Norton took over permanently.\n\nOn 19 December 2010, Ross presented a three-hour Channel 4 list show, \"100 Greatest Toys\", with the broadcaster describing Ross as a \"huge toy enthusiast with a private collection that would rival any museum's.\"\n\nIn 2012, Ross's voice appeared as a Headteacher in \"Back to School\" at the Edinburgh Festival \n\nIn October 2013, Ross was hired by Xbox (Microsoft) to help promote the brand. In 2011, he presented \"\" on ITV, a collaboration with magicians Penn & Teller, which he would resume hosting when the show moved to The CW in 2014.\n\nRoss's new chat show \"The Jonathan Ross Show\" began on 3 September 2011 on ITV1, drawing an audience of 4.3m viewers, compared to the 4.6m for his finale on the BBC show. The first series ran for thirteen weeks. Speaking about the new show, Ross said: \"I am thrilled and excited that after a short break I will be rolling up my sleeves and creating a brand new show for ITV1.\"\n\nOn 20 October 2014, it was announced by ITV that Ross had signed a new contract with ITV. The new contract will see him present two more series of his chatshow along with a Christmas Special on ITV in 2015. ITV's Director of Entertainment and Comedy Elaine Bedell added: \"Jonathan is the king of talk shows and a valued member of the ITV family. He continues to attract the biggest names in showbiz onto his sofa and I am delighted that he will remain on the channel until at least the end of 2015.\"Ross said: \"I've been lucky enough to interview some of the biggest stars around on The Jonathan Ross Show and I'm delighted that I'll continue to do so for ITV until at least the end of 2015 with two series booked for the channel for next year.\"\n\nIn 2015, Ross's 2004 interview with Amy Winehouse was featured in Asif Kapadia's highly praised documentary film about the late singer, entitled as \"Amy\".\n\nIn 2017, Ross was a team captain along with Frank Skinner on the ITV panel show, \"Don't Ask Me Ask Britain\". In December 2017, Ross presented \"Guess the Star\", a one-off special for ITV.\n\nIn April 2006, Ross, along with other BBC personalities, had details of his fees leaked to the tabloid press. It was claimed at the time, by a then-unidentified BBC mole, that Ross earned £530,000 (equivalent to £10,000 per show) per year for hosting his Radio 2 show. While refusing to comment specifically on the leak in line with BBC policy on the matter, Ross did hint during his radio show that the figure was exaggerated; in addition to this, any pay highlighted as being \"his\" would actually be split between himself and his producer/co-presenter on the show, Andy Davies.\n\nIn June 2006, when Conservative Party leader David Cameron appeared on \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\", Ross began a line of questioning relating to Conservative ex-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, culminating in the question \"Did you or did you not have a wank thinking of Margaret Thatcher?\" Ross was defended by the BBC publicly, but repeat showings of the interview have been banned.\n\nOn 5 December 2007, Ross joked at the \"British Comedy Awards\" that his salary meant that he was \"apparently worth 1,000 BBC journalists\". His quip came shortly after the BBC had announced plans for more than 2,000 job cuts, and was condemned as \"obscene\" by the general secretary of the National Union of Journalists. Ross has denied this saying that he was commenting on a piece that was written in a newspaper about his salary being that of 1,000 journalists:\n\n\"You know where that came from? The newspapers. After the fee was announced, they said, 'The BBC says he's worth 1,000 journalists', so on the Comedy Awards I made a joke that began, 'Apparently I'm worth 1,000 journalists according to the newspapers.' Every time it's quoted, is the word 'apparently' ever used? Which does change the meaning somewhat.\"\n\nThe BBC Trust ruled that Ross's interview with American actress Gwyneth Paltrow, broadcast on 2 May 2008, breached editorial guidelines. They ruled that bad language in an episode of Ross's pre-recorded BBC1 chat show, \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\", in which the presenter told Paltrow he \"would fuck her\", was \"gratuitous and unnecessarily offensive\". The trust said it disagreed with the judgement made by BBC management that the episode should be broadcast uncensored, adding that the comment was made in an \"overly sexual way\" and that it had upheld a number of complaints made about the edition of \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\". The trust reminded BBC staff that \"the casual gratuitous use of the most offensive language is not acceptable on the BBC in accordance with the BBC's existing guidelines and practices\", adding that \"this particularly applies in entertainment programmes\".\n\nFollowing a guest appearance by Ross on \"The Russell Brand Show\" broadcast on 18 October 2008, Ross was suspended for 12 weeks without pay by the BBC on 29 October, after a series of lewd answerphone messages, including Ross saying, \"He fucked your granddaughter\", were left for then 78-year-old actor Andrew Sachs regarding Sachs' granddaughter Georgina Baillie, by Russell Brand and Ross, which were broadcast on the pre-recorded show. After little initial interest, a media story about the calls by the \"Daily Mail\" generated a high number of complaints. Brand resigned from the BBC, while Ross was suspended without pay. BBC director general Mark Thompson stated that Ross should take the disciplinary action as a \"final warning\". The BBC was later fined £150,000 by Britain's broadcast regulator for airing the calls.\n\nOn 21 November 2008, the BBC Trust said that the phone calls were a \"deplorable intrusion with no editorial justification\". The trust gave its backing to Ross's 12-week suspension but recommended that no further action be taken against him. He returned to work in January 2009 with a new series of \"Friday Night\". From 23 May 2009, Ross' BBC Radio 2 show was recorded 24 hours before broadcast.\n\nOn 13 May 2009, Ross was accused of homophobia after a comment he made on his radio show, in which he said,\nIf your son asks for a \"Hannah Montana\" MP3 player, then you might want to already think about putting him down for adoption in later life, when they settle down with their partner.\nAn incorrect version of this quote was also circulated, in which Ross was accused of saying:\nIf your son asks for a \"Hannah Montana\" MP3 player, you might want to already think about putting him down for adoption before he brings his … erm … partner home.\nOfcom received 61 complaints following the comment. On 7 July 2009, Ofcom ruled that Ross did not breach the broadcasting code. They wrote in their opinion that \"the comment was clearly presented as a joke intended to make light of the reactions that some parents may have if their child chooses a toy that is very widely recognised to be designed and marketed for the opposite sex\" and that the nature of the joke and tone and manner in which it was presented \"made clear that it was not intended to be hostile or pejorative towards the gay community in general.\" Stonewall criticised the ruling; saying \"the fact that a comment is light-hearted does not absolve it from perpetuating the stereotypes that lead to homophobic bullying.\"\n\nRoss married author/journalist/broadcaster Jane Goldman in 1988 when Goldman was 18. They have since had three children: Betty Kitten, Harvey Kirby (named after Jack Kirby, a comic book creator whom Ross especially admires), and Honey Kinney. In 2005, Ross was made an OBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours for services to broadcasting. He celebrated the news by playing \"God Save the Queen\" by the Sex Pistols on his Radio 2 show.\n\nRoss and others have used his rhotacism for comic effect and he is sometimes known as \"Wossy,\" including on his Twitter feed (@wossy). His right index finger is crooked; he revealed on \"Top Gear\" that as a child he accidentally sliced off the tip of the finger and had to have it reattached.\n\nRoss is a big pop and rock music fan and maintains a particular interest in British punk rock, which captivated him when he was young. The first band he saw in concert was punk band X-Ray Spex at Islington's Hope and Anchor pub in North London. He paid tribute to lead singer Poly Styrene following her death. He has described himself as \"about as big a fan of David Bowie as you will find on the planet\". The glam art rock band Roxy Music are one of his all-time favourite acts and were invited to perform on the final episode of \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\".\n\nRoss is a fan of science fiction, including \"Doctor Who\". He contributed his early memories of the series, which included the 1968 serial \"The Invasion\", to a book which raised funds for Alzheimer's Research UK.\n\nRoss is also an ardent fan of comic books and he has even co-owned a comic shop in London with Paul Gambaccini and released \"Turf\", his first comic book, in 2010, with American artist Tommy Lee Edwards.\n\nRoss has attended a fund raiser for the James Randi Educational Foundation called \"The Amazing Meeting\" in London in 2009 and 2010. Ross has described himself as a big fan of James Randi and the other speakers – who were mainly prominent sceptics – and said that he and his wife had come to have a sceptical view of the world. Ross has been supportive of Simon Singh's efforts to defend an accusation of libel by the British Chiropractic Association and Ross has posed for the \"Geek Calendar 2011\", a fund raiser for The Libel Reform Campaign.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27956783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27956783", "title": "Joseph Cange", "text": "Joseph Cange\n\nJoseph Cange (Saarbourg, 19 September 1753 - ?) was a minor figure of the French Revolution.\n\nCange was born to the family of a peasant. He went on to serve as a clerk at Prison Saint-Lazare during the Reign of Terror.\n\nOne day, he was sent to the wife and children of a prisoner, Monsieur George; moved by their miserable condition, he shared his money with them, claiming that the funds were sent by the prisoner. George was freed at the Thermidorian Reaction and investigated to find the benefactor, eventually identifying Cange.\n\nThe story came public, written into a play by Michel-Jean Sedaine, and reported before the National Convention, where the President declared \"We applaud to Cange's generosity. We like the virtue that characterises him\".\n\nCange became a popular figure, having his portrait made by Pierre-Nicolas Legrand de Lérant and four theatre plays written after the story.\n\n"}
{"id": "54578325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54578325", "title": "List of people on the United States cover of Rolling Stone (1970s)", "text": "List of people on the United States cover of Rolling Stone (1970s)\n\nThis is a list of people (real or fictional) appearing on the cover of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine in the 1970s. This list is for the regular biweekly issues of the magazine, including variant covers, and does not include special issues. Issue numbers that include a slash (XXX/YYY) are combined double issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "20747313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20747313", "title": "Locus Award for Best First Novel", "text": "Locus Award for Best First Novel\n\nWinners of the Locus Award for Best First Novel, awarded by the science fiction and fantasy magazine \"Locus\". Awards presented in a given year are for works published in the previous calendar year. The award for Best First Novel was first presented in 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44745524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44745524", "title": "Microsoft Pulse", "text": "Microsoft Pulse\n\nMicrosoft Pulse (previously branded as Bing Pulse) is an audience response system from Microsoft. On June 30, 2017, the service was discontinued as a free public service. It is now only available as part of Skype for Business Skype Meeting Broadcast.\n\nNote: the domain https://pulse.microsoft.com is unrelated to the Pulse service and provides news and information for Microsoft Benelux customers.\n\nBing Pulse is an audience engagement technology for live feedback from audiences of any size, during any event, on any web-enabled device, and on any browser. Bing Pulse gives viewers the ability to respond every five seconds, and as often as they want, to the content they're hearing and seeing. Pulse also gives users the opportunity to have their say in polls and see how others are responding in real time. \nBing Pulse was unveiled on February 12, 2013 during Fox’s broadcast of the 2013 State of the Union. Since its inception, Bing Pulse has generated more than 35 million votes from participants across the US. Bing Pulse 2.0 was released in beta on December 3, 2014. Notable changes included a self-service option for users to purchase and use Bing Pulse through the product’s website, and several product improvements, including sharper consumer graphics and experience; a responsive, multi-device design; and more flexibility in visualizations.\n\nIn December 2015 Microsoft announced that they would drop the Bing branding in favour of the general \"Microsoft\" brand and would integrate other Microsoft services such as OneNote, Skype, Skype for Business and Azure. Alongside the rebranding Microsoft announced that the service would be focused beyond merely real-time voting.\n\nBing Pulse has both pulsing and polling functions. Pulse is a content rating tool that allows viewers to express their opinion continuously at any moment during a live program or event. Poll questions provide real-time, customizable technology that allows for expanded questioning throughout an event to gain deeper insights and data. Bing Pulse allows unlimited participants and doesn’t collect end-users’ personal data. \nAdditional Bing Pulse features include:\n\nBing Pulse was first used in partnership with Fox’s broadcast of the 2013 State of the Union. Since then, Bing Pulse has been incorporated into content with several cable news networks, generating more than 35 million audience votes. \nToday, Bing Pulse is available on a self-serve basis. Anyone in the United States, United Kingdom, and India can set up a Pulse (additional countries will be added soon), and anyone worldwide can participate in a Pulse.\n\nOn October 21, 2014 Microsoft and CNN announced a partnership to include Bing Pulse as part of CNN’s broadcast coverage of the 2014 US elections through to the 2016 Presidential elections. During the 2014 election season, CNN used Bing Pulse in their broadcast of the Florida gubernatorial debate and the New Hampshire U.S. Senatorial Debate. Previously, Bing Pulse had been incorporated into CNN’s broadcast of President Obama’s National ISIS address and a televised conversation between Bill Clinton and Erin Burnett.\n\nFox built on their momentum from the 2013 State of the Union, opting to use Pulse during the 2014 State of the Union address as well. Additionally, Bing Pulse was a regular feature on Special Report with Bret Baier from July 2013 to January 2014.\n\nPulse was a featured part of MSNBC’s The Great Debate series, where the audience was able to vote in real-time during a debate about the NSA held at the 2014 Aspen Ideas Festival. Additionally, CNBC incorporated Bing Pulse into a televised panel session held during the 2014 Clinton Global Initiative annual meeting.\n\nABC News included Bing Pulse in its online broadcast of the House Foreign Relations Committee hearing on the Bowe Bergdahl prisoner exchange in June, 2014.\nCBS News used Bing Pulse in its \"50 Years Later\" program, a special about the Civil Rights Movement broadcast during July 2014.\nThe Clinton Global Initiative leveraged Bing Pulse during their 2014 CGI University event at Arizona State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "20979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20979", "title": "Mikhail Gorbachev", "text": "Mikhail Gorbachev\n\nMikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev (born 2 March 1931) is a Russian and formerly Soviet politician. He was the eighth and last leader of the Soviet Union, having been General Secretary of the governing Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1985 until 1991. He was the country's head of state from 1988 until 1991, serving as Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet from 1988 to 1989, Chairman of the Supreme Soviet from 1989 to 1990, and President of the Soviet Union from 1990 to 1991. Ideologically a socialist, he initially adhered to Marxism-Leninism although following the Soviet collapse moved toward social democracy.\n\nGorbachev was born in Privolnoye, Stavropol Krai to a peasant Ukrainian–Russian family. In his youth he operated combine harvesters on a collective farm before joining the Communist Party, which then governed the Soviet Union as a one-party state. While studying at Moscow State University, he married fellow student Raisa Gorbacheva in 1953 prior to receiving his law degree in 1955. Moving to Stavropol, he worked for the Komsomol youth organisation and became a keen proponent of the de-Stalinization reforms of Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev. He was appointed the First Party Secretary of the Stavropol Regional Committee in 1970, in which position he oversaw construction of the Great Stavropol Canal. In 1974 he moved to Moscow to become First Secretary to the Supreme Soviet and in 1979 became a candidate member of the Politburo. Within three years of the death of Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev, following the brief \"interregna\" of Yuri Andropov and Konstantin Chernenko, Gorbachev was elected general secretary by the Politburo in 1985. \n\nAlthough committed to preserving the Soviet state and to its socialist ideals, Gorbachev believed significant reform was necessary. Gorbachev's policies of \"glasnost\" (\"openness\") and \"perestroika\" (\"restructuring\") and his reorientation of Soviet strategic aims contributed to the end of the Cold War. Under this program, the role of the Communist Party in governing the state was removed from the constitution, which inadvertently led to crisis-level political instability with a surge of regional nationalist and anti-communist activism culminating in the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Gorbachev later expressed regret for his failure to save the Soviet state, though he has insisted that his policies were not failures but rather were vitally necessary reforms, which were sabotaged and exploited by opportunists. He was awarded the Otto Hahn Peace Medal in 1989, the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990, and the Harvey Prize in 1992, as well as honorary doctorates from various universities. In the 21st century he unsuccessfully promoted social-democratic politics through the Social Democratic Party of Russia and then the Union of Social Democrats.\n\nWidely considered one of the most significant figures of the second half of the 20th century, Gorbachev remains the subject of controversy. He was widely praised in the West for his pivotal role in ending the Cold War, curtailing the human rights abuses that occurred in the Soviet Union, and tolerating the fall of Marxist–Leninist administrations in eastern and central Europe. Conversely, in Russia he is often derided for not stopping the Soviet collapse, an event which brought economic crisis and a decline in Russia's global influence. \n\nGorbachev was born on 2 March 1931 in the village of Privolnoye, Stavropol Krai. At the time, Privolnoye was divided almost evenly between ethnic Russians and ethnic Ukrainians. Gorbachev's paternal family were ethnic Russians and had moved to the region from Voronezh several generations before; his maternal family were of ethnic Ukrainian heritage and had migrated from Chernigov.\nHis parents named him Victor, but at the insistence of his mother—a devout Orthodox Christian—he had a secret baptism, where his grandfather christened him Mikhail. His relationship with his father, Sergey Andreyevich Gorbachev, was close; his mother, Maria Panteleyevna Gorbacheva (née Gopkalo), was colder and punitive. His parents were poor; they had married as teenagers in 1928, and in keeping with local tradition had initially resided in Sergei's father's house, an adobe-walled hut, before a hut of their own could be built.\n\nDuring Gorbachev's childhood, the Soviet Union was under the governance of Joseph Stalin, who had initiated a project of mass rural collectivisation which he believed would help convert the country into a socialist society. Gorbachev's maternal grandfather joined the governing Communist Party and helped form the village's first collective farm in 1929, becoming its chair. Aged three, Gorbachev left his parental home and moved in with his maternal grandparents at the collective farm, which was twelve miles outside the village. \n\nThe country was then experiencing the famine of 1932–33, in which three of Gorbachev's paternal uncles and aunts died. This was followed by the Great Purge, in which individuals accused of being \"enemies of the people\" were arrested and interned in labour camps, if not executed. Both of Gorbachev's grandfathers were arrested—his maternal in 1934 and his paternal in 1937—and both spent time in Gulag labour camps prior to being released. After his December 1938 release, Gorbachev's maternal grandfather discussed having been tortured by the secret police, an account that influenced the young boy.\n\nWhen the Second World War broke out, the Soviet Union found itself in conflict with Nazi Germany. In June 1941 the German Army invaded the country; they occupied Privolnoe for four and a half months in 1942. Gorbachev's father had joined the Red Army and fought on the frontlines; he was wrongly declared dead during the conflict and fought in the Battle of Kursk before returning to his family, injured. After the war, Gorbachev's parents had their second son, Aleksandr, in 1947; he and Mikhail would be their only children.\n\nThe village school had closed during much of the war but re-opened in autumn 1944. Gorbachev did not want to return but when he did he excelled academically. He read voraciously, moving from the Western novels of Thomas Mayne Reid to the work of Vissarion Belinsky, Alexander Pushkin, Nikolai Gogol, and Mikhail Lermontov.\nIn 1946, he joined Komsomol, the Soviet political youth organisation, becoming leader of his local group and then being elected to the Komsomol committee for the district. From primary school he moved to the high school in Molotovskeye; he stayed there during the week while walking the twelve miles home during weekends. There, he organised sporting and social activities and led the school's morning exercise class. He was also a member of the drama society. Over the course of five consecutive summers from 1946 onward he returned home to assist his father operate a combine harvester, during which they sometimes worked 20-hour days. In 1948, they harvested over 8000 centners of grain, a feat for which Sergei was awarded the Order of Lenin and his son the Order of the Red Banner of Labour.\n\nIn June 1950, Gorbachev became a candidate member of the Communist Party. He also applied to study at the law school of Moscow State University (MSU), then the most prestigious university in the country. They accepted without asking for an exam, likely because of his worker-peasant origins and his possession of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour. Aged 19, he travelled by train to Moscow, the first time he had left his home region.\n\nIn the city, he resided with fellow MSU students at a dormitory in Sokolniki District. He and other rural students felt at odds with their Muscovite counterparts but he soon came to fit in. Fellow students recall him working especially hard, often late into the night. He gained a reputation as a mediator during disputes, and was also known for being outspoken in class, although would only reveal a number of his views privately; for instance he confided in some students his opposition to the Soviet jurisprudential norm that a confession proved guilt, noting that confessions could have been forced. During his studies, an anti-semitic campaign spread through the Soviet Union, culminating in the Doctors' plot; Gorbachev publicly defended a Jewish student who was accused of disloyalty to the country by one of their fellows.\n\nAt MSU, he became the Komsomol head of his entering class, and then Komsomol's deputy secretary for agitation and propaganda at the law school. One of his first Komsomol assignments in Moscow was to monitor the election polling in Krasnopresnenskaya district to ensure the government's desire for near total turnout; Gorbachev found that most of those who voted did so \"out of fear\". In 1952, he was appointed a full member of the Communist Party. As a party and Komsomol member he was tasked with monitoring fellow students for potential subversion; some of his fellow students said that he did so only minimally and that they trusted him to keep confidential information secret from the authorities. Gorbachev became close friends with the Czechoslovak Zdeněk Mlynář, later a primary ideologist of the 1968 Prague Spring. Mlynář recalled that the duo remained \"convinced communists\" despite their growing concerns about the Stalinist system. After Stalin died in March 1953, Gorbachev and Mlynář joined the crowds amassing to see Stalin's body laying in state. \n\nAt MSU, Gorbachev met Raisa Titarenko, a Ukrainian studying in the university's philosophy department. She was engaged to another man but after that engagement fell apart, she began a relationship with Gorbachev; together they went to bookstores, museums, and art exhibits. In early 1953, he took an internship at the procurator's office in Molotovskoye district, but was angered by the incompetence and arrogance of those working there. That summer, he returned to Privolnoe to work with his father on the harvest; the money earned allowed him to pay for a wedding. On 25 September 1953 they registered their marriage at Sokolniki Registry Office; and in October moved in together at the Lenin Hills dormitory. Raisa fell pregnant and although the couple wanted to keep the child she fell ill and required a life-saving abortion. \n\nIn 1955, Gorbachev graduated with a distinction; his final paper had been on the advantages of \"socialist democracy\" over \"bourgeois democracy\". He was then assigned to the USSR Procurator's office, which was then focusing on the rehabilitation of the innocent victims of Stalin's purges, but found that they had no work for him. He was then offered a place on an MSU graduate course specialising in kolkhoz law, but declined. He had wanted to remain in Moscow, where Raisa was enrolled on a PhD program, but instead gained employment in Stavropol; Raisa abandoned her studies to join him there.\n\nIn August 1955, Gorbachev started work at the Stavropol regional procurator's office, but disliked the job and through contacts ensured he was reassigned to Komsomol. He became deputy director of Komosomol's agitation and propaganda department for the region. He visited villages in the area and tried to improve the lives of their inhabitants; he established a discussion circle in Gorkaya Balka village to help its peasant residents gain social contacts. Gorbachev and his wife initially rented a small room in Stavropol. The couple took daily evening walks around the city and on weekends hiked in the countryside. In January 1957, Raisa gave birth to a daughter, Irina. In 1958 they moved into two rooms in a communal apartment. In 1961, Gorbachev pursued a second degree, on agricultural production, at a local agricultural college, receiving it in 1967. His wife had also pursued a second degree, attaining a PhD in sociology in 1967 from the Moscow Pedagogical Institute; while in Stavropol she too joined the Communist Party.\n\nStalin was ultimately succeeded as Soviet leader by Nikita Khrushchev, who denounced Stalin and his cult of personality in a speech given in February 1956, after which he launched a de-Stalinization process throughout Soviet society. Later biographer William Taubman suggested that Gorbachev \"embodied\" the \"reformist spirit\" of the Khrushchev era. Gorbachev was among those who saw themselves as \"genuine Marxists\" or \"genuine Leninists\" in contrast to what they regarded as the perversions of Stalin. He helped spread Khrushchev's anti-Stalinist message in Stavropol, but encountered many who continued to regard Stalin as a hero or who praised the Stalinist purges as just.\n\nGorbachev rose steadily through the ranks of the local administration. The authorities regarded him as politically reliable, and he would flatter his superiors, for instance gaining favour with prominent local politician Fyodor Kulakov. In September 1956, he was promoted head of the Stavropol city's Komsomol; in 1958 he was made deputy head of the Komsomol for the entire region. At this point he was given better accommodation: a two-room flat with its own private kitchen, toilet, and bathroom. In Stavropol, he formed a discussion club for youths, and helped mobilise local young people to take part in Khrushchev's agricultural and development campaigns. He went out of his way to appoint women as city and district leaders. With an ability to outmanoeuvre rivals, some colleagues resented his success. In 1961, Gorbachev played host to the Italian delegation for the World Youth Festival in Moscow. In January 1963, Gorbachev was promoted to personnel chief for the regional party's agricultural committee.\n\nIn August 1968 the Soviet Union led an invasion of Czechoslovakia to put an end to the Prague Spring, a period of political liberalisation in the Marxist–Leninist country. Although Gorbachev later stated that he had had private concerns about the invasion, he publicly supported it. By 1968 he was increasingly frustrated with his job—in large part because Khrushchev's reforms were stalling or being reversed—and he contemplated leaving politics to work in academia. However, in August 1968, he was named Leonid Yefremov's deputy, becoming the second most senior figure in the Stavrapol region. In September 1969 he was part of a Soviet delegation sent to Czechoslovakia, where he found the Czechoslovak people largely unwelcoming to them. That year, the Soviet authorities ordered him to punish Fagien B. Sadykov, a Stavropol-based agronomist whose ideas were regarded as critical of Soviet agricultural policy; Gorbachev ensured that Sadykov was fired from teaching but ignored calls for him to face tougher punishment. Gorbachev later related that he was \"deeply affected\" by the incident; \"my conscience tormented me\" for overseeing Sadykov's persecution.\n\nIn April 1970, Yefremov was promoted to a higher position in Moscow and Gorbachev took his job. This granted Gorbachev significant power over the Stavropol region. He had been personally vetted for the position by senior Kremlin leaders and was informed of their decision by the Soviet leader, Leonid Brezhnev. Aged 39, he was considerably younger than his predecessors in the position. As head of the Stavropol region, he automatically became a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. As regional leader, Gorbachev initially attributed economic and other failures to \"the inefficiency and incompetence of cadres, flaws in management structure or gaps in legislation\", but eventually concluded that they were caused by an excessive centralisation of decision making in Moscow. He began reading translations of restricted texts by Western Marxist authors like Antonio Gramsci, Louis Aragon, Roger Garaudy, and Giuseppe Boffa, and came under their influence.\n\nHis main task as regional leader was to raise agricultural production levels, something hampered by severe droughts in 1975 and 1976.\nHe oversaw the expansion of irrigation systems through construction of the Great Stavropol Canal. For overseeing a record grain harvest in Ipatovsky district, in March 1972 he was awarded by Order of the October Revolution by Brezhnev in a Moscow ceremony. Gorbachev always sought to maintain Brezhnev's trust; as regional leader, he repeatedly praised Brezhnev in his speeches, for instance referring to him as \"the outstanding statesman of our time\". Gorbachev and his wife holidayed in Moscow, Leningrad, Uzbekistan, and resorts in the North Caucusus; he holidayed with the head of the KGB, Yuri Andropov, who was favourable towards him, as well as with the Soviet Prime Minister, Alexei Kosygin, with whom he also established a good relationship.\n\nThe government considered Gorbachev sufficiently reliable that he was sent as part of Soviet delegations to Western Europe; he made five trips there between 1970 and 1977. In September 1971 he was part of a delegation who travelled to Italy, where they met with representatives of the Italian Communist Party; Gorbachev loved Italian culture but was struck by the poverty and inequality he saw in the country. In 1972 he visited Belgium and the Netherlands and in 1973 West Germany. Gorbachev and his wife visited France in 1976 and 1977, on the latter occasion touring the country with a guide from the French Communist Party. He was struck by how openly West Europeans offered their opinions and criticised their political leaders, something absent from the Soviet Union, where people did not feel safe speaking so openly. He later related that for he and his wife, these visits \"shook our a priori belief in the superiority of socialist over bourgeois democracy\".\n\nGorbachev had remained close to his parents; after his father he became terminally ill in 1974, Gorbachev travelled to be with him in Privolnoe shortly before his death. His daughter, Irina, married fellow student Anatoly Virgansky in April 1978.\n\nIn November 1974, Gorbachev was appointed Secretary of the Central Committee; he was the youngest man to ever hold the position. His appointment had been approved unanimously by the Central Committee's members. To fill this position, Gorbachev and his wife moved to Moscow, where they were initially given an old dacha outside the city; then moved to another, at Sosnovka, before finally being allocated a 1970s brick house. He was also given an apartment inside the city, but gave that to his daughter and son-in-law; Irina had begun work at Moscow's Second Medical Institute. As part of the Moscow political elite, Gorbachev and his wife now had access to better medical care and to specialised shops; they were also given cooks, servants, bodyguards, and secretaries, although many of these were spies for the KGB. In his new position, Gorbachev often worked twelve to sixteen hour days; he and his wife socialised little, but liked to visit Moscow's theatres and museums.\n\nHe was subsequently appointed to the Central Committee's Secretariat for Agriculture in 1978, replacing Fyodor Kulakov after he died of a heart attack. In the Politburo, Gorbachev concentrated his attentions on agriculture: the harvests of 1979, 1980, and 1981 were all poor, due largely to weather conditions. Privately, he had growing concerns about the country's agricultural management system, coming to regard it as overly centralised and requiring more bottom-up decision making. He began to have concerns about other policies too. In December 1979, the Soviets sent their Red Army into neighbouring Afghanistan to support the Soviet-aligned government against Islamist insurgents; Gorbachev privately thought it a mistake. However, at times he openly supported the government position; he supported Soviet calls for the Polish Marxist–Leninist government to crack down on growing internal dissent in Poland in October 1980.\n\nAfter Brezhnev's death in November 1982, Andropov succeeded him as General Secretary of the Communist Party, the \"de facto\" head of government in the Soviet Union. Gorbachev was enthusiastic about the appointment. However, although Gorbachev hoped that Andropov would introduce liberalising reforms, the latter carried out only personnel shifts rather than structural change. Andropov encouraged Gorbachev to expand into policy areas other than agriculture, preparing him for future higher office. With Andropov's encouragement, Gorbachev sometimes chaired Politburo meetings.\nIn April 1983, Gorbachev delivered the annual Lenin's birthday speech; this required him re-reading many of Lenin's later writings, in which the first Soviet leader had called for reform, and encouraged Gorbachev's own conviction that reform was needed. In May 1983, Gorbachev was sent to Canada, where he met Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and spoke to the Canadian parliament. There, he met and befriended the Soviet ambassador, Aleksandr Yakovlev, who later became a key political ally.\n\nIn February 1984, Andropov died; on his deathbed he indicated his desire that Gorbachev succeed him. Instead, Chernenko was appointed General Secretary, but he too was in very poor health. Chernenko was often too sick to chair Politburo meetings, with Gorbachev stepping in last minute. He continued to cultivate allies both in the Kremlin and beyond. He also gave the main speech at a conference on Soviet ideology, where he angered party hardliners by implying that the country required reform. In April 1984, he was appointed chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Soviet legislature, a largely honorific position; in June he travelled to Italy as a Soviet representative for the funeral of Italian Communist Party leader Enrico Berlinguer. In December, he visited Britain at the request of its Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher; she was aware that he was a potential reformer and wanted to meet him. At the end of the visit, Thatcher said: \"I like Mr Gorbachev. We can do business together\". He felt that the visit helped to erode Gromyko's dominance of Soviet foreign policy while at the same time sending a signal to the U.S. government that he wanted to improve Soviet-U.S. relations.\n\nIn March 1985, Chernenko died. Gorbachev expected much opposition to his nomination as Chernenko's successor, but ultimately the rest of the Politburo supported him. Shortly after Chernenko's death, the Politburo unanimously elected Gorbachev as his successor; they wanted him over another elderly leader.\nGorbachev was elected general secretary by the Politburo on 11 March 1985, only three hours after Chernenko's death. Upon his accession at age 54, he was the youngest member of the Politburo. Two months after being elected, he left Moscow for the first time, traveling to Leningrad, where he spoke to assembled crowds.\n\nGorbachev's leadership style differed from that of his predecessors. He would stop to talk to civilians on the street, forbade the display of his portrait at the 1985 Red Square holiday celebrations, and encouraged frank and open discussions at Politburo meetings. His wife was his closest adviser, and took on the role of a \"first lady\" by appearing with him on foreign trips; her public visibility was a breach of standard practice and generated resentment. His other close aides were Georgy Shakhnazarov and Anatoly Chernyaev. He sought to remove several older members from the Politburo, encouraging Grigory Romanov, Nikolai Tikhonov, and Viktor Grishin into retirement and moving Gromyko from his role in foreign policy to that of head of state. He replaced Gromyko's former role with his ally, Eduard Shevardnadze. Other allies whom he saw promoted were Yakovlev and Vadim Medvedev. Another of those promoted by Gorbachev was Boris Yeltsin, who was made Secretary of the Central Committee in July 1985. \n\nDrunkenness was a major social problem in the 1980s, and Andropov had planned for a major campaign to limit alcohol consumption, which Gorbachev—who believed it would improve health and work efficiency—oversaw. His wife keenly supported the measure. As a result, crime rates fell and life expectancy grew slightly between 1986 and 1987. The reform had significant costs to the Soviet economy, resulting in losses of up to $100 billion between 1985 and 1990. Gorbachev later considered the campaign to have been an error.\nGorbachev's primary goal as general secretary was to revive the Soviet economy after the stagnant Brezhnev years. In 1985, he announced that the economy was stalled and that reorganization was needed. Gorbachev proposed a \"vague programme of reform\", which was adopted at the April Plenum of the Central Committee. He called for fast-paced technological modernization and increased industrial and agricultural productivity, and tried to reform the Soviet bureaucracy to be more efficient and prosperous. Gorbachev soon came to believe that fixing the Soviet economy would be nearly impossible without reforming the political and social structure of the Communist nation. He also initiated the concept of \"gospriyomka\" (state acceptance of production) during his time as leader, which represented quality control.\n\nIn a speech in May 1985 in Leningrad (now Saint Petersburg), he advocated widespread reforms. The reforms began with personnel changes, most notably by replacing Andrei Gromyko with Eduard Shevardnadze as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Gromyko, disparaged as \"Mr Nyet\" in the West, had served in the post for 28 years and was considered an 'old thinker'. Robert D. English notes that, despite Shevardnadze's diplomatic inexperience, Gorbachev \"shared with him an outlook\" and experience in managing an agricultural region of the Soviet Union (Georgia), which meant that both had weak links to the powerful military-industrial complex.\n\nA number of reformist ideas were discussed by Politburo members. One of the first reforms Gorbachev introduced was the anti-alcohol campaign, begun in May 1985, which was designed to fight widespread alcoholism in the Soviet Union. Prices of vodka, wine, and beer were raised, and their sales were restricted. It was pursued vigorously and cut both alcohol sales and government revenue. As a result, alcohol production migrated to the black market economy and dealt a blow to state revenue—a loss of approximately 100 billion rubles, according to Alexander Yakovlev. However, the program proved to be a useful symbol for change in the country.\nThe purpose of reform was to prop up the centrally planned economy—not to transition to market socialism. Speaking in late summer 1985 to the secretaries for economic affairs of the central committees of the East European communist parties, Gorbachev said: \"Many of you see the solution to your problems in resorting to market mechanisms in place of direct planning. Some of you look at the market as a lifesaver for your economies. But, comrades, you should not think about lifesavers but about the ship, and the ship is socialism.\"\n\nGorbachev initiated his new policy of \"perestroika\" (literally \"restructuring\" in Russian) and its attendant radical reforms in 1986; they were sketched, but not fully spelled out, at the XXVIIth Party Congress in February–March 1986. The \"reconstruction\" was proposed in an attempt to overcome the economic stagnation by creating a dependable and effective mechanism for accelerating economic and social progress.\n\nAccording to Gorbachev, \"perestroika\" was the \"conference of development of democracy, socialist self-government, encouragement of initiative and creative endeavor, improved order and discipline, more glasnost, criticism and self-criticism in all spheres of our society. It is utmost respect for the individual and consideration for personal dignity\".\n\nDomestic changes continued. In a bombshell speech during Armenian SSR's Central Committee Plenum of the Communist Party, the young First Secretary of Armenia's Hrazdan Regional Communist Party, Hayk Kotanjian, criticised rampant corruption in the Armenian Communist Party's highest echelons, implicating Armenian SSR Communist Party First Secretary Karen Demirchyan and calling for his resignation. Symbolically, intellectual Andrei Sakharov was invited to return to Moscow by Gorbachev in December 1986 after six years of internal exile in Gorky. During the same month, however, signs of the nationalities problem that would haunt the later years of the Soviet Union surfaced as riots, named Jeltoqsan, occurred in Kazakhstan after Dinmukhamed Kunayev was replaced as First Secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan.\n\nThe Central Committee Plenum in January 1987 saw the crystallisation of Gorbachev's political reforms, including proposals for multi-candidate elections and the appointment of non-Party members to government positions. He also first raised the idea of expanding co-operatives. Economic reforms took up much of the rest of 1987, as a new law giving enterprises more independence was passed in June and Gorbachev released a book, \"Perestroika: New Thinking for Our Country and the World\", in November, elucidating his main ideas for reform. In 1987, he rehabilitated many opponents of Joseph Stalin—another part of the De-Stalinization, which began in 1956, when Lenin's Testament was published.\n\n1988 would see Gorbachev's introduction of \"glasnost\", which gave the Soviet people freedoms that they had never previously known, including greater freedom of speech. The press became far less controlled, and thousands of political prisoners and many dissidents were released. Gorbachev's goal in undertaking \"glasnost\" was to pressure conservatives within the CPSU who opposed his policies of economic restructuring, and he also hoped that through different ranges of openness, debate and participation, the Soviet people would support his reform initiatives.\n\nAt the same time, he opened himself and his reforms up for more public criticism, evident in Nina Andreyeva's critical letter in a March edition of \"Sovetskaya Rossiya\". Gorbachev acknowledged that his liberalising policies of \"glasnost\" and \"perestroika\" owed a great deal to Alexander Dubček's \"Socialism with a human face\". Indeed, when one reporter asked him what was the difference between his policies and the Prague Spring, Gorbachev replied, \"Nineteen years\".\n\nThe Law on Cooperatives, enacted in May 1988, was perhaps the most radical economic reform of the early Gorbachev era. For the first time since Vladimir Lenin's New Economic Policy, the law permitted private ownership of businesses in the service, manufacturing, and foreign-trade sectors. The law initially imposed high taxes and employment restrictions, although these were ignored by some Soviet Socialist Republics (SSRs). Later, the restrictions were revised to avoid discouraging private-sector activity. Under the provision for private ownership, cooperative restaurants, shops, and manufacturers became part of the Soviet scene. Under the new law, the restructuring of large \"All-Union\" industrial organizations also began. Aeroflot was split up, eventually becoming several independent airlines. These newly autonomous business organisations were encouraged to seek foreign investment.\n\nIn June 1988, at the CPSU's Party Conference, Gorbachev launched radical reforms meant to reduce party control of the government apparatus. He proposed a new executive in the form of a presidential system, as well as a new legislative element, to be called the Congress of People's Deputies. Elections to the Congress of People's Deputies were held throughout the Soviet Union in March and April 1989. This was the first free election in the Soviet Union since 1917. Gorbachev became Chairman of the Supreme Soviet (or head of state) on 25 May 1989.\n\nOn 15 March 1990, Gorbachev was elected as the first executive President of the Soviet Union with 59% of the Deputies' votes. He was the sole candidate on the ballot. The Congress of People's Deputies met for the first time on 25 May in order to elect representatives from the Congress to sit on the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. Nonetheless, the Congress posed problems for Gorbachev: Its sessions were televised, airing more criticism and encouraging people to expect ever more rapid reform. Perestroika meant changing the planned economy into a more active, self-financed system, where the duration of central planning would not exceed five years, and which would be more able to react to economic needs. Communist rule in the Soviet Union weakened, and centralized power from Moscow was unable to combat centrifugal forces in the South. In the elections, many Party candidates were defeated. Furthermore, Boris Yeltsin was elected as mayor of Moscow and returned to political prominence to become an increasingly vocal critic of Gorbachev.\n\nGorbachev chose a vice president; but when first Shevardnadze, then Kazakh leader Nursultan Nazarbayev, turned it down, Gorbachev chose Gennady Yanayev, the head of the All-Union Central Council of Trade Unions and a known hardliner. This decision would come back to haunt Gorbachev later.\n\nIn contrast to the controversy at home over his domestic reforms, Gorbachev was largely hailed in the West for his 'New Thinking' doctrine in foreign affairs. During his tenure, he sought to improve relations and trade with the West by reducing Cold War tensions. He established close relationships with several Western leaders, such as West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, U.S. President Ronald Reagan, and British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who famously remarked, \"I like Mr. Gorbachev; we can do business together\".\n\nGorbachev understood the link between achieving international détente and domestic reform and thus began extending \"New Thinking\" abroad immediately. On 8 April 1985, he announced the suspension of the deployment of SS-20 missiles in Europe as a move towards resolving intermediate-range nuclear weapons (INF) issues. Later that year, in September, Gorbachev proposed that the Soviets and Americans both cut their nuclear arsenals in half. He went to France on his first trip abroad as Soviet leader in October. November saw the Geneva Summit between Gorbachev and Ronald Reagan. Though no concrete agreement was made, Gorbachev and Reagan struck a personal relationship and decided to hold further meetings.\nJanuary 1986 would see Gorbachev make his boldest international move so far, when he announced his proposal for the elimination of intermediate-range nuclear weapons in Europe and his strategy for eliminating all of the Soviet nuclear arsenal by the year 2000 (often referred to as the 'January Proposal'). He also began the process of withdrawing troops from Afghanistan and Mongolia on 28 July. Nonetheless, many observers, such as Jack F. Matlock, Jr. (despite generally praising Gorbachev as well as Reagan), have criticized Gorbachev for taking too long to achieve withdrawal from the Afghanistan War, citing it as an example of lingering elements of \"old thinking\" in Gorbachev.\n\nOn 11 October 1986, Gorbachev and Reagan met at Höfði house in Reykjavík, Iceland, to discuss reducing intermediate-range nuclear weapons in Europe. To the immense surprise of both men's advisers, the two agreed in principle to removing INF systems from Europe and to equal global limits of 100 INF missile warheads. They also essentially agreed in principle to eliminate all nuclear weapons in 10 years (by 1996), instead of by the year 2000 as in Gorbachev's original outline. The US's rejection of the Gorbachev proposal, particularly Reagan's insistence of continued unlimited testing of Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) systems, meant that the summit is often regarded as a failure for not producing a concrete agreement immediately, or for leading to a staged elimination of nuclear weapons. Reagan was persuaded by Richard Perle to reject limits on SDI testing because Perle thought that the far-reaching arms control deal proposed by the Soviets would improve the Soviet domestic economy and have a beneficial impact on the Soviet standard of living. \n\nIn the long term, nevertheless, this would culminate in the signing of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty in 1987, after Gorbachev had proposed this elimination on 22 July 1987 (and it was subsequently agreed on in Geneva on 24 November).\n\nIn February 1988, Gorbachev announced the full withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan. The withdrawal was completed the following year, although the civil war continued as the Mujahedin pushed to overthrow the pro-Soviet Najibullah government. An estimated 14,453 Soviets were killed between 1979 and 1989 as a result of the Afghanistan War.\nAlso during 1988, Gorbachev announced that the Soviet Union would abandon the Brezhnev Doctrine, and allow the Eastern bloc nations to freely determine their own internal affairs. Jokingly dubbed the \"Sinatra Doctrine\" by Gorbachev's Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennadi Gerasimov, this policy of non-intervention in the affairs of the other Warsaw Pact states proved to be the most momentous of Gorbachev's foreign policy reforms. In his 6 July 1989 speech arguing for a \"common European home\" before the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, France, Gorbachev declared: \"The social and political order in some countries changed in the past, and it can change in the future too, but this is entirely a matter for each people to decide. Any interference in the internal affairs, or any attempt to limit the sovereignty of another state, friend, ally, or another, would be inadmissible.\" A month earlier, on 4 June 1989, elections had taken place in Poland and the communist government had already been deposed.\n\nMoscow's abandonment of the Brezhnev Doctrine allowed the rise of popular upheavals in Eastern Europe throughout 1989, in which Communism was overthrown. By the end of 1989, revolts had spread from one Eastern European capital to another, ousting the regimes built in Eastern Europe after World War II. Except in Romania, the popular upheavals against the pro-Soviet regimes were all peaceful (\"see Revolutions of 1989\"). The loosening of Soviet hegemony over Eastern Europe effectively ended the Cold War, and for this, Gorbachev was awarded the Otto Hahn Peace Medal in Gold in 1989 and the Nobel Peace Prize on 15 October 1990.\nOn 9 November, people in East Germany (the German Democratic Republic, GDR) were suddenly allowed to cross through the Berlin Wall into West Berlin, following a peaceful protest against the country's dictatorial administration, including a demonstration by some one million people in East Berlin on 4 November. Unlike earlier riots which were ended by military force with the help of the USSR, Gorbachev now decided not to interfere with the process in Germany. He stated that German reunification was an internal German matter.\n\nThe rest of 1989 was taken up by the increasingly problematic question of nationalities and the dramatic fragmentation of the Eastern Bloc. Despite unprecedented international détente, due to Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan completed in January and continuing talks between Gorbachev and George H. W. Bush, domestic reforms suffered from increasing divergence between reformists, who wanted faster change, and conservatives, who wanted to limit change. Gorbachev states that he tried to find middle ground between both groups, but this would draw more criticism towards him. The story from this point on moves away from reforms and becomes one of the nationalities question and the eventual dissolution of the Soviet Union.\nCoit D. Blacker wrote in 1990 that the Soviet leadership \"appeared to have believed that whatever loss of authority the Soviet Union might suffer in Eastern Europe would be more than offset by a net increase in its influence in Western Europe\". Nevertheless, it is unlikely that Gorbachev ever intended for the dismantling of Communism in Warsaw Pact countries. Rather, he assumed that the Communist parties of Eastern Europe could be reformed in a similar way to the reforms he hoped to achieve in the CPSU. Just as \"perestroika\" was aimed at making the USSR more efficient economically and politically, Gorbachev believed that the Comecon and Warsaw Pact could be reformed into more effective entities. Alexander Yakovlev, a close advisor to Gorbachev, would later state that it would have been \"absurd to keep the system\" in Eastern Europe. In contrast to Gorbachev, Yakovlev had come to the conclusion that the Soviet-dominated Comecon was inherently unworkable and that the Warsaw Pact had \"no relevance to real life\".\n\nBy the end of the 1980s, severe shortages of basic food supplies (meat, sugar) led to the reintroduction of the war-time system of distribution using food cards that limited each citizen to a certain amount of product per month. Compared to 1985, the state deficit grew from 0 to 109 billion rubles; gold funds decreased from 2,000 to 200 tons; and external debt grew from 0 to 120 billion dollars.\n\nFurthermore, the democratisation of the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe had irreparably undermined the power of the CPSU and Gorbachev himself. The relaxation of censorship and attempts to create more political openness had the unintended effect of re-awakening long-suppressed nationalist and anti-Russian feelings in the Soviet republics. Calls for greater independence from Moscow's rule grew louder, especially in the Baltic republics of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia, which had been annexed into the Soviet Union by Joseph Stalin in 1940. Nationalist feeling also took hold in Georgia, Ukraine, Armenia, and Azerbaijan.\n\nIn December 1986, the first signs of the nationalities problem that would haunt the later years of the Soviet Union's existence surfaced as riots, named Jeltoqsan, occurred in Alma Ata and other areas of Kazakhstan after Dinmukhamed Kunayev was replaced as First Secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan. Nationalism would then surface in Russia in May 1987, as 600 members of Pamyat, a nascent Russian nationalist group, demonstrated in Moscow and were becoming increasingly linked to Boris Yeltsin, who received their representatives at a meeting.\nViolence erupted in Nagorno-Karabakh between February and April, when Armenians living in the area began a new wave of demands to transfer of NKAO from Azerbaijan to Armenia which eventually led to full scale Nagorno-Karabakh War. Gorbachev imposed a temporary solution, but it did not last, as fresh trouble arose in Nagorno-Karabakh between June and July. Turmoil would once again return in late 1988, this time in Armenia itself, when the Spitak earthquake hit the region on 7 December. Poor local infrastructure magnified the hazard and some 25,000 people died. Gorbachev was forced to break off his trip to the United States and cancel planned travel to Cuba and the UK.\n\nIn March and April 1989 elections to the Congress of People's Deputies took place throughout the Soviet Union. This returned many pro-independence republicans, as many CPSU candidates were rejected. The televised Congress debates allowed the dissemination of pro-independence propositions. Indeed, 1989 would see numerous nationalistic protests; for example, beginning with the Baltic republics in January, laws were passed in most non-Russian republics giving precedence for the local language over Russian.\n9 April would see the crackdown on nationalist demonstrations by Soviet troops in Tbilisi, Georgia. There would be further bloody protests in Uzbekistan in June, when Uzbeks and Meskhetian Turks clashed in Fergana, Uzbekistan. Apart from this violence, three major events that altered the face of the nationalities issue occurred in 1989. Estonia had declared its sovereignty on 16 November 1988, to be followed by Lithuania in May 1989 and by Latvia in July (the Communist Party of Lithuania would also declare its independence from the CPSU in December). This brought the Union and the republics into clear confrontation and would form a precedent for other republics.\n\nAround the 50th anniversary of the signing of the 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact in July 1989, the Soviet government formally acknowledged that the plan had included the placing of the Baltic states into the Soviet sphere of influence, which paved the way for their annexation into the USSR in 1940. The revelation supported the long-denied proposition that the Baltic states had been involuntarily brought into the Soviet Union, and so it boosted the Baltic aspirations to reestablish their independence. Finally, the Eastern bloc fragmented in the autumn of 1989, and Gorbachev made the decision not to use military force in order to maintain the Communist regimes in Eastern Europe. This raised hopes that Gorbachev would extend his non-interventionist doctrine to the internal workings of the USSR.\n\n1990 began with nationalist turmoil in January. Azerbaijanis rioted and troops were sent in to restore order; many Moldovans demonstrated in favour of unification with post-Communist Romania; and Lithuanian demonstrations continued. The same month, in a hugely significant move, Armenia asserted its right to veto laws coming from the All-Union level, thus intensifying the \"war of laws\" between the republics and Moscow.\n\nSoon after, the CPSU, which had already lost much of its control, began to lose even more power as Gorbachev deepened political reform. The February Central Committee Plenum advocated multi-party elections; local elections held between February and March returned a large number of pro-independence candidates. The Congress of People's Deputies then amended the Soviet Constitution in March, removing Article 6, which guaranteed the monopoly of the CPSU. Soon after the constitutional amendment, Lithuania declared independence and elected Vytautas Landsbergis as Chairman of the Supreme Council (head of state).\n\nOn 15 March, Gorbachev himself was elected as the first—and as it turned out, only—President of the Soviet Union by the Congress of People's Deputies and chose a Presidential Council of 15 politicians. Gorbachev was essentially creating his own political support base independent of CPSU conservatives and radical reformers. The new Executive was designed to be a powerful position to guide the spiraling reform process, and the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union and Congress of People's Deputies had already given Gorbachev increasingly presidential powers in February. This was again criticized by reformers. Despite the apparent increase in Gorbachev's power, he was unable to stop the process of nationalistic assertion.\n\nFurther embarrassing facts about Soviet history were revealed in April, when the government admitted that the NKVD had carried out the infamous Katyn massacre of Polish army officers during World War II; previously, the USSR had blamed Nazi Germany. More significantly for Gorbachev's position, Boris Yeltsin reached a new level of prominence, as he was elected Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR in May, effectively making him the de jure leader of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic. Problems for Gorbachev once again came from the Russian parliament in June, when it declared the precedence of Russian laws over All-Union-level legislation.\nMeanwhile, Gorbachev's personal political position continued to change. At the 28th CPSU Congress in July, Gorbachev was re-elected general secretary, but this position was now completely independent of Soviet government, and the Politburo had no say in the ruling of the country. Gorbachev further reduced Party power in the same month, when he issued a decree abolishing Party control of all areas of the media and broadcasting.\n\nAt the same time, Gorbachev worked to consolidate his presidential position, culminating in the Supreme Soviet granting him special powers to rule by decree in September in order to pass a much-needed plan for transition to a market economy. However, the Supreme Soviet could not agree on which program to adopt. Gorbachev pressed on with political reform; his proposal for setting up a new Soviet government, with a Soviet of the Federation consisting of representatives from all 15 republics, was passed through the Supreme Soviet in November. In December, Gorbachev was once more granted increased executive power by the Supreme Soviet, arguing that such moves were necessary to counter \"the dark forces of nationalism\". Such moves led to Eduard Shevardnadze's resignation; Gorbachev's former ally warned of an impending dictatorship. This move was a serious blow to Gorbachev personally and to his efforts for reform.\n\nMeanwhile, Gorbachev was losing further ground to nationalists. October 1990 saw the founding of DemRossiya, the Russian pro-reform coalition; a few days later, both Ukraine and Russia declared their laws completely sovereign over Soviet laws. The 'war of laws' had become an open battle, with the Supreme Soviet refusing to recognise the actions of the two republics. Gorbachev would publish the draft of a new union treaty in November, which envisioned a continued union called the Union of Sovereign Soviet Republics, but, going into 1991, Gorbachev's actions were steadily overpowered by secessionism.\nJanuary and February 1991 would see a new level of turmoil in the Baltic republics. On 10 January 1991, Gorbachev issued an ultimatum-like request addressing the Lithuanian Supreme Council demanding the restoration of the validity of the constitution of the Soviet Union in Lithuania and revocation of all anti-constitutional laws. In his \"Memoirs\", Gorbachev asserts that on 12 January he convened the Council of the Federation which agreed to political measures to prevent bloodshed, including sending representatives of the Council of the Federation on a \"fact-finding mission\" to Vilnius. However, before the delegation arrived, the local branches of the KGB and armed forces had worked together to seize the TV tower in Vilnius; Gorbachev asked the heads of the KGB and military if they had approved such action, and there is no evidence that they, or Gorbachev, ever did. Gorbachev cites documents found in the RSFSR Prokuratura after the August coup, which only mentioned that \"some 'authorities'\" had sanctioned the actions.\n\nThe book \"Alpha – the KGB's Top Secret Unit\" also suggests that a \"KGB operation co-ordinated with the military\" was undertaken by the KGB Alpha Group. Archie Brown, in \"The Gorbachev Factor\", uses the memoirs of many people around Gorbachev and in the upper echelons of the Soviet political landscape, to implicate General Valentin Varennikov, a member of the August coup plotters, and General Vladislav Achalov, another August coup conspirator. These persons were characterised as individuals \"who were prepared to remove Gorbachev from his presidential office unconstitutionally\" and \"were more than capable of using unauthorised violence against nationalist separatists some months earlier\". Brown criticises Gorbachev for \"a conscious tilt in the direction of the conservative forces he was trying to keep within an increasingly fragile coalition\" who would later betray him; he also criticises Gorbachev \"for his tougher line and heightened rhetoric against the Lithuanians in the days preceding the attack and for his slowness in condemning the killings\" but notes that Gorbachev did not approve any action and was seeking political solutions.\n\nIn continued violence, at least 14 civilians were killed and more than 600 injured from 11–13 January 1991 in Vilnius, Lithuania. News of support for the Lithuanians from Western governments began to appear. The strong Western reaction and the actions of Russian democratic forces put the Soviet president and government into a very awkward position. Further problems surfaced in Riga, Latvia, on 20 and 21 January, where OMON (special Ministry of the Interior troops) killed 4 people. Archie Brown suggests that Gorbachev's response this time was better, condemning the rogue action, sending his condolences and suggesting that secession could take place if it went through the procedures outlined in the Soviet constitution. According to Gorbachev's aide, Shakhnazarov, Gorbachev was finally beginning to accept the inevitability of \"losing\" the Baltic republics, although he would try all political means to preserve the Union. Brown believes that this put him in \"imminent danger\" of being overthrown by hard-liners opposing secession.\n\nGorbachev continued to work on drafting a new treaty of union which would have created a truly voluntary federation in an increasingly democratised Soviet Union. The new treaty was strongly supported by the Central Asian republics, who needed the economic power and markets of the Soviet Union to prosper. However, the more radical reformists, such as Russian SFSR President Boris Yeltsin, were increasingly convinced that a rapid transition to a market economy was required and were more than happy to contemplate the disintegration of the Soviet Union if that was required to achieve their aims. Nevertheless, a referendum on the future of the Soviet Union was held in March (with a referendum in Russia on the creation of a presidency), which returned an average of 76.4% in the nine republics where it was taken, with a turnout of 80% of the adult population. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Armenia, Georgia and Moldova did not participate. Following this, an April meeting at Novo-Ogarevo between Gorbachev and the heads of the nine republics issued a statement on speeding up the creation of a new Union treaty.\n\nIn May, a hardline newspaper published \"Architect amidst the Ruins\", an open letter criticizing Yakovlev (often referred to as the \"architect of \"perestroika\"\") which was signed by Gennady Zyuganov. Many also saw this publication as the start of a campaign to oust Gorbachev.\n\nMeanwhile, on 12 June 1991 Boris Yeltsin was elected President of the Russian Federation by 57.3% of the vote (with a turnout of 74%).\n\nIn contrast to the reformers' moderate approach to the new treaty, the hard-line apparatchiks, still strong within the CPSU and military establishment, completely opposed anything which might lead to the break-up of the Soviet Union. On the eve of the treaty's signing, hardline Soviet leaders, calling themselves the 'State Committee on the State of Emergency', launched the August coup in an attempt to remove Gorbachev from power and prevent the signing of the new union treaty.\n\nUnder the pretense that Gorbachev was ill, his vice president, Yanayev, took over as president. Gorbachev spent three days (19, 20, and 21 August) under house arrest at his dacha in the Crimea before being freed and restored to power. However, upon his return, Gorbachev found that neither Union nor Russian power structures heeded his commands, as support had swung over to Yeltsin, whose defiance had led to the coup's collapse.\n\nFurthermore, Gorbachev was forced to fire large numbers of his Politburo and, in several cases, arrest them. Those arrested for high treason included the \"Gang of Eight\" that had led the coup, including Kryuchkov, Yazov, Pavlov and Yanayev. Pugo killed his wife and then shot himself after the coup. Akhromeyev, who had offered his assistance but was never implicated, was found hanging in his Kremlin office. Most of these men had been former allies of Gorbachev or had been promoted by him, which drew fresh criticism.\n\nFor all intents and purposes, the coup destroyed Gorbachev politically. On 24 August, he advised the Central Committee to dissolve, resigned as general secretary and dissolved all party units within the government. Shortly afterward, the Supreme Soviet suspended all Party activities on Soviet territory. In effect, Communist rule in the Soviet Union had ended.\n\nGorbachev's hopes of a new Union were further hit when the Congress of People's Deputies dissolved itself on 5 September. Though Gorbachev and the representatives of eight republics (excluding Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia) signed an agreement on forming a new economic community on 18 October, events were overtaking him. The Soviet Union collapsed with dramatic speed during the latter part of 1991, as one republic after another declared independence. By the autumn, Gorbachev could no longer influence events outside Moscow, and he was challenged even there by Yeltsin. Following the coup, Yeltsin suspended all CPSU activities on Russian territory and closed the Central Committee building at Staraya Square. He also ordered the Russian flag raised alongside the Soviet flag at the Kremlin. In the waning months of 1991, Russia began taking over what remained of the Soviet government, including the Kremlin.\n\nWith the country in a state of near collapse, Gorbachev's vision of a renewed union effectively received a fatal blow by a Ukrainian referendum on 1 December, where the Ukrainian people overwhelmingly voted for independence. Ukraine had been the second most powerful republic in the Soviet Union after Russia, and its secession ended any realistic chance of the Soviet Union staying united even on a limited scale. The presidents of Russia, Ukraine and Belarus met in Belovezha Forest, near Brest, Belarus, on 8 December and signed the Belavezha Accords, which declared the Soviet Union had ceased to exist and formed the Commonwealth of Independent States as its successor. Gorbachev initially denounced this move as illegal. Nonetheless, there was no longer any doubt that the Soviet Union, in the words of the Accords' preamble, no longer existed \"as a subject of international law or geopolitical reality.\"\n\nHowever, on 12 December, the RSFSR Supreme Soviet ratified the Belevezha Accords and denounced the 1922 Union Treaty. It was now apparent that the momentum towards dissolution could not be stopped. Shortly after the RSFSR ratified the Accords, Gorbachev hinted that he was considering stepping aside. On 17 December, he accepted the \"fait accompli\" and reluctantly agreed with Yeltsin to dissolve the Soviet Union. Four days later, the leaders of 11 of the 12 remaining republics—all except Georgia (the Baltic states had already seceded in August)—signed the Alma-Ata Protocol which formally established the CIS. They also preemptively accepted Gorbachev's resignation. When Gorbachev learned what had transpired, he told CBS that he would resign as soon as he saw that the CIS was indeed a reality.\n\nOn the night of 25 December, in a nationally televised speech, Gorbachev announced his resignation as president—as he put it, \"I hereby discontinue my activities at the post of President of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.\" He declared the office extinct and handed over its functions—including control of the Soviet nuclear codes—to Yeltsin. That same night after he left office, the flag of the Soviet Union was lowered from the Kremlin and was replaced with the Russian tricolor flag. The next day, 26 December, the Soviet of the Republics, the upper chamber of the Supreme Soviet, declared that the Soviet Union had ceased to exist as a functioning state, and formally voted both itself and the Union out of existence. Two days after Gorbachev left office, on 27 December 1991, Yeltsin moved into Gorbachev's old office.\n\nGorbachev had aimed to maintain the CPSU as a united party but move it in the direction of Scandinavian-style social democracy. But when the CPSU was proscribed after the August coup, Gorbachev was left with no effective power base beyond the armed forces. In the aftermath of the coup, his rival Yeltsin quickly worked to consolidate his hold on the Russian government as well as the remnants of the Soviet armed forces, paving the way for Gorbachev's downfall.\n\nFollowing his resignation and the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Gorbachev remained active in Russian politics. During the early years of the post-Soviet era, he expressed criticism at the reforms carried out by Russian president Boris Yeltsin. When Yeltsin called a referendum for 25 April 1993 in an attempt to achieve even greater powers as president, Gorbachev did not vote and instead called for new presidential elections.\n\nFollowing a failed run for the presidency in 1996, Gorbachev established the Social Democratic Party of Russia, a union between several Russian social democratic parties. He resigned as party leader in May 2004 following a disagreement with the party's chairman over the direction taken in the 2003 election campaign. The party was later banned in 2007 by the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation due to its failure to establish local offices with at least 500 members in the majority of Russian regions, which is required by Russian law for a political organization to be listed as a party. Later that year, Gorbachev founded a new political party, called the Union of Social Democrats. In June 2004, he represented Russia at the funeral of Ronald Reagan.\n\nGorbachev appeared in numerous media channels after his resignation from office. In 1993, he appeared as himself in the Wim Wenders film \"Faraway, So Close!\", the sequel to \"Wings of Desire\". In 1997, Gorbachev appeared with his granddaughter Anastasia in an internationally screened television commercial for Pizza Hut. The U.S. corporation's payment for the 60-second ad went to Gorbachev's non-profit Gorbachev Foundation. In 2007, French luxury brand Louis Vuitton announced that Gorbachev would be shown in an ad campaign, shot by Annie Leibovitz, for their signature luggage. In February 2014, during the winter Olympic Games held in Sochi, Russia, 82-year-old Gorbachev made a rare appearance on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\" in a segment where he was tracked down and interviewed by comedic correspondent Jason Jones on location from Moscow.\nFollowing Boris Yeltsin's death on 23 April 2007, Gorbachev released a eulogy for him, stating that Yeltsin was to be commended for assuming the \"difficult task of leading the nation into the post-Soviet era\", and \"on whose shoulders are both great deeds for the country and serious errors\".\n\nOn 16 June 2009, Gorbachev announced that he had recorded an album of old Russian romantic ballads entitled \"Songs for Raisa\" to raise money for a charity dedicated to his late wife. On the album, he sings the songs himself accompanied by Russian musician Andrei Makarevich.\n\nSince his resignation, Gorbachev has remained involved in world affairs. He founded the Gorbachev Foundation in 1992, headquartered in Moscow. He later founded Green Cross International, with which he was one of three major sponsors of the Earth Charter. He also became a member of the Club of Rome and the Club of Madrid, an independent non-profit organization composed of 81 democratic former presidents and Prime Ministers from 57 different countries.\nIn the decade that followed the Cold War, Gorbachev opposed both the U.S.-led NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999 and the U.S.-led Iraq War in 2003. On 27 July 2007, Gorbachev criticized U.S. foreign policy: \"What has followed are unilateral actions, what has followed are wars, what has followed is ignoring the UN Security Council, ignoring international law and ignoring the will of the people, even the American people\", he said. That same year, he visited New Orleans, a city hard-hit by Hurricane Katrina, and promised he would return in 2011 to personally lead a local revolution if the U.S. government had not repaired the levees by that time. He said that revolutionary action should be a last resort.\n\nIn May 2008, \"The Telegraph\" (UK) published an article, \"Gorbachev: US could start new Cold War,\" which quotes Gorbachev saying, \"The Americans promised that NATO wouldn't move beyond the boundaries of Germany after the Cold War but now half of central and eastern Europe are members, so what happened to their promises? It shows they cannot be trusted.\"\n\nConcerning the 2008 South Ossetia war, started by a Georgian attack on Tskhinvali, the capital of pro-Russian South Ossetia, in a 12 August 2008 op-ed essay in \"The Washington Post\", Gorbachev criticized the United States' support for Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili and for moving to bring the Caucasus into the sphere of its national interest. He later said the following:\n\nIn September 2008, Gorbachev and business oligarch Alexander Lebedev announced they would form the Independent Democratic Party of Russia, and in May 2009 Gorbachev announced that the launch was imminent. This was Gorbachev's third attempt to establish a political party, having started the Social Democratic Party of Russia in 2001 and the Union of Social Democrats in 2007. These plans, however, never panned out.\nOn 20 March 2009, Gorbachev met with United States President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden in efforts to \"reset\" strained relations between Russia and the United States.\n\nOn 27 March 2009, Gorbachev visited Eureka College, Illinois, which is the alma mater of former U.S. President Ronald Reagan with whom he had negotiated historic nuclear arms reduction treaties. Gorbachev toured the Reagan Museum on campus, met with students, and spoke at a convocation in the Reagan Center; he then traveled to the nearby Peoria Civic Center in Peoria, Illinois, as the keynote speaker at the combined George Washington/Ronald Reagan Day Dinner where college president J. David Arnold named him an Honorary Reagan Fellow of Eureka College.\n\nTo commemorate the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, Gorbachev accompanied former Polish leader Lech Wałęsa and German Chancellor Angela Merkel at a celebration in Berlin on 9 November 2009.\n\nOn 7 June 2010, Gorbachev gave an interview before \"almost an annual pilgrimage\" to London for a summer gala to raise money for the Raisa Gorbachev Foundation, which funds cancer care for children. The clinic in St. Petersburg can house 80 child patients.\n\nIn the interview, his wife, Raisa, was mentioned: \"Her death, after several years of ill-health, left Gorbachev bereft. He lives in Moscow, has not remarried and finds solace with his daughter and granddaughters. He would not be coaxed to talk about Raisa, except fleetingly in the context of the charity.\"\n\nGorbachev has defended the Crimean status referendum that led to Russia's annexation of Crimea in March 2014: \"While Crimea had previously been joined to Ukraine [in 1954] based on the Soviet laws, which means [Communist] party laws, without asking the people, now the people themselves have decided to correct that mistake.\"\nOn 10 October 2014, it was reported that Gorbachev was in hospital and in deteriorating health. However, on 16 October he granted an interview with Russian state newspaper \"Rossiyskaya Gazeta\", opining on the Ukraine crisis and calling for a repeal of the sanctions.\n\nOn 8 November 2014, Gorbachev attended an event near the Brandenburg Gate, Berlin to mark 25 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall. He warned that the conflict in Ukraine had brought the world to the brink of a new cold war, and he charged western powers, particularly the United States, with adopting an attitude of \"triumphalism\" towards Russia.\n\nSpeaking on the war in eastern Ukraine, Gorbachev said in December 2014 that \"Both sides in the Ukrainian conflict are breaching the ceasefire. Both sides are guilty of using especially dangerous types of weapons and breaching human rights.\"\n\nGorbachev reiterated his support of Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea in May 2016, which led him being banned from entering Ukraine for five years.\n\nIn July 2016, Gorbachev criticized the North Atlantic Treaty Organization amid escalating tensions between the military alliance and the Russian Federation. Gorbachev has accused NATO of preparing for a \"hot\" war against Russia, saying that \"All the rhetoric in Warsaw just yells of a desire almost to declare war on Russia. They only talk about defence, but actually they are preparing for offensive operations.\" \n\nIn June 2018, Gorbachev welcomed the 2018 Russia–United States summit between Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump in Helsinki, Finland.\n\nIn October 2018, Gorbachev criticized President Donald Trump's threat to withdraw from the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, saying the move \"is not the work of a great mind.\" Gorbachev also said that \"all agreements aimed at nuclear disarmament and the limitation of nuclear weapons must be preserved for the sake of life on Earth.\" Gorbachev signed the U.S.-Soviet nuclear disarmament treaty in 1987 with President Ronald Reagan.\n\nGorbachev hailed the George H.W. Bush’s role in helping end the Cold War following the news of the former President's death, saying: \"We had a chance to work together during the years of tremendous changes. It was a dramatic time that demanded great responsibility from everyone. The result was an end to the Cold War and the nuclear arms race.\"\n\nAlthough he has credited Vladimir Putin for stabilizing Russia in the aftermath of the initial and turbulent years of the post-Soviet era, Gorbachev has become critical of both Putin and Dmitry Medvedev since at least March 2011. His main grievances about the \"tandem\" are backsliding on democracy, corruption and the dominance of security officers. Gorbachev is also dissatisfied by the fact that he has not been allowed to register his social democratic party.\n\nWhen being interviewed by the BBC to reflect on the 20th anniversary of the August Coup, Gorbachev again announced his dissatisfaction with the policies and rule of Putin. Speaking of the status of democracy in the Russian Federation, he proclaimed: \"The electoral system we had was nothing remarkable but they have literally castrated it\". Gorbachev also stated that he believed that Putin should not have sought a third term as the Russian president in 2012.\n\nIn response to the 2011 Russian protests as a result of United Russia's controversial victory in the 2011 legislative election, he called on the authorities to hold a new election, citing electoral irregularities and ballot box stuffing.\n\nIn a political lecture delivered to the RIA-Novosti news agency in April 2013, Gorbachev decried Putin's retreat from democracy, noting that in Russia \"politics is increasingly turning into imitation democracy\" with \"all power in the hands of the executive branch\". Gorbachev addressed Putin directly, stating that \"to go further on the path of tightening the screws, having laws that limit the rights and freedoms of people, attacking the news media and organisations of civil society, is a destructive path with no future\".\n\nIn a Russian video interview published in February 2016, Gorbachev said that Putin rules through \"friends from school, with people with whom he played football on the same street. ... The supremacy of security structures, their excessive prerogatives in deciding political issues, and in interfering in peoples’ lives, is unacceptable, is over the top.\"\n\nIn April 2017, Gorbachev wrote in \"Time\"’s annual 100 most influential people edition that \"Russia can succeed only through democracy. Russia is ready for political competition, a real multiparty system, fair elections and regular rotation of government. This should define the role and responsibility of the President.\" \n\nGorbachev calls for a kind of perestroika or restructuring of societies around the world, starting in particular with that of the United States, because he is of the view that the financial crisis of 2007–2008 shows that the Washington Consensus economic model is a failure that will sooner or later have to be replaced. According to Gorbachev, countries that have rejected the Washington Consensus and the International Monetary Fund approach to economic development, such as Brazil and China, have done far better economically on the whole and achieved far fairer results for the average citizen than countries that have accepted it.\n\nGorbachev is also a member of the Club of Madrid, a group of more than 80 former leaders of democratic countries, which works to strengthen democratic governance and leadership.\n\nGorbachev was co-chair of Earth Charter International Commission.\n\nIn September 1990 the former U.S. President Ronald Reagan visited Moscow and told journalists \"I think, frankly, (that) President Gorbachev and I discovered a sort of a bond, a friendship between us, that we thought could become such a bond between all the people.\" \n\nGorbachev often referred to himself in the third person.\nGorbachev was self-confident, polite, and tactful; he had a happy and optimistic temperament. He was a skilled manager. Since studying at university, he considered himself an intellectual; when living in Stavropol he and his wife collected hundreds of books. He enjoyed walking as a hobby, and had a love of natural environments. He favoured small gatherings where the assembled discussed topics like art and philosophy rather than the large, alcohol-fuelled parties common among Soviet officials.\nTaubman called him \"a remarkably decent man\"; he thought Gorbachev to have \"high moral standards\". He also noted that the former Soviet leader has a \"sense of self-importance and self-righteousness\" as well as a \"need for attention and admiration\" which grated on some of his colleagues. A number of his colleagues thought that he was easily offended, and were often frustrated that he would leave tasks unfinished. He was a hard worker; as General Secretary, he would rise at 7 or 8 in the morning and not go to bed until 1 or 2.\n\nHe had a distinctive birthmark on the top of his head; by 1955 his hair was thinning, and by the late 1960s he was bald. Throughout his life, he tried to dress fashionably. He spoke in a southern Russian accent, and was known to sing both folk and pop songs. Throughout the 1960s he struggled against obesity and dieted to control the issue. Ever since he was a young man, he had an aversion to hard liquor; he drank sparingly and did not smoke. He was protective of his private life and avoided inviting people to his home.\nGorbachev cherished his wife, who in turn was extremely protective of him.\nHe was an involved parent and grandparent. He sent his daughter to a local school in Stavropol rather than to a school set aside for the children of party elites. Unlike many of his contemporaries in the Soviet administration, he was not a womaniser and was known for treating women respectfully.\n\nIn 2005, he praised Pope John Paul II, saying \"his devotion to his followers is a remarkable example to all of us.\" In a 1989 meeting, he had told him: \"We appreciate your mission on this high pulpit, we are convinced that it will leave a great mark on history.\"\n\nGorbachev was the recipient of the Athenagoras Humanitarian Award of the Order of St. Andrew Archons of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople on 20 November 2005.\n\nIn 2013, the \"Lubbock Avalanche-Journal\" reported a 1992 meeting between Gorbachev and Otis Gatewood, a Christian minister sent with a relief effort for orphans and elderly people in Russia by Churches of Christ in Texas. In the meeting, Gorbachev reportedly claimed that he was \"indeed a Christian and had been baptized by his grandfather in the Volga River many years before\".\n\nOn 19 March 2008, during a surprise visit to pray at the tomb of Saint Francis in Assisi, Italy, Gorbachev made an announcement which has been interpreted to the effect that he was a Christian. Gorbachev stated: \"St Francis is, for me, the \"alter Christus\", another Christ. His story fascinates me and has played a fundamental role in my life\". He added: \"It was through St Francis that I arrived at the Church, so it was important that I came to visit his tomb\". However, a few days later, he told the Russian news agency Interfax: \"Over the last few days some media have been disseminating fantasies—I can't use any other word—about my secret Catholicism, [...] To sum up and avoid any misunderstandings, let me say that I have been and remain an atheist\".\n\nWhen asked in the DR2 show \"Den 11. time\" in 2007 about the prominent crimson port-wine stain birthmark on his forehead, Gorbachev answered that it appeared only after he lost his hair. Although someone had suggested that he might have the mark surgically removed, he opted not to, as he believed it would be perceived as his being more concerned with his appearance than other more important issues.\n\nGorbachev was a socialist.\nIn 2006, he expressed his continued belief in Lenin's ideas: \"I trusted him then and I still do\". He claimed that \"the essence of Lenin\" was a desire to develop \"the living creative activity of the masses\".\nTaubman believed that Gorbachev identified with Lenin on a psychological level. Taubman described Gorbachev as \"a true believer—not in the Soviet system as it functioned (or didn't) in 1985 but in its potential to live up to what he deemed its original ideals.\"\n\nAs Soviet leader, Gorbachev believed in incremental reform rather than a radical transformation; he later referred to this as a \"revolution by evolutionary means\".\n\n\nOpinions on Gorbachev are deeply divided. Many, particularly in Western countries, see him as the greatest statesman of the second half of the twentieth century. In September 1990 U.S. Secretary of State James Baker told him \"nobody in the world has ever tried what you and your supporters are trying today...I've seen a lot, but I've never met a politician with as much bravery and courage as you have.\" In Russia, he is widely despised for his role in the collapse of the Soviet Union and the ensuing economic collapse. During his career, Gorbachev attracted the admiration of some colleagues, but others came to hate him.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23003943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23003943", "title": "Military career of Benedict Arnold, 1777–79", "text": "Military career of Benedict Arnold, 1777–79\n\nThe military career of Benedict Arnold from 1777 to 1779 was marked by two important events in his career. In July 1777, Arnold was assigned to the Continental Army's Northern Department, where he played pivotal roles in bringing about the failure of British Brigadier Barry St. Leger's siege of Fort Stanwix and the American success in the battles of Saratoga, which fundamentally altered the course of the war.\n\nAfter convalescing following the significant injuries to his leg sustained at Saratoga, Arnold was given military command of Philadelphia after the British withdrawal in 1778. There Arnold became embroiled in political and legal wrangling with enemies in Congress, the army, and the Pennsylvania and Philadelphia governments that undoubtedly contributed to his decision to change sides. In 1779 he began secret negotiations with the British that culminated in a plot to surrender West Point. The plot was exposed in September 1780, following which Arnold fled to British-occupied New York City.\n\nBenedict Arnold was born in 1741 family in the port city of Norwich in the British colony of Connecticut. He was interested in military affairs from an early age, serving briefly (without seeing action) in the colonial militia during the French and Indian War in 1757. He embarked on a career as a businessman, first opening a shop in New Haven, and then engaging in overseas trade. He owned and operated ships, sailing to the West Indies, New France and Europe. When the British Parliament began to impose taxes on its colonies, Arnold's businesses began to be affected by them, and he eventually joined the opposition to those measures. In 1767 he married a local woman, with whom he had three children, one of whom died in infancy. She died in 1775, and Arnold left his children under the care of his sister Hannah at his home in New Haven.\n\nArnold had distinguished himself early in the war, participating in the capture of Fort Ticonderoga in May 1775 and then boldly leading a raid on Fort Saint-Jean near Montreal. He then led a small army from Cambridge, Massachusetts to Quebec City on an expedition through the wilderness of present-day Maine, where he was wounded in the climactic Battle of Quebec on December 31, 1775. He then presided over an ineffectual siege of Quebec until April 1776, when he took over the military command of Montreal. He directed the American retreat from there on the arrival of British reinforcements, and his forces formed the rear guard of the retreating Continental Army as it headed south toward Ticonderoga. Arnold then organized the defense of Lake Champlain, and led the Continental Navy fleet that was defeated in the October 1776 Battle of Valcour Island.\n\nDuring these actions, Arnold made a number of friends and a larger number of enemies within the army power structure and in Congress. He had established decent relationships with George Washington, commander of the army, as well as Philip Schuyler and Horatio Gates, both of whom had command of the army's Northern Department during 1775 and 1776. However, an acrimonious dispute with Moses Hazen, commander of the 2nd Canadian Regiment, boiled over into a court martial of Hazen at Ticonderoga during the summer of 1776. Only action by Gates, then his superior at Ticonderoga, prevented his own arrest on countercharges levelled by Hazen. He had also had disagreements with John Brown and James Easton, two lower-level officers with political connections that resulted in ongoing suggestions of improprieties on his part. Brown was particularly vicious, publishing a handbill that claimed of Arnold, \"Money is this man's God, and to get enough of it he would sacrifice his country\".\n\nFollowing the defeat on Lake Champlain, Arnold accompanied Major General Horatio Gates as he led a portion of the army at Ticonderoga south to assist General Washington in the defense of New Jersey. On December 7, 1776, a large British force under Lieutenant General Henry Clinton occupied Newport, Rhode Island. In response Washington ordered Arnold to go back to New England to raise militia and coordinate the defense of Rhode Island. Arnold was made Deputy Commander of the Eastern Department of the Continental Army under Major General Joseph Spencer, and left Washington's camp in Pennsylvania on December 22.\n\nArnold, who had not seen his family for over a year, spent a week visiting with them in New Haven, during which he successfully urged Washington and Henry Knox, the army's chief of artillery, to raise an artillery regiment for John Lamb and Eleazer Oswald, two Connecticut men who had served with him on the expedition to Quebec. He arrived at Providence on January 12, 1777, to lead the defense against the British at Newport. There were 4,000 Rhode Island militia mobilized, and both the governor and Arnold's commander, General Spencer, were itching to drive the British out of Newport. Arnold developed a plan for driving the British from Newport, but found that the militia were so poorly equipped and supplied that offensive operations were, in his view, ill-advised.\nIn February 1777 Arnold met and seriously courted the daughter of a well known Boston Loyalist, Betsy Deblois, described as the belle of Boston. \"The heavenly Miss Deblois\" refused his repeated proposals, likely because she was only fifteen. When he returned to Providence he learned that he was one of several officers that had been passed over for promotion to major general by Congress. The reasons for this were largely political in nature, but it is unlikely that his prospects were helped by Horatio Gates' delivery of a petition by John Brown making many accusations against Arnold just one month before Congress took up the matter. Gates was apparently upset that Washington had given the Rhode Island command to Arnold, and now viewed him as a competitor for promotion and choice of assignments.\nIt was not unusual in military establishments of the time that individuals passed over for promotion were expected to resign, so Arnold on March 12 wrote to Washington, offering his resignation, or alternatively asking for a court of inquiry. Washington refused his offer to resign, and wrote to members of Congress in an attempt to correct the situation, noting that \"two or three other very good officers\" might be lost if they persisted in making politically motivated promotions. After Washington wrote Arnold explaining to him that the rejection was due to how the Congress had allocated promotions to the states (and Connecticut already had its quota of major generals), Arnold persisted in seeking some sort of inquiry, and complained in a letter to General Gates that \"no gentleman who has any regard for his reputation will risk it with a body of men who seem to be governed by \"whim and caprice\"\" and that he felt \"the unmerited injury my countrymen have done me.\"\n\nAfter plans were shelved to attack the British at Newport, Arnold left for Philadelphia to meet with the Continental Congress and Washington over his future. He stopped in New Haven to visit his family once again, and assisted his friend Colonel Lamb in hunting down Loyalists in the area. A courier notified him on April 26 that a British force 2,000 strong under Major General William Tryon, the last British governor of New York, had landed at Fairfield, Connecticut. Tryon marched his force inland to Danbury, a major supply depot for the Continental Army. Driving away the few defenders, he ordered the destruction of the stores and a number of properties belonging to Patriot supporters.\nArnold and Major General David Wooster, who had overall command of Connecticut's defense forces and was also in New Haven, hurriedly recruited about 100 volunteers locally. They then headed for Redding, the muster point specified by militia Major General Gold S. Silliman, who oversaw Fairfield County's defenses. Silliman had mustered a force of 500 volunteers from eastern Connecticut. Under Wooster's direction Arnold and his fellow officers moved their small force toward Danbury so they could intercept and harass the British as they returned to their ships. Wooster divided the force, with Arnold and Silliman leading 400 men to the village of Ridgefield, Connecticut to block the British march, while he led 200 men to harass the British rear guard. By 11 am on April 27 Wooster's column had caught up with and engaged Tryon's rear guard. In two brief skirmishes, Wooster was mortally wounded, but the action delayed the British long enough for Arnold and Silliman to establish a crude breastwork just north of Ridgefield. In the ensuing battle, the militia companies put up stiff resistance before they were flanked and driven off. Arnold's horse was shot, and when it went down, his leg was pinned under it. Arnold was very nearly bayoneted by a British soldier, but shot him with a pistol and managed to get away with a minor wound to his left leg. The British camped for the night near Ridgefield, and then proceeded on toward the coast, harassed by militia all the way. Arnold and Silliman rallied their troops, which grew to include Continental Army and artillery units as well as militia units from further afield. Arnold eventually established a fairly strong position on Campo Hill (in present-day Westport, Connecticut) near the beach where the British expected to embark. The British managed to elude his attempt to entrap them, and drove off many of the militia with their field artillery before embarking on their ships and sailing back to New York. During the final skirmishing, Arnold had a second horse shot out under him. When Congress learned of the action on May 2, it finally promoted Arnold to major general, although his seniority of rank was behind those promoted in February.\n\nAfter the Danbury raid, Arnold continued his journey to Philadelphia, stopping to meet with Washington at Morristown, New Jersey. During this time he learned of the publication of Brown's pamphlet, and insisted to Washington that his name had to be cleared. Arnold's lobbying paid off, and even opponents of the traditional promotion schemes, including John Adams, came to realize that Arnold was being unjustly treated. After a lengthy hearing before the Board of War on May 21, in which Arnold's actions and financial accounts in the Quebec campaign were scrutinized, the board completely exonerated him, issuing a statement that it was satisfied with Arnold's \"character and conduct, so cruelly and groundlessly aspersed in Brown's publication.\" However, it took no steps to restore his seniority.\nThe seniority issue had annoyed not just Arnold, but also John Stark, Nathanael Greene, John Sullivan, and Henry Knox. Stark resigned his commission as brigadier after Congress offered a major general's commission to a French soldier of fortune, Philippe de Coudray, and the other three complained loudly over the matter. Congress passed over his petition for restoration of seniority, and deliberately snubbed him for consultation on the defense of Philadelphia in favor of Pennsylvania native Thomas Mifflin, one of the generals promoted ahead of him. Arnold tendered his resignation to Congress on July 11. However, Washington had written Congress the day before, informing them that a British army under General John Burgoyne had captured Fort Ticonderoga, and recommending in glowing terms that Arnold be sent north to assist in the defense of the Hudson River valley. Given Washington's strong support, Arnold asked that his resignation be shelved, and he left Philadelphia for the north. In a vote on August 8, Congress voted against restoring Arnold's seniority. The next day, it offered a major general's commission to the Marquis de Lafayette, then just nineteen years old.\n\nWhen Arnold arrived in the Continental Army camp on the upper Hudson River in mid-July, Major General Schuyler was leading the forces there. Schuyler placed Arnold in command of the army's advance guards at Fort Edward. It was during this time that Jane McCrea, the fiancée of a Loyalist fighting with Burgoyne's army, was slain by Burgoyne's Indian auxiliaries. This event was widely retold and embellished with lurid details, and is said to have contributed to Patriot recruiting efforts. In the following weeks, Schuyler's army retreated before Burgoyne's advance, until it reached the Mohawk River south of Stillwater on August 18.\n\nIn early August Schuyler dispatched Arnold and 900 men to relieve the garrison at Fort Stanwix on the upper Mohawk, which had been placed under siege by a British-Indian force led by Brigadier Barry St. Leger. Arnold marched along the Mohawk to Fort Dayton, which he reached on August 20. There he attempted to recruit additional militia to enlarge the relief force, but was unsuccessful; the local militia had suffered grievously in the bloody Battle of Oriskany that ended the first attempt to relieve the siege.\nUncomfortable with the number of troops available to him, Arnold opted for a deception to sow trouble in the besieger's camp outside Fort Stanwix. A number of Loyalists had been arrested near Fort Dayton, including one Hon-Yost Schuyler. Hon-Yost suffered from some form of mental illness which, while looked down on by the Europeans, was seen by many Indians as a touch of the Great Spirit. Arnold convinced Hon-Yost to spread rumors that large numbers of Americans, under the command of \"The Dark Eagle\", were about to descend on St. Leger's camp. Hon-Yost's good conduct was assured by holding hostage his brother, who was also among the arrested. Arnold's stratagem apparently worked. St. Leger recorded on August 21 that \"Arnold was advancing, by rapid and forced marches, with 3,000 men\", and the Indians of St. Leger's expedition, who made up the majority of his force, abandoned the siege the next day. As a result, St. Leger lifted the siege and began the journey back to Montreal. Arnold did march to Stanwix, arriving after St. Leger had left; detachments sent by Arnold to chase after him spotted his boats on Lake Oneida.\n\nAfter leaving reinforcements with the Fort Stanwix garrison, Arnold returned to Stillwater, where General Gates had taken over the command from Schuyler. Arnold had learned of Gates' assumption of command while he was at Fort Dayton. He wrote a somewhat perfunctory congratulatory to Gates when he heard of the American victory in the Battle of Bennington, but a somewhat warmer letter he wrote to Schuyler at the same time somehow fell into Gates' hands. Gates provided a snub of sorts when he reported to Congress on the relief of Stanwix and the action at Bennington, and failed to mention Arnold's role; he did specifically mention Stark and Seth Warner, the principal commanders at Bennington, in his dispatch. Washington was more forthcoming with praise, recognizing that \"the approach of General Arnold with his detachment\" played a key role in the relief of Stanwix.\n\nOn his return to Gates' camp, Arnold learned of the Congressional decision to not restore his seniority. He then annoyed Gates by taking on as aides several men who had been on Schuyler's staff, including Henry Brockholst Livingston. The two men also disagreed on strategy: Arnold argued in councils in favor of drawing Burgoyne into battle, while Gates preferred to establish a strong line of defense and wait for Burgoyne's assault. Relations between the men deteriorated further when Gates effectively overrode brigade assignments he had asked Arnold to make, and were not helped by Gates' adjutant, James Wilkinson. Arnold characterized the scheming Wilkinson as a \"designing \"villain\"\"; Wilkinson is reported to have regularly cast aspersions on Arnold and his staff to Gates.\nThis friction between the two men and their respective camps boiled over after the September 19 Battle of Freeman's Farm. In that battle, Arnold was forceful in wanting to move troops out of the strong American fortifications to head off a flanking maneuver. Gates grudgingly allowed this, and Arnold's troops sent out to counter the British advance precipitated the battle. It has been widely recounted in histories of this battle that General Arnold was on the field, directing some of the action. However, John Luzader, a former park historian at the Saratoga National Historical Park, carefully documents the evolution of this story and believes it is without foundation in contemporary materials, and that Arnold remained at Gates' headquarters, receiving news and dispatching orders through messengers. Arnold biographer James Kirby Martin, however, disagrees with Luzader, arguing that Arnold played a more active role at Freeman's Farm by directing patriot troops into position and possibly leading some charges before being ordered back to headquarters by Gates.\n\nThe battle was technically a British victory, as they gained the field of battle. However, they suffered significant casualties that they could ill afford, the American army's strong position was not assaulted, and American casualties were comparatively modest. According to Richard Varick, a former Schuyler aide and no friend of Gates, the general \"seemed to be piqued\" at the performance of Arnold's division in the battle, and Henry Brockholst Livingston wrote that Arnold was \"the life and soul of the troops\" and that he had \"the confidence and affection of his officers and soldiers.\" An officer unconnected to either camp commented that Arnold had \"won the admiration of the whole army\", and that the idea that Gates had squandered an opportunity to inflict a decisive blow on the British was widely held by officers.\nThe Gates camp then engaged in a series of actions that Arnold perceived to be an attack. James Wilkinson wrote a letter to General Arthur St. Clair in Philadelphia in which he implied not only that Arnold was not involved in the battle, but that he was an impediment to Gates. Gates' official report to Congress notably made no mention of Arnold, Morgan, or other officers involved in leading the action, and specifically mentioned Arnold's nemesis John Brown, who had made an attack against Fort Ticonderoga the day before the battle. A decision by Gates concerning Morgan's unit then caused relationships between Gates and Arnold to break down completely. Morgan's unit had technically been under Gates' command, but it had operated in the battle under Arnold's division and his direction. Gates formally realigned the units to reiterate that Morgan reported to him and not Arnold. The ensuing discussion between Gates and Arnold on September 22 escalated into a shouting match, and ended with Gates relieving Arnold of his command. Arnold requested a pass to rejoin Washington's army, which he was given. However, for unknown reasons, he decided to stay in camp. A common account of a memorial signed by Gates' field commanders encouraging him to stay has no basis in the documentary record; it is known that Brigadier Enoch Poor, who had been critical of Arnold during the court martial at Ticonderoga, and other officers openly considered the idea. This support for Arnold may have played a role in his announcement on September 26 that he was staying in camp even though his differences with Gates had not been resolved.\n\nWhen General Burgoyne made a reconnaissance in force of the American left on October 7, this began a series of actions that precipitated the Battle of Bemis Heights. According to conventional histories, Gates, now in command of the American left, ordered troops out to meet them. At a critical point in the battle, Arnold, who may have been drinking, left his tent, mounted a horse, and rode off to the battlefield. This chronology is based on reports of the action, most of which were recorded many years later, after Arnold's treason. A letter, brought to light in 2015 and written by an adjutant at Arnold's headquarters, tells a different story, indicating that Arnold requested and received permission from Gates to lead men out into the field.\n\nRallying what had been his troops in the first battle, Arnold led them in a furious assault against two redoubts on the British right. In this phase of the battle, one of the redoubts was taken, and Arnold's horse and leg were shot. When the horse went down, Arnold's leg was shattered in several places. The battle was a resounding victory for the Americans. Burgoyne began a retreat, but was quickly surrounded by militia companies that streamed into the area, and surrendered on October 17.\nGates could not ignore Arnold's role in the second battle, since the news of Arnold's injuries traveled quickly. He limited acknowledgement of Arnold's participation to the leading of a \"gallant\" assault on the redoubt. Much to Arnold's disgust, Gates himself was lauded by Congress and awarded a gold medal; Burgoyne, on the other hand, claimed that Arnold was responsible for his defeat. Congress did finally vote to restore Arnold's seniority. However, Arnold interpreted the manner in which they did so as an act of sympathy for his wounds, and not an apology or recognition that they were righting a wrong.\n\nArnold's contribution to the victory at Saratoga is commemorated by the Boot Monument in Saratoga National Historical Park. Donated by Civil War General John Watts de Peyster, it shows a boot with spurs and the stars of a major general. It stands at the spot where Arnold was shot on October 7 charging Breymann's redoubt, and is dedicated to \"the most brilliant soldier of the Continental Army\".\n\nFollowing Saratoga, Arnold was taken to an Albany hospital to recover from the wounds he had received in the battle. His left leg was ruined, but Arnold would not allow it to be amputated. Several agonizing months of recovery left it 2 inches (5 cm) shorter than the right. After several months in Albany, he was transferred to Middletown, Connecticut, where he could be nearer his children. While recuperating there, he sent two more entreaties to Betsy DeBlois; the first she answered with a firm refusal, and the second went unanswered. When he was well enough to travel, he departed Connecticut for Valley Forge, where he arrived on May 20, 1778, to the boisterous applause of troops he had commanded at Saratoga. There he participated, with many other soldiers, in the first recorded Oath of Allegiance as a sign of loyalty to the United States.\n\nAs the British planned to withdraw from Philadelphia in June 1778 Washington appointed Arnold to take military command of the city after the British retreat. Even before the Americans reoccupied Philadelphia, Arnold began scheming to capitalize financially on the change in power there, engaging in a variety of business deals designed to profit from war-related supply movements and benefiting from the protection of his authority. While these schemes were not necessarily illegal, the ethics involved were seen as highly dubious at the time. Some of his schemes were frustrated by the actions of highly partisan Patriots, including the politically powerful Joseph Reed. These business dealings required capital, which Arnold often borrowed. Arnold furthered his debts by living extravagantly, occupying the Penn mansion and throwing parties for high society. Complicating the situation was the fact that Arnold was administratively trapped between the relatively powerful Pennsylvania government and the Congress, which was often forced to bow to the populous state's demands in order to achieve its aims. Reed and others amassed a series of irregularities in Arnold's official actions, and open war of words erupted between Arnold and Reed and his supporters. By February 1779 a variety of charges had been publicly made that he was abusing his power. He demanded a full court martial, writing to Washington in May, \"Having become a cripple in the service of my country, I little expected to meet [such] ungrateful returns\". The court martial was postponed (it would not be held until December 1779), once more leaving Arnold frustrated and angry at the Congress for its inaction.\nDuring the summer of 1778 Arnold met Peggy Shippen, the 18-year-old daughter of Judge Edward Shippen, a Loyalist sympathizer who had done business with the British while they occupied the city. Peggy had been courted by British Major John André during the British occupation of Philadelphia. Peggy and Arnold married on April 8, 1779. Peggy and her circle of friends had found methods of staying in contact with paramours across the battle lines, in spite of military bans on communication with the enemy. Some of this communication was effected through the services of Joseph Stansbury, a Philadelphia merchant.\n\nSometime early in May 1779, Arnold met with Stansbury. Stansbury, whose testimony before a British commission apparently erroneously placed the date in June, said that, after meeting with Arnold, \"I went secretly to New York with a tender of [Arnold's] services to Sir Henry Clinton.\" This was the start of a series of negotiations between Arnold and Sir Henry's chief spy, the very same Major André that had courted Peggy. Between July and October 1779, the two negotiated over terms of Arnold's change to the British side, while Arnold provided the British with information on troop locations and strengths, as well as the locations of supply depots.\n\nThe court martial to consider the charges against Arnold began meeting in December 1779. In spite of the fact that a number of members of the panel of judges were men ill-disposed to Arnold over actions and disputes earlier in the war, Arnold was cleared of all but two minor charges on January 26, 1780.\nArnold worked over the next few months to publicize this fact; however, in early April, just one week after Washington congratulated Arnold on the May 19 birth of his son, Edward Shippen Arnold, Washington published a formal rebuke of Arnold's behavior.\n\nShortly after Washington's rebuke, a Congressional inquiry into his expenditures concluded that Arnold had failed to fully account for his expenditures incurred during the Quebec invasion. It concluded that he owed the Congress some £1,000, largely because he was unable to document his expenses. A significant number of the necessary documents were lost during the retreat from Quebec; once again frustrated by Congress, Arnold resigned his military command of Philadelphia in late April.\n\nFollowing Arnold's resignation from the Philadelphia post, he was for a time without a command. After reopening the stalled negotiations with André, he obtained command of West Point in August 1780, and set about weakening its defenses. Following a meeting with André in September, the plot was exposed when André was captured attempting to cross the lines into New York City while carrying incriminating documents. Arnold fled to New York, and began military service as a Brigadier in the British Army in 1781, leading a raiding expedition against supply depots and economic targets in Virginia, and then a raid against New London, Connecticut. With the end of major hostilities following the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown, Arnold and his family left for England at the end of 1781, on a ship that also carried Lord Cornwallis.\n\nDespite repeated attempts to gain command positions in the British Army or with the British East India Company, he saw no further military duty. He resumed business activities, engaging in trade while based at first in Saint John, New Brunswick and then London. He died in London in 1801.\n\n"}
{"id": "8336752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8336752", "title": "Mitchell Red Cloud Jr.", "text": "Mitchell Red Cloud Jr.\n\nMitchell Red Cloud Jr. (2 July 1925 – 5 November 1950) was a United States Army corporal who was killed in action while serving in the Korean War. Corporal Red Cloud posthumously received the Medal of Honor for heroic actions \"above and beyond the call of duty\" near Chonghyon, North Korea, on 5 November 1950. Before joining the Army, he had been a United States Marine Corps sergeant who had served in World War II.\n\nBorn in Hatfield, Wisconsin, Red Cloud, a Ho-Chunk Native American, dropped out of high school to enlist in the Marine Corps during World War II. He first served in combat with the Marine Raiders during the Battle of Guadalcanal in 1942 before health problems forced him stateside in 1943 to recover. Red Cloud avoided a medical discharge, and served with the 6th Marine Division during the Battle of Okinawa in 1945.\n\nRed Cloud enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1948. After the Korean War began in June 1950, he was sent to Korea with the 19th Infantry, 24th Infantry Division, which was among the American troops who fought the first battles of the war, being pushed back during the Battle of Taejon and the Battle of Pusan Perimeter. The 19th Infantry also was part of the Eighth United States Army advance into North Korea. On the night of 5 November 1950, Red Cloud was manning a forward observation post when he spotted an imminent surprise attack by Chinese forces. Red Cloud single-handedly held off the Chinese forces despite being shot eight times, at one point ordering his men to tie him to a tree because he was too weak to stand by himself. His company found him the next morning, surrounded by dead Chinese troops. He was credited with alerting his company to the ambush and saving them from being overrun. For these actions, he was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor.\n\nMitchell Red Cloud Jr. was born on 2 July 1925 in Hatfield, Wisconsin. He was the eldest son of Mitchell Red Cloud and Lillian Red Cloud. The family were ethnic members of the Ho-Chunk Native American tribe. Red Cloud attended Nellsville High School in Black River Falls, Wisconsin. The school taught primarily Native American students, a large portion of whom joined the military after finishing school. At age 16, Red Cloud dropped out of high school and, with his father's approval, decided to enlist in the United States Marine Corps.\n\nHe entered the Marine Corps on 11 August 1941, the earliest date on which he was legally allowed to enlist. The family may have relocated to Merrillan, Wisconsin, which was where Red Cloud enlisted. He was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 9th Marines at Camp Elliot, California.\nWith World War II looming, Red Cloud volunteered for and was accepted on April 14, 1942 by the 2nd Marine Raider Battalion, also known as \"Carlson's Raiders\", under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Evans Carlson. He was placed in Weapons Platoon, F Company of the battalion. As an elite Marine light infantry unit, the Raiders held high standards of physical and mental fitness, and was known to perform very well with this unit. His only major deployment with the Raiders was the Battle of Guadalcanal. Red Cloud landed with his company off of the USS McKean (DD-90) at Aola Bay on Guadalcanal, on 4 November 1942. On 6 November, the 2nd Raider Battalion went into the jungle to begin \"The Long Patrol\" for the next 28 days. Their mission was to silence Japanese artillery firing on Henderson Field. They would also conduct a number of mopping up operations to assist in the clearance of the island and to cut off troops from the Empire of Japan who had been attempting to escape. Red Cloud's time on Guadalcanal was plagued by several bouts of tropical disease, and he left the island on 4 December 1942 for medical treatment. The patrol also caused him to lose 75 pounds.\n\nDuring his time overseas, Red Cloud contracted diseases frequently, and he was returned to the United States in February 1943 to recuperate. The Navy doctors in San Diego that examined Red Cloud offered him a medical discharge, but Red Cloud refused. Instead, he recovered from illness and requested reassignment to a combat unit. This request was granted, with Red Cloud subsequently assigned to Weapons Platoon, A Company, 29th Marine Regiment, 6th Marine Division, which participated in the invasion of Okinawa on 1 April 1945. On 17 May, he was shot in the shoulder and evacuated to Guam. In the ensuing Battle of Okinawa, his unit saw intense fighting in the campaign to secure the island. After several months of fighting, the unit was withdrawn to Guam to prepare for Operation Coronet, the second phase of the anticipated invasion of mainland Japan. However, these plans were scrapped following the surrender of Japan. Red Cloud was honorably discharged as a sergeant from the Marine Corps on 9 November 1945 during the demobilization that followed the war.\n\nIn December 1945, Red Cloud published an article in the \"Wisconsin Archaeologist\", an account from his tribe's traditional stories about the 1832 surrender of Sauk leader Black Hawk to US authorities after the short Black Hawk War. In the article, he expressed support for historical theories that Black Hawk had voluntarily surrendered. He also assisted anthropologist Nancy Lurie, informing her studies of how childcare customs among Native Americans were changing over time.\n\nIn the inter-service years, Red Cloud married and had a daughter, Annita.\n\nRed Cloud decided to return to the military in 1948. He enlisted in the United States Army and was assigned to E Company, 2nd Battalion, 19th Infantry Regiment, 24th Infantry Division. The regiment was part of the Occupation of Japan, and Red Cloud was assigned to Kyushu. During this time, training opportunities were limited, many of the troops were inexperienced and their equipment was of low quality due to budget cuts. On joining the army, Red Cloud was not permitted to retain his sergeant rank from the Marine Corps.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Korean War on 25 June 1950, the 24th Infantry Division was the closest unit to the Korean Peninsula, and in July, Red Cloud's company was among the first units into the country. The division was heavily engaged throughout July by North Korean troops as it attempted to stem their invasion of South Korea, and the 19th Infantry saw action in the Battle of Taejon, fighting at the Kum River before being forced out of Taejon.\n\nThe unit subsequently moved back to the Naktong River, and was involved in the subsequent Pusan Perimeter campaign during August and September 1950. During the First Battle of Naktong Bulge, the 19th Infantry was moved up from reserve positions in to combat the NK 4th Division, which was attempting to break through their lines. Having been badly mauled in these fights, the division was moved into reserve along the Pusan Perimeter on 23 September. It was replaced by units of the 2nd Infantry Division. In the subsequent Great Naktong Offensive, the 19th Infantry served as a reserve force to help units under attack in the Second Battle of Naktong Bulge. The 19th Infantry would later participate in the Battle of Kyongju, assisting troops of the Republic of Korea Army to help push back North Korean troops from the Kyongju area. During these battles, Red Cloud's experience as a combat veteran made him a valued member of his unit for leading the less experienced troops.\n\nFollowing the Battle of Inchon and subsequent Second Battle of Seoul, the North Korean Army was largely defeated, and the 19th Infantry was one of the units of the Eighth United States Army which pursued the fleeing North Koreans north of the 38th Parallel with the intention of reuniting the country. However, beginning in October 1950, the People's Republic of China conducted the First Phase Offensive, a surprise attack against the advancing United Nations forces, which were unprepared to counter the offensive. By early November, Red Cloud and his unit had advanced to the Ch'ongch'on River.\n\nOn the night of 5 November, E Company, 2nd Battalion, 19th infantry was holding positions on Hill 123, near Chonghyon, just north of the river.\n\nRed Cloud, then a corporal, was manning a forward listening post in front of his company's command post position on the hill. In the middle of the night, he began hearing suspicious noises, before spotting a number of Chinese troops intent on surprising the Americans. Red Cloud raised an alarm and began firing on the advancing Chinese troops with an M1918 Browning Automatic Rifle (BAR). The assistant BAR man with him in their foxhole was killed by the Chinese returning fire. Red Cloud was then shot twice in the chest. In spite of these wounds and after being attended to by a company platoon medic, he refused to withdraw from his post, and continued to fire accurately on the Chinese troops which caused significant casualties among their advancing force. Crucially, his actions alerted his company to the impending attack, preventing an ambush. After he was hit again and attended to by the same medic, Red Cloud propped himself against a tree and continued to fire, exposing himself to intense Chinese fire. He was shot at least eight times in the firefight. Suffering from severe injuries and too weak to support himself, he ordered a soldier near him, to tie him upright to the tree using the soldier's web belt, and then ordered these men to withdraw with the other wounded men to the main positions. Eventually, the Chinese overran Red Cloud's position and the hill.\n\nRed Cloud's actions gave E Company time and warning to blunt the Chinese offensive, eventually repelling the attack. His actions are also credited with allowing his company to evacuate several others wounded in the attack. When members of the 2nd Battalion returned to the hill and arrived at Red Cloud's position to recover his body the next morning, they found it was surrounded by a large number of dead Chinese troops.\n\nRed Cloud was initially buried at a UN cemetery in Korea. However, in 1955, his body was exhumed and moved to Wisconsin where he was buried in accordance with Ho-Chunk tribal customs. He was interred at the Decorah Cemetery at Winnebago Mission, Wisconsin.\n\nIn April 1951, Red Cloud's mother received the Medal of Honor from General of the Army Omar Bradley in a ceremony at The Pentagon in Washington, D.C..\n\nOn Armed Forces Day, 18 May 1957, the United States Army named Camp Red Cloud in South Korea after him, in recognition of his actions.\n\nA park in La Crosse, Wisconsin was dedicated in Red Cloud's honor. A memorial park was dedicated in his memory, the Red Cloud Highway Memorial Park adjacent to the Black Hawk Powwow Grounds in Komensky, Wisconsin. A portion of Wisconsin Highway 54 was renamed Red Cloud Highway. The American Legion post in Adams, Wisconsin was renamed for him. The Ho-Chunk Nation observes Corporal Mitchell Red Cloud Jr. Day on each 4th of July.\nIn 1967, a monument was erected for him in the cemetery. Another plaque honoring Red Cloud was subsequently erected in Black River Falls.\n\nIn 1999, the United States Navy named the newly commissioned , a \"Watson\"-class vehicle cargo ship and Large, Medium-Speed Roll-on/Roll-off ship, in his honor. The ship was christened by his daughter Annita, who was dressed in traditional regalia. It was attended by several men who served alongside her father as well as several flag officers.\n\nMitchell Red Cloud Jr. is one of the featured Korean War heroes honored in the 2013 documentary \"Finnigan's War\" directed by Conor Timmis. Actor Mark Hamill narrates Red Cloud's Medal of Honor citation in the film.\n\nRed Cloud's military awards and decorations include:\n\nRed Cloud's official Medal of Honor citation reads:\nRank and organization: Corporal, E Company, 2nd Battalion, 19th Infantry Regiment, 24th Infantry Division<br>\nPlace and date: Near Chonghyon, Korea, 5 November 1950<br>\nEntered service at: Merrillan, Wisconsin\n\nGeneral Orders No.: 26, 25 April 1951\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43414952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43414952", "title": "Navekmisal Hanım", "text": "Navekmisal Hanım\n\nNavekmisal Hanım ( 1838 – 5 August 1854; ) was a consort of Sultan Abdulmejid I of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nNavekmisal Hanım was born in the Biberd family in North Caucasus. Her father was Prince Rüstem Bey Biberd and her mother was Princess Fatma Hanım Kızılbek, the daughter of Prince Batuhan Kızılbek. She had a sister named, Suzidilara Hanım (died 1919). \n\nFatma Hanım's sister, Princess Keşfiraz Hanım, hence a close relative, had been a wetnurse to Princess Refia Sultan, daughter of Sultan Abdulmejid I. For this reasons Navekmisal and her sister were sent to live with her at Istanbul. Navekmisal grew into a young lady in the Imperial Harem. She entered palace service and became lady-in-waiting to Valide Sultan Bezmiâlem Sultan. \n\nNavekmisal married Abdulmejid in 1853. She was given the title of \"Beşinci Ikbal\". She remained childless.\n\nIn early 1854, she had fallen victim to the epidemic of tuberculosis then raging in Istanbul in the nineteenth century. She died on 5 August 1854, at Şemsipaşa Palace located at Üsküdar. She is buried in the Mausoleum of the imperial ladies at the New Mosque, Istanbul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "186089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186089", "title": "Patti LaBelle", "text": "Patti LaBelle\n\nPatti LaBelle (born Patricia Louise Holt; May 24, 1944) is an American singer, actress, and entrepreneur. LaBelle began her career in the early 1960s as lead singer and front woman of the vocal group, Patti LaBelle and the Bluebelles. Following the group's name change to Labelle in the early 1970s, they released the iconic disco song \"Lady Marmalade\" and the group later became the first African-American vocal group to land the cover of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine. \n\nAfter the group split in 1976, LaBelle began a successful solo career, starting with her critically acclaimed debut album, which included the career-defining song, \"You Are My Friend\". LaBelle became a mainstream solo star in 1984 following the success of the singles, \"If Only You Knew\", \"New Attitude\" and \"Stir It Up\", with the latter two crossing over to pop audiences and becoming radio staples. \n\nLess than two years later, in 1986, LaBelle scored with the number-one album, \"Winner in You\" and the number-one duet single, \"On My Own\", with Michael McDonald. LaBelle eventually won a 1992 Grammy for Best Female R&B Vocal Performance for her 1991 album, \"Burnin'\", followed by a second Grammy win for the live album, \"Live! One Night Only\". Her 1990s albums, \"Burnin\"', \"Gems\" (1994) and \"Flame\" (1997), continued her popularity with young R&B audiences throughout the decade. Following the release of two mildly receptive solo albums in the early new millennium, she reunited with her Labelle band mates for the album, \"Back to Now\", followed by a briefly well received promotional tour. LaBelle's success has extended as an actress with a notable role in the film, \"A Soldier's Story\", and in TV shows such as \"A Different World\" and \"\". In 1992, LaBelle starred in her own TV sitcom, \"Out All Night\". A decade later, LaBelle hosted her own lifestyle TV show, \"Living It Up with Patti LaBelle\" on TV One. In 2015, LaBelle took part in the dance competition, \"Dancing with the Stars\".\n\nIn a career that has spanned fifty years, she has sold more than 50 million records worldwide. LaBelle has been inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame, the Hollywood Walk of Fame, and the Apollo Theater Hall of Fame. In 2005, the World Music Awards recognized her years in the music business by awarding her the Legend Award. LaBelle was included in \"Rolling Stone\" on their list of 100 Greatest Singers. LaBelle is commonly identified as the \"Godmother of Soul\". LaBelle is a dramatic soprano and is noted for her vocal power, range and emotive delivery. She also has a cake named \"Patti LaBelle's Fancy Cake\".\n\nLaBelle was born Patricia Louise Holt on May 24, 1944 in the Eastwick section of Southwest Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the third of four girls to Henry and Bertha Holte. Her father was a railroad worker and her mother was a domestic. Despite enjoying her childhood, LaBelle would later write in her memoirs, \"Don't Block the Blessings\", that her parents' marriage was abusive. When Patti was seven, she was sexually molested by a family friend. At twelve, her parents' marriage came to an end, though Patti remained close to her father. Patti joined a local church choir at the Beulah Baptist Church at ten and performed her first solo two years later. While she was growing up, she listened to secular music styles such as R&B and jazz music as well. When she was fifteen, she won a talent competition at her high school, John Bartram High School. This success led to Patti forming her first singing group, the Ordettes, in 1960, with schoolmates Jean Brown, Yvonne Hogen and Johnnie Dawson. The group, with Patti as front woman, became a local attraction until two of its members left to marry. In 1962, the Ordettes included three new members, Cindy Birdsong, Sarah Dash and Nona Hendryx, the latter two girls having sung for another now defunct vocal group. That year, they auditioned for local record label owner Harold Robinson. Robinson agreed to work with the group after Patti began singing the song \"I Sold My Heart to the Junkman\". Initially Robinson was dismissive of Patti due to his feeling Patti was \"too dark and too plain\".\n\nShortly after signing them, he had them record as the Blue Belles and they were selected to promote the recording of \"I Sold My Heart to the Junkman\", which had been recorded by The Starlets, but was assigned as a Blue Belles single due to label conflict. The Starlets' manager sued Harold Robinson after the Blue Belles were seen performing a lip-synching version of the song on \"American Bandstand\". After settling out of court, Robinson altered the group's name to \"Patti LaBelle and The Blue Belles\". Initially, a Billboard ad cited the group as \"Patti Bell and the Blue Bells\". In 1963, the group scored their first hit single with the ballad \"Down the Aisle\" which became a crossover top 40 hit on the Billboard pop and R&B charts after King Records issued it. Later in the year, they recorded their rendition of the \"You'll Never Walk Alone\"; the single was later re-released on Cameo-Parkway Records where the group scored a second hit on the pop charts with the song in 1964. Another charted single, \"Danny Boy\", was released that same year. In 1965, after Cameo-Parkway folded, the group moved to New York and signed with Atlantic Records where they recorded twelve singles for the label, including the mildly charted singles \"All or Nothing\" and \"Take Me for a Little While\". The group's Atlantic tenure included their rendition of \"Over the Rainbow\" and a version of the song \"Groovy Kind of Love\". In 1967, Birdsong left the group to join The Supremes and by 1970 the group had been dropped from Atlantic Records as well as by their longtime manager Bernard Montague.\n\nThat year, Vicki Wickham, producer of the UK music show, \"Ready, Steady, Go\", agreed to manage the group after Dusty Springfield mentioned signing them. Wickham's first direction for the group was for them to change their name to simply Labelle and advised the group to renew their act, going for a more homegrown look and sound that reflected psychedelic soul. In 1971, the group opened for The Who in several stops on the group's U.S. tour.\n\nLabelle signed with the Warner Music imprint, Track Records, and released their self-titled debut album in 1971. The record's psychedelic soul sound and its blending of rock and soul rhythms was a departure from the group's early sound. That same year, they sang background vocals on Laura Nyro's album, \"Gonna Take a Miracle\". A year later, in 1972, the group released \"Moon Shadow\", which repeated the homegrown gritty sound of the previous album. In 1973, influenced by glam rockers David Bowie and Elton John, Wickham had the group dressed in silver space suits and luminescent makeup.\n\nAfter their third successive album, \"Pressure Cookin'\", failed to generate a hit, Labelle signed with Epic Records in 1974, releasing their most successful album to date, with \"Nightbirds\", which blended soul, funk and rock music, thanks to the work of the album's producer, Allen Toussaint. The single, \"Lady Marmalade\", would become their biggest-selling single, going number one on the Billboard Hot 100 and selling over a million copies, as did \"Nightbirds\", which later earned a RIAA gold award, for sales of a million units. In October 1974, Labelle made pop history by becoming the first rock and roll vocal group to perform at the Metropolitan Opera House. Riding high on the success of \"Lady Marmalade\" and the \"Nightbirds\" album, Labelle made the cover of \"Rolling Stone\" in 1975.\n\nLabelle released two more albums, \"Chameleon\" and \"Phoenix\" in 1975 and 1976 respectively. While both albums continued the group's critical success, none of the singles issued on those albums ever crossed over to the pop charts. By 1976, Patti, Nona and Sarah began arguing over the group's musical direction. Personal difficulties came to a head during a show of December 16, 1976 in Baltimore, Maryland where Nona Hendryx went backstage and injured herself during a nervous breakdown. Following the incident, LaBelle advised the group to separate.\n\nSigning a solo contract with Epic Records in 1977, she recruited David Rubinson, producer of \"Chameleon\", to record her self-titled debut album, which was released that year. The album was noted for the disco hits, \"Joy to Have Your Love\" and \"Dan Swit Me\" and the gospel ballad, \"You Are My Friend\", the latter song becoming her first career-defining single despite its low entry on the R&B chart. Three more albums were released in succession on Epic through 1980, with the songs \"Eyes in the Back of My Head\", \"Little Girls\", \"Music is My Way of Life\", \"Come What May\", \"Release (The Tension)\" and \"I Don't Go Shopping\", the latter song co-written by Peter Allen, being the most successful.\n\nAfter four albums on Epic, LaBelle signed with Philadelphia International Records where she recorded her career-defining version of \"Over the Rainbow\" on the album \"The Spirit's in It\". In 1982, she was featured on the Grover Washington duet \"The Best Is Yet to Come\", and earned accolades that year for starring in the Broadway musical \"Your Arms Too Short to Box with God\". \"The Best Is Yet to Come\" later earned LaBelle her first Grammy Award nomination. In 1983, LaBelle released her breakthrough album \"I'm in Love Again\" which included her first top ten R&B singles, with \"Love, Need and Want You\" and \"If Only You Knew\", the latter song also becoming her first number-one single as a solo artist in early 1984. Later in 1984, she scored another hit with Bobby Womack on the song \"Love Has Finally Come at Last\" and appeared as a club singer in the film \"A Soldier's Story\".\n\nIn 1984, LaBelle recorded the songs \"New Attitude\" and \"Stir It Up\" for the soundtrack to the Eddie Murphy film, \"Beverly Hills Cop\". Following the release of the film, \"New Attitude\" was released as a single in late 1984 and became LaBelle's first crossover solo hit, reaching number 17 on the Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a signature song. \"Stir It Up\" found similar success on pop radio and as a staple in dance clubs. In 1985, LaBelle performed on the TV special, \"Motown Returns to Apollo\" and also as part of the all-star benefit concert, \"Live Aid\". LaBelle's notoriety from performing on these two specials made her a pop star and led to having her own television special later that same year. Also in the same year, a video of a performance from her tour of that year was issued on VHS. During this period, LaBelle ended her contractual obligations to Philadelphia International and signed with MCA Records.\n\nIn 1986, LaBelle released her best-selling solo album to date with \"Winner in You\" with the album reaching number one on the pop charts. The album included the international number-one hit, \"On My Own\" and the hit ballad \"Oh People\". The success of \"Winner in You\" would prove to be the peak of her solo success, though she continued her acclaim with the 1989 release of \"Be Yourself\", which featured \"Yo Mister\" and the hit ballad \"If You Asked Me To\", which found bigger success in a remake by singer Celine Dion. In the year of that album's release, LaBelle began a successful stint in a recurring role on \"A Different World\", the success of which spawned a brief sitcom of her own, titled \"Out All Night\", which only lasted a season. In 1991, she recorded a hit duet version of the Babyface composition, \"Superwoman\" with Gladys Knight and Dionne Warwick. The trio had previously appeared in the \"Sisters in the Name of Love\" TV special in 1987. The same year of the release of \"Superwoman\", LaBelle issued the solo album, \"Burnin'\", which went gold, with three successive top five singles on the R&B charts. This success led to LaBelle winning her first Grammy Award in the Best Female R&B Vocal Performance category in the 34th Annual Grammy Award Ceremony of 1992, sharing the win with singer Lisa Fischer, who won for her hit ballad, \"How Can I Ease the Pain\", in a rare tie in the history of the Grammys.\n\nLaBelle's 1994 album, \"Gems\", also went gold and featured the hit, \"The Right Kinda Lover\". Three years after that, LaBelle released the album, \"Flame\", which included the dance hit, \"When You Talk About Love\". LaBelle released her best-selling memoirs, \"Don't Block the Blessings\", in 1996, and released the first of five best-selling cookbooks in 1997. In 1998, she released the live album, \"Live! One Night Only\", later resulting in a second Grammy win the following February. It remains her most recent Grammy win. In 2000, LaBelle released her final MCA album, \"When a Woman Loves\", before signing with Def Soul Classics to release the 2004 album, \"Timeless Journey\". Following the release of her 2005 covers album, \"Classic Moments\", LaBelle engaged in a rivalry with Antonio \"L.A.\" Reid over the direction of her career, leading to her leaving the label. In 2006, she released her first gospel album, \"The Gospel According to Patti LaBelle\" on the Bungalo label, the album later peaking at number one on Billboard's gospel chart. LaBelle also released the book, \"Patti's Pearls\", during this period. She returned to Def Jam in 2007 and released her second holiday album, \"Miss Patti's Christmas\". In 2008, LaBelle briefly reunited with Nona Hendryx and Sarah Dash as Labelle on the group's first new album in more than 30 years, \"Back to Now\".\n\nOn September 14, 2010, LaBelle made a return two decades after her last Broadway performance to star in the award-winning musical \"Fela!\" about Afrobeat legend Fela Anikulapo-Kuti. LaBelle replaced Tony Award-nominee Lillias White as Fela's mother, Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, and remained with the production through the end of its run on January 2, 2011.\n\nOn May 23, 2011, LaBelle appeared on \"Oprah's Farewell Spectacular, Part 1\" the first show in a series of three shows constituting the finale of \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", singing \"Over the Rainbow\" with Josh Groban. LaBelle was honored with the Lifetime Achievement Award at the BET Awards on June 26, 2011. LaBelle and Aretha Franklin, among others, performed at the \"Women of Soul: In Performance at the White House\" concert hosted by President Barack Obama at the White House, recorded on March 6, 2014.\n\nOn June 10, 2014, LaBelle returned to Broadway as the cast and creative team of the Tony Award-nominated smash hit Broadway musical \"After Midnight\", welcomed her as \"Special Guest Star\". In August 2014, it was announced that LaBelle would appear in a guest role on the upcoming fourth season of the FX horror anthology television series \"American Horror Story\", subtitled \"\".\nOn February 24, 2015, LaBelle was announced as one of the celebrities who would compete on the 20th season of \"Dancing with the Stars\". She partnered with professional dancer Artem Chigvintsev. The couple was eliminated on Week 6 and finished in eighth place. LaBelle has consistently toured the United States selling out shows in various markets. In 2012 and 2014 she appeared with Frankie Beverly & Maze on cross-country USA tours. In 2015 LaBelle made a guest appearance on Fox's television series \"Empire\" as herself.\n\nShe is scheduled to be a \"key advisor\" on the NBC series \"The Voice\".\n\nHer first jazz album, \"Bel Hommage\", was released in 2017.\n\nLaBelle later accounted in her memoirs that she was sexually assaulted by Jackie Wilson while at the Brooklyn Fox Theatre in the 1960s. Around 1964, LaBelle was engaged to Otis Williams, founding member of The Temptations, but broke it off due to scheduling conflicts. In 1969, LaBelle married a longtime friend, Armstead Edwards. After LaBelle started a solo career, Edwards became her manager until the couple separated in the late 1990s. In 2000, the couple announced they had legally separated. Three years later, their divorce was finalized. They have a son, Zuri Kye Edwards (born 1973), who is now her current manager. Through Zuri, LaBelle is a grandmother. In addition to Zuri, LaBelle has two people in her life who are like sons to her, Dodd and Stanley. LaBelle came to know them after the death of their mother, Veaunita, a neighborhood acquaintance.\n\nIn 1975, her eldest sister Vivian Rogers died of lung cancer at 42. In 1982, she lost her second-eldest sister, Barbara Purifoy, to colon cancer at 40. ln 1975 she lost her mother, Bertha, to diabetes. In 1989, she lost her father Henry to emphysema brought on by complications of Alzheimer's disease and her youngest sister, Jacqueline \"Jackie\" Padgett, to lung cancer. Jackie was only 43 when she died. LaBelle dedicated her album, \"Burnin\"' and her rendition of \"Wind Beneath My Wings\" in her 1991/92 concert tour to Padgett. After burying Padgett, LaBelle shot the music video to \"If You Asked Me To\". In 1995, LaBelle was diagnosed with diabetes. LaBelle has a home in the Philadelphia suburb of Wynnewood and also has condos in Los Angeles and in the Bahamas.\n\nIn June 2011, a West Point cadet filed a civil suit against LaBelle after he was allegedly assaulted by her bodyguards. LaBelle and her entourage were on their way to a gig in Louisiana when Richard King, a 23-year-old cadet on spring break, approached her limousine. Having been drinking, he then verbally assailed LaBelle and exchanged heated words with her son Zuri Edwards, working as her driver at the time. King punched Edwards, and Holmes stepped in, striking King several times. According to court documents, King's intoxication level was almost 3.5 times the Texas legal limit that day. Initially, he could not remember what happened and authorities reported him as the aggressor, but no one from LaBelle's team pressed charges.\n\nKing was later given a suspension from the U.S. Military Academy. He sued LaBelle and Holmes for assault, seeking $1 million in civil court. LaBelle filed a counter-suit. Efrem Holmes, Labelle's bodyguard, was acquitted of misdemeanor assault on November 12, 2013, a charge stemming from the 2011 incident at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston, Texas.\n\nLaBelle made some headlines in late 2015 when a vlogger known as James Wright (No Chanel) spoke enthusiastically on YouTube of her brand of sweet potato pies. The video went so viral that one pie was sold every second at Walmart, selling out across the country. She also appeared in two Walmart commercials, one of which was for her sweet potato pie.\n\nStudio albums\nHonorary Doctorates\n\nFilm\nTelevision\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1331294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1331294", "title": "President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science", "text": "President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science\n\nThe American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), founded in 1848, is the world's largest general scientific society. It serves 262 affiliated societies and academies of science and engineering, representing 10 million individuals worldwide. It is publisher of the journal \"Science\", which has the largest paid circulation of any peer-reviewed general science journal in the world and an estimated total readership of 1 million. AAAS fulfills its mission to \"advance science and serve society\" through initiatives in science policy; international programs; science education; communication; and more. It is a non-profit organization, with membership open to everyone.\n\nAAAS presidents serve a one-year term, beginning in mid-February at the close of the AAAS Annual Meeting. In accordance with the convention used by the AAAS, presidents are referenced based on the year in which they left office. The presidential term is preceded by a one-year term as president-elect, and followed by a one-year term as chair of the AAAS Board of Directors.\n\nPresidents of the AAAS, 1848-2016\n\nNotes:\n\n"}
{"id": "1878091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1878091", "title": "Sam Allardyce", "text": "Sam Allardyce\n\nSamuel Allardyce (; born 19 October 1954) is an English football manager and former professional player, who left his post as manager at Premier League club Everton in May 2018.\n\nAllardyce made 578 league and cup appearances in a 21-year career spent mostly in the Football League, as well as brief spells in the North American Soccer League and League of Ireland. He was signed by Bolton Wanderers from Dudley Town in 1969 and spent nine years at Bolton, helping the club to win the Second Division title in 1977–78. He spent the 1980s as a journeyman player, spending time with Sunderland, Millwall, Tampa Bay Rowdies, Coventry City, Huddersfield Town, Bolton Wanderers (for a second spell), Preston North End, and West Bromwich Albion (also working as assistant manager). During this time he helped Preston to win promotion out of the Fourth Division in 1986–87.\n\nMoving into management, he took charge of Irish club Limerick in 1991, leading the club to the League of Ireland First Division (second tier) title in 1991–92. He returned to England to coach at Preston North End, also serving briefly as caretaker-manager. He took up his first permanent management role in England at Blackpool in July 1994, but was sacked after two years having narrowly failed to achieve promotion. He spent January 1997 to October 1999 in charge at Notts County, taking them to the Third Division title in 1997–98. He then returned to Bolton Wanderers as manager, leading the club to promotion out of the First Division via the play-offs in 2001, as well as a League Cup final and UEFA Cup qualification. Following a spell at Newcastle United from May 2007 to January 2008, Allardyce managed Blackburn Rovers for a two-year spell from December 2008. He was appointed West Ham United manager in June 2011, leading the club to promotion out of the Championship via the play-offs in 2012, before leaving West Ham in May 2015 after criticism from fans over his playing style. He was appointed Sunderland manager in October 2015 and saved the club from relegation. He was appointed as manager of the English national team for a brief spell in July 2016, before taking charge at Crystal Palace five months later. After helping Palace to avoid relegation that season, he announced his resignation in May 2017. He took charge at Everton in November 2017 and remained in charge for a six-month period.\n\nAllardyce has been labelled a long ball manager by some analysts, though he has disputed this perception as \"totally and utterly wrong\". He takes a modern, technology and statistics centred approach to tactics and coaching, and has been praised for his organisational and man-management skills.\n\nAllardyce has been criticised for alleged corruption and has twice been the subject of undercover investigations. In September 2006, he and his son, Craig, were implicated in a BBC \"Panorama\" documentary for taking bribes, allegations which they denied. In September 2016, undercover \"Daily Telegraph\" reporters posing as businessmen recorded him offering to help them to get around FA third party ownership rules and provisionally agreeing a £400,000 contract. Following the \"Daily Telegraph\" investigation, Allardyce resigned as England manager in a mutual agreement with the Football Association on 27 September.\n\nSamuel Allardyce was born in October 1954 on the Old Park Farm Estate, Dudley, the son of Robert Allardyce (1916–1989) and Mary Agnes Allardyce (1918–1991). His father was a police sergeant. Both parents originated from Scotland with his father from Nairn and his mother from Dumfries. He has an older sister, Mary, born in Scotland in 1939 and an older brother, Robert junior, born in 1951. Allardyce was educated at Sycamore Green Primary School and later at Mons Hill School, having been unsuccessful in his Eleven plus exam. He discovered in later life that he suffers from dyslexia. As a child, he supported Wolverhampton Wanderers and dreamed that one day he would play at and manage the club.\n\nAllardyce spent his youth with semi-professional side Dudley Town, making his debut at the age of 14 he quickly learned how to play centre-half in the highly physical West Midlands (Regional) League. He trained with local Football League clubs West Bromwich Albion and Wolverhampton Wanderers, and had an unsuccessful trial with Aston Villa. He was spotted by Bolton Wanderers just before leaving school at the age of 15, and signed an apprenticeship with the club. To supplement his income before officially starting his apprenticeship he worked in a factory producing record decks. The Bolton under-18s were very successful, winning the Lancashire Youth Cup and reaching the quarter-finals of the FA Youth Cup, and Allardyce quickly rose through the B-team into the A-team. He signed his first professional contract on his 17th birthday, receiving a £125 signing on fee and wages of £14 a week.\n\nManager Jimmy Armfield gave Allardyce his debut for the \"Trotters\" on 6 November 1973, in a 2–1 defeat League Cup to Millwall at Burnden Park. He made his Second Division debut eleven days later, in a 2–1 defeat to Notts County. However he failed to establish himself in the first team under Armfield, and only got a run of games under new manager Ian Greaves, who played Allardyce in the last ten games of the 1974–75 season after he sold Don McAllister to Tottenham Hotspur. He impressed during this short run, winning himself the club's Young Player of the Year award.\n\nBolton lost to Newcastle United after two replays in the FA Cup Fifth Round in the 1975–76 season, and went on to miss out on promotion out of the league by a single point. They suffered similar disappointment in the 1976–77 campaign, reaching the semi-finals of the League Cup, and again finished just one point outside the promotion places. Allardyce played alongside Paul Jones at centre-half, and a scouting report for England manager Don Revie in 1977 described Allardyce and Jones as \"one of the best central defensive pairings in the Football League.\" Despite this, however, he was never called up to the England team. Promotion was finally achieved in the 1977–78 season, as Bolton returned to the First Division as champions of the Second Division. Bolton consolidated their top-flight status with a 17th-place finish in 1978–79. However the 1979–80 season proved difficult, and manager Greaves was sacked as the club went seven months without a league victory, whilst his replacement Stan Anderson was unable to steer the club away from relegation and a last-place finish. Allardyce decided to leave Bolton at the end of the season as he felt that he was underpaid at Bolton and did not get on with Anderson.\n\nAllardyce was offered a contract by Norwich City manager John Bond, but the offer was bettered by Colin Addison at Derby County, and he verbally agreed a three-year contract with Derby. However, before signing the contract he received a late offer from Ken Knighton to play for Sunderland on a £300 a week contract with a £20,000 signing on fee – which more than quadrupled his wage at Bolton. Allardyce signed for Sunderland on 1 July 1980 for £150,000. Knighton appointed him as club captain. However Allardyce soon wearied of the long-distance travel from Sunderland to his home in Bolton, and put in a transfer request when chairman Tom Cowie refused to help finance the purchase of a home in Sunderland. Cowie sacked Knighton late in the 1980–81 season, leaving caretaker manager Mick Docherty in charge to steer the club out of the First Division relegation zone. New manager Alan Durban left Allardyce out of the team at the start of the 1981–82 campaign, leaving Allardyce's departure from Roker Park inevitable.\n\nHe was offered the chance to return to Bolton Wanderers, but manager George Mulhall was only able to offer 50% of Allardyce's wages at Sunderland. Instead he made a surprise £95,000 move to Third Division side Millwall, who were able to match Sunderland's wages and also pay out a £30,000 signing on fee and a £10,000 loyalty bonus. Millwall player-manager Peter Anderson had seen Allardyce as the successor to long-serving central defender Barry Kitchener, and as Anderson was also a property developer he allowed Allardyce to live rent free in a six-bedroom mansion. The \"Lions\" ended the 1981–82 season in mid-table, and Anderson was sacked in November 1982. Chairman Alan Thorne offered Allardyce the vacant management position, but Allardyce rejected the offer as he felt that at aged 28 he was far too young to enter management. Instead it was George Graham who took up his first management position, and Graham immediately froze Allardyce out of the first team on both matchdays and training after Allardyce insisted that he would not report teammates who broke Graham's rules. He came close to joining Charlton Athletic on a free transfer in March 1983, but Charlton boss Lennie Lawrence did not complete the move before the end of the transfer deadline. Graham agreed to pay Allardyce £15,000 to cancel his contract, acting under the assumption that Allardyce would struggle to find a club willing to offer him £300 a week.\n\nAllardyce wrote to every club in the top two divisions to inform them he was available on a free transfer, and privately lamented choosing his past clubs for financial rather than footballing reasons. Over the summer he played 11 games in the North American Soccer League for the Tampa Bay Rowdies, a club that shared facilities with the NFL's Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Allardyce subsequently applied in his managerial career many modern practices of American football with regards to training, player management and tactics. He found playing difficult however, due to the heat and the all-out attacking nature of his teammates, which led to him being frequently exposed at the back, though he found that the club's masseurs managed to cure a long-standing hamstring scar tissue problem.\n\nUpon returning to the UK he joined Bobby Gould's First Division Coventry City on a one-year £300 a week contract. He was made captain, and though Coventry enjoyed a good first half to the 1983–84 season they faltered badly in the second half of the season and finished just one place and two points above the relegation zone after beating Norwich City on the final day of the season. Midway through the campaign Gould had promised him a new two-year contract, but following the poor end to the season he instead opted to release Allardyce.\n\nIn July 1984, he was signed by Mick Buxton at Second Division Huddersfield Town. The move reunited him with Paul Jones, his former centre-half partner at Bolton. Huddersfield finished in 13th place in the 1984–85 season, and at the end of the campaign accepted an offer of £15,000 from Bolton Wanderers, who offered Allardyce a three-year contract. Bolton were then managed by Charlie Wright, who was the goalkeeper at Allardyce's first spell with the club. However Wright was sacked in December 1985, and his successor, Phil Neal, did not get along with Allardyce. Neal played himself at centre-half and relegated Allardyce to the bench, despite Neal being a full-back. Bolton reached the 1986 Football League Trophy Final at Wembley Stadium, which ended in a 3–0 defeat to Bristol City, with Allardyce as an unused substitute.\n\nAllardyce was offered the chance to join Tranmere Rovers, but instead joined Preston North End after being persuaded by manager John McGrath, who promised to make Allardyce the backbone of his team. Preston won promotion out of the Fourth Division in second-place in 1986–87 (Allardyce was also named on the PFA Team of the Year), and consolidated their Third Division status with a 16th-place finish in 1987–88. By this time Allardyce began considering his retirement as a player, and applied to management positions at York City and Notts County, and had an unsuccessful interview with Doncaster Rovers.\n\nBolton fans gave him the nickname \"Super Sam Bionic Man\" due to his tough tackling approach and the way he quickly got up after heavy collisions whilst the opposition player would be left flat on the ground. Veteran manager Dave Bassett, a friend of Allardyce, once humorously remarked that \"He was what I called a ball-playing defender... If he wasn't playing with the ball he was playing with your balls.\" He was uncomfortable in possession, and played simple balls to his nearest teammates when he found himself with the ball, whilst teammates would be reluctant to pass to him. He did however possess good awareness and heading skills, and his anticipation made up for his lack of pace.\n\nAllardyce was hired as a player-coach by Brian Talbot at West Bromwich Albion in February 1989. He spent most of the rest of the 1988–89 season at The Hawthorns managing and playing for the reserve team, before being promoted to first team coach in the summer, in a move that saw former first team coach Stuart Pearson demoted to reserve team coaching. Allardyce and Talbot were sacked in January 1991 following a defeat to Isthmian League side Woking in the FA Cup. He later worked as a part-time coach at Bury, but manager Mike Walsh could not afford to keep him on the staff for the 1989–90 season.\n\nAllardyce then took up the role of player-manager of Limerick, and guided the team to promotion into the League of Ireland Premier Division after winning the 1991–92 League of Ireland First Division. They achieved promotion despite tremendous financial pressures, with Allardyce coaching and playing for the first team whilst the club board signed players as Allardyce had no knowledge of the Irish football scene.\n\nAfter his season in Ireland, Allardyce returned to England for the start of the 1992–93 season to coach at Preston North End under Les Chapman. Ten games into the season, however, Chapman was sacked and Allardyce was appointed caretaker manager. Despite a promising spell in charge, Allardyce did not get the job on a permanent basis, and in December 1992 Preston appointed John Beck as manager. Allardyce worked as youth team coach for 18 months, but later said the extreme long ball tactics Beck enforced upon the club were \"indefensible\".\n\nOn 19 July 1994 Blackpool, West Lancashire derby rivals to Preston North End, appointed Allardyce as their new manager following the departure of Billy Ayre, agreeing a salary of £18,000 a year. He signed defender Darren Bradshaw, midfielder Micky Mellon and spent a club record £245,000 on Andy Morrison, who Allardyce described as a \"horrible in-your-face\" centre-back and a \"complete nutter\". He also changed the club's backroom staff, hiring Bobby Saxton as his assistant, promoting player Phil Brown to a coaching role, and appointing Mark Taylor as physio, who would follow Allardyce to Blackburn and Newcastle. Blackpool finished the 1994–95 season in 12th place after falling out of the promotion race with just one win in their final 11 games.\n\nHe spent £200,000 on striker Andy Preece, and also brought in young defender Jason Lydiate and goalkeeper Steve Banks for the 1995–96 campaign. Blackpool finished third, missing out on automatic promotion on the last day of the season, and were beaten in the play-off semi-finals by Bradford City. They had won 2–0 away at Valley Parade, only to lose 3–0 in the return leg at Bloomfield Road. Chairman Owen Oyston, while he was in a prison cell, sacked Allardyce shortly after the play-off defeat. Allardyce then had a brief spell on the coaching staff under Peter Reid at Sunderland, working as director of the academy.\n\nIn January 1997, Allardyce made his return to football as manager of struggling Division Two club Notts County. He arrived too late to save them from relegation in 1996–97, and in his autobiography described how the players \"would not respond\" to his coaching methods as they went 18 games without a win and pressure mounted on Allardyce. However he held on to his job, and led the club to promotion as champions of Division Three at the end of the 1997–98 season, built upon a three-man defence and a mid-season run of ten consecutive wins. County broke several club and national records, winning the title by a 19-point margin and becoming the first post-war side to win promotion in March.\n\nDespite the success, chairman Derek Pavis refused to spend money on transfers, and as a result fell out with Allardyce. Allardyce was eventually allowed to spend £50,000 on striker Kevin Rapley, who helped the club to steer clear of relegation at the end of the 1998–99 campaign. In the summer he signed midfielder Craig Ramage and utility player Clayton Blackmore. Allardyce remained in charge at Meadow Lane until 14 October 1999, when he resigned his post at Notts County to return to Bolton Wanderers.\n\nAllardyce was appointed manager of Bolton Wanderers following Colin Todd's departure, who had resigned in protest at the sale of Per Frandsen as the club attempted to raise funds for the new Reebok Stadium. He inherited a talented squad, which included Eiður Guðjohnsen, Jussi Jääskeläinen, Mark Fish, Claus Jensen, Dean Holdsworth, Bo Hansen, Michael Johansen, and Ricardo Gardner. However he was forced to sell Andy Todd, son of Colin Todd, after he broke assistant manager Phil Brown's jaw in a team bonding session. Despite being in the bottom half of the table when he took over, Bolton reached the 1999–2000 Division One play-offs, losing to Ipswich Town, and had an eventful run to the League Cup and FA Cup semi-finals, only missing out on the 2000 FA Cup Final after a penalty shoot-out defeat to Aston Villa. He blamed referee Barry Knight for the play-off defeat, who he accused of being biased against Bolton. Allardyce was rewarded for turning the club around with a ten-year contract, though the terms of the contract only entitled him to a one year's compensation pay if he was sacked.\n\nIn summer 2000, Guðjohnsen and Jensen were sold for £4 million each. Allardyce focused on spending money to improve the club's facilities and backroom staff, believing that money spent in these areas would allow Bolton to compete with clubs who had bigger budgets and paid bigger wages than Bolton could afford. On the playing front he spent £400,000 on striker Michael Ricketts and £1.5 million to bring back Frendsen from Blackburn, and also signed utility player Ian Marshall and Bradford City loanee Isaiah Rankin. Teenager Kevin Nolan was also promoted from the youth team, whilst 35-year-old defender Colin Hendry arrived on loan. Bolton reached the play-off final at the Millennium Stadium in 2000–01, where they beat Preston North End 3–0 to achieve promotion to the Premier League after a three-year absence.\n\nBuilding for the 2001–02 Premier League campaign, Allardyce signed France international defender Bruno N'Gotty from Marseille in a loan deal which was eventual made into a permanent one after N'Gotty established himself as a key first team player. He also brought in Henrik Pedersen from Silkeborg IF for £650,000, though otherwise remained loyal to the players that had won promotion the previous campaign. They recorded a 5–0 win at Leicester City on the opening day, then beat Middlesbrough and Liverpool to secure nine points from their first three games. After six games without a win, Bolton then recorded a shock 2–1 victory over Manchester United on 20 October. However their form dropped, and so in the January transfer window Allardyce brought in Danish midfielder Stig Tøfting, German striker Fredi Bobic (on loan), and World Cup-winning attacker Youri Djorkaeff. Djorkaeff scored both goals in a 2–1 win over Charlton Athletic on 23 March and Bobic scored a hat-trick in a 4–1 win over Ipswich Town on 6 April; the victory over Ipswich proved to be essential as Bolton ended the season in 16th place on 40 points, ahead of Ipswich who were relegated with 36 points.\n\nAllardyce manage to sign another big name on a free transfer for the 2002–03 season, bringing in 28-year-old Nigeria captain Jay-Jay Okocha, who four years previously had been purchased by Paris Saint-Germain for £14 million. He also brought in Spanish central defender Iván Campo on loan from Real Madrid. He sold 2001–02 top-scorer Michael Ricketts to Middlesbrough for £3.5 million, bringing in Pierre-Yves André on loan as his replacement. Bolton struggled all season, but managed to avoid relegation with a final day win over Middlesbrough.\n\nLooking to avoid another relegation battle, Allardyce made a number of signings in preparation for the 2003–04 season, the most significant of which were Brazilian defender Emerson Thome, Greece international Stelios Giannakopoulos, and target-man striker Kevin Davies. Allardyce's side finished eighth in the league and reached the League Cup final, in what was his first major domestic final appearance as a player or manager. Bolton lost 2–1 to Middlesbrough in the final, though Allardyce blamed referee Mike Riley for not giving a late penalty for an alleged handball by Ugo Ehiogu.\n\nNow an established Premier League club, Bolton signed veteran internationals Gary Speed and Fernando Hierro, aged 35 and 36 respectively. Speed and Hierro went into midfield, while Tunisia international Radhi Jaïdi was played at centre-back after arriving on a free transfer from Espérance; he was played alongside another new arrival, Israel defender Tal Ben Haim, who was recommended by Allardyce's son Craig. He also brought in Senegal striker El Hadji Diouf on a season-long loan from Liverpool, who he would eventually sign permanently for £3 million. After a good start to the season, Allardyce was offered the Newcastle United job, but turned it down and instead signed a new five-year contract with Bolton as he felt the Bolton squad to be more talented. Bolton went on to finish in sixth place in 2004–05 to win qualification to the UEFA Cup for the first time in the club's history.\n\nBolton reached the Round of 32 in the UEFA Cup in 2005–06, beating Lokomotiv Plovdiv (Bulgaria) in the First Round and successfully negotiating through the Group stage after beating Zenit Saint Petersburg (Russia), and drawing with Sevilla (Spain), Beşiktaş (Turkey) and Vitória Guimarães (Portugal), before losing to Marseille (France) in the knock-out stages. Allardyce's success with Bolton resulted in the FA putting him on a short-list of four people to succeed Sven-Göran Eriksson as England manager after the 2006 FIFA World Cup, alongside Alan Curbishley, Steve McClaren and Martin O'Neill. He was interviewed for the position and was told by FA Chief Executive Brian Barwick that the final choice would be between him and McClaren, however the FA eventually decided to give the job to McClaren. Allardyce was also again offered the Newcastle job and was this time to keen to take it, but Newcastle chairman Freddie Shepard broke off contract negotiations after electing to appoint caretaker-manager Glenn Roeder on a full-time basis. Allardyce's team seemed unaffected by speculation on his future or by their European exploits, and ended the season in eighth position.\n\nKeen to strengthen Bolton for a European push in the 2006–07 season, Allardyce signed France international striker Nicolas Anelka from Fenerbahçe for a club record £8 million. He also signed Ivory Coast defender Abdoulaye Méïté from Marseille, and in an unusual sequence of events made a £400,000 profit on Dietmar Hamann, who changed his mind about joining Bolton and signed with Manchester City a day after signing a pre-contract agreement with Bolton; Manchester City agreed to pay Bolton £400,000 in compensation. However Allardyce's relationship with chairman Phil Gartside became increasingly strained as Gartside refused to sanction greater transfer spending to finance a push for UEFA Champions League qualification. On 29 April 2007, Allardyce resigned with the club in fifth place with two games of the season left to play, and the following day his assistant Sammy Lee was announced as his replacement.\n\nAllardyce was offered the Manchester City job, but the offer was withdrawn after Thaksin Shinawatra's purchase offer of the club was accepted. On 15 May 2007, Newcastle United announced that Allardyce had signed a three-year contract to succeed Glenn Roeder as manager. Coincidentally Newcastle then also had a change of owners, as Mike Ashley completed his takeover of the club. The sales of Scott Parker and Kieron Dyer raised £13 million, allowing Allardyce to sign Australia international striker Mark Viduka (free transfer), utility man Alan Smith (£6 million), midfielder Geremi Njitap, controversial midfielder Joey Barton (£5.5 million), left-back José Enrique (£6.3 million), right-back Habib Beye (£2 million), and defender Abdoulaye Faye. Newcastle enjoyed a good start to the season, beating Allardyce's former club Bolton 3–1 on the opening day in a run of five wins and two draws from the opening nine league games. However they then had a series of disappointing results in the run-up to Christmas, and after gaining only one point from a possible six from bottom-of-the-table Wigan and Derby. Allardyce parted company with Newcastle United on 9 January 2008. He had gone into the meeting with chairman Chris Mort expecting to be told Newcastle had signed a new player, not expecting that Ashley and Mort had decided to instead sign Kevin Keegan to return as manager.\n\nOn 17 December 2008, Allardyce was appointed as manager of Blackburn Rovers on a three-year contract, succeeding Paul Ince who left the club in 19th place with just three wins from 17 games. Allardyce's first game in charge was a 3–0 victory over Stoke City at Ewood Park three days later. This was the first game of a nine-game unbeaten run. He strengthened the team by spending £2 million on Sunderland winger El Hadji Diouf and brought in defender Gaël Givet on loan from Marseille. Allardyce finished his first season in charge with a 0–0 draw with West Bromwich Albion and a final league position of 15th.\n\nBlackburn were forced to sell talismanic Paraguay striker Roque Santa Cruz to Manchester City and defender Stephen Warnock to Aston Villa for a combined £21.5 million to balance the books. Allardyce was permitted to bring in defensive midfielder Steven Nzonzi from Amiens for £500,000, Croatia international forward Nikola Kalinić from Hajduk Split for £6 million, and Pascal Chimbonda from Tottenham Hotspur for £2.5 million. In the 2009–10 season, Blackburn reached the League Cup semi-final against Aston Villa, but lost over two legs. Blackburn remained mid-table for the duration of the season, and finished tenth with a final day victory away at Aston Villa.\n\nThe club was put up for sale in summer 2010, and Allardyce was offered the job of managing Al-Ahli Dubai, but could not secure permission to leave Blackburn without paying compensation to the club and so remained in charge at Ewood Park. Allardyce was later sacked by new owners the Venky's on 13 December 2010, with Rovers placed 13th in the league. He was replaced by one of his coaches, Steve Kean, whose agent Jerome Anderson was a highly influential figure with the Venky family.\n\nAllardyce was appointed as manager of then-recently relegated West Ham United on 1 June 2011, signing a two-year contract. He vowed to play \"attractive football\" in getting West Ham back to the Premier League, according to the \"traditions of the club,\" and rejected the claims that he played dull, long-ball football at previous clubs. He signed Abdoulaye Faye, Kevin Nolan, Joey O'Brien and Matt Taylor. Faye, Nolan and O'Brien had all played under Allardyce at his former club Bolton Wanderers while Taylor was a Bolton player who had joined after Allardyce left the club. He made striker John Carew West Ham's fifth signing of the season, on a free transfer, followed by defender George McCartney from Sunderland on a season-long loan, strikers Sam Baldock from Milton Keynes Dons and midfielder Papa Bouba Diop on a free transfer. He concluded his summer transfer window signings on deadline day by bringing in midfielders David Bentley from Tottenham Hotspur and Henri Lansbury from Arsenal, both on season-long loans, as well as utility man Guy Demel from Hamburg for an undisclosed fee. Nicky Maynard, Ricardo Vaz Tê and Ravel Morrison followed in the 2011 winter transfer window. Over the course of the 2011–12 season a total of 25 players left the club while 19 were signed. In March 2012, despite standing in third place in the Championship, Allardyce's style of football was again questioned. Fans called for more passing of the ball and football played on the pitch and not in the air. On 19 May 2012, West Ham were promoted back to the Premier League after only one season in the Championship after beating Blackpool 2–1 the play-off Final. Allardyce described this promotion as his best ever achievement.\n\nA busy transfer window for the summer of 2012 saw Allardyce bring in eleven players, including his former Bolton goalkeeper Jussi Jääskeläinen, midfielder Mohamed Diamé, Mali international striker Modibo Maïga, Wales international centre-back James Collins, defensive midfielder Alou Diarra, winger Matt Jarvis, England striker Andy Carroll (on loan from Liverpool) and Israel international midfielder Yossi Benayoun. West Ham finished the 2012–13 season in tenth place, and Allardyce renewed his contract at West Ham by signing a new two-year deal.\n\nAllardyce's main signing of summer 2013 was Andy Carroll, for a £15 million fee from Liverpool, whilst he also spent an undisclosed fee on winger Stewart Downing, again from Liverpool, to provide crosses for Carroll to convert into goals. He also signed goalkeeper Adrián on a free transfer from Real Betis. However Allardyce's plans were disrupted when Carroll picked up a long-term injury, which left Allardyce regretting the transfer, especially as he had chosen Carroll instead of signing Swansea City's Wilfried Bony, who went on to score 16 league goals in the 2013–14 campaign. Allardyce was awarded the Premier League Manager of the Month for February 2014 following a run of four wins and one draw in their five Premier League games. In April 2014, during an away game against West Bromwich Albion, a section of West Ham fans expressed their distaste at the style of football played under Allardyce by displaying a banner which read \"Fat Sam Out, killing WHU\". The following month some supporters hung a banner bearing the legend \"Fat Sam Out\" outside the mansion owned by club chairman, David Sullivan, in Theydon Bois, Essex. Despite protests, on 20 May 2014, the club announced that Allardyce would be staying as manager and would be supported by new attacking coach Teddy Sheringham for the 2014–15 season to \"ensure the team provides more entertainment\" and to \"improve the club's goal tally\".\n\nIn summer 2014, Allardyce signed midfielder Cheikhou Kouyaté, left-back Aaron Cresswell, attacker Enner Valencia, right-back (on loan from Arsenal) Carl Jenkinson, striker Diafra Sakho, defensive midfielder Alex Song (on loan from Barcelona), midfielder Morgan Amalfitano, and forward Mauro Zárate. In October 2014, pundits like BBC's Robbie Savage were commenting about the team's \"more attractive and attacking playing style\" or \"the statistics [that] show the progress that West Ham have made in the last few months.\" Allardyce was awarded the Premier League Manager of the Month for October 2014 after three wins for West Ham out of four games played that month. Allardyce left West Ham on 24 May 2015, the final day of the season, after his contract was not renewed. Allardyce stated that \"I didn't want to stay. I suppose you could say it was mutual if they didn't want me to stay either\". His West Ham side had finished 12th in the 2014–15 season, one place higher than in the 2013–14 season.\n\nOn 9 October 2015, Allardyce was named the new Sunderland manager, replacing Dick Advocaat. When Allardyce was appointed, Sunderland sat 19th in the Premier League table with three points from their first eight games of the season. Signing a two-year contract, he became the first manager to have managed both Newcastle United and Sunderland. On 25 October, in his second game as manager, he guided Sunderland to a 3–0 win against rivals and his former club Newcastle United. However, after a run of 5 defeats in a row in December, Sunderland headed into the second half of the season in the relegation zone with only 12 points from 19 games.\n\nIn the January transfer window he signed centre-backs Lamine Koné and Jan Kirchhoff and attacking midfielder Wahbi Khazri. On 6 February 2016, Sunderland scored two late goals to draw 2–2 with Liverpool at Anfield, having trailed 2–0 with ten minutes remaining. Later that week winger Adam Johnson was sacked by the club after pleading guilty to one count of sexual activity with a child and one charge of grooming. Sunderland remained in the relegation zone for much of the remainder of the 2015–16 season, before they boosted their survival chances by beating Norwich City 3–0 at Carrow Road on 16 April, closing the gap on 17th-place Norwich to just one point. Allardyce successfully led Sunderland to safety from relegation after beating Everton 3–0 on 11 May, a result which also ensured the relegation of rivals (and one of his former clubs) Newcastle United. Allardyce earned praise for his management of Sunderland from some pundits, particularly for his organized approach and emphasis on a strong defence.\n\nOn 22 July 2016, Allardyce signed a two-year contract to become manager of the England national team. He won his first and only game in charge on 4 September, as an Adam Lallana goal deep into injury-time was enough to beat Slovakia on the opening day of qualification for the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Following allegations of malpractice, Allardyce left the role by mutual consent on 27 September, having managed the team for just 67 days and one match.\n\nOn 23 December 2016, Allardyce signed a two-and-a-half-year contract to become manager of Crystal Palace, a day after the sacking of Alan Pardew. He strengthened in the January transfer window by spending around £30 million on Jeffrey Schlupp, Patrick van Aanholt, and Luka Milivojević. The \"Eagles\" confirmed their safety from relegation in the penultimate game of the 2016–17 season with a 4–0 victory over Hull City at Selhurst Park. Allardyce announced his departure from Crystal Palace on 23 May 2017, saying he had no intention of seeking another job, in what was interpreted as a retirement announcement. However, on 19 July 2017, Allardyce said he would be open to an international management position, but not another club job.\n\nDespite previously announcing his retirement from his managerial career, on 30 November 2017, Allardyce signed a contract to manage Everton until June 2019, who were thirteenth place in the Premier League table, following a poor start to the 2017–18 season. His first game in charge came two days later, when his side defeated Huddersfield Town in a 2–0 victory. He guided the \"Toffees\" to a seven-game unbeaten run at the start of his tenure, a spell which included five clean sheets. Having steadied the defence, he stated that his next task was to bring in a consistent goalscorer. Everton ended the season in eighth-position, but fans were dissatisfied with the style of play. Whilst under Allardyce's management, Everton were ranked 20th for total shots, 19th for total shots on target, 16th for passing accuracy and 17th for shots faced in the Premier League. Allardyce left the club on 16 May 2018.\n\nAllardyce is a keen proponent of sports science and using technology and innovative techniques in coaching his teams, such as computerised performance analysis and yoga. Martin Hardy of \"The Independent\" described him as \"one of the pioneers of sports science in English football\". Former players and pundits have cited his preparation as his main strength, which allows his teams to have better organisation and defensive stability. Former Bolton player Kevin Davies also highlighted Allardyce's man-management skills as a strength.\n\nAllardyce also has a reputation for using long ball tactics, though he has said that this perception is \"totally and utterly wrong\". Former Newcastle player Lee Clark defended Allardyce from criticism of his tactics and said that Allardyce was right to work hard on set-plays and on the organisation of his team.\n\nCriticism of his perceived long-ball tactics became more intense as he managed West Ham United in the Premier League, including discontent from West Ham's own supporters. In January 2014, following a 0–0 draw at Stamford Bridge, Chelsea manager, José Mourinho criticised West Ham's football, likening it to \"football from the 19th century\". In October 2014, Allardyce claimed his reputation for playing long ball football was \"not founded in fact\" and had been used as an excuse by opposing managers such as Arsène Wenger, David O'Leary, Graeme Souness and Rafael Benítez following defeats by sides managed by Allardyce. Allardyce wrote in his autobiography that \"when they hit a 50-yard ball it was a cultural pass; when we did it, it was a hopeful hoof\".\n\nHe met his wife Lynne Ward while still a youth team player at Bolton Wanderers, and the pair married on 1 June 1974. They had a son, Craig (9 June 1975), and daughter, Rachael (21 April 1979). He was given an honorary doctorate by the University of Bolton in July 2010. In addition to his football career, Allardyce has also run a number of businesses, including a motor spares firm, a fast-food restaurant, a social club, a pub, a piano bar, and a pub restaurant. He published his autobiography, \"Big Sam\", in October 2015.\n\nIn January 2013, Allardyce received \"substantial\", but undisclosed, damages from former Blackburn Rovers manager Steve Kean. In 2011, Kean had been recorded in a bar in Hong Kong alleging that Allardyce had been sacked from his post at Blackburn Rovers because he was a \"crook\".\n\nOn 19 September 2006, Allardyce, and his son, Craig, were implicated in a BBC \"Panorama\" documentary, \"Undercover: Football's Dirty Secrets\", which alleged that he had taken bribes from agents for signing certain players. Two agents, Teni Yerima and Peter Harrison, were secretly filmed, each separately claiming that they had paid Allardyce through his son. Allardyce denied ever taking, or asking for, a bribe. Others implicated of wrongdoing were Harry Redknapp, Kevin Bond, and Frank Arnesen. As a result of the allegation, Allardyce refused to speak to the BBC. While he also stated he was going to sue the broadcaster to clear his name, Allardyce failed to issue libel proceedings as he was advised that suing for damage to reputation was a costly and time-consuming process. The final report of the Stevens inquiry published in June 2007 expressed concerns regarding the involvement of Craig Allardyce in a number of transactions, stating that: \"The inquiry remains concerned at the conflict of interest that it believes existed between Craig Allardyce, his father Sam Allardyce—the then manager at Bolton—and the club itself.\" Allardyce stated that the inquiry was a public relations exercise and that the conclusion of a \"conflict of interest\" was \"innuendo, without any facts\".\n\nIn February 2014, Daniel Taylor, chief football writer for \"The Guardian\" and \"The Observer\", wrote that West Ham player and England prospect Ravel Morrison felt he had come \"under considerable pressure\" from Allardyce to sign up with football agent Mark Curtis, who represents Allardyce himself and a number of other West Ham players, including Kevin Nolan, James Tomkins, Jack Collison, Matt Jarvis, Andy Carroll, and Jussi Jääskeläinen. Agent Curtis had been charged and eventually cleared by the Football Association during the 2008 investigation into Luton Town's illegal transfer dealings. Curtis responded to the allegations by saying it is \"nonsense\", while Allardyce talked of Morrison complaining about \"a groin injury\" while the club's medical staff could find \"no problem\", and made a reference to the player's \"disciplinary issues in the past\". Morrison was eventually loaned out to Championship side Queens Park Rangers for the remainder of the 2013–14 season.\n\nIn September 2016, \"Daily Telegraph\" reporters posing as businessmen filmed Allardyce, who had recently been appointed the manager of the England football team, allegedly offering to give advice on how to get around on FA rules on player third party ownership and negotiating a £400,000 deal, subject to FA approval. As a result, he left his job as England manager by mutual agreement with the FA after just one game in charge.\n\nRobert Sullivan, Director of Strategy at the FA, later confirmed to the Commons Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee that Allardyce's comments were \"a factual, correct statement around the laws of the English game and having third-party ownership\"\n\nFollowing a review by City of London Police, Allardyce was cleared of any wrongdoing with the Daily Telegraph also clarifying that it \"did not suggest that Allardyce had broken the law\"\n\nSpeaking to the Observer, Martin Glen, CEO of the FA, said that \"it is a tragedy that we have ended up having to part company with him [Allardyce] over the, the – you know – entrapment\".\n\nSource:\n\nBolton Wanderers\n\nPreston North End\n\nIndividual\n\nLimerick\n\nNotts County\n\nBolton Wanderers\n\nWest Ham United\n\nIndividual\n\nGeneral\n\nSpecific\n"}
{"id": "54298710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54298710", "title": "Serkan Golge", "text": "Serkan Golge\n\nSerkan Golge (Serkan Gölge) is a Turkish-American scientist who is currently imprisoned in Turkey. He worked as a full-time NASA contractor on NASA's proposed manned mission to Mars with an office next to the Mission Control Center. He graduated from Fatih University and received his Ph.D. in physics from Old Dominion University in 2010. He became a naturalized US citizen the same year. \n\nGolge was arrested by the Turkish government on July 23, 2016, on charges of participating in terrorism and conspiring against the government as a member of the Gülen movement, which Turkey designates the \"Fethullahist Terrorist Organization.\" As evidence the prosecution presented a 1 $ bill found in his apartment (which by prosecutors often is presented as evidence that someone is linked to the Gülen Movement), the fact that he had a bank account at a bank linked to the Gülen movement and that he has studied at a university linked to the Gülen Movement. Golge denied being a member of the Gülen movement or undertaking any anti-government activities. On February 8, 2018, he was sentenced to 7.5 years in prison. The government in Ankara believes that the Gülen movement is at least partially responsible for the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt and has arrested many of its members, followers and sympathizers, and suspected sympathizers, members and followers since the coup's failure in July 2016. Suspected conspirators have included judges, academics, and journalists.\n"}
{"id": "37123691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37123691", "title": "Sir Nicholas Colthurst, 4th Baronet", "text": "Sir Nicholas Colthurst, 4th Baronet\n\nSir Nicholas Colthurst, 4th Baronet (1789–1829) was an Anglo-Irish politician.\n\nHe served in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom as the Member of Parliament (MP) for Cork City 1812-1829.\n\nHe was one of the Colthurst baronets in the Baronetage of Ireland. In 1810, Sir Nicholas Colthurst got a grant from the British Government for £20,000 to begin the construction of Cork City Gaol.\n"}
{"id": "58874798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58874798", "title": "Victor Chocquet", "text": "Victor Chocquet\n\nVictor Chocquet (9 December 1821 – 7 April 1891) was a French art collector and an ardent propagandist of Impressionism. As a senior editor at the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, he was present at all the exhibitions where he defended painters confronted with mockery and insults. His collection was huge. It was dispersed after his death in 1899. Many of the paintings are currently in American museums.\n\nChocquet was born in Lille in a wealthy family of silk millers. At a very young age, he devoted all his resources to the purchase of works of art: paintings (including those of Eugène Delacroix, Gustave Courbet, Honoré Daumier) porcelain, and furniture. In 1875, when he attended the 1875 Impressionist sale at the Hôtel Drouot, he fell in love with the paintings hooted by the audience. He asked Auguste Renoir to paint a portrait of his wife and their little daughter Marie-Sophie who died at the age of five, based on a photograph. During this first sale of the \"Société anonyme des artistes\" at the Hôtel Drouot on 24 March 1875, the painters' receipts did not cover their expenses, the average price of a painting amounting to 100 fr. That day he was one of the first supports of the artists with Ernest Hoschedé and .\n\nParticularly enthusiastic about Paul Cézanne whose paintings he saw at Père Tanguy's home, he spent a lot of energy verbally defending the painters at the 1876 and 1877 exhibitions to which he lent works from his collection. Despite the quolibets that welcomed Cézanne's presentation of his own portrait and despite violent criticism from the press, he was not discouraged, even when his resources diminished when he took early retirement (1877). From 1882, his mother-in-law's inheritance allowed him to resume his purchases and he acquired a property in Hattenville (Normandy) where a large number of works, including \"Ferme à Hattenville\", by Cézanne, were painted. His collection rivaled those of the greatest collectors: he was often quoted at the same time as Georges de Bellio and Eugène Murer in the press. He owned about 32 paintings by Cézanne.\n\nIn Paris, Victor Chocquet first lived in an apartment rue de Rivoli that overlooked the Tuileries Garden. It is from there that Monet painted several paintings, including \"Vue sur le jardin des Tuileries\" (1876). huile sur toile de 53.97 x 73.2 At the end of his life, he moved to a small 18th century mansion house, rue Monsigny.\n\nChocquet died in Paris on 7 April 1891 at age 69.\n\n"}
{"id": "152308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152308", "title": "Virginia Dare", "text": "Virginia Dare\n\nVirginia Dare (born August 18, 1587, date of death unknown) was the first English child born in a New World English overseas possession, and was named after the territory of Virginia, her birthplace. Her parents were Ananias Dare and Eleanor White (also spelled Ellinor or Elyonor).\n\nWhat became of Virginia and the other colonists remains a mystery. The fact of her birth is known because John White, Virginia's grandfather and the governor of the colony, returned to England in 1587 to seek fresh supplies. When White eventually returned three years later, the colonists were gone.\n\nDuring the past four hundred years, Virginia Dare has become a prominent figure in American myth and folklore, symbolizing different things to different groups of people. She has been featured as a main character in books, poems, songs, comic books, television programs, and films. Her name has been used to sell different types of goods, from vanilla products to soft drinks, as well as wine and spirits. Many places in North Carolina and elsewhere in the Southern United States have been named in her honor.\n\nVirginia Dare was born in the Roanoke Colony in what is now North Carolina in August 1587, the first child of English parents born in the New World. \"Elenora, daughter to the governor of the city and wife to Ananias Dare, one of the assistants, was delivered of a daughter in Roanoke\".\n\nLittle is known of the lives of either of her parents. Her mother Eleanor was born in London around 1563, and was the daughter of John White, the governor of the ill-fated Roanoke Colony. Eleanor married Ananias Dare (born c. 1560), a London tiler and bricklayer, at St Bride's Church on Fleet Street in the City of London. He, too, was part of the Roanoke expedition. Virginia Dare was one of two infants born to the colonists in 1587 and the only female child born to the settlers.\n\nNothing else is known of Virginia Dare's life, as the Roanoke Colony did not endure. Virginia's grandfather John White sailed for England for fresh supplies at the end of 1587, having established his colony. He was unable to return to Roanoke until August 18, 1590 due to England's war with Spain and the pressing need for ships to defend against the Spanish Armada—by which time he found that the settlement had been long deserted. The buildings had collapsed and \"the houses [were] taken down\". Worse, White was unable to find any trace of his daughter or granddaughter, or indeed any of the 80 men, 17 women, and 11 children who made up the \"Lost Colony\".\n\nNothing is known for certain of the fate of Virginia Dare or her fellow colonists. Governor White found no sign of a struggle or battle. The only clue to the colonists' fate was the word \"Croatoan\" carved into a post of the fort, and the letters \"Cro\" carved into a nearby tree. All the houses and fortifications had been dismantled, suggesting that their departure had not been hurried. Before he had left the colony, White had instructed them that, if anything happened to them, they should carve a Maltese cross on a tree nearby, indicating that their disappearance had been forced. There was no cross, and White took this to mean that they had moved to Croatoan Island (now known as Hatteras Island), but he was unable to conduct a search.\n\nThere are a number of theories regarding the fate of the colonists, the most widely accepted one being that they sought shelter with local Indian tribes, and either intermarried with the natives or were killed. In 1607, John Smith and other members of the successful Jamestown Colony sought information about the fate of the Roanoke colonists. One report indicated that the survivors had taken refuge with friendly Chesapeake Indians, but Chief Powhatan claimed that his tribe had attacked the group and killed most of the colonists. Powhatan showed Smith certain artifacts that he said had belonged to the colonists, including a musket barrel and a brass mortar and pestle. However, no archaeological evidence exists to support this claim. The Jamestown Colony received reports of some survivors of the Lost Colony and sent out search parties, but none were successful. Eventually they determined that they were all dead.\n\nWilliam Strachey, a secretary of the Jamestown Colony, wrote in \"The History of Travel into Virginia Britannia\" in 1612 that there were reportedly two-story houses with stone walls at the Indian settlements of Peccarecanick and Ochanahoen. The Indians supposedly learned how to build them from the Roanoke settlers. There were also reported sightings of European captives at various Indian settlements during the same time period. Strachey also wrote that four English men, two boys, and one maid had been sighted at the Eno settlement of Ritanoc, under the protection of a chief called Eyanoco. The captives were forced to beat copper. The captives, he reported, had escaped the attack on the other colonists and fled up the Chaonoke river, the present-day Chowan River in Bertie County, North Carolina.\n\nVirginia Dare has become a prominent figure in American myth and folklore in the more than four hundred years since her birth, representing different things to different people. A 2000 article in the Piedmont (North Carolina) Triad \"News and Record\" noted that she symbolizes innocence and purity for many Americans (particularly Southerners), \"new beginnings, promise, and hope\" as well as \"adventure and bravery\" in a new land. She also symbolizes mystery because of her mysterious fate.\n\nFor some residents of North Carolina, she has been an important symbol of the state and the desire to keep it predominantly European-American. In the 1920s, a group that opposed suffrage for women feared that black women would get the vote. One group in Raleigh, North Carolina urged \"that North Carolina remain white ... in the name of Virginia Dare\". Today, Virginia Dare's name is used for the VDARE website which is associated with white supremacy, white nationalism, and the alt-right. \"Anti-Immigration in the United States: A Historical Encyclopedia\" describes VDARE as \"one of the most prolific anti-immigration media outlets in the United States\" and states that it is \"broadly concerned with race issues in the United States\".\n\nSome people also see her as a symbol of women's rights. In the 1980s, feminists in North Carolina called for state residents to approve the Equal Rights Amendment and \"Honor Virginia Dare.\"\n\nThere is a memorial to Virginia Dare in St Bride's Church, Fleet St, where her parents were married prior to their journey to Roanoke. The bronze sculpture was created by Clare Waterhouse in 1999. It replaced a marble sculpture of Dare carved by Marjorie Meggit in 1957, which was stolen in 1999 and never recovered.\n\nVirginia's death and the fate of the other colonists were purportedly described in a series of inscribed stones written by Eleanor Dare and others. These were later revealed to be forgeries.\n\nIn 1937, the United States Mint issued a half-dollar commemorative coin that depicted Virginia Dare as the first English child born in the New World. This was also the first time that a child was depicted on United States currency.\n\nVirginia Dare quickly entered into folklore as the first white child born in British America. The fate of Virginia Dare and the Lost Colony has been the subject of many literary, film, and television adaptations, all of which have added to her myth:\n\nVirginia Dare's name has become a tourist attraction for North Carolina. Many locations are named after her, including Dare County, North Carolina; the Virginia Dare Trail, a section of NC 12; Virginia Dare Memorial Bridge, the second, newest, and widest bridge spanning the Croatan Sound connecting Roanoke Island to Manns Harbor, carrying US 64. Residents of Roanoke Island celebrate Virginia Dare's birthday each year with an Elizabethan Renaissance fair. A statue of Virginia as a grown woman, nude and wrapped in a fishnet, is on display in the Elizabethan Gardens on the island. At Smith Mountain Lake, there is an active tour boat named Virginia Dare.\n\nVirginia Dare's name has also been used to sell a number of products. Virginia Dare was the name of the first commercial wine to sell after the repeal of Prohibition in 1933. The Virginia Dare Extract Company, a maker of vanilla products, sells its products with a symbol of Virginia as a fresh-faced, blonde girl wearing a white ruffled mob cap. The company's Web site notes that Virginia Dare symbolizes \"wholesomeness and purity\". In Rancho Cucamonga, California, a now-defunct winery called Virginia Dare is on the corner of Haven Avenue and Foothill Boulevard (U.S. Route 66).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13137481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13137481", "title": "William Nyuon Bany", "text": "William Nyuon Bany\n\nWilliam Nyuon Bany (died 1996) was a Southern Sudanese politician who was also a high-ranking officer in The Sudan People's Liberation Army. While he worked as a commander of the SPLA he lived in Itang, a small Ethiopian town in the Gambela Region. He was older than Dr. John Garang, Salva Kiir, Arok Thon Arok.\n\nCommander William was a Nuer from Ayot. He was also related to the Dinka. He spoke Nuer, Arabic, Amharic, and some English.\nHe is survived by a number of widows and children. General Bany's widow, Abuoch, was a main speaker during Martyr's Day celebrations in Juba 2012. In presence of Salva Kiir. \nIn politically charged current issues, it has been claimed that Salva Kiir secretly and traditionally married the daughter of the late Gen. William Nyuon Bany, who is a Nuer. The ceremony conducted by his elder brother in accordance with Dinka culture is said to have occurred in Bhar el Ghazal. This has caused public strife between Kiir's eldest daughter and Aluel William Nyuon Bany. President Kiir himself remains silent and has not publicly commented on the marriage.\n\nWilliam Nyuon Bany Machar and Kwanyin Bol were the founders of SPLA (Sudan People's Liberation Army). The war broke out in Southern Town of Bor, he served as a Major in the Sudanese army in Ayot Ayot. He served as a commander in Sudan for a long time before he started the rebellion in 1983. Bany and Kerubino Kuanyin Bol were two founders of SPLA before John Garang joined them. After he joined the SPLA he was appointed the 3rd high-ranking Commander after Kerubino Kuanyin Bol. Commander Salva was the 4th after William Nyuon Bany. Bany was also the Chief of Staff then a position currently occupied by Commander Paul along Awan. Before this, the post was occupied by Salva Kiir Mayardit, Oyay Deng Ajak, James Hoth Mai and currently held by Paul Malong Awan,\n\nCommander William Nyuon Bany fought as an SPLA commander. In 1991 the SPLA-Nasir split from the SPLA. Although Bany remained with Garang and the main SPLA faction at that time, he left Garang's SPLA in 1992 at town of Pageri in Central Equatoria State. He did, however, rejoin Garang's SPLA. General Bany passionately explained his reasons at the Naivasha agreement of Nairobi Guest House but Bany Machar was killed in 1996 by one of the groups belonging to the South Sudanese armies based in Bentiu under the command of Peter Gadet. It is thought that CDR. Elijah Hon killed Cdr. William. In any case, Dr. Riek Machar celebrated Nyuon's death by declaring \"the renegade Jamus is dead\". Jamus is the Arabic word for Buffalo and thought to reflect CDR William's hard head. Cdr. William remains a highly respected Nuer leader. The dinka claim that his an ethnic Dinka from Duk Padiet. Bany is survived by a number of children most of whom live in the United States of America in Nebraska, Utah and Territories of Canada.\n\nBany exerted efforts to help reach a solution for Sudan while he was living in Ethiopia as a member of the SPLA. He also supported the merging of the SPLA and Anyanya 2 in 1987. Bany visited Egypt in 1989 where he met hundreds of Sudanese students. He was fluent in Arabic and he encouraged many students to support the cause for freedom in Sudan. Dr. John Garang favored William Nyuon for his zeal, commitment and the fact that he was not a tribalist. He was a Southern Sudanese patriot who loved his people and the integrity of his land. The facts related to his death continue to be confusing as to who exactly was involved in his assassination. It is alleged that Bany was killed by mainly Nuer according to the eyes witness, as during the 90's tribal tensions between the Nuer and the Dinka were very high. With the SPLA ruling elite composed of mostly Dinka officers, Bany rejoining the SPLA must have looked very dangerous to the Nuer. Bany's bodyguards were also killed in the attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "11002511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11002511", "title": "Witege", "text": "Witege\n\nWitege, Witige or Wittich (; Gotho-; ) or Vidrik \"Vidga\" Verlandsson ( + \"Viðga\" or \"Videke\" + \"Verlandsson\", \"Vallandsson\", or \"Villandsson\") is a character in several early Germanic legends, poems about Dietrich von Bern, and later Scandinavian ballads. \n\nIn Legends about Theoderic the Great, he was of Dietrich von Bern's warriors, but betrayed him and took the side of his wicked Uncle Ermenrich. In one of the Scandinavian ballads, he won particular fame in his duel with Langben Rese/Risker.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, he became the son of Wayland the Smith and Böðvildr, and this entitled him to carry a hammer and tongs in his coat of arms. Later the origin of his name \"Wayland's son\" was forgotten, but the fame of the character prevailed. During the 16th and the 17th centuries, this led to the idea that his name \"Villandsson\" referred to Villand Hundred in Skåne, and the hundred duly began to use his coat of arms as its own. Wudga wielded the sword \"Mimung,\" forged by his father, as was the helmet he wore. His mount was the stallion \"Schimming,\" one of the finest horses of its age.\n\nOne of the earliest appearances of Wudga is in the poem \"Widsith\", lines 123-130, where he appears together with his friend Háma (Heimir):\nIn the Anglo-Saxon fragment known as \"Waldere\", Wudga (\"Widia\") is mentioned together with his father Wayland in a praise of Mimung, Waldere's sword that Weyland had made.\n\nIn the so-called fantastical Dietrich poems, Witege is one of Dietrich von Bern's warriors. In \"Laurin\", Witige accompanies Dietrich and is responsible for destroying the dwarf King Laurin's rose garden. Dietrich then saves him from Laurin's wrath. Witige accompanies Dietrich, Hildebrand, and Dietleib into Laurin's kingdom and is captured. Dietleib arranges for their escape and the destruction of the dwarf kingdom. In \"Virginal\", Witige, together with Heime, is one of the warriors who saves Dietrich from captivity in the hands of giants—a situation reminiscent of that in Waldere. He is also mentioned as one of Dietrich's warriors in the \"Rosengarten zu Worms\", battling the giant Asprian.\n\nIn the so-called \"historical\" poems, which seem to take place after the fantastical ones, Witege has betrayed Dietrich and joined his wicked Uncle Ermenrich. No surviving poem relates the story of how Witege came to betray Dietrich, however; it is merely assumed as the situation from which the poems begin. One version of the Rosengarten, the reason is because Dietrich's man Wolfhart is angry that Witege had refused to fight unless he received Schemming—Witege requests to leave in order to avoid a feud and Dietrich allows him, reminding him of his oaths. In \"Dietrichs Flucht\", Witege is responsible for capturing a large number of Dietrich's men. In order to have them returned, Dietrich must leave his kingdom. Witege is captured by Dietrich during the latter's attempt to reclaim his kingdom in Italy; Dietrich forgives Witege and trusts him with Ravenna. Witege soon betrays Dietrich, however, and hands the city over to Ermenrich, slaughtering the inhabitants. In the \"Rabenschlacht\", Witege reluctantly kills the two sons of Etzel and Dietrich's brother Diether when he is forced to fight them. He is then pursued into the sea by a vengeful Dietrich, but saved by a mermaid. In \"Alpharts Tod\", Witege and his companion Heime fight and kill the young warrior Alphart. Witege kills Alphart from behind in order to save Heime's life. He is nevertheless portrayed as reluctant to fight against his former friend Dietrich. He is mentioned as having slain the young Nuodunc in the \"Nibelungenlied\".\n\nWitege's horse Schemming and his sword Mimming are mentioned in multiple poems. One version of \"Virginal\" mentions that he bears a banner with a silver serpant and a hammer and tongs. In one version of the \"Rosengarten\" (A), Dietrich gives Schemming to Witege to encourage him to fight. In another, it is mentioned that Witege had lost Schemming to Dietrich, having originally received the horse from his father. In \"Dietrichs Flucht\", however, Dietrich gives Witege Schemming when he has returned to his side. Schemming is the horse that saves Witege in the Rabenschlacht. Wielant the smith is mentioned as Witege's father in multiple poems.\n\nBefore treating the adventures of Viðga (Wudga) and Heimir (Hama), the \"Þiðrekssaga\" introduces the \"Velents þáttr smiðs\" to explain how Wayland the Smith became the father of Viðga.\n\nViðga was only twelve years old when he decided to become a warrior. He was already strong and good at fighting with arms. His father gave Viðga weapons of his own manufacture, and most importantly his own sword Mimung and his horse Skemming.\n\nSearching for the famous warrior Thiðrek (Dietrich von Bern), Viðga met Hildebrand, Háma and earl Hornbogi, but at first Hildibrand believed that Viðga was a dwarf. Viðga and Hildebrand became such good friends that they entered sworn brotherhood, but when they met Hildebrand secretly switched Viðga's sword with an ordinary one.\n\nWhen Viðga finally met Þiðrek, the latter challenged Viðga to fight a duel with him, and Hildebrand failed with his attempts to make peace between the two. At first the two heroes jousted with lances during which Viðga's lance shattered on Þiðrek's shield. Viðga then cut off Þiðrek's lance and they continued on foot with their swords.\n\nFinally Viðga's fake Mimung shattered on Þiðrek's sword and Þiðrek was about to give the unarmed Viðga his coup de grâce. Then Hildebrand returned the true Mimung to Viðga and Viðga got the upper hand in the duel. Eventually, Þiðrek had neither shield nor a functioning helmet, and Þiðrek's father Þetmar tried to stop the duel. Viðga was, however, furious with his opponent who had wanted to kill him and refused to stop the fight. It was only when a mighty stroke with the sword shattered Þiðrek's helmet and Hildebrand intervened that the fight ended. From that moment, Viðga became one of Þiðrek's companions.\n\nThere was a war between Sweden's (Vilkinaland) king Osantrix and Attila who had conquered Hunaland from Osantrix and taken his daughter. Eventually, Attila had to call on Þiðrek and his warriors who helped Attila defeat Osantrix. As the Swedes withdrew, Osantrix' duke Hertnid took Viðga prisoner and Osantrix put him in a dungeon. Viðga was then rescued by his friends Vildifer, who was disguised as a bear, and the minstrel Isung.\n\nDuring his fight with Sigurd, Þiðrek borrowed Viðga's sword Mimung, and when Sigurd realised against whose sword he was fighting, he surrendered to Þiðrek.\n\nWitege probably has a historic basis in either the Gothic national hero Vidigoia, or in Vitiges, a king of the Ostrogoths. \n\nAccording to Jordanes, Vidigoia was \"Gothorum fortissimus\" and defeated the Sarmatians with a ruse for which he became the subject of epic songs among the Goths. Wudga's treachery may derive from Tufa who deserted Theodoric to join Odoacer, whereas Wudga's greatest treason, which was surrendering Ravenna, appears to be based on a merger with king Vitiges. This king gave away Ravenna in 540 to a minor force led by Belisarius and the surrender was held to be a disgrace by his fellow Goths.\n\nFurther evidence that the Middle High German form \"Witege\" may be a worn down form of something like \"Widigoia\" is provided by the name \"Witigouwe\", a form which appears in Dietrichs Flucht together with Witige's companion Heime.\n"}
