{"id": "25407151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25407151", "title": "Agrarian Party (Italy)", "text": "Agrarian Party (Italy)\n\nThe Agrarian Party () was a political party in Italy. It was the principal party of reference of the land owners and it was characterized by an economist vision and a conservative and reactionary tendency. Its principal exponents were the prince Pietro Lanza di Scalea (minister of the war in the first Government Facta and Minister of the colonies in the Government Mussolini from June 3, 1924 to November 6, 1926), Francesco Saverio d'Ayala and Giovanni Lo Monte.\n\nIn 1924 the principal exponents of the Agrarian Party merged the National List.\n"}
{"id": "41531886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41531886", "title": "Armed resistance in Chile (1973–1990)", "text": "Armed resistance in Chile (1973–1990)\n\nBeginning with the 1973 Chilean coup d'état, an armed leftist resistance movement against Military dictatorship of Chile (1973–90) developed until 1990 when democracy was restored. The main armed resistance groups of the period were the Revolutionary Left Movement (MIR) and Frente Patriótico Manuel Rodríguez (FPMR), the armed wing of the Communist Party of Chile. These groups had a long-standing rivalry.\n\nKey events during the armed resistance were the attempt to set up guerrilla camps in Neltume in 1970-73 and 1980-81, the February 1986 sabotaging of the Limache train tracks, the Carrizal Bajo arms smuggling operation in August 1986 and the attempted killing of Pinochet in September that same year. After the return to democracy was initiated in 1990 the bulk of the armed groups demobilized. However, splinter groups that reportedly switched targets after the dictatorship fell, continued to carry out assassinations, bombings, kidnappings and armed robberies until 2010.\n\nThe first major action by the MIR took place in September 1967 during violent clashes between MIR-led students from the University of Concepción and riot police. \"Carabineros\" were seeking to arrest those responsible for destroying a police vehicle, but students reorganized and kidnapped carabinier Héctor Gutiérrez Orellana. Chilean president Eduardo Nicanor Frei Montalva sought to defuse the situation through intermediaries and obtained the release of the policeman in exchange for dropping charges against students earlier arrested in the confrontations. During 1968, the MIR presence continued to be felt in various universities with armed actions increasing in 1969 through multiple acts of vandalism, intimidation and physical assaults on conservative/right wing students and faculty members. On 1 May 1969, fifteen MIR activists armed with knives took over the Bio Bio radio station in Concepción and transmitted a special broadcast calling for the locals to take up arms and overthrow the government of Frei. On 2 May 1969, MIR activists operating in Concepción attacked the branches of \"National City Bank\", the building of the \"La Patria\" newspaper and the offices of the \"Weigner Stein\" business. In June, the MIR kidnapped journalist Hernán Osses Santa María, Director of the \"Noticias de la Tarde\" in nearby Talcahuano (15.6 kilometres), in an effort to silence the in depth reporting on the leftist violence in Concepción. Police Investigations and \"Carabineros\" soon surrounded the University of Concepción and forced the students to release the newspaper director unharmed. A specially appointed judge was soon named and a criminal suit was filed with the Courts of Appeals of Concepción against the MIR and over 20 of its identified leaders for breaking the Law of Interior Security of the State. Consequently, the MIR had no option but to go largely underground and into hiding. In the ensuing police and military operations against the MIR, a guerrilla training camp is discovered in San José de Maipo (Guayacán) and another at Corral (Chaihuín). Nevertheless, MIR guerrillas continue to operate, and in Santiago alone carry out 12 armed robberies of banks and businesses between August 1969 and September 1970 to finance their operations.\n\nThe Revolutionary Left Movement (MIR) were absolved of criminal charges under an amnesty under the Popular Unity (\"Unidad Popular\" or UP) government of Allende and was allowed to operate again openly, encouraging and carrying out illegal expropriations of farms and businesses, and assaulting outspoken conservatives/rightist members of the public and security forces. According to police figures submitted to the Chilean senate, 1,458 farms were illegally occupied between November 1970 and December 1971. Starting in the southern provinces of Cautin and Malleco the MIR organized a series of armed takeovers or \"tomas\" working slowly northwards up into the provinces of Nuble and Linares and eventually Santiago. In November 1970, Antonia Maechel, owner of the La Tregua estate in the Panguipulli area, took her own life after being raped by leftist militants that had seized her property. On 6 February 1970, carabineer Luis Merino Ferreira was killed in a clash with guerrillas. On 11 August 1970, MIR guerrillas killed carabineer corporal Luis Fuentes Pineda. On 21 September 1970, guerrillas shot and killed a carabineer corporal, Armando Cofré López, during a bank robbery in the suburb of Irarrázabal in Santiago. On 3 November 1970, another carabinier (Corporal Luis Armando Cofré) is killed in a shoot-out with MIR guerrillas robbing a \"Banco Panamericano\" branch.\n\nIn April 1971, Juan Millalonco, a member of Christian Democratic Youth, was shot dead in Aysén by socialist militants, and VOP guerrillas in Santiago killed 33-year-old Raúl Méndez Espinosa at his sweet shop for not paying protection money to the guerrillas targeting small businesses. That same month in the expropriation of land on the part of leftist militants and guerrillas, Rolando Matus is shot dead resisting the takeover of the Carén farm in Pucón, and Jorge Baraona and Domitila Palma died resisting the takeover of their farms in southern Chile. On 24 May 1971, VOP guerrillas in an armed robbery of a bank money transfer van shoot and mortally wound a carabinier (Corporal José Arnaldo Gutiérrez Urrutia) and wound two other accompanying \"Miramar\" supermarket employees. In June 1971, VOP guerrillas killed Edmundo Perez Zujovic, a Christian Democrat and former interior minister. That same month, another marxist guerrilla (46-year-old Heriberto Salazar) of the VOP walked into police headquarters in Santiago with a sub-machinegun and kills three detectives (Gerardo Romero Infante, Heriberto Mario Marín and Carlos Pérz Bretti) before blowing himself up with dynamite, and a carabineer corporal (Jorge Cartes) is killed by MIR guerrillas in the MIR stronghold of Concepción. On 1 December 1971, 50,000-200,000 women took to the streets of Santiago to protest against Salvador Allende’s UP government. Their peaceful march turned ugly when UP radicals attacked the women with rocks. However, their \"March of the Empty Pots and Pans\" signaled the beginning of a massive coordinated anti-Allende movement. To keep the memory afresh of the march, women in the middle-class and affluent suburbs of Santiago banged on pots every night for two hours for several months.\n\nOn 30 August 1972, carabineer corporal Exequiel Aroca Cuevas was killed in the city of Concepción, when socialist militants open fire on the bus he was travelling. On 27 February 1973, MIR guerrillas attacked the Llanquihue police station, shooting and wounding 10 carabineers. In March 1973, 16-year-old Germán Enrique González and 17-year-old Sergio Oscar Vergara, both members of the Christian Democrat Party were killed while resisting the takeover of the La Reina estate. On 2 April 1973, MIR guerrillas operating in Santiago shoot and kill a police detective, Gabriel Rodríguez Alcaíno. In May 1973, Mario Aguilar, a member of the \"Movimiento Patria y Libertad\" is gunned down by leftists in downtown Santiago. On 27 July 1973, a farmer and member of the Christian Democrat Party, Jorge Mena, is surrounded by leftists and clubbed to death in Osorno. The next day, another farmer, Juan Luis Urrutia, dies resisting the takeover of his land in Bulnes. On 30 July, MIR guerrillas kill Manuel Garrido, an employee of \"Paños Continental\" in a confrontation that also involved Brazilian militants. On 27 August 1973, Sergio Aliaga, while driving through a confrontation between anti-Allende striking truckers and leftist militants, was killed after being caught in the crossfire and shot in the throat. On 29 August 1973, a Mexican militant (Jorge Albino Sosa Gil) working in Chile, shoots and kills Second Lieutenant Héctor Lacrampette Calderón as the young army officer was waiting for a bus in the suburb of Providencia in Santiago. The next day, two farm workers (José Toribio Núñez and Celsa Fuentes) died of horrific burns after being caught in the bomb blast targeting the pipeline between Santiago and Concepción.\n\nAfter the coup, left-wing guerrilla organizations tried to recruit resistance fighters against the Pinochet regime. Some of them had commando-training, having belonged to the GAP (\"Grupo de Amigos Personales\"), they had previously served as bodyguards of President Allende. Many activists created resistance groups from refugees abroad. The Movimiento Juvenil Lautaro or Lautaro Youth Movement (MJL) was formed in December 1982 and the Communist Party of Chile set up an armed wing, which became in 1983 the FPMR (\"Frente Patriótico Manuel Rodríguez\"). The main guerrilla group, known as the MIR (\"Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria\"), suffered heavy casualties in the coup's immediate aftermath, and most of its members fled the country. Andreas Pascal Allende, a nephew of President Allende led the MIR from 1974–1976, then made his way to Cuba. Nevertheless, in the first three months of military rule, the Chilean forces recorded 162 military deaths. It is claimed that a total of 756 servicemen and police are reported to have been killed or wounded in clashes with guerrillas in the 1970s. Among the killed and disappeared during the military regime were at least 663 Marxist MIR guerrillas. The MIR commander, Andrés Pascal Allende, has admitted that the Marxist guerrillas lost 1,500-2,000 fighters killed or disappeared. Many guerrillas confessed under torture and several hundred other young men and women, sympathetic to the guerrillas, were detained and tortured and often killed. Nearly 700 civilians disappeared in the 1974-1977 period, after being detained by the Chilean military and police. Remnants of the MIR also joined Marxist guerrillas from the People's Revolutionary Army (Argentina) (\"Ejército Revolucionario del Pueblo\" or ERP) in Argentina in the protracted fight to control Tucumán Province.\nSome 30,000 former Chilean conscripts that served between 1973 and 1990, claiming to be suffering from post-traumatic stress after taking part in the cordon and search operations and night curfews, are currently seeking compensation from the Chilean government.\n\nFewer than 60 individuals died as a direct result of fighting on 11 September although the MIR and GAP continued to fight the following day. In all, 46 of Allende's elite guard (the GAP, \"Grupo de Amigos Personales\") were killed, some of them in combat with the soldiers that took the Moneda. Allende's Cuban-trained guard would have had about 300 elite commando-trained GAP fighters at the time of the coup, but the use of brute military force, especially the use of Hawker Hunters fighter-bombers, may have handicapped many GAP fighters from further action. On the military side, there were 34 deaths: two army sergeants, three army corporals, four army privates, 2 navy lieutenants, 1 navy corporal, 4 naval cadets, 3 navy conscripts and 15 carabineros. Most of the \"carabineros\" were killed after two busloads of policemen were heavily engaged by armed leftists in the Pro-Allende shantytown of La Ligua. In Mid-September, the Chilean military junta claimed its troops suffered another 16 dead and 100 injured by gunfire in mop-up operations against Allende supporters, and Pinochet warned, \"sadly there are still some armed groups who insist on attacking, which means that the military rules of wartime apply to them.\" 22-year-old Corporal Hugo Yáñez Durán would be among the army fallen, killed on 15 September 1973 in a shootout with leftists students holding out in the grounds of the University of Chile.\n\nOn 23 October 1973, 23-year-old Army Corporal Benjamín Alfredo Jaramillo Ruz, who was serving with the \"Cazadores\", became the first fatal casualty of the counterinsurgency operations in the mountainous area of Alquihue in Valdivia after being shot by a sniper. The Chilean Army suffered 12 killed in various clashes with MIR guerrillas and GAP fighters in October 1973. On 18 November 1974, guerrillas open fire on an army vehicle, killing Corporal Francisco Cifuentes Espinoza. On 17 November, MIR guerrillas shoot and kill army sergeant Waldo Morales Neal and private Clemente Santibáñez Vargas. On 7 November 1973, guerrillas open fire on an army truck in the suburb of La Florida in Santiago, killing private Agustín Correa Contreras. On 13 November, MIR guerrillas killed army corporal Juan Castro Vega. On 27 November, MIR guerrillas kill army corporal Ramón Madariaga Valdebenito. On 3 December 1973, MIR guerrillas kill two army corporals, Rodolfo Peña Tapia and Luis Collao Salas and a private, Julio Barahona Aranda. On 13 December 1973, guerrillas open fire and kill two army sergeants, Sergio Cañón Lermanda and Pedro Osorio Guerrero. On 15 December 1973, guerrillas shoot and kill army corporal Roberto Barra Martínez in the suburb of La Reina in Santiago. On 26 December 1973, guerrillas open fire on an army jeep, killing private José Luis Huerta Abarca. By the end of the year, the Chilean police would claim to have uncovered a huge arms cache, that included 5,000 HK-33 sub-machineguns and corresponding ammunition numbering in the millions and large quantities of 20-mm anti-tank gun shells.\n\nOn February 19, 1975, four captured MIR commanders went on national television to urge their guerrillas to lay down their arms. According to them, the MIR leadership was in ruins: of the 52 commanders of the MIR, nine had been killed, 24 were prisoners, ten were in exile, one had been expelled from the group, and eight were still at large. On 18 November 1975, MIR guerrillas killed a 19-year-old army conscript (Private Hernán Patricio Salinas Calderón). On 24 February 1976, MIR guerrillas in a gunbattle with Chilean secret police, shot and killed a 41-year-old carabinero sergeant (Tulio Pereira Pereira). The Chilean secret police on this occasion were met with a hail of automatic weapons fire, killing a carabinero and a girl. On 28 April 1976, MIR guerrillas shot and killed a 29-year-old carabineros corporal (Bernardo Arturo Alcayaga Cerda) while he was walking home in the Santiago suburb of Pudahuel. On 16 October 1977, MIR guerrillas exploded 10 bombs in Santiago. In 1978 the MIR sought to reestablish a guerrilla front in southern Chile and launched Operation \"Return\" which involved clandestine entry, recruitment, bombings and bank robberies in Santiago that briefly shook the military regime. In February 1979 MIR guerrillas bombed the US-Chile Cultural Institute in Santiago, causing considerable damage. In 1979, about 40 bombings were blamed on MIR guerrillas. Several police, military and civilians caught in the crossfire and bomb blasts were killed in the renewed MIR attacks in the Chilean capital and at least 70 soldiers and policemen were wounded battling the marxist guerrillas.\n\nIn order to reinforce urban guerrilla warfare waged in the main cities, the MIR commanders in 1978 had set in motion Operación Retorno (Operation \"Return\"), ordering exiled militants back into Chile.\n\nIn 1980, a platoon of thirty well-equipped MIR combatants of the \"Toqui Lautaro\" Battalion infiltrated into the mountains of Neltume in southern Chile and reestablished a guerrilla front. The MIR spearhead was commanded by 30-year-old Miguel Cabrera Fernández (nome de guerre \"Paine\"), who along with 120-150 Chileans had completed their training for this operation in Czechoslovakia, Cuba and North Korea.\n\nThe Chilean Army moved against the guerrillas in Neltume in June 1981, in a massive operation spearheaded by the Chilean Para-Commandos (elite Black Berets) all under the command of Colonel Orlando Basauri, with support from 10 Puma and Lama helicopters. Flora Jaramillo had fed and attended three MIR guerrillas that had sought refuge in her house, and not wanting to be later accused of collaborating with the enemy had sent her 15-year-old son Juan Carlos Henríquez Jaramillo to warn the local police station. Carabineros soon surrounded her house and opened fire, killing all the guerrillas and destroying the house, but not before warning Mrs Jaramillo to get out. The Special Forces involved discovered the first guerrilla arms cache on 25 June killing Raúl Rodrigo Obregón Torres (nome de guerre \"Pablo\") in the process, and four more store dumps were uncovered by the end of the first week in July. Another gun-battle took place on 28 June, but it took some time before Basauri's men could corner the guerrilla force. Nevertheless, seven MIR guerrillas were reported killed in an ambush in the third week of September, just after the 8th-anniversary of the 1973 military coup, but the survivors were able to escape and blend in with the local population. On 19 September 1981, Army Private Victor Manuel Nahuelpan Silva is killed during operations in Neltume. On 16 October 1981, Juan Angel Ojeda Aguayo (nom de guerre \"Pequeco\") who had escaped the mountain fighting was caught and executed while resting at his parent's home. Miguel Cabrera Fernández was himself killed on 15 October 1981, in a clash with policemen at Choshuenco.\n\nThe Pinochet regime launched another counterinsurgency operation in August 1984 to wipe out the remaining guerrillas, concentrating in the areas around Concepción, Valdivia and Los Angeles, killing seven more MIR fighters and forcing the remainder to go into permanent hiding.\n\nSome forty MIR fighters lost their lives between 1978 (when Operation \"Return\" was set in motion) and 1984 when the MIR insurgency was finally defeated in southern Chile. Another 41 supporting Mapuche Indians that had earlier on taken part in the land and business takeovers under Salvador Allende were killed with 80 only spared after having been rounded up in and around Neltume and held for long periods in secret detention camps. Guillermina Reinante, had three brothers rounded up and forcibly disappeared up by soldiers from the 8th \"Tucapel\" Infantry Regiment in late 1973. When she enquired about their whereabouts a female military official informed her that they had been executed. In the 2012 Chilean TV documentary \"Neltume 81\" Reinante claimed that the military had executed her brothers in revenge for taking part in the land expropriations.\n\nOn 15 July 1980, three guerrillas in blue overalls and yellow hardhats ambushed the car of Lieutenant-Colonel Roger Vergara Campos, director of the Chilean Army Intelligence School, and killed him and wounded his driver in a barrage of bullets from AK-47 assault rifles. On 30 December 1980, MIR guerrillas kill two carabineer corporals, 31-year-old Washington Godoy Palma and 27-year-old Daniel Alberto Leiva González.\n\nIn a message sent to Santiago press agencies in February 1981 the MIR claimed to have carried out more than 100 attacks during 1980, among them the bombing of electricity pylons in Santiago and Valparaiso on November 11 which caused widespread blackouts, and bomb attacks on three banks in Santiago on December 30 in which one carabinero was killed and three people wounded. On 19 September 1981, Army Private Victor Manuel Nahuelpan Silva is killed during counter-insurgency operations in the Neltume area. In November 1981, MIR guerrillas killed three member of Police Investigations as they stood in front of the home of the chief minister of the presidential staff. In sweeps carried out from June to November 1981, security forces destroyed two MIR bases in the mountains of Neltume, seizing large caches of munitions and killing a number guerrillas. MIR guerrillas retaliated and carried out twenty-six bomb attacks during March and April 1983.\n\nLeftist guerrillas, waiting in a yellow pick-up truck, ambushed on 30 August 1983 the governor of Santiago, retired Major-General Carol Urzua Ibáñez as he left his home, killing him and two of his bodyguards (army corporals Carlos Riveros Bequiarelli and José Domingo Aguayo Franco) in a hail of submachine-gun fire. In October and November 1983, MIR guerrillas bombed four US-associated targets. Guerrillas killed two policemen (carabinieri Francisco Javier Pérez Brito and sergeant Manuel Jesús Valenzuela Loyola) on 28 December 1983.\n\nOn 31 March 1984, a police bus in downtown Santiago was destroyed with a bomb, killing a carabinero and injuring at least 11. On 29 April 1984, MIR guerrillas exploded 11 bombs, derailing a subway train in Santiago and injuring 22 passengers, including seven children. On 5 September 1984, guerrillas shot and killed 27-year-old army lieutenant Julio Briones Rayo in Copiapó in northern Chile. On 2 November 1984, a bus carrying carabineros was attacked with a grenade during Chile's national cycling championship; four carabineros were killed. On 4 November 1984, five guerrillas riding in a van hurled bombs and fired automatic weapons at a suburban Santiago police station, killing two carabineros and wounded three more. On 7 December 1984, urban guerrillas killed a policeman and bombed a subway station, wounding 6 people. On 25 March 1985, MIR guerrillas planted a bomb in Hotel Araucano in Concepcion that killed marine sergeant René Osvaldo Lara Arriagada and army sergeant Alejandro del Carmen Avendaño Sánchez, who were attempting to defuse the bomb. On 6 December 1985, a carabinero (Patricio Rodriguez Núñez) was shot to death by four guerrillas who opened fire on him with submachine-guns as he walked home. That same month, 15 city buses were destroyed with gasoline bombs and urban guerrillas hurled a bomb under an incoming train in Santiago, before making good their escape after a shootout with policemen. The total number of documented terrorist actions during 1984 and 1985 was 866.\n\nOn 5 February 1986, a car bomb destroyed a bus filled with riot police, mutilating 16 policemen. One carabinero (41-year-old Sergeant Luis Rival Valdés) later died of his wounds. The MIR claimed responsibility for the bombing. On 17 February 1986, two trains crashed in an area of Limache that had been reduced to one track after MIR guerrillas had destroyed a nearby bridge, killing 100 and wounding 500 civilians. On 26 February 1986, unidentified guerrillas or their sympathizers shoot and kill carabineer Lieutenant Alfonso Mauricio Rivera López. In May 1986 MIR guerrillas threw sulphuric acid into a bus, seriously injuring six people, including two children. On 25 July 1986, a bomb planted in a trash can exploded at a crowded bus stop a few yards from the presidential palace, wounding 36 people. On 6 August 1986, security forces discovered 80 tons of weapons at the tiny fishing harbor of Carrizal Bajo, smuggled into the country by the Manuel Rodríguez Patriotic Front (FPMR). The shipment of Carrizal Bajo included C-4 plastic explosives, 123 RPG-7 and 180 M72 LAW rocket launchers as well as 3,383 M-16 rifles. On 7 September 1986, about 30 FPMR guerrillas attempted to kill Pinochet. Pinochet narrowly escaped the assassination attempt on his motorcade, but five army corporals were killed and eleven soldiers and carabineros were wounded in the ambush. This failed operation led to an internal crisis of the group, many of its leading members being arrested by the security forces. On 28 October 1986, MIR guerrillas operating in Limache shot and wounded five policemen. One carabinero NCO (36-year-old Luis Serey Abarca) later died of his wounds. On 5 November 1986, guerrillas threw an incendiary bomb into a bus in Viña del Mar, seriously injuring three women (Rosa Rivera Fierro, Sonia Ramírez Salinas and Marta Sepúlveda Contreras). 37-year-old Rosa Rivera Fierro, later died of her wounds. On 28 November 1986, MIR guerrillas after having been stopped by a police vehicles, shot and killed 31-year-old carabinero Lieutenant Jaime Luis Sáenz Neira.\n\nOn 11 September 1987, a police vehicle was completely destroyed in a bomb attack in Santiago, killing two carabineros. On 20 January 1988, a bomb planted by MIR guerrillas in the Capredena Medical Center in Valparaiso killed a 64-year-old female pensioner (Berta Rosa Pardo Muñoz) and wounded 15 other women. On January 26, MIR guerrillas planted a bomb in a house in La Cisterna that killed 42-year-old Major Julio Eladio Benimeli Ruz, commander of the carabineros special operations group. In June 1988, MIR guerrillas conducted a series of bombings in Santiago, at various banks. FPMR guerrillas that month killed 43-year-old Lieutenant-Colonel Miguel Eduardo Rojas Lobos of the Chilean Army, after he had parked his car in the Santiago suburb of San Joaquín. On 19 July 1988, leftists plant a bomb near a Church in Valparaíso, wounding three local churchgoers (Juan Salazar Olivares, Nelson Pérez and Luis Herrera) In October 1988, several platoons of the \"Frente Patriótico Manuel Rodríguez\" take over four important towns throughout the country, Aguas Grandes, La Mora, Los Queñes and Pichipellahuén. Considerable fighting takes place, before the Chilean military and police are able to recover the towns. Corporal Juvenal Sepúlveda Vargas is killed defending the Police Station in Los Queñes. On 10 July 1989, 26-year-old carabineros corporal Patricio Rubén Canihuante Astudillo was shot in the head at point-blank range as he guarded a building in Viña del Mar. In December 1989, Canadian police reported that 30 Brazilian business executives had been targeted for abduction by MIR guerrillas that included two Canadians, Christine Lamont and David Spencer who had joined the movement after meeting two exiled Chileans, Sergeo Olivares and Martin Urtubia, who came to Canada in 1978.\n\nThe election of a civilian government in Chile did not end guerrilla activities. Within a few months after President Patricio Aylwin's accession to power, leftist militants showed that they remained committed to armed struggle and were responsible for a number of terrorist incidents. On May 10, 1990, two guerrillas wearing school uniforms killed \"carabineros\" Colonel Luis Fontaine, a former head of the antiterrorist unit of the carabiniers, Chile's national police force. Two policemen were killed on August 10, 1990, in a working-class Santiago suburb and two more were injured in an attack on a bus. In September 1990, leftist militants detonate 53 bombs that kill or wound 83 Chileans. On November 14, 1990, gendarmes transferred Marco Ariel Antonioletti, a senior MJL leader from jail to a hospital for treatment. MJL guerrillas fought their way into the Sótero del Río Hospital but were forced to withdraw, after having killed four gendarmes and one \"carabinero\". In retaliation, Chile's Investigations Police execute Antonioletti with a shot in the forehead. On January 24, 1991, MJL guerrillas ambushed and killed two carabineros. On February 28, 1991, a carabinero policeman died in a shoot-out in Santiago with leftist guerrillas of the Manuel Rodríguez Patriotic Front. On April 1, FPMR guerrillas assassinated right-wing senator Jaime Guzman, killing him as he left a university campus in Santiago. On September 9 three guerrillas kidnapped Cristian Edwards, whose family run El Mercurio newspaper. After his family paid $1 million in ransom, the FPMR freed him. On 22 January 1992, two FPMR guerrillas (Fabián López Luque and Alex Muñoz Hoffman) were killed trying to rob a \"Prosegur\" cash delivery armoured van at the Pontifical Catholic University in Santiago. On September 11, 1998, three police stations—La Pincoya, La Granja and La Victoria—were attacked with firearms, incendiary bombs and rocks and 36 were carabineros were wounded in violence related to the 25th anniversary commemorations of the military coup. In 2006, on the 33rd anniversary of the September 11, 1973, military coup, 79 carabineros were wounded in clashes with rioters. In September 2007, a carabinero policeman was killed after being shot in the face and around 40 were wounded during clashes with leftists marking the 34th anniversary of the military coup. The following month, MJL guerrillas killed carabineer Luis Moyano Farías during the robbery of Banco Security in Santiago. In clashes with protesters commemorating the 35th anniversary of the military coup, 29 carabineros were wounded in September 2008. In September 2009, 19 Carabineros were wounded in clashes with protestors marking the 36th anniversary of the coup. The lootings and other forms of appropriation that took place in the aftermath of the devastating 2010 earthquake in Chile, were in part promoted and legitimated by the MIR movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "36038032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36038032", "title": "Beacham Theatre", "text": "Beacham Theatre\n\nThe Beacham Theatre is a cinema built in 1921 by Braxton Beacham Sr. in the city of Orlando, Florida. The current address of the theater is 46 North Orange Avenue, and it is located at the southwest corner of Orange Avenue and Washington Street. The building's current lack of impressive architecture is offset by its significant cultural history. The Beacham Theatre was considered an important contributing structure when the Downtown Orlando historic district was created in 1980 and the building was granted local landmark status in 1987.\n\nThe Beacham was once part of the vaudeville circuit and hosted celebrity acts such as John Phillip Sousa, the Ziegfeld Follies and W.C. Fields, whose signature was once visible inside a dressing room. In the eras of silent film and Classical Hollywood cinema, the Beacham was operated as a movie theater that utilized then-current state-of-the-art motion picture technology.\n\nThe Beacham, as it is currently named, has since been used as a series of concert venues and nightclubs thus saving it from demolition. The Beacham Theatre was once home to the late-night underground discotheque Aahz that is recognized internationally as a birthplace and critical component of the electronic dance music movement.\n\nThe Beacham Theatre was constructed in 1921 by Braxton Beacham Sr., who had previously owned three other Orlando theaters and had served as Mayor of Orlando during 1907. In 1917 Beacham paid approximately $17,500–$20,000 for the property one block southwest of his stately residence on Jefferson Street after Orlando's citizens voted to pave the road to the cemetery instead of purchasing the old jail. The property he purchased had formerly served as the jail for Orange County since about 1873. With a $200,000 investment, the former jail building was torn down in 1919 and Beacham developed a series of connected building units along the west side of Orange Avenue between Washington Street and Oak Street (now Wall Street). The new building was then known as \"Beacham's Block\" and is now known the Beacham Building. The location of Beacham's theater was precisely where several condemned prisoners were executed by hanging. According to local folklore, the Beacham Building is reportedly haunted.\n\nThe Beacham's auditorium features \"square columns adorned with feathered capitals that climb gracefully to a high ceiling decorated with rectangles of intricate plasterwork.\" When constructed, the theater was outfitted with draperies that covered the plaster walls. The draperies had \"mild tan figures delicately woven into the broad white field with an occasional soft blue figure\" that were selected by Mrs. Roberta Holland Beacham, wife of Braxton Beacham Sr.\n\nBeacham outfitted his theater with innovative state-of-the art equipment from the Southern Theater Equipment Company of Atlanta. The Beacham's box office in the lobby featured both an automatic admission ticket vending machine dispenser and ticket chopping machine. A decorative marquee that was unique in Florida extended toward the street and featured an electric changeable sign that flashed the daily program. Two Powers 6B type \"E\" projectors were supplied by the N Power company of New York. The Midas Gold film screen was made especially for the Beacham. A medium-sized pipe organ from the Austin Organ Company of Hartford, Connecticut, was purchased and installed at a cost of $15,000. The organ, Opus 1034 with 3 manuals in a center console, 24 ranks of pipes and 24 stops was played by both Mr. Herman Stuart and Mrs. Roberta Branch Beacham, wife of Braxton Beacham Jr. to accompany silent films and vaudeville acts. Typhoon cooling and ventilating equipment was installed in the theater. The Beacham Building's construction featured numerous fireproofing and fire safety measures. When the theater opened, the auditorium had an operating capacity of 1400.\n\nTunnels from the theater stage trap ran into the basements of two nearby hotels. The tunnels had low ceilings and were sealed during new construction in the early 1980s. The tunnels extended south into the San Juan Hotel, where Mr. Beacham happened to have had an office, and then east under Orange Avenue into the Angebilt Hotel. Historians reason that the purpose of the tunnels may have been either for vaudeville performers to enter the theater from their hotels without being mobbed by crowds, or the tunnels could have been used for the storage and transportation of alcoholic beverages during prohibition as has been discovered at some of the other theaters in the Central Florida area.\n\nOn December 9, 1921, Orlando's premier vaudeville and movie house opened by showing \"The Wonderful Thing\", starring Norma Talmadge, a Pathé News newsreel, and Buster Keaton's \"The Boat\". The Beacham Theatre was originally the only independent theater in Orlando. However, the next year, in 1922, Beacham leased his theater to Mack Sparks of the Sparks Theater Company chain.\n\nThe senior Braxton Beacham died in 1924 after a long illness, and Roberta Holland Beacham died soon after in 1926. Their estate and real property were left to their children, Norma K. Hughes, Roberta Augusta Rogers, Braxton Beacham Jr., and his wife Roberta Branch Beacham.\n\nFlorida and Orlando were on what was referred to by as \"The Straw Hat Circuit.\" The Beacham Theatre was included on the Alexander Pantages, Orpheum, and Keith-Albee vaudeville performance circuits (later combined as the Keith-Albee-Orpheum circuit).\n\nManager Harry Vincent started several promotions at the Beacham Theatre in the summer months of the mid-1920s that included Bank Night, Amateur Night, and Country Store Night, which was supported by dozens of local merchants. An advertisement for the Beacham in 1925 says, \"Don't talk about the hot weather. Beat the heat in a Beacham seat. 'Kum Keep Kumfy Kool at the Beacham' is known to many and you won't enjoy yourself until you too get into the line that leads to comfort.\"\n\nFrank Bell served as manager of the theater with organist Herman Siewart and Ken Guernsey leading the community sing-along at open forum meetings that were held for several months during the winter on Sunday afternoons.\n\nThe Beacham's \"exploitation director\" Frank H. Burns often designed and created large elaborate standing displays that decorated the facade and lobby of the theater in order to advertise new film features. The iconic displays that Burns created for the Beacham Theatre were sometimes complete with coordinated costumes for the employees.\n\nIn 1928 Vitaphone and Movietone \"talkie\" equipment debuted during the city's first \"Progress Week\" during the last week of August. \"The queen of the vamps,\" actress Theda Bara, was in appearance at the Beacham as students from Orlando High School sneaked into the balcony via the fire escape. Sound was provided by two gramophone discs that accompanied each film. Both phonographs were played simultaneously in case the needle skipped during a film. Output could be easily switched so that the film's sound could remain in synchronicity with the picture. William Booth succeeded Frank Bell as manager of the Beacham after Bell was transferred in 1928.\n\nThe city's \"Sunday closing law\" was repealed by voters in 1929 by a majority of only 59 votes. Movie theaters and other businesses in Orlando were then permitted to operate seven days a week. All of Orlando's theaters, including the Beacham, celebrated by showing free films until late into the night.\n\nInterest in silent films began to diminish in 1929 and they were gradually phased out and moved into obsolescence. On Thursday evenings at the Beacham for the Bank Night promotion, $200 was raffled with prizes of $50. On Saturday, December 24, 1931, and on Wednesday, September 28, 1932, a brand new $325 Austin 7 Sport Roadster was given away.\nVaudeville acts continued touring at the Beacham for several more years until approximately 1933. Homer Fuller served as manager of the Beacham during the end of the eras of silent films and vaudeville.\n\nIn 1933 following a bitter lawsuit against Orlando Enterprises over nonpayment of the lease for the building that had been originally negotiated with the senior Braxton Beacham in 1924, the theater was closed for almost three weeks. $8000 in back taxes on Beacham's building was due. Beacham Jr. claimed the closure was deliberate and malicious and sued for $100,000. Two separate judgments were entered against Orlando Enterprises Inc. for $2291.67 each and a payment agreement was reached. Litigation was then withdrawn.\n\nAs a result of the suit the lease was not renewed and Beacham's theater again became Orlando's only independent cinema.\nIn the same year, the theater was soon leased Florida State Theaters. Harry Vincent was named manager of the reopened theater in 1933; however, soon after, Vernon D. Hunter became the theater's manager and remained in that role for the next two decades.\n\nIn August 1937 the Orlando Police Department raided the Beacham Theatre. All of the equipment for the Bank Night marketing promotion was seized after authorities declared it to be a lottery.\n\n\"The Yearling\" was filmed locally in 1946 and the Beacham's projectionist Byram McGee served as an electrician and steward on the film production. Mcgee's wife Lois acted in the role of Ma Forrester and was also the production's wardrobe supervisor. Numerous other local technicians were involved with making the film.\n\n\"The Orlando Story\", filmed by Don Parrisher Motion Picture Productions of New York, contained images of daily life in Orlando. The movie was heavily promoted locally and was shown at the Beacham over three days in August 1949.\n\nIn December 1949 \"The Tom Thumb Follies\" staged radio broadcast performances at the Beacham. When a Santa Claus from the Elks Lodge lifted one young elf into the audience for the last verse, the smell of bourbon whiskey caused her to ponder, \"I wasn't just sure where the night's polka would land us. Maybe Oz?\"\n\nAfter an extensive remodel, CinemaScope equipment was introduced at the \"New\" Beacham Theatre in 1954 with the addition of stereophonic sound, new projection lenses, and a wider screen. CinemaScope had its debut at the Beacham on January 7, 1954, for a two-week showing of the film \"The Robe\". Vernon D. Hunter retired after 20 years as manager of the Beacham Theater. Walther Colby became the executive director of several Orlando theaters including the Beacham.\n\nBraxton Beacham Jr., died in 1961.\n\nDuring the Civil Rights Movement, the Beacham Theatre had frequent stand-in protests by African American citizens of relegation to lesser \"colored theaters\" mandated by Jim Crow laws such as the Florida Constitution of 1885. Reverend Nelson Pinder, of Parramore's Episcopal Church of St. John the Baptist, along with other community leaders such as NAACP Youth Council advisor, Rev. Curtis Jackson, worked with white officials for peaceful integration in Orlando in order to avoid incidents of racial violence that were occurring in other Florida cities. Rev. Pinder organized the church's Liberal Religious Youth group. Rev. Pinder's youth group protests were often joined by local members of the Youth Council of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Each night, activist members of the youth groups quietly stood-in near the Beacham's ticket booth until the theater stopped selling tickets. On May 24, 1962, white supremacists were also picketing the Beacham at the same time as the Liberal Religious Youth group. Orlando police arrested eight teen protestors. The teens were kept in so-called protective custody and were later released to their parents. Following agreements with a biracial committee from Orlando Mayor Bob Carr's office, of which Rev. Pinder was a member, the Beacham Theatre quietly began allowing a limited number of African-American patrons into the balcony for designated showings in 1963. The theater remained racially segregated for African-American patrons until 1965.\n\nIn 1964 the theater was temporarily closed down while Cinerama equipment was installed. A super-wide anamorphic movie screen was added to the auditorium and the stereophonic sound system was upgraded. Two Norelco Universal 70/35mm Motion Picture Projectors and a small restroom for the projectionist were installed in a newly built downstairs projection booth under the balcony that required the removal of two aisles and several seats. Following the Beacham's upgrade to 70 mm film technology, \"The Sound of Music\" had a continuous 14-month run between 1965 and 1966.\n\nOrlando's Chamber of Commerce held open forum meetings at the Beacham Theatre on Sundays during the winter months of 1971-1973 under the direction of W. F. Blackman.\n\nDuring the 1970s Orlando, like many U.S. cites, was experiencing symptoms of urban decay. The rush from the city to the suburbs affected nearly all of the city's businesses. As an effect of the exodus, each of Downtown Orlando's movie theaters closed. Dick Gabel and John Prine were serving as projectionists at several of the theaters. Following a decline in attendance, by 1974 the Beacham Theatre and Florida State Theaters in general were primarily showing exploitation films and B-movie action films. The next year, H. A. Tedder, who was the Orlando executive manager at long-time lessee Florida State Theaters, made the decision that The Beacham Theatre would cease operating as a first-run movie cinema. After showing a Sunday double-feature of \"Return of the Street Fighter\", and \"The Scavengers\", the Beacham Theatre's manager, McKinley Howard, closed the theater's doors as a first-run film cinema for the last time on September 28, 1975. Florida State Theaters remained responsible for paying the monthly lease of $2700 until the theater was sold.\n\nIn 1975 Larry and Sherry Carpenter purchased the Beacham Building from then-owners, Betty Rubles Bray, and Burkett H. Bray Jr. A great-granddaughter of Braxton Beacham, Mrs. Bray, refused to sell the theater by itself without also selling the rest of the building as a package. An extensive $250,000 remodeling and restoration followed that included stunning multi-colored Art Deco revival style graphics painted over the facade and a large multi-story mural of a saxophone and its open case painted on the rear of the theater that faced west and was clearly visible from nearby Interstate 4. Following the restoration the Carpenters opened Orlando's franchise location of The Great Southern Music Hall at the Beacham in 1976. The 700-seat Great Southern Music Hall was a concert venue that hosted approximately 180 prominent national and regional acts at the Beacham. The Great Southern Music Hall was occasionally still used as a movie theater that presented world cinema and classic Hollywood films by film directors such as John Carpenter, Federico Fellini, and Mel Brooks during the week. John Lawson was the acting projectionist and served as stage director for concerts. As The Great Southern Music Hall, only about seven music shows were unprofitable. Nevertheless, Orlando's Great Southern Music Hall closed in 1981 due to the rising costs of hosting concerts for notable musical acts and competition from larger venues.\n\nRoberta Branch Beacham died in 1980.\n\nIn 1981 Sherry Carpenter, then sole owner, leased the theater to Jeff Roberts. Roberts opened Laser World, a futuristic one- and one-half hour laser light show that featured lasers, sound, ballet, costumed modern dance routines and magic illusion, as well as outer space photographs that were projected onto a large viewing screen from behind. Laser World closed in 1982.\n\nOther short-lasting entities followed such as a tourist-oriented laser tag business. \"The Orlando Sentinel\" critic Howard Means, reminded readers, that the 1965 installation of \"then-new Cinerama equipment at the Beacham was the latest testimony to the faith in the future of Downtown Orlando\" and that, \"The Beacham had long been seen as a bellwether of the health of the center city.\" Upon further reflection, he lamented, \"that the Beacham is simply a microcosm of modern downtown realities.\" Means editorialized, by 1982 \"The present state of the Beacham was the latest testament to decay,\" and, \"In the way of dying enterprises, the Beacham's reincarnations became increasingly more short-lived.\"\n\nIn February 1983 Oscar F. Juarez, an Orlando property developer and Republican Party strategist, purchased the building for $1.5 million. Soon after the purchase, a plan was announced to lease it in order to open a bar and French restaurant \"with a Georgetown flair\" that later became Valentyne's Restaurant as well as a new nightclub inside the theater.\n\nA vision for the theater announced in 1983 was for a New York-style nightclub dubbed Studio 46 that emulated the spirit of the legendary \"Studio 54.\" Studio 46 did not come to fruition but the primordial description of Orlando's very own \"Studio 54\" at the Beacham Theater was soon realized just a few years later.\n\nThe theater was next leased by Ellen Hunt, of Orlando, and Roger Lopez, of France in August 1983. Hunt and Lopez opened a cabaret club in the theater named Moulin Orange that featured Las Vegas-style showgirls. Moulin Orange was only open for several months during 1983 and 1984.\n\nIn December 1984 with the hope of operating an expansion to his dinner theater franchise, a five-year lease of the theater was granted to Theatre Management Corporation of Orlando consisting of actor Tom McKinney and Rick Allen, a producer of the Reynolds Theater. The Beacham served as a Celebrity Dinner Theater franchise location in conjunction with Valentyne's restaurant that was next door from 1985 until 1986. Under new management, Valentyne's Celebrity Dinner Theater briefly reopened in 1986 before the dinner theater venture at the Beacham finally ended entirely early in 1987.\n\nThe Beacham Theatre was granted local historic landmark status on September 21, 1987, for its historical significance to the community. Between each new identity for the theater and the occasional concert, the Beacham Theatre sat unoccupied and empty.\n\nDespite the new recognition for the theater by the City of Orlando, Mr. Juarez saw the building as a liability with many pleasant memories surrounding it, but with little economic potential. Citing maintaining the building and rehabilitation of the area, he first announced plans to raze the building for an unspecified mix-use purpose and later to redevelop the former Beacham Block with a new skyscraper that would be used as a combination office building and hotel. In 1988 Juarez received two successive approval Certificate of Appropriateness permits from the City of Orlando Board of Historic Preservation to demolish the Beacham Theatre within 180 days. The \"Bye-bye Beacham Bash\" was promptly organized by Orlando Remembered and attended by former theater doormen, ushers, candy girls, and cashiers on December 9, 1988. However, Mr. Juarez's redevelopment plan and the new construction of a 20-story office building and parking garage fell through at the last moment due to poor timing. Additional parking could have contributed to a revitalized downtown area, but the market for office space in Downtown Orlando was nearly saturated in the late 1980s and there was a general lack of interest from prospective future tenants. Had the project materialized, Mr. Juaraz would have been required to reconstruct a replica of the original Beacham Theatre facade using original building materials of brick, stucco, decorative tile, and pastel colors.\n\nIn 1987 Brad Belletto and then-wife Lisa moved to Orlando from Louisiana. Brad Belletto, then owned a theatrical equipment manufacturing company and had formerly owned Moon Sound, a New Orleans sound and lighting company. The Bellettos, intent on overhauling the music scene in Orlando, were looking for a new venue following operation of a successful club in Baton Rouge. They found the Beacham Theatre and immediately fell in love with it. At that time, the Beacham was being subleased to Clark J, a local record producer, and a brief partnership was formed.\n\nLate in 1988 the lease for the Beacham's theater was secured by the Bellettos under Entertainment Investments International. Several of Lisa's cousins relocated to Orlando to help out with the task of preparing the Beacham for its opening and Brad's mother Bev tended the bar through the entire duration of the lease. The Bellettos also hosted an annual full-service Christmas dinner for hundreds of the city's homeless population at the Beacham Theatre with food donated by Orlando's high-end restaurants and businesses.\n\nThe Bellettos planned to use the Beacham Theatre for theatrical performances and concerts during the week and as a nightclub on the weekends. Frank Carroll, served as the managing artistic director for theatre productions and starred in a Las Vegas-style musical revue tribute to Liberace, \"Viva Liberace, Viva\". A \"Leonard Bernstein opera\" and \"an Edward Albee drama\" were additional production features before theatrical productions ceased.\n\nConcerts were coordinated by Mary Ann D'Arpino of Mary Ann Productions, who had an office at the Beacham; Island Productions; Harry Tiyler of Fat Harry Productions, and Cellar Door Productions. Several prominent musical act concerts of nearly every genre were staged during this time.\n\nSince 1988 the theater has been used as a series of combination nightclub and concert venue enterprises.\n\nIn May 1989 the Beacham Theatre was sold by Oscar Juarez for $1.8 million to a property management firm owned by Longwood businesswoman Missy Casscells and her husband Frank Hamby.\n\nBrad and Lisa Belletto scoured sources across the U.S. and Europe and traveled frequently for new and rare records. During the Second Summer of Love in the United Kingdom that began in 1988, on Friday and Saturday nights the Beacham Theater housed a discotheque that had a progressive dance music format with Lisa Belletto as resident DJ and lighting control operator and Brad Belletto as operating director. Initially the club was to be called \"F/X (or Effects)\" but it opened as Pure Energy.\n\nThe late nights at the Beacham featured DJs, beat matching, rare and obscure dance music on vinyl records, intelligent lighting, and themed decor that at times included original paintings by local artist Rollo. The popularity of dancing throughout the night at the Beacham Theatre initially caught on slowly and many free passes were given out. Soon, the entry queue for \"Late Night\" snaked around the block.\n\nThe conceptual themes for \"Late Night\" were frequently alternated (sometimes weekly) and occasionally repeated. The various themes subsequently included World War III, Aahz, Trancentral, The Haunted Theatre, Egypt, Alphabet City, Psychedelic Babylon, Unity, and Reunion. The all-night dance parties were eventually referred to using the umbrella term \"'Late Night' at the Classic Beacham Theatre.\"\n\nThe Aahz nightclub concept was born after Lisa saw the name at a shop in Los Angeles. The Bellettos and Shayni Howen then created and developed the Aahz concept for the Beacham. Shayni and her team created Aahz's iconic décor which included a painted yellow brick road and a giant paper mache Wizard of Oz head behind the stage. At midnight each night, the stage's curtain was raised and the glowing eyes and smoking mouth of the Wizard were revealed, at which point DJ Lisa always played Rhythm Device's \"Acid Rock\".\n\nEventually the combined tasks of simultaneously playing all of the music and operating the lights became overwhelming for Lisa and as a result Shayni's sister, \"Late night\" veteran Stacey \"StaceBass\" Howen, was brought in to operate the computerized lighting control console and promote the nightclub. By the Summer of 1989, Lisa was expecting her first child and still resident DJ. Only two months before the birth of her son she invited Kimball Collins, who was the DJ in the Beacham Buildings northern unit, to replace her and hired him as Aahz's resident Late Night DJ. Joseph Jilbert (DJ Jo-Edd), Steve McClure (DJ Monk) and Paul Campbell (DJ Stylus) had brief stints as DJ at \"Late Night\" when they were hired to fill in for Lisa or Kimball Collins. Dave Cannalte was quickly brought in as \"Late Night's\" co-resident DJ.\n\nAt this point, Underground music such as Industrial dance music and Gothic rock was played during Orlando's normal bar operating hours from 10 p.m. until just after 2 a.m.\nUpon an announcement at around 2:30 a.m. (or an opening at 3 a.m.) that said simply, \"Welcome to Late Night,\" mixed New Beat, Progressive dance, Balearic beat, and Acid house electronic dance music began that frequently lasted until 8 a.m. and occasionally lasted until as late as 11 a.m.\n\nLocal DJ's Jerry Johnson (\"the Reverend\"), Andy Hughes, Jay Skinner, Robby Clark, Troy Davis, Eddie Pappa (DJ Icey) and DJ Lisa Belletto were occasional guests for special events such as the \"DJ Unity for the World\" dance party in December 1991.\n\nDave Cannalte and Kimball Collins, and Stace presided over and further developed an ever-growing local scene. Chris Fortier later joined the duo of Kimball and Dave Cannalte as an Aahz resident DJ. As it evolved, \"Late Night\" boosted the careers of numerous DJs and producers such as Andy Hughes, Jimmy Van M, AK1200, DJ Icey, DJ Baby Anne, Sean Cusick, and Cosmic Baby, as well as Dave Seaman, Sasha and John Digweed.\n\nThe use of psychedelic drugs such as ecstasy and LSD at the Beacham Theatre during the late 1980s and early 1990s was prevalent and eventually began to attract the attention of law enforcement agencies. After \"warnings\" about increased surveillance of the Beacham that allegedly came from the Drug Enforcement Administration, additional security, pat-downs, new restrictions on reentering, attire, and the behavior for patrons were implemented. Once, during the early 1990s, \"Late Night\" was raided by masked agents of the Metropolitan Bureau of Investigation who temporarily stopped the music and turned on the lights while they searched for and detained a suspect.\n\nThe final all-night Aahz-themed events (The Return of Aahz) were held at the Beacham between September 7, 1991, and July 4, 1992, and lasted until Dekko's opened. However, \"Aahz\" was the theme that really stuck with patrons and among participants is still used as a nickname for \"Late Night\" reunion tour events and even for the Beacham Theatre itself. \"Lift\" night soon commenced in the Beacham Building's north-most unit, then called Barbarella's. The Beacham Building's north-most corner unit was once called Beach Club where Kimball Collins was resident DJ in the mid-1980s. \"Late Night\" in the Beacham Theatre returned when Unity presented \"Welcome (Back) to Late Night\" on October 30, 1993. \"Late Night's\" Reunion at the Beacham was then initiated at Dekko's.\n\nThe early mornings at the Beacham Theatre kick started Orlando's own Summer of Love between 1991 and 1992 that helped usher in the increased popularity of the subculture surrounding electronic dance music in Florida and subsequently in the United States. \"Late Night\" organized several music festivals that were held at the Orange County Convention Center such as the \"Infonet\" DJ spinoff on October 24, 1992, the \"Infonet 2\" dance party on December 31, 1992, and \"Infonet 3,\" \"The Underground Explosion,\" on July 3, 1993. Subsequent large-event promoters failed to emulate the spirit of those events. Although, \"raves\" per se were not held in the Theater, the Beacham served as the prototype for nearly all of the larger so-called rave-oriented nightclubs that followed it. In doing so, \"Late Night\" at the Beacham Theatre inspired the genesis of the internationally recognized \"Orlando Sound\" genre that is also known as Florida breaks.\n\nInside \"Late Night\" at the Beacham was always very dark and the auditorium was absolutely filthy. In contrast, initially the scene's \"vibe\" was pure and drugs such as MDMA that were available were relatively unadulterated. As time went on, the beloved Beacham was beautified and remodeled into Dekko's. While the Beacham itself was cleaned up, the overall \"vibe\" of Orlando's scene seemed to darken somewhat just as the quality of club drugs that were still available during that time became tainted.\n\nDuring the summer of 1994, at a \"Late Night\" event featuring a guest appearance DJ Sasha, two female revelers who were attending a Reunion event at the Beacham Theatre collapsed just before sunrise. The women were carried outside to Orange Avenue in front of Dekko's where CPR was administered by an Orlando Police Department officer and paramedics were dispatched. Tragically, one of the young women expired. \"The Orlando Sentinel\" reported the May 1, 1994, passing of 20-year old Teresa Schwartz and that the other young woman was briefly in critical condition. However, she promptly recovered. Substance abuse, related cardiac arrhythmia, or hyperthermia was the suspected cause of death.\n\nThe incident along with those at other venues in Orlando, shocked the underground dance club scene in Central Florida and were followed by a dramatic decrease in attendance. \"Late Night's\" organizers made the responsible decision to end Reunion at Dekko's after their pleas for young club-goers to practice moderation were ignored. The Dekko's concept was sold to a competitor in the following months.\n\nOn Saturday nights during 1995 \"Late Night\" briefly resumed in The Club at Firestone with DJ Robby Clark Kimball Collins, Dave Cannalte, StaceBass and friends. However, the City of Orlando subsequently created a \"Rave Review Task Force\" in 1997 and later passed a local ordinance that contributed to Florida's crackdown on after-hours nightclubs. Central Florida's crackdown led to the eventual passage of an \"anti-rave\" law in Florida that ultimately led to the signing of national Anti-Rave legislation.\n\nThe Aahz Reunion Tour launched in 1998 and as of 2016, reunions of Aahz \"Late Night\" occur nearly biannually and are frequently held in the Beacham Theatre. \"Late Night\" reunions, however, now end promptly before 2:30 a.m.\n\nBy 1992 the future looked brighter for the Beacham Theatre when Mike Berry, staff writer, for \"The Orlando Sentinel\" wrote that, \"The Beacham Theatre is the latest testament to reincarnation.\" Concerts were no longer being held in the auditorium during this time period and the Beacham Theatre was used exclusively as night club through 2010.\n\nIt was 1992 when Orlando Attorney Mark NeJame leased the Beacham Theatre with the option to match the purchase price of any prospective buyers. The Beacham underwent restoration at a cost of in excess of $1,000,000. NeJame then opened \"Dekko's,\" a mainstream \"high-energy dance club.\" \"Dekko's\" is an amalgam of Deco and Gekko. The \"Dekko's\" concept featured a rose-beige exterior with a newly restored Art Deco inspired facade with red neon lighting. Dekko's interior included extensive use of the color purple and a sushi bar in the balcony. The inclusion of a terrarium (vivarium) with live subtropical geckos was planned. \"Dekko's\" was open from late 1992 until the \"high-energy dance club\" concept was bought out in 1994 by Bill Harmening who operated The Edge, a competing nightclub.\n\n\"Zuma Beach Club\" followed Dekko's and opened in 1994. The recently remodeled auditorium was gutted for the change. Redecoration was complete with fishing nets, galvanized watering troughs for beer, and warning signs for sharks. On February 22, 1995, NeJame entered a new partnership with George Maltezos, John SanFelippo and brother, Joseph SanFelippo. Zuma Beach was often described by NeJame as \"the cheesiest club in America.\" \"Rolling Stone\" in 1997 described Zuma Beach as a \"cheesy dive.\" Zuma Beach even hosted an Extreme Championship Wrestling \"hardcore\" professional wrestling match on January 29, 2000. Mercifully, \"Zuma Beach\" closed its doors in late 2000.\n\nFinally, after yet another remodeling of the auditorium, \"Tabu opened in 2001.\" Initially, Tabu was more of an upscale nightclub. Backstreet Boy Howie Dorough, who performed his first musical at the Beacham as one of the Munchkins in the Lollipop Guild for a theatre production of \"The Wizard of Oz\", was a design and talent acquisition advisor for Tabu. However, Tabu later became more mainstream. Tabu had a weekly lineup presentation that with the exception of hosting live music, was similar to the theater's current nightclub iteration. Tabu closed in late 2010 when Mark NeJame and Joseph SanFelippo left the partnership.\n\nIn 2011 leases for the Beacham Theatre were renewed by John SanFelippo and George Maltezos, along with Gerard Mitchell and Michael McRaney, who leased the adjacent unit. Their partnership is named 46/54 North Orange Ave, LLC, and both units are leased from building owners Margaret Casscells and Frank Hamby, of Beacham Theater, LLC.\n\nSince 2011 \"The Beacham\" nightclub has operated in partnership with \"The Social,\" a smaller venue next door at 54 North Orange Avenue. The venues, are connected via a passage and door. The Beacham features disc jockey entertainment and plays Hip hop, Top 40, Latin music, and Reggaeton.\"\n\nThe Live Entertainment era currently continues on stages at both The Beacham and partner The Social. Prominent national and international musical acts perform with fidelity to the countless shows by numerous acts that have previously held performances in the Beacham Theatre from the mid-1970s through the early-1990s.\n\nBeacham's Building is divided into seven rental units using wood frame, brick walls, different facades, and paint. The theater is the south-most unit. The two-story Beacham Theatre was constructed in 1921 in a simple 20th Century Commercial Style. The structure is constructed of reinforced concrete and brick with stucco out-surface. Utilization of wood in the construction was minimized.\n\nThe facade was decorated with multi-colored tile trim and impregnated with seashell. The first story originally contained two small storefronts, a boxoffice, and lobby entrance to the theater as well the auditorium, stage, dressing rooms, staff restrooms, and a green room. The second story of the theater contained restrooms, windowed offices, a projection booth, and balcony seating section as well as additional dressing rooms accessible by a spiral staircase. Above the stage was the fly system and catwalk.\n\nIn 1936 Art Deco styling with Mediterranean-style tile was added to the facade and extensive neon lighting was installed the on the entrance overhang. Inside, the theater was modernized to provide lighted stairs, air conditioning into the dressing rooms, an enlarged auditorium, and improved seating. Capacity was reduced to 1,051. To diminish echoes from the projectors and recorded sound equipment, the auditorium was carpeted with a floral pattern and the plaster walls were covered with an Ozite material. Vernon Hunter oversaw the modernization.\n\nIn 1954 the look of the theater was modernized once again with the removal of parapets, cornices, and windows. The marquee was replaced with a new porcelain one. The lobby was enclosed with glass doors and the boxoffice was moved to the right side of the lobby exterior and rebuilt. An entirely new stucco sheeting was installed over the facade, a wide screen was installed, and new decorations and push-back seats were added with additional alterations to the floor plan and seating areas. Capacity was reduced to 650.\n\nIn 1964 the proscenium was modified to accommodate the installation of Cinerama widescreen. A new projection room was constructed under the balcony to accommodate 70-mm projectors.\nBy 1975 the theater was no longer being used as a feature cinema. For the 1976 opening of the Great Southern Music Hall, the theater's interior and stage were remodeled, the proscenium was rebuilt, balcony seating was added. The facade was repainted with Art Deco graphics and a large mural was painted on the back of the theater. Capacity was increased to 765.\n\nThe balcony was extended in 1981.\n\nIn 1984 the theater cinema's 765 seats were removed and sold and the sloped auditorium floor was terraced. Buffet dinner tables for 400 and balcony tables for 100 were added. The backstage area was remodeled, and the balcony was restored back to its original shape. Exterior drainage was improved.\n\nThe degraded ceiling plasterwork was repaired and repainted, the roof was replaced and wiring were upgraded in 1988. External air conditioning was being pumped in.\n\nBy 1991 the balcony was renovated and re-extended and the 70 mm film projection room under the balcony had been removed and the air conditioning repaired. Opera boxes were installed on the second floor of either side of the stage and the DJ booth was relocated shortly thereafter.\n\nAs the Beacham was renovated to become Dekkos's in 1992, it was discovered that the stucco sheeting that was installed during a modernization in 1954 could not be economically removed without severely damaging the original facade underneath. Restoration plans for the facade had to be modified.\nAn arched molding was then added to the facade. A sunburst and red neon lighting was subsequently added.\n\nFollowing an effort to \"bring back the aesthetics of the old Beacham Theatre,\" in 2000 owners restored the Beacham's ornate plaster ceiling moldings, facade, and marquee. In addition, the sloping theater floor was made level and the stage was elevated. The original Beacham Theatre sign is awaiting restoration and is being stored on the roof.\n\nAround 2005, the facade was modified by removing a small semi-circular molding in front of the sunburst. The points of the sunburst were also removed leaving a large semi-circular molding and larger arch above it decorating the facade.\n\nThe balcony and upstairs areas were remodeled in 2011 with a beautifully painted ceiling and the addition of two chandeliers. Restrooms were installed in place of the theater's original office area and 35 mm film projection booth. The theater's ornate plaster ceilings are in a state of disrepair with the decorative ceiling concealed behind a black cloth barrier that can retain any pieces of plaster that might fall.\n\nDuring the summer months of 2016 the crumbling arched molding was removed from the facade. The facade was then repaired and repainted and new red and blue neon lighting was installed. Further restoration in the near future is in a discussion and planning stage.\n\nVaudeville acts that have performed at the Beacham Theatre include the Ziegfeld Follies, John Phillip Sousa, W.C. Fields, Irving Berlin's \"Music Box Revue\", Frieda Hempel, Theda Bara, Irving Caesar's \"The Greenwich Village Follies of 1922\", organist \"Professor\" Herman Siewert, Keith's Vaudeville Company, ventriloquist , Flo Ziegfeld's \"Sally\", Gertrude Hoffmann Dancers, \"Artists and Models Super Revue of 1924\", The Cloverleaf Dancers, The Elks Minstrels, \"Fay, Lane, & Barry;\" \"Fay Two Colleys;\" and gymnasts The Kramer Brothers.\n\nBlues and Jazz legends Ray Charles, B.B. King, John Lee Hooker, Johnny Sansone, Delbert McClinton, Leon Russell, Edgar Winter, Leo Kottke, Roy Buchanan, Dr. John, Buckwheat Zydeco, Maynard Ferguson, Billy Cobham, Gato Barbieri, Ramsey Lewis, Freddie Hubbard, and Diane Schuur have performed at the Beacham Theatre.\n\nClassic rock era acts such as The Police, The Pretenders, Rick Derringer, Pat Travers Band, Al Stewart, Dickey Betts, Head East, Sea Level, Utopia, Horslips, New Riders of the Purple Sage, Dave Brubeck, Todd Rundgren, Bill Warheit, Michael Hedges, Earl Scruggs, José Feliciano, Lyle Lovett, Root Boy Slim, and the Ramones have performed at the Beacham.\n\nMetal acts such as Judas Priest, Slayer, Gwar, Dark Angel, 7 seconds, Overkill, and Wolfsbane, and Death Angel have appeared at the Beacham.\n\nReggae acts Pato Banton, Toots Hibbert, The Maytals, Inner Circle, The Wailers, Aswad, and Yellowman have also performed.\n\nIn more recent years Ministry, KMFDM, Fugazi, Revolting Cocks, Devo, Book of Love, Go Radio, Tori Amos, Soundgarden, The Pixies, Good Charlotte, Pink, Lush, David Byrne, Fishbone, The Cramps, Flat Duo Jets, L.A. Guns, G. Love & Special Sauce, and The Claypool Lennon Delirium as well as notable DJ acts Razor and Guido, Carl Cox, Sasha, John Digweed, Dave Seaman and Dynamix II and many others have played at the Beacham.\n\nThe Beacham website offers the following synopsis:\n\nProfessional wrestlers Rob Van Dam, Masato Tanaka, Rhyno, Super Crazy, The Dupps, Yoshihiro Tajiri, Tommy Dreamer, and Simon Diamond had a match in the Beacham Theatre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18503554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18503554", "title": "British Commonwealth Union", "text": "British Commonwealth Union\n\nThe British Commonwealth Union (BCU) was a protectionist organisation formed in the United Kingdom in 1916 to \"found a solid business group in parliament\" and to \"press for the protective tariffs and restrictions on imports discussed at the Paris Economic Conference of 1916 and in the Balfour of Burleigh Committee on post-World War I commercial policy.\" Conservative Patrick Hannon was a key figure.\n\nAs well as being protectionist, the BCU was strongly opposed to trade unionism, and supported a number of anti-socialist and anti-labour activities. \n"}
{"id": "2321080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2321080", "title": "CNIB Foundation", "text": "CNIB Foundation\n\nThe CNIB Foundation () is a volunteer agency and charitable organization dedicated to assisting Canadians who are blind or living with vision loss, and to provide information about vision health for all Canadians. Founded in 1918 as the Canadian National Institute for the Blind () to assist soldiers who had been blinded in the First World War, CNIB originally offered sheltered care and specialized employment to people with vision loss. It has since expanded to include other programs and services, including research, public education, rehabilitation counselling and training, advocacy and an alternative-format library for people living with a print disability. It is a member of the Braille Authority of North America.\n\nThe Canadian National Institute for the Blind was incorporated on March 30, 1918 to provide food, clothing and sheltered residences for blind veterans returning from World War I as well as the 850 people blind by the Halifax Explosion in 1917, the largest mass blinding in Canadian history. It began with 27 employees serving 1,521 people who were blind, primarily in Toronto, with two \"home teachers\" providing rehabilitation training in other parts of Canada.\n\nDuring the 1920s, CNIB operated a job placement program with limited success, also creating jobs through its own factories, broom shops and concession stands. The organization also appointed a special nurse responsible for vision health and sight preservation.\n\nIn 1923, a Dominion Charter was obtained to establish a Home Nursery Hospital and Kindergarten for the Blind under 6 years of age in Ottawa.\nMothers of blind babies from any Province in the Dominion, were encouraged to place their charges in the Canadian Blind Babies Home Association for proper care and education c. 1918 - 1939. It was to be similar to \"Sunshine Home,\" at Chorley Wood, England, which was then \"the only home in the Empire for Blind babies.\" After the founder, Mrs. Margaret Dean, died it went out of existence and the subscription funds were reallocated to the CNIB.\n\nBy the 1950s, CNIB was serving more than 17,000 clients, with offices, vocational centres and residences in major Canadian cities. A formalized research program into prevention was also prioritized. Steps were taken towards advocacy with the 1930 Blind Voters Act, allowing a person who is blind to vote with the assistance of a sighted person, and legislation around mandatory eye drops to prevent disease in newborns. In 1956, the organization helped sponsor a course for blind computer programmers.\n\nIn 2010, the organisation officially changed its name to simply \"CNIB\" after a national consultation with its membership, branding support from Pilot PMR and creative by Cossette, Inc. In 2018 the organisation rebranded again as the CNIB Foundation.\n\nCNIB operates community-based services for Canadians who are blind or partially sighted. This includes assistance in returning to school, advice on travelling, and emotional support. These services are delivered either at a local CNIB office, within the community, over the phone, online, or in an individual's home. It also offers advocacy support for resources focusing on social issues, such as concessions, housing, finances, and leisure pursuits. Self-help groups are facilitated by staff and volunteers who may be blind or partially sighted.\n\nCNIB provides functional assessments of visual abilities, instruction on how to maximize residual vision, and, as required, information and training in the use of low vision devices. Life-skills training emphasizes managing the essentials of daily living, including safe and effective methods of cooking, alternate communication methods such as braille and large print, and household tasks such as laundry, banking, writing, and personal care. Orientation and mobility instructors provide instruction on how to move safely around the house, and/or skills to travel safely within the community.\n\nThe organization operates a library that includes more than 80,000 accessible materials in formats such as Braille, audio, DAISY, and e-text. Assistive technology services include accessible audio book players, video magnifiers, computer screen readers, and other tools to make life with vision loss easier. Specialists provide instruction through demonstration, assessment, training, and technical support about the availability, selection, use, and purchase of devices for individual needs.\n\nCNIB employs approximately 1,100 professionals, working in the fields of life-skills training, library services, research, advocacy, public education, accessible design consulting, fundraising and administration. CNIB also receives support from over 10,000 volunteers working in all regions of the country.\n\nThe organization consists of a national office at the CNIB Centre in Toronto and eight provincial and territorial divisions. They are governed by a volunteer board of directors, selected from across Canada, including representatives from the corporate, medical and government sectors, as well as individuals affected by vision loss. There are eight operating divisions, plus the Lake Joseph Centre and the CNIB Library, each with a volunteer board. The chair of each division board sits on a Council of Chairs in order to provide input and advice to CNIB's President and CEO.\n\nA number of businesses and government services offer discounted rates for those who are blind or visually impaired upon presentation of a CNIB identification card. The card is offered exclusively to Canadians who are legally blind and registered at CNIB, with 20/200 vision in the best eye with correction or a visual field of 20 degrees or less.\n\nThe One Person, One Fare Policy has been in effect since January 10, 2009 and pertains only to domestic flights on Air Canada and WestJet. This policy provides an extra seat to people meeting certain requirements who need a personal attendant on their flight. Attendants are charged the taxes and fees applicable to their flight. A CNIB card does not automatically qualify you with these airlines as each airline has their own process to provide accommodations.\n\nVia Rail offers free travel to one escort accompanying a person with vision loss. The escort or attendant travels free in the same class of service. Passengers wishing to travel with an escort must be eligible for a CNIB ID Card and have the card in hand when purchasing a train ticket.\n\nGreyhound offers two-for-one fares, wherein a guide can travel free when accompanying a blind or visually impaired person. The discount also applies to travel with Société de transport de la Rive-Sud (STRSM), Corporation métropolitaine des transports de Sherbrooke (CMTS), RÉgie de transport en commum de Shawinigan (RTCS), Corporation inter-municipale de transport des Forges (CITF) and Société de transport du Saguenay (STS)People with vision loss should contact the bus carrier about discounted fares as it varies from province to province.\n\nDiscounts are available on the cost of admission for select cultural events upon presentation of a CNIB ID card. Most major movie theatres take part in a program run by Easter Seals in Canada called \"Access2Entertainment\". The program requires CNIB members to pay an administration fee of $20, which goes to Easter Seals, in order to receive a card good for 5 years. Regardless of their participation in the program, some theaters will still accept the CNIB ID card.\n\n"}
{"id": "22848246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22848246", "title": "Cancer screening", "text": "Cancer screening\n\nCancer screening aims to detect cancer before symptoms appear. This may involve blood tests, urine tests, DNA tests other tests, or medical imaging. The benefits of screening in terms of cancer prevention, early detection and subsequent treatment must be weighed against any harms.\n\nUniversal screening, also known as mass screening or population screening, involves screening everyone, usually within a specific age group. Selective screening identifies people who are known to be at higher risk of developing cancer, such as people with a family history of cancer.\n\nScreening can lead to false positive results and subsequent invasive procedures. Screening can also lead to false negative results, where an existing cancer is missed. Controversy arises when it is not clear if the benefits of screening outweigh the risks of the screening procedure itself, and any follow-up diagnostic tests and treatments.\n\nScreening tests must be effective, safe, well-tolerated with acceptably low rates of false positive and false negative results. If signs of cancer are detected, more definitive and invasive follow-up tests are performed to reach a diagnosis. Screening for cancer can lead to cancer prevention and earlier diagnosis. Early diagnosis may lead to higher rates of successful treatment and extended life. However, it may also falsely appear to increase the time to death through lead time bias or length time bias.\n\nThe goal of cancer screening is to provide useful health information which can guide medical treatment. A good cancer screening is one which would detect when a person has cancer so that the person could seek treatment to protect their health. Good cancer screening would not be more likely to cause harm than to provide useful information. In general, cancer screening has risks and should not be done except with a medical indication.\n\nDifferent kinds of cancer screening procedures have different risks, but good tests share some characteristics. If a test detects cancer, then that test result should also lead to options for treatment. Good tests come with a patient explanation of why that person has high enough risk of cancer to justify the test. Part of the testing experience is for the health care provider to explain how common false positive results are so that the patient can understand the context of their results. If multiple tests are available, then any test should be presented along with other options.\n\nScreening for cancer is controversial in cases when it is not yet known if the test actually saves lives. Screening can lead to substantial false positive result and subsequent invasive procedures. The controversy arises when it is not clear if the benefits of screening outweigh the risks of follow-up diagnostic tests and cancer treatments. Cancer screening is not indicated unless life expectancy is greater than five years and the benefit is uncertain over the age of 70.\n\nSeveral factors are considered to determine whether the benefits of screening outweigh the risks and the costs of screening. These factors include:\n\nBreast cancer screening is the medical screening of asymptomatic, apparently healthy women for breast cancer in an attempt to achieve an earlier diagnosis. The assumption is that early detection will improve outcomes. A number of screening tests have been employed, including clinical and self breast exams, mammography, genetic screening, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging. The use of mammography in universal screening for breast cancer is controversial as it may not reduce all-cause mortality and for causing harms through unnecessary treatments and medical procedures. Many national organizations recommend it for most older women.\n\nCervical screening by the Pap test or other methods is highly effective at detecting and preventing cervical cancer, although there is a serious risk of overtreatment in young women up to the age of 20 or beyond, who are prone to have many abnormal cells which clear up naturally. There is a considerable range in the recommended age at which to begin screening around the world. According to the 2010 European guidelines for cervical cancer screening, the age at which to commence screening ranges between 20–30 years of age, \"but preferentially not before age 25 or 30 years\", depending on the burden of the disease in the population and the available resources.\n\nIn the United States the rate of cervical cancer is 0.1% among women under 20 years of age, so the American Cancer Society as well as the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists strongly recommend that screening begin at age 21, regardless of age at sexual initiation or other risk-related behaviors. For healthy women aged 21–29 who have never had an abnormal Pap smear, cervical cancer screening with cervical cytology (Pap smear) should occur every 3 years, regardless of HPV vaccination status. The preferred screening for women aged 30–65 is \"co-testing\", which includes a combination of cervical cytology screening and HPV testing, every 5 years. However, it is acceptable to screen this age group with a Pap smear alone every 3 years. In women over the age of 65, screening for cervical cancer may be discontinued in the absence of abnormal screening results within the prior 10 years and no history of CIN 2 or higher.\n\nScreening for colorectal cancer, if done early enough, is \"preventive\" because almost all colorectal cancers originate from benign growths called \"polyps\", which can be located and removed during a colonoscopy (see \"colonic polypectomy\").\n\nThe US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer using fecal occult blood testing, sigmoidoscopy, or colonoscopy, in adults, beginning at age 50 years and continuing until age 75 years. For people over 75 or those with a life expectancy of less than 10 years screening is not recommended. A new enzyme method for colorectal cancer screening is the M2-PK Test, which is able to detect bleeding and non-bleeding colorectal cancers and polyps. In 2008, Kaiser Permanente Colorado implemented a program that used automated calls and sends fecal immunochemical test kits to patients who are overdue for colorectal cancer screenings. The program has increased the proportion of all eligible members screened by 25 percent. DNA testing with Cologuard test has been FDA-approved.\n\nIn England, adults are screened biennially via faecal occult blood testing between the ages of 60 and 74 years.\n\nWhen screening for prostate cancer, the PSA test may detect small cancers that would never become life-threatening, but once detected will lead to treatment. This situation, called overdiagnosis, puts men at risk for complications from unnecessary treatment such as surgery or radiation. Follow up procedures used to diagnose prostate cancer (prostate biopsy) may cause side effects, including bleeding and infection. Prostate cancer treatment may cause incontinence (inability to control urine flow) and erectile dysfunction (erections inadequate for intercourse). The U.S. Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends against prostate-specific antigen (PSA) based screening for prostate cancer finding, \"there is a very small potential benefit and significant potential harms\" and concluding, \"while everyone wants to help prevent deaths from prostate cancer, current methods of PSA screening and treatment of screen-detected cancer are not the answer.\" Most North American medical groups recommend individualized decisions about screening, taking into consideration the risks, benefits, and the patients' personal preferences.\n\nScreening studies for lung cancer have only been done in high risk populations, such as smokers and workers with occupational exposure to certain substances. In the 2010s recommendations by medical authorities are turning in favour of lung cancer screening, which is likely to become more widely available in the advanced economies.\n\nIn December 2013 the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) changed its long-standing recommendation that there is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against screening for lung cancer to the following: \"The USPSTF recommends annual screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed tomography in adults ages 55 to 80 years who have a 30 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years. Screening should be discontinued once a person has not smoked for 15 years or develops a health problem that substantially limits life expectancy or the ability or willingness to have curative lung surgery\".\n\nIt is generally agreed that general screening of large groups for pancreatic cancer is not at present likely to be effective, and outside clinical trials there are no programmes for this. The European Society for Medical Oncology recommends regular screening with endoscopic ultrasound and MRI/CT imaging for those at high risk from inherited genetics, in line with other recommendations, which may also include CT.\n\nThe US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) in 2013 found that evidence was insufficient to determine the balance of benefits and harms of screening for oral cancer in adults without symptoms by primary care providers. The American Academy of Family Physicians comes to similar conclusions while the American Cancer Society recommends that adults over 20 years who have periodic health examinations should have the oral cavity examined for cancer. The American Dental Association recommends that providers remain alert for signs of cancer during routine examinations. Oral cancer screening is also recommended by some groups of dental hygienists.\n\nThere is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against screening for skin cancer, and bladder cancer. Routine screening is not recommended for testicular cancer, and ovarian cancer.\n\nFull body CT scans are available for cancer screening, but this type of medical imaging to search for cancer in people without clear symptoms can create problems such as increased exposure to ionizing radiation. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans are not associated with a radiation risk, and MRI scans are being evaluated for their use in cancer screening. There is a significant risk of detection of what has been called \"incidentalomas\" - benign lesions that may be interpreted as a cancer and be subjected to potentially dangerous investigations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2508529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2508529", "title": "Charles C. Mann", "text": "Charles C. Mann\n\nCharles C. Mann (born 1955) is an American journalist and author, specializing in scientific topics. His book \"\" won the National Academies Communication Award for best book of the year. He is the coauthor of four books, and contributing editor for \"Science\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", and \"Wired\".\n\nMann has also written for \"Fortune\", \"The New York Times\", \"Smithsonian\", \"Technology Review\", \"Vanity Fair\", and \"The Washington Post\". In 2005 he wrote \"\", followed in 2011 by \"\". He served as a judge for the PEN/E. O. Wilson Literary Science Writing Award in 2012.\n\nHe is a three-time National Magazine Award finalist and a recipient of writing awards from the American Bar Association, the American Institute of Physics, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, and the Lannan Foundation. He lives in Amherst, Massachusetts with his wife and children.\n\nIn 2018, Mann published \"The Wizard and the Prophet\", which details two competing theories about the future of agriculture, population, and the environment. The titular \"wizard\" Mann refers to is Norman Borlaug, the Nobel Peace Prize winner credited with developing the Green Revolution and saving 1 billion people from starvation. Mann refers to William Vogt, an early proponent of population control, as the \"prophet.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56793194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56793194", "title": "Cinnamyl acetate", "text": "Cinnamyl acetate\n\nCinnamyl acetate (3-phenylprop-2-enyl acetate) is a chemical compound of the cinnamyl ester family, in which the variable R group is substituted by a methyl group. As a result of the non-aromatic carbon-carbon double bond, cinnamyl acetate can exist in a \"Z\" and an \"E\" configuration:\nCinnamyl acetate naturally occurs in fresh bark of cinnamon (\"Cinnamomum zeylanicum Blume\" and other Cinnamomum species), with concentrations of 2,800–51,000 ppm.\n\nCinnamyl acetate is used as a flavour ester in for example bread and animal feed and has a sweet floral-fruity fragrance. Moreover, it is used in several cosmetics, some toiletries but also in non-cosmetic products, for example detergents.\n\nCinnamyl acetate, used in fragrances and as flavour ingredient, has been discussed by several institutions. In 1965, the compound was annotated as 'Generally Recognized as Safe as a flavor ingredient’ by the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers\" Association (FEMA). The association determined the average maximum use levels in several products that were considered to be safe:\n\nThe European Parliament registered cinnamyl acetate as both a flavouring substance and a cosmetic compound in 1996. The Joint (FAO/WHO) Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) described in 2000 that “the substance does not present a safety concern at current levels of intake when used as a flavouring agent”. In 2009, the EFSA Panel on Food Contact Materials, Enzyme, Flavourings and Processing Aids (CEF) concluded that cinnamyl acetate does not give rise to safety concerns when used as flavour ingredient in food. Cinnamyl acetate is also permitted by the U.S. Food & Drug administration for use as flavouring agent in food if the minimum quantity needed for its effect is used.\n\nEstimates of the average annual production and daily intake of cinnamyl acetate as flavouring agent are reported by the WHO. According to this report, the annual volume of production in Europe is 1498 kg, and in the USA 2255 kg. The daily intake per person in Europe is estimated to be 210 μg, and in the USA 300 μg. Per kg body weight the daily intake is estimated for Europeans to be 4 μg/kg and for Americans to be 5 μg/kg.\n\nSince cinnamyl acetate is naturally occurring in plants, it can be extracted and purified to obtain the compound. However, this has a low yield and therefore the production costs are high. The use of chemical methods can offer more efficient strategies to produce cinnamyl acetate.\n\nThere are multiple ways to synthesize cinnamyl acetate 2. One way is the synthesis from cinnamyl alcohol 1 and vinyl acetate. This reaction is catalyzed by the enzyme triacylglycerol ester hydrolase, which is a lipase that is very specific towards the ester bond. The byproduct of this reaction is acetaldehyde. The reaction equation for this reaction is:\n\nSince acetaldehyde has an unfavourable deactivating effect on the lipase used in the synthesis, ethyl acetate can be used as reactant instead of vinyl acetate. In this transesterification reaction cinnamyl alcohol 1 reacts with ethyl acetate to form cinnamyl acetate 2 and ethanol. This synthesis requires the lipase Novozym 435, and is performed in a solvent-free system. The reaction is as follows:\n\nCinnamyl acetate 2 can also be synthesized via a non-enzymatic reaction. An example of such a reaction is one with the use of cinnamyl bromide 3 and sodium acetate as reactants. Since these compounds are immiscible substrates, solid-liquid phase transfer catalysis (PTC) can be used, using quaternary ammonium bromide as a phase transfer catalyst. This is shown in the following reaction:\n\nBesides these three examples, there are many more ways to synthesize cinnamyl acetate.\n\nThe addition reaction of dinitrogen trioxide to cinnamyl acetate produces an intermediate in the synthesis of chloramphenicol.\n\nCinnamyl acetate belongs to the group of cinnamyl derivatives. In general, these cinnamyl derivatives are absorbed from the gut very quickly, after which they are metabolized and excreted as polar metabolites in the urine or feces within 24 hours.\n\nWithin the cinnamyl derivatives, cinnamyl acetate belongs to the group of cinnamyl esters. After absorption from the gut, this group of compounds is first hydrolyzed to cinnamyl alcohol by carboxylesterases. Carboxylesterases are a group of enzymes. The most important enzymes within this group are the A-esterases. These are present in most body tissues, but they are prevalent in the hepatocytes. Subsequently, the cinnamyl alcohol is oxidized which leads to the formation of cinnamaldehyde. This reaction is catalyzed by human NAD-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase. Now, there are two routes for the further biotransformation of cinnamaldehyde. The minor route of biotransformation is the S-glutathionylation. The major route, however, is the conversion of cinnamaldehyde into cinnamic acid by the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase. Next, the cinnamic acid is transformed into cinnamoyl CoA which is again converted to either cinnamoylglycine by N-acyl transferase or to benzoyl CoA through β-oxidation, the latter being the major route. Intermediate metabolites in the β-oxidation pathway can be converted to 3-hydroxy-3-phenylpropionic acid and acetophenone, which can be excreted via the urine. However, the conversions of these intermediate metabolites are minor routes. Finally, the benzoyl CoA is conjugated with glycine under formation of hippuric acid or it is hydrolyzed generating free benzoic acid. This can be excreted via the urine directly or after glucuronidation. Hippuric acid, which is the major metabolite, is also excreted via the urine.\n\nSince cinnamyl acetate is used as both a fragrance material and a food flavouring ingredient, dermal and oral exposure are considered to be the major routes of absorption. The dermal systematic exposure of cinnamyl acetate via cosmetic products is estimated to be 0.0115 mg/kg body weight/day.\n\nSeveral experiments using animals were conducted in the past to assess the toxicity of cinnamyl acetate. In one experiment, the oral toxicity was tested in rats. The rats received oral doses of cinnamyl acetate and the LD was found to be 3.3 g/kg. During the experiment, symptoms as slow respiration and coarse tremors were observed for high doses. Other experiments showed LD values of 4.750 g/kg for oral administration in mice and guinea pigs. Also, the LD value for intraperitoneal administration was investigated and found to be 1.200 g/kg.\n\nFurthermore, studies on the dermal toxicity were performed. Experiments on rabbits resulted in an LD of more than 5.0 g/kg, but no clinical effects were observed. Moreover, the level of skin irritation in swines was tested via a 48-h patch test. In this study, 0.05 g of cinnamyl acetate was applied and no irritation was observed. Another two experiments examined the skin irritation caused by 0.1 mL cinnamyl acetate on guinea pigs and rabbits via a direct application on the skin (open application). Mild to moderate irritation was observed in these experiments.\n\nA NOAEL for oral administration of 275 mg/kg body weight/day was determined from toxicological data by the EFSA Panel on Additives and Products or Substances used in Animal Feed (FEEDAP).\n\nBesides these experiments on animals, some human studies were executed. A 48-h closed patch test on five healthy, male volunteers was performed using 5% cinnamyl acetate in petrolatum. In this study, no irritation was observed. Mild irritation was observed in another 48-h patch test on fifty male volunteers using 32% cinnamyl acetate in acetone. Finally, a human study on skin sensitization was executed on 25 healthy, male volunteers. In this experiment a maximization test (48-h patch) was done using 5% cinnamyl acetate in petrolatum. Skin sensitization reactions were not observed.\n\nMoreover, standard Draize tests were used to assess the dermal toxicity in humans, guinea pigs and rabbits. This resulted in mild skin irritation for doses of 16 mg per 48 hours for humans and for doses of 100 mg per 24 hours for guinea pigs. Moderate skin irritation was observed for rabbits exposed to doses of 100 mg per 24 hours.\n\nLastly, the potential of cinnamyl acetate to cause sister chromatid exchanges was tested using Chinese Hamster Ovary Cells. This was done because it was found that another component of plant essence and cinnamyl derivative, cinnamaldehyde, increased the frequency of sister chromatid exchanges induced by mitomycin C. However, the result of this test proved that cinnamyl acetate does not cause sister chromatid exchange due to the absence of an alpha-beta unsaturated carbonyl group.\n\nCinnamyl acetate is found in the leaf oils of the \"Cinnamomum osmophloeum\" tree, which grows in central and northern Taiwan. It is found that these oils have antibacterial, antimildew, antitermite, antimite, antifungal and anti-inflammatory activities. Furthermore, the oils show mosquito larvicidal activity against \"Aedes aegypti\" and \"Aedes albopictus\" larvae. However, cinnamyl acetate serves only a minor role in these activities.\n\nMoreover, cinnamyl acetate has a repellent effect on \"Anopheles gambiae\", and is therefore useful to protect against these insects.\n"}
{"id": "1857730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857730", "title": "Constitution Party (Estonia)", "text": "Constitution Party (Estonia)\n\nThe Constitution Party (\"Konstitutsioonierakond\"), known until 11 February 2006 as the Estonian United People's Party (\"Eestimaa Ühendatud Rahvapartei\"), was a political party in Estonia, mainly supported by the Russian minority.\nThe party held 6 seats in the Riigikogu from 1999 to 2003. At the legislative elections of 2 March 2003, it won 2.2% of the popular vote and got no seats. In 2007's election, it fell further to 5,470 votes (1.0%) and again got no seats, despite an active promotion campaign by Russian\nspecial services.\n\nOn 28 June 2008, it merged with the Estonian Left Party to form the Estonian United Left Party.\n\nAccording to the Estonian Internal Security Service the Constitution Party was a puppet-party supported and controlled by Russia, created by the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) as part of their campaign of \"political intelligence manipulations\". Also several members of the party have connections with groups such as Nochnoy Dozor.\n\n"}
{"id": "46695232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46695232", "title": "Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015", "text": "Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015\n\nThe Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It came into force in July 2015.\n\nThe Counter-Terrorism and Security Bill was proposed by Home Secretary Theresa May in November 2014. The press reported it would require Internet service providers to retain data showing which IP address was allocated to a device at a given time. At that time, companies providing internet services were not required to keep records of extra data that can show which individuals have used a particular IP address at a given time, even though this information exists.\n\nThe Home Secretary said the new bill would help security services \"deal with the increased threat that we now see\". She said \"This is a step but it doesn't go all the way to ensuring that we can identify all the people we will need to\". To \"fully identify\" everybody, she said police would need the power to access communication data, as previously proposed in the Draft Communications Data Bill.\n\nIn December 2015, under a remit of the act which places local authorities, prisons, NHS trusts and schools under a statutory duty to prevent extremist radicalisation taking place within their walls, teachers reported a 10-year-old boy to the police after he had misspelled the word \"terraced\" and written \"I live in a terrorist house\". He was subsequently interviewed by police and social services and had his home searched. \n\nIn February 2016, Ken Macdonald warned that the \"prevent\" aspect of the law risked a \"chilling effect\" on academic debate and a \"deadening impact\" on research at universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "50387525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50387525", "title": "Decentralized application", "text": "Decentralized application\n\nA decentralized application (Dapp, dApp or DApp) is an application run by many users on a decentralized network with trustless protocols. They are designed to avoid any single point of failure. They typically have tokens to reward users for providing computing power.\n\nThe definition of a decentralized application is still in development and under debate. The term originates from the Decentralized Application Corporation and decentralized autonomous organization.\n\nTypical definitions include the following attributes:\n\nThere are three types of decentralized applications:\n\nDecentralized applications may run on top of other cryptographic systems such as Ethereum. in December 2017, the popular game CryptoKitties slowed the Ethereum network and exposed the vulnerability of public blockchains to traffic slowdowns. Decentralized applications use Smart Contracts to connect to a blockchain, where the backend of the Dapp runs on a decentralized P2P network.\n\n"}
{"id": "3238894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238894", "title": "Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine", "text": "Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine\n\nThe Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine (DAFM) () is a department of the Government of Ireland. The mission of the department is to lead the sustainable development of a competitive, consumer focused agri-food sector and to contribute to a vibrant rural economy and society. It is led by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine who is assisted by one Minister of State.\n\nThe official headquarters and ministerial offices of the department are in Agriculture House, Kildare Street, Dublin 2. The departmental team consists of the following:\n\nIn carrying out its mandate the Department undertakes a variety of functions including:\n\nThe Department of Agriculture was created at one of the first meetings of Dáil Éireann in 1919 with Robert Barton as the first Minister for Agriculture, Horace Plunkett as the department's first Vice-President, and T. P. Gill as its first Secretary. In 1899, Plunkett had established the Department's forerunner, called the Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction (DATI).\n\nSince Britain is Ireland's main trading partner, Brexit will have a huge impact on Ireland's Agri-food sector. Britain was the market for 270,000 tonnes of Irish beef export. The tariff rates will \"virtually wipe out\" agri-food trade to BrRitain, according to the Irish Farmers' Association president Joe Healy.\n\n"}
{"id": "17529465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17529465", "title": "DisAbled Women's Network Canada", "text": "DisAbled Women's Network Canada\n\nDAWN Canada/Réseau d'action des femmes handicapées du Canada is a Canadian national feminist network controlled by and composed of women who self-identify as women with disabilities. The network also supports local and provincial chapters. DAWN is a member organization of the National Action Committee on the Status of Women, Canada's largest feminist organization.\n\nThe organization began on June 20–23, 1985, at a meeting between seventeen women from across Canada who came together to discuss issues of interest to women with various disabilities. The main purpose of this initial meeting was to plan a larger national gathering of disabled women who would then develop the organization's strategies and goals. Early groups formed in Prince Edward Island, Toronto, Halifax, British Columbia, and Montreal and in Winnipeg, that city's existing group for women with disabilities, the Consulting Committee on the Status of Women with Disabilities also joined the network.\n\nDAWN Canada's mission is \"to end the poverty, isolation, discrimination and violence experienced by women with disabilities, and to fight for women with disabilities to have freedom of choice in all aspects of their lives.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "21673812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21673812", "title": "EULIS", "text": "EULIS\n\nThe European Land Information Service provides direct access to official land registers in Europe. EULIS is owned by a consortium of member countries with expertise in the area of land registration, most of which are government organisations. EULIS was an initiative led by the official bodies for land registration in European countries.\n\nBetween 2001 and 2004 eight different European land information organisations and one university cooperated in developing a demonstrator e-platform for subscribed users of land registries with support and additional funding from the European Commission.\nIn addition the team worked hard to produce online reference information from each participating country.\n\nThe long term aim was to help encourage cross-border lending on the Integration of EU Mortgage Credit Markets. The three-year programme developed the demonstrator into a live service that was officially launched as a live service on 22 November 2006.\n\nThe EULIS portal was in the air until May 2017. At that moment in time it was decided by the members to close the portal. Main reason for the closure was the fact that EU-Commission was building a replacing portal under the Land Registers Interconnection Programme. In 2018 the EULIS organization was abolished. \n\nEULIS is a concept supported by various organisations in the European community. EULIS enjoys active discussion and cooperation with many of these organisations including the European Commission, European Mortgage Federation, European Land Registry Association, Eurogeographics, and the European Business Register.\n\nThe EULIS glossary and reference information assist better understanding of the local environment, not only literally but also the meaning of terminology.\n"}
{"id": "18935410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935410", "title": "Exclusive right", "text": "Exclusive right\n\nIn Anglo-Saxon law, an exclusive right, or exclusivity, is a de facto, non-tangible prerogative existing in law (that is, the power or, in a wider sense, right) to perform an action or acquire a benefit and to permit or deny others the right to perform the same action or to acquire the same benefit. A \"prerogative\" is in effect an exclusive right. The term is restricted for use for official state or sovereign (i.e., constitutional) powers. Exclusive rights are a form of monopoly.\n\nExclusive rights can be established by law or by contractual obligation, but the scope of enforceability will depend upon the extent to which others are bound by the instrument establishing the exclusive right; thus in the case of contractual rights, only persons that are parties to a contract will be affected by the exclusivity.\n\nExclusive rights may be granted in property law, copyright law, patent law, in relation to public utilities, or, in some jurisdictions, in other \"sui generis\" legislation. Many scholars argue that such rights form the basis for the concepts of property and ownership.\n\nPrivately granted rights, created by contract, may occasionally appear very similar to exclusive rights, but are only enforceable against the grantee, and not the world at large.\n\nIn relation to property, an exclusive right will, for the most part, arise when something tangible is acquired; as a result, others are prevented from exercising control of that thing. For example, a person may prohibit others from entering and using their land, or from taking their personal possessions. However, an exclusive right is not necessarily absolute, as an easement may allow a certain level of public access to private land.\n\nMost governments recognize a bundle of exclusive rights in relation to works of authorship, inventions, and identifications of origin. These rights are sometimes spoken of under the umbrella term \"intellectual property.\"\n\nIn Anglo-Saxon property law, exclusive rights have often been the codification of pre-existing social norms with regard to land or chattels.\n\nIn continental Europe there is a view that copyrights, patents, and the like are the codification of some kind of moral right, natural right, or personalitlly right. However, such arguments can only be consistently justified through instrumentalism or consequentialism, as exemplified by the reasoning inferred in Article One of the United States Constitution that copyrights and patents exist solely \"To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6421683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6421683", "title": "Franz Eher Nachfolger", "text": "Franz Eher Nachfolger\n\nFranz Eher Nachfolger GmbH (\"Franz Eher and Successors, LLC\", usually referred to as the Eher-Verlag \"Eher Publishing\") was the central publishing house of the Nazi Party and one of the largest book and periodical firms during the Third Reich. It was acquired by the party on 17 December 1920 for 115,000 Papiermark.\n\nIn addition to the major papers, the\" Völkischer Beobachter\" and the \"Illustrierter Beobachter\", the publishers also printed novels, maps, song books, and calendars. Adolf Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\" was also published by the firm from 1925 through many editions and millions of copies.\n\nThe publishing house was registered by Franz Xaver Josef Eher (1851-1918) in the Munich Handelsregister on 2 December 1901. However, the firm was actually founded with the name \"Münchener Beobachter\" on 2 January 1887. After Eher's death, Rudolf von Sebottendorf took over the firm in 1918 and on 30 September 1919 transformed it into a limited liability company in order to avoid possible bankruptcy.\n\nThe headquarters were in Munich (Thierschstraße 11-17), and from 1933, the entire party literature was printed and published by Eher-Verlag. Later branches in Berlin, Vienna, and additional branches in Munich were established. Between 1933 and 1943, Rolf Rienhard was chief administrator. He was relieved by Wilhelm Baur, who remained until the end of the war.\n\nThe key figure leading the publishing house's expansion, however, was Max Amann, who took over the firm in the 1930s. He also doubled as Reich Press Leader and president of the Reich Press Chamber. In addition to the Eher-Verlag, he controlled nearly the entire economic function of the press in Germany. Often, Amann (in his government role) expropriated rival papers whose publishers were not willing to do the government's bidding. He then had the Eher-Verlag buy them for a pittance, usually in auctions in which the Eher-Verlag was the sole bidder. During the 1930s the Nazi Party purchased parts of the Alfred Hugenberg concerns and a number of other publishing houses. By the 1940s, these tactics turned the Eher Verlag into one of the largest newspaper chains in the world.\n\nIn 1945, the publisher was banned and dismantled. The firm's buildings and intellectual property (including \"Mein Kampf\") were transferred to the state of Bavaria.\n\n"}
{"id": "18471445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18471445", "title": "GI Rights Network", "text": "GI Rights Network\n\nThe GI Rights Network is coalition of nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations that provide free and confidential information to United States military servicemembers, veterans, and their families. Most of the work of the Network is done through the GI Rights Hotline, but the Network also provides email counseling and live in-person counseling in some locales. The Network also maintains a website with easy access to information about discharges, military regulations, GI rights, and other organizations; all information is available in both English and Spanish.\n\nThe Network provides non-directive counseling to callers, with a particular focus on discharges and filing grievances. Counselors do not provide legal advice, but can assist callers in finding lawyers in their area who can give them appropriate advice.\n\nCalls to the official national Hotline number 877-447-4487 are routed to different \"nodes\" of the network based on the area code of the caller. Hotline counselors come from a variety of backgrounds and include veterans, mental health workers and attorneys, but most counselors are not attorneys and do not provide legal advice.\n\nThe Network began in 1994 as a coalition of several organizations committed to peace and non-violence activism. The Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors served as the agent for the coalition for several years by managing the coalition's website, administering the national toll free phone number, and providing funding for a national coordinator for the Network.\n\nIn the fall of 2006, the Network members selected an \"Advisory Council\" to move the Network from an unincorporated association to a democratically operated corporation. The Network was incorporated in California in 2008. The Network member organizations adopted bylaws and elected a board of directors in 2009.\n\nIn Harper's Magazine March 2005 Kathy Dobie's cover story \"AWOL in America\" cites the GI Rights Network as \"a national referral and counseling service for military personnel,\" and uses its counselors as sources for the story. \"On August 23, 2004, I interviewed Robert Dove, a burly, bearded Quaker, in the Boston offices of the American Friends Service Committee, one of the groups involved with the hot line. Dove told me of getting frantic calls from the parents of recruits, and of recruits who are so appalled by basic training that they \"can't eat, they literally vomit every time they put a spoon to their mouths, they're having nightmares and wetting their beds.\"\n\nIn a Chicago Public Radio Interview \"Going AWOL – A Hotline that Helps GIs Consider Their Options,\" (12-12-06) GI Rights counselor, Steve Woolford, explains the reasons why many servicemen and women go AWOL from military service.\n\nIn her second place Hearst Journalism Award Winning features piece \"Sincere Disapproval\" author Leah Lohse references the GI Rights Network for its expertise in dealing with conscientious objection. The story gives a view into the beliefs and struggles of one particular conscientious objector.\n\nA USA Today story on 4/1/2009, \"Army investigating unfit soldiers sent to war,\" cited The GI Rights Hotline for assisting servicemembers who were being deployed with disabilities and other medical problems.\n\n[Army Sgt. Jesse] Raymo said he and others had exhausted their efforts to complain to supervisors and felt their only recourse was working with the GI Rights Hotline to draft a petition outlining their claims of mistreatment to send to members of Congress. He said more than 200 signatures have been gathered, most of them from civilians, and another petition signing event is being planned.\n\nCurrent members and associate members of the Network include (this list includes groups who do not get \"routed\" calls from the Network but do provide other essential services to the Network as a whole):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8468050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8468050", "title": "Gas Exporting Countries Forum", "text": "Gas Exporting Countries Forum\n\nThe Gas Exporting Countries Forum (GECF) is an intergovernmental organization of 11 of the world's leading natural gas producers made up of Algeria, Bolivia, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Iran, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Russia, Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela. GECF members together control over 70% of the world's natural gas reserves, 38% of the pipeline trade and 85% of the liquefied natural gas (LNG) production. The three largest reserve-holders in the GECFRussia, Iran and Qatartogether hold about 57% of global gas reserves.\n\nThe GECF was established in Tehran, Iran, in 2001. Until the seventh ministerial meeting in Moscow, Russia, it operated without charter and fixed membership structure. The seventh ministerial meeting, held on 23 December 2008 in Moscow, adapted the organization's charter. At the same time, it was decided to set up an Executive Office and a Secretariat in Doha, Qatar. On the eighth ministerial meeting in June 2009, energy minister of Qatar Abdullah bin Hamad Al Attiyah was elected as the chairman (president) of the GECF and Algerian energy minister Chakib Khelil was elected as vice-chairman. On the ninth ministerial meeting in December 2009, the vice-president of Russian energy engineering and construction company Stroytransgaz Leonid Bokhanovsky was elected as Secretary-General. He was re-elected at the thirteenth ministerial meeting in December 2011.\nIn 2013, GECF ministers elected Iran’s candidate Mohammad-Hossein Adeli, a former head of central bank and diplomat, as the new Secretary-General of the forum for the next two years.\n\nThe objectives of the GECF are:\n\nThe highest body of the GECF is a ministerial meeting. In between of ministerial meetings, the work is organized through the Secretariat, headquartered in Doha, Qatar. The 2009 chairman of the GECF was Abdullah bin Hamad Al Attiyah and the vice chairman was Chakib Khelil. The Secretary-General is Leonid Bokhanovsky.\n\nThe GECF has had ministerial meetings since 2001:\nHolding the GECF's summit was decided at the 10th ministerial meeting in Oran in 2010. The first GECF's summit was held in Doha on 15 November 2011, under patronage of Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, following the thirteenth ministerial meeting held at the same place on 13 November 2011. Two main issues which were discussed at the summit, were natural gas prices and a common approach to the natural gas market. It was agreed on the summit that the price of gas used to generate electricity is too low and the gap between prices for gas and crude oil need to be narrowed. The linking of gas prices to the oil price was considered. However, the GECF will not set output limits for its members. The final communique issued was the Doha Declaration, which read that GECF members \"recognized the importance of long-term gas contracts to achieve a balanced risk sharing mechanism between producers and consumers\" and \"acknowledge the need to reach a fair price for natural gas based on gas to oil/oil products prices indexation with the objective of an oil and gas price convergence ...\" Russian president Dmitry Medvedev made a statement calling the summit \"an important event, which marked a new stage in the development of the global energy sector and the gas sector in particular.\"\n\nThe members are Algeria, Bolivia, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Iran, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Russia, Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela. Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Iraq, Oman, Peru, Azerbaijan and Norway are observers. Other countries like Turkmenistan, Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the United Arab Emirates, and Yemen have participated at different meetings. Yemen and Angola are interested to become members of the organisation. The full membership will be granted by the approval of at least three quarters of all members.\n\nSince the establishment of the GECF in 2001 there has always been speculation that some of the world's largest producers of natural gas, in particular Russia and Iran, intend to create a gas cartel equivalent to OPEC which would set quotas and prices. The idea of a gas OPEC was first floated by then Russian President Vladimir Putin and backed by Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbaev in 2002. In May 2006 Gazprom deputy chairman Alexander Medvedev threatened that Russia would create \"an alliance of gas suppliers that will be more influential than OPEC\" if Russia did not get its way in energy negotiations with Europe. Iranian officials have explicitly expressed strong support for a gas cartel and held official talks with Russia. Cartel speculation was again raised when the ministers met on 9 April 2007. The 6th Ministerial Meeting of the GECF established an expert group, chaired by Russia, to study how to strengthen the GECF. According to the Algerian Energy and Mines Minister Chakib Khelil, this mean that in the long term the GECF will move toward becoming a gas OPEC. On 11 December 2009, Russia's Energy Minister Sergey Shmatko stated: \"Today we can speak about gas OPEC as a fully fledged international organization. By a unanimous decision a Russian national was elected its secretary general. This is to show that member countries expect Russia to use its political weight to promote it.\"\n\nCreation of the \"Gas OPEC\" was one of the topics of the first GECF's summit. However, some GECF's members are concerned over the gas exports to be politicized.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44184539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44184539", "title": "General Assembly of Aberdeen", "text": "General Assembly of Aberdeen\n\nThe disastrous General Assembly of Aberdeen was held in 1605. A few ministers of the Presbyterian party met in defiance of royal authority and the general assembly was prohibited by royal proclamation.\n"}
{"id": "27852346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27852346", "title": "Global Inheritance", "text": "Global Inheritance\n\nGlobal Inheritance is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization based in Los Angeles, California working to empower individuals worldwide to think and act creatively in solving global issues. The group’s initiatives focus on the power of creativity to communicate and drive progressive social change. Founded in 2002 by Eric Ritz, Global Inheritance has specialized in reaching young audiences to create awareness of environmental and social issues. Because they tailor their work to each specific subculture and event, Global Inheritance has been uniquely successful in reaching audiences around the world.\n\nThe organization is especially known for its work in making major events such as Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, ESPN X Games and Indy 500 more environmentally friendly. Using a variety of programs, from artist-designed recycling bins and recycling incentive programs to energy generating playgrounds and carpool initiatives, Global Inheritance helps events reduce their environmental impact and raise awareness among attendees.\n\nGlobal Inheritance promotes environmental education, sustainability, and social action through a variety of projects, each catered to the specific audience. Below are some of the group's most well-known initiatives.\nThis program bridges art and environmental responsibility to bring new attention to the practice of recycling. Artists redesign empty recycling bins in order to inspire event goers to not only recycle, but to also take ownership in the larger concept of activism. The redesigned bins create eye-catching works that Global Inheritance brings to events across the country, such as Coachella, which has supported the program since 2004. The festival has showcased over a thousand recycling bins over the last eight years, each one an original piece created by artists from around the world. Past artists have included Hunter S. Thompson, Blink-182 and Fugazi. Each year, Global Inheritance donates the decorated bins to local schools, enabling their message to reach an even wider audience and inspire the next generation of activists.\n\nThe TRASHed :: Recycling Store is another program that has been very successful in reducing the environmental footprints of major events, such as Warped Tour, X Games, Virgin Music Festival, Stagecoach Festival, Outside Lands Festival, Coachella (under the title, 10 for 1 Bottle Exchange), Ultra Festival, Treasure Island and more. Founded in 2003, the TRASHed :: Recycling Store has inspired other festivals around the globe including Bonnaroo and Lollapalooza to create incentive based recycling programs. The store awards points for rogue bottles, cans and biodegradable cups that individuals collect in order to encourage people to keep the grounds clean. These points can be exchanged for prizes that range from Loomstate jeans and backstage passes to skateboard decks and autographed memorabilia, depending on the interests of the venue.\n\nLaunched at the 2007 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, the Energy FACTory is an interactive, energy-making museum that uses different mediums to educate the public about renewable energy sources. Through installations, workshops and/or demonstrations, the Energy FACTory provides a unique platform to educate people about wind, solar, bio-diesel, ethanol, thermal, kinetic energy, as well as the truths about other types of non-renewable energy. The Energy FACTory has featured everything from re-engineered golf carts inspired by different Coachella artists, such as an Amy Winehouse ethanol golf cart and a Yeah Yeah Yeahs biodiesel golf cart, to wind powered clock towers, human powered DJ Stages, and educational workshops. The size of the installation can vary from a single stationary bike or listening station to an entire playground depending on the venue.\n\nA spin off of the Energy FACTory, first seen at Coachella 2010 under the name \"Sweatshop Mixer\" and also appearing as “Prius Playground”, “High Plains Mixer”, and “Energy FACTory DJ Mixer”, the Energy Playground consists of bikes, swings, human sized hamster wheels, seesaws, and hand cranks. All of the equipment is set up to harness the energy that is produced by using them. The energy is then converted into electricity to power anything from snow cone machines and cell phone chargers to entire DJ sets. The majority of electricity produced by the playground is stored in the Energy Well, a fully monitor-able and adaptable lithium-ion battery command center. As electricity flows from production devices into the Energy Well, software tracks all aspects of production and can share, in real time, the results of riders’ work. This incentive aims to further introduce people to alternative forms of energy while at the same time realizing the impact, big or small, that they can make as one person or as a group.\n\nLaunched in 2008, The Bigger Picture Film Awards rewards the best cause-based films and documentaries as acclaimed by the public. Participants vote online to support movies highlighting the most pressing issues of our time. Award categories are separated between feature films and documentaries. With the Bigger Picture Film Awards, each voter is encouraged to share their favorite nominees within personal network of friends, family and fellow peers. Every voter is automatically entered to win incredible prizes for their involvement and contribution to make the world see the bigger picture.\n\nOnce the votes are in, Global Inheritance hosts a ceremony in Los Angeles, CA where film producers, actors and movie industry executives gather to receive their awards and celebrate the causes they’re all defending. The 2017 Bigger Picture Film Awards was held at the Ace Hotel in Downtown Los Angeles on March 1.\nGlobal Inheritance partnered with Bill Silva Presents and Andy Hewitt in 2005 to bring Tour Rider to the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles. Concertgoers who utilize public transportation to arrive at the venue can stop by the Tour Rider booth to receive prizes in exchange for their environmentally friendly behavior. The Metro offers several options to get to the Hollywood Bowl, including a direct connection to the venue, making public transportation both a convenient and conscious option. Prizes range from museum and event passes to eco-friendly clothing and accessories. Recent concerts that have featured the Tour Rider program include Paul McCartney, Radiohead, Roger Waters, Kings of Leon, and many more. Tour Rider rewards concertgoers for helping the environment and decreasing traffic congestion, which is especially valuable given the location of the Hollywood Bowl.\n\nStarting in 2006 at the ESPN X Games, Global Inheritance introduced a new program that allows participants to race miniature RC cars that run on alternative fuels/power sources. If attendees can’t afford a hybrid or don’t have a driver’s license, at least they can race an RC cart that is powered by ethanol, biodiesel or charged using solar. These races offer young people and adults alike the opportunity to explore the efficiency of these alternative options. \n\nDebuting at Coachella Music & Arts Festival in 2014, The Saving Nature Arcade is a solar-powered twist on 8 bit video games. Arcade classics have been re-skinned to spotlight key environmental challenges. The walls of the arcade are created using wood signage. Each wood panel is customized to cover a different issue (including waste and recycling, water, energy, carbon footprint, urbanization, and natural resources). Some of the featured titles included No ImPact Man, Urban Frogger, Waste Invaders, Water Patrol and The Dangerous Dig. Festival attendees received free tokens by participating in any of our Saving Nature efforts. Participants competed against other festival attendees for the chance to win backstage passes to see Arcade Fire perform. The Saving Nature Arcade encourages everyone to elevate their game in defending our environment.\n\nThis theme park/environmental museum aimed to expose people of all ages to environmental issues and sustainable living through games, competitions, and exhibits. Located at the Hollywood & Highland complex, the home of the Academy Awards, Environmentaland was the first theme park of its kind. In addition to exploring the impact of global warming through desert miniature golf and touring the eco-planetarium, visitors could participate in the energy playground, which featured a seesaw and Tour de Energy bicycles that generated power. Environmentaland facilitated adventures in self-powered activities as well, such as milkshakes made on bike-powered blenders and a hand-crank Pearl Jam listening station. Environmentaland also featured numerous events while open, including the Bigger Picture, a series of documentaries that focused on environmental and social issues.\nGlobal Inheritance worked with Coachella in 2013 to introduce a program dedicated to bringing awareness to the complexities, issues, and significance of drinking water. This Oasis Water Bar provides an opportunity for festival-goers to learn about the future of drinking water and the potential of fourteen different H2O sources. The Oasis presents its visitors with a refreshing perspective on the future of drinking water by offering shot glasses full of water from several varying sources. The Oasis has its very own bartenders/scientists that are experts in water conservation and ready to offer festival-goers a better understanding of their own water consumption. As shots are poured by the bartenders/scientists, patrons of the bar also hear the back-story of each water type such as where it originated from, how far it traveled to get to the festival grounds, the types of filtration methods used to purify it, and more. Festival-goers can learn what they might be drinking five years, twenty years or fifty years in the future and what needs to happen to preserve certain sources. Visitors to the Oasis taste waters like Purified Wastewater, Desalinated Pacific Ocean Water, Los Angeles Tap Water, Glacier Water, Oregon Rainwater, Hot Spring Water, and more.\n\nGlobal Warming Chess immerses participants and players into a life size game of chess where they are the chess pieces. The game is intended to demonstrate the volatile and unpredictable nature of the fight against global warming. Festival attendees were encouraged to watch as the two opposing sides maneuvered to eliminate each other and dominate the board. During each match, festivals goers competed against bands, a polar bear or Halliburton’s CEO. Donning costumes for each chess piece, participants are divided into sides representing the “causes” and “cures” of global warming. Costumes for the “causes” include, Hummers as pawns, factories as rooks, coal as knights, lobbyists as bishops, trash as queen, and oil derrick as king. “Cure” costumes include, bicycles as pawns, recycling bins as rooks, solar panels as knights, scientists as bishops, a tree as queen, and wind turbine as king. The Global Warming Chess program premiered in 2008 at the Virgin Music Festival in Toronto, Canada.\n\nPublic Displays Of Affection (PDA) was launched in 2006 to recreate the way people in Los Angeles view public transportation. In another combination of environmental sustainability and the arts, Global Inheritance partnered with high-profile bands to reward public transportation riders. PDA took over major venues including Union Station in Los Angeles that are easily accessible by public transport. Anyone with an incoming Metro ticket or bus pass is admitted free of charge. The project aims to prove that public transportation is a viable alternative to LA's car culture. Past concerts have included Ladytron at Hollywood and Highland and the Secret Machines with Shepard Fairey at Union Station.\n\nCurrently contained in a comic book, this epic battle seeks to illustrate the current energy sources competing to provide power to the world, including oil, wind, hydrogen and ethanol. Each energy source is represented in a comic-book style superhero that embodies the advantages and disadvantages of the source. Global Inheritance introduced the various characters at Coachella 2011 and hopes to bring the battle to life in summer of 2014, further educating the public about alternative energy options. Recently, Global Inheritance launched its newest comic book at the Air Quality Management District Conference in March 2012. Modern understanding of different Energy sources is constantly morphing, so keep an eye out for the evolution of different comic book characters.\nLaunched in 2015 at Coachella Arts + Music Festival, Poltar the Great is an interactive, all-knowing, all-telling Polar Bear who is driven to protect the environment. Poltar’s ultimate goal is to educate participants through a one-on-one experience with his keen fortune-telling abilities. A 10-ft tall magical box is the permanent residence of Poltar the Great, and is where his animated automat provides solutions to cope with today’s most pressing environmental issues. Bestowing his wisdom to participants, Poltar provides customized fortune cards depicting Mother Nature’s greatest gifts (the land, the air, the water, the animals, the food, the glaciers, and others). Every person who speaks to Poltar will leave with a mission they must accomplish to keep in good graces with the bear. Following Poltar the Great’s predictions guarantees a better future for all of us. \nIntroduced at Coachella 2012, Recyclosaurus Rex is a 25-foot tall/40-foot long robotic dinosaur that consumes empty water bottles, cans, and other recyclables and compacts them into small cubes of recyclable waste. Recyclosaurus Rex is not only an environmentally conscious and resourceful aid to the recycling process but has been a large attraction and destination point for many festival-goers during the Coachella Music & Arts Festival. Coachella attendees sacrifice their recyclables to stay on good terms with Recyclosaurus Rex while litterers feel the wrath of Rex for refusing to be team players.\n\nOne of Global Inheritance's newest initiatives, the Fire and Ice: Saving Nature World Tour follows the exploits of Super Chill and Smokin' Hot, a DJ duo consisting of a polar bear and a grizzly bear. The two furry friends find themselves in various endangered habitats as destinations of their virtual tour. Global Inheritance issues a monthly interactive update on Smokin' Hot and Super Chill and the global tour stops they DJ in. These updates are opportunities to bring attention to significant areas that represent environmental importance. Tour Destinations include Sichuan, China; Mount Everest; Borneo; Nauru; the Great Barrier Reef; Antarctica; the Amazon Rain Forest; the Galapagos Islands; the Pacific Trash Vortex; the Gulf of Mexico; the Arctic; Greenland; the Dead Sea; the Sahel; Congo; Madagascar; the Florida Everglades; Colorado River; and the Sky Islands.\n\nThe Saving Nature Claw Machine experience raises awareness for endangered and at-risk animals through an innovative and arcade-like experience. The program combines a playful activity and an educative interaction with a powerful message to address the extinction of dozens of animal species. By letting participants choose their \"spirit animal\", the program generates a sense of kin between them, and leads to a broader sense of responsibility towards the animal kingdom. After researching and choosing an animal, participants take a short quiz to learn more about the endangered and at-risk species they selected. This is followed by a photo opportunity inside of a life-size claw machine which is shared afterward onsite with action items to save their species. The last step is for the participant to take command of the claw machine and to seek out and save their animal... After the event, Global Inheritance intends to keep participants updated on ways to protect endangered species through informative messages, educating them on how daily changes can have an impact with such a global issue, but also get involved with protection organizations in the field. The Saving Nature Claw Machine first appeared at the 2017 Coachella Music & Arts Festival.\n\nLaunched in the winter of 2016, Rain Supreme gathered some of California's best street artists to battle the worst drought in the state's history and redesign the way people save water. Participating artists included Jeff McMillian, Mearone, Bumblebeelovesyou, Teddy Kelly, Samir Evol, Drew Merritt, Christina Angelina, Levi Ponce, Vakseen, James Haunt, Clinton Bopp, Ashley Marcias, Brandon Sopinsky, Mark Ravelo, Jeremiah Garcia, Ben Swenson, Nisha Sembi, Jacob Livingood, 2Shae, Jorge Riverol, Vyal, Steve Marinez, and more. Through this program, Global Inheritance provides communities affected by water scarcity the opportunity to collect and store water to be reused for daily watering needs. Each Rain Supreme art and water conservation exhibit provide attendees the opportunity to view the Rain Supreme art collection as well as order their own rain barrels, find out about rain barrel rebate programs in their communities, and learn from water conservationists about best practices and installation tips for their homes.\n\nEver since their first collaboration in 2004, Coachella Music + Arts Festival has been a platform for Global Inheritance to highlight environmental issues. Innovative and interactive experiences like TRASHed: Art of Recycling and Carpoolchella were among the first programs designed to trigger a major reaction from the festival’s audience and raise awareness on sustainability issues inherent to major events. Thanks to their long-term commitment to each other, Global Inheritance and Coachella Music + Arts Festival have implemented new initiatives almost every year to continue to raise awareness among more and more festival attendees, reduce the festival’s carbon footprint, and offer entertaining and educational activities for everyone. Featured programs include Portal Potties (2016), Energy FACTory Museum (2007, 2008), 18 & Up (2009) Energy FACTory DJ Mixer (2010, 2011), Recyclosaurus Rex (2012), Oasis Water Bar (2013), Saving Nature Solar Arcade (2014), Poltar the Great (2015), Polar Bear Dating Game (2016), and the Saving Nature Claw Machine (2017).\n\nThrough its diverse portfolio of programs, Global Inheritance has always focused on improving the experience of festival attendees and participating in Coachella Music + Arts Festival unique atmosphere: offering people solutions to charge their phones at no cost (Energy Playground); contributing to the artistic environment of the festival site (TRASHed :: Art of Recycling); keeping the festival grounds clean (10-4-1, Recycling Store, Recyclosaurus Rex); offering merchandise or experiences as rewards (Carpoolchella, Saving Nature Claw Machine), and more. Thanks to the partnership with the Goldenvoice team and a network of volunteers, Global Inheritance has been given the opportunity and the resources to pursue its mission as a nonprofit 501c3 at Coachella Music & Arts Festival since 2004.\n\nAt A World We Can Change Expo in March, Global Inheritance entertained and educated nearly 8,000 high school students and teachers with the Energy FACTory DJ Mixer, a DJ set powered by attendees of the conference using 18 bikes and two energy seesaws. Attendees also had the opportunity to run on Global Inheritance's Human Hamster Wheels for some healthy competition to power a light tower. Those that were able to light up all ten light bulbs on the tower received cool rewards. The event was a successful outreach to a younger demographic devoted to progressive change.\nArt Basel housed Global Inheritance's Think BIG exhibit, a collaborative project with Threadless. The program invited artists from around the world to redesign miniature recycling bins with a chance to win a spot to redesign a large recycling bin for Coachella as well as a VIP pass, airfare, and accommodation for the festival. Well known artists such as Gürkan Akkurt, Oana Botea, Jennifer Boxer, Jacob Livengood and many more participated. Global Inheritance will be working with Art Basel again in 2013, with plans to implement its largest TRASHed Miami campaign to date.\n\nThis May, Global Inheritance made its first appearance at the Indianapolis 500 with the Energy Playground. The project featured Tour de Energy bicycles as well as the Energy Seesaw that participants used to fuel snow cone machines. The bicycles could also be used to charge cell phones, iPods, and cameras. The re- engineered equipment showed participants the amount of energy that everyday appliances and electronics require in order to develop a heightened awareness of energy consumption among Indy 500 attendees. Similar to the group’s other initiatives, the playground equipment aimed to foster a responsible relationship to the environment.\n\nFounded as \"FashionPeace\" in 2002, Global Inheritance was envisioned by Eric Ritz as \"an NGO advertising agency for mother earth and the improvement of mankind.\" Ritz was frustrated with other environmental organizations that failed to connect with a broader audience, and wanted to create an organization that could connect with people from every walk of life.\nIn addition, he wanted to employ the power of music and art to inspire people, rather than focusing strictly on money as he had seen others do in his experience. \n\nThe early organization partnered with clothing companies and designers to re-purpose old clothing into designer outfits. Although that particular program is now only one of many, the spirit of using creativity to encourage and even glamorize sustainable living remains a foundation of the organization. Early partner companies included Diesel, Levis, Miss Sixty, and American Apparel.\n\nSoon, Ritz was traveling to events to install environmentally aware performance art like the Jiffy Pop tree at Coachella, and by the summer of 2009, Global Inheritance was able to hire two paid employees for the first time. Today the organization is run by a small staff and a cadre of interns and volunteers.\n\nJust short of ten years after its founding, Global Inheritance runs approximately 25-30 programs a year for a variety of festivals, events, and companies\n\n\n"}
{"id": "319258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319258", "title": "Government of the 17th Dáil", "text": "Government of the 17th Dáil\n\nThe 17th Dáil was elected at the 1961 general election on 4 October 1961 and first met on 11 November when the 10th Government of Ireland was appointed. The 17th Dáil lasted for 1,281 days.\n\nThe 10th Government of Ireland (11 November 1961 – 21 April 1965) was formed by the Fianna Fáil party.\n"}
{"id": "16411824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16411824", "title": "Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008", "text": "Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008\n\nThe Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 () would have authorized funding levels for the 13 government intelligence agencies and increased oversight for the U.S. intelligence community. The bill would have also applied the standards in the U.S. Army Field Manual to the entire government, effectively barring the CIA and other agencies from using tactics like waterboarding in their interrogations. The bill was sponsored by Rep. Silvestre Reyes (D, TX-16).\n\nThe bill was vetoed by President Bush and did not receive enough votes for an override.\n\nTwo days after Barack Obama became president he issued an executive order ordering the CIA to apply the standards of the U.S. Army Field Manual.\n\nIntroduced on May 1, 2007, the House passed a version of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (H.R. 2082) less than two weeks later, by a vote of 225-197. \n\nThe Senate soon followed suit after a modest amount of internal debate, approving a similar version of the intelligence bill in a voice vote on October 3, 2007.\n\nWhen the bill came out of conference committee on Dec. 6, 2007, it had a provision barring the CIA and the rest of the federal government from many interrogation tactics criticized as \"torture\" and \"abusive\" by civil liberties groups, including waterboarding. The provision was inserted by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.).\n\nThe inserted provision would limit the CIA to the 19 interrogation tactics in the U.S. Army Field manual, effectively banning waterboarding, exposure to extreme temperatures and other techniques used on War on Terror detainees after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the U.S. It bans a total of eight interrogation techniques: mock executions, beatings, electrical shocks, forced nakedness, sexual acts, causing hypothermia and heat injuries.\n\nCongress had banned such attacks from being used by the military through the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) had sponsored the Act, but opposed the conference committee ban because, he said, it applied military standards to intelligence agencies. McCain also said that waterboarding was forbidden under current law but asked the Bush administration to clarify the matter by declaring it illegal.\n\nThe House approved the bill, by a vote of 222-199.\n\nBefore the Senate voted In February, there were two weeks of debate over the CIA's use of waterboarding on three al-Qaeda prisoners in 2002 and 2003. The United States Department of Justice was also expected to tell the House that \"there has been no determination by the Justice Department\" was legal or illegal. The Bush administration had also just announced that it planned to put six War on Terror detainees from Guantanamo Bay - five of which had been subjected to the CIA tactics - on trial for involvement in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.\n\nThe Senate approved the conference report by a 51-45 vote on Feb. 13, 2008.\n\nAs he promised, President Bush vetoed the legislation on March 8. His veto applied to the authorization for the entire intelligence budget for the 2008 fiscal year, but he cited the waterboarding ban as the reason for the veto.\n\nOn March 11, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) attempted but failed to lead the House in a vote overriding the veto, 224-188.\n\n"}
{"id": "30263721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30263721", "title": "Internavi", "text": "Internavi\n\nInternavi is a vehicle telematics service offered by the Honda Motor Company to drivers in Japan. In the United States, the service is known as HondaLink, or sometimes MyLink. It provides mobile connectivity for on-demand traffic information services and internet provided maps displayed inside selected Honda vehicles. The service began August 1997 and was first offered in the 1998 Honda Accord and the Honda Torneo sold only in Japan starting July 1998. The service received a revision to services offered October 2002, adding traffic information delivery capabilities for subscribers to the Internavi Premium Club, and was optional on most Honda vehicles sold in Japan. VICS was integrated into the service starting September 2003. Membership in the service has steadily grown to exceed 5 million subscribers as of March 2007.\n\nThe subscription service replaces the need to periodically update in-car navigation systems that use CD, or DVD installed maps that must be updated with the latest information. The maps are sent by internet connections established through the drivers cellphone with a data download plan associated with the cellphone.\n\nThe service is available without having to purchase a Honda vehicle installed with the technology; The Internavi LINC is available at both the Apple App Store and Android Market and can be installed on compatible mobile devices.\n\nOne of the features offered is the ability to overlay weather information on the in-car map screen in 3D. Route guidance is provided in conjunction with VICS provided information so as to display a large weather disturbance approaching, such as a snow storm or typhoon, allowing drivers to take alternate routes.\n\nThe following is a description of the various elements that comprise Honda's \"Internavi\" information service, including integration of the Japanese governments nationally offered service VICS, or Vehicle Information and Communication System Press release for Internavi introduction\n\nThe technology is dependent on the user's cell phone service, and uses the data download plan associated with the users account. Once connected, one of the services available is route calculations towards a specific destination. The navigation technology interface connects to the server automatically at the Internavi Information Center, calculations and route planning is then determined towards establishing the quickest route towards the selected destination. The identified route also takes into consideration all currently known traffic and local transportation issues that may affect the plotted course from the VICS center, which is updated every five minutes based on reports from various sources. As travel begins towards the destination, any updated conditions are \ninstantly relayed to the vehicle in real time. If cellphone service connection is lost, information will be updated as the connection is reestablished. Under normal navigation conditions, FM-multiplex broadcast VICS will prompt when specific conditions become aware, such as traffic congestion. The plotted course is then modified based on new information received to adjust travel time information, to include inter-city motorway links. Information received to vehicles installed with Internavi technology are installed with an antenna externally installed. Information is also transmitted by transmitter towers located throughout Japan, identified with a \"Beacon Light\" located on main urban roads. In this manner vehicles with Internavi receive information from both the \"beacon light\" towers and by individual cellphones paired up' with vehicles, providing highly accurate information in real time.\n\nAs the vehicle travels, either on a planned destination or unguided autonomous driving, the vehicle installed with Internavi records the vehicle's GPS position and speed onto the vehicle's hard disk drive, and periodically updates to the Internavi Center Information Server. This autonomous information is then retransmitted towards other users, notifying of road conditions. Vehicles installed with previous internal maps utilizing a DVD are not given updated traffic conditions. Speed conditions are then displayed in three colors—red, orange and blue—to signify traffic congestion conditions, overlaid with updated VICS known conditions. This feature can be deactivated by the driver if position and speed of the individual vehicle does not want to be transmitted, however by doing so, road conditions can not be shared unless the tracking system is activated. Reports will then be limited to VICS information only. Road conditions can be specifically defined towards individual lane conditions, as opposed to general road conditions, such as to identify a traffic incident in a particular lane. As the information is stored by various contributing vehicles, congestion prediction can also be provided. Road conditions are transmitted by the VICS system, however, Internavi provides additional and more specific road and traffic conditions based on individual lane conditions provided by vehicles recording Internavi \"floating car\" conditions, specifying which lane and the direction of the road itself. Internavi supporting traffic information is transmitted by individual driver's cell phones, and if cellphone conditions are disrupted, the information is recorded onto the vehicles HDD, so that when cellphone reception is restored, all recorded information is then transmitted and updates are sent towards participating vehicles.\n\nInternavi participating vehicles also benefit from available parking spaces, whether it be on the street or in parking structures, public or private parking, from Internavi-equipped vehicles having made available a parking space. The space is also defined by the size of the leaving vehicle so that vehicles looking for a parking space can be reasonably confident the vacant space will accommodate the arriving vehicle.\n\nAs of October 2004, inclement weather conditions are overlaid onto the Internavi display map when the orientation of the map is displayed in 3D. This ability displays weather fronts as they approach the vehicles current position.\n\nWhen playing a CD, the Internavi operating system provides the ability to save a particular song or the entire contents of the CD onto the hard disk within the vehicle. Information about the CD is then provided by Gracenote.\n\nThe HDD map data is automatically updated for 24 months from registration, or up to 3 times map data on DVD sourced information before the first Japanese Government mandated vehicle inspection. After the time period has lapsed, map data updating is a supplementary service.\n\nIf the vehicle has been sent to Honda dealers for repair, the HDD map data is completely upgraded to the most current data available. Any music files stored in the HDD will be safeguarded to prevent accidental deletion.\n\nThe Member ID and password issued at the time of admission, which provides a personal home page in conjunction with the car navigation features. Key features, drive information, drive configuration spot, and notification of when maintenance is based on information sent from the car navigation system mileage. Users can plan ahead drive on a personal website, on a list that you have a destination, it is possible to easily perform the setting operation in the car destination. In addition, in June 2005 \"Departure Time Traveller\" is added a feature called, departure city, destination, and enter the desired arrival time, departure time and route recommendation, etc. To display the toll charges due.\n\nInternavi also offers a hands-free phone call service to call for assistance, such as an accident, or a road emergency. The service also provides a 24-hour roadside assistance service and vehicle towing service. The service is an additional ¥2,000 enrollment fee, plus an JAF enrollment with an annual fee ¥4,000 \"Confederation of Japan Automobile\". The service is three years complimentary for owners of the Honda Legend and the Honda Elysion with the V6 engine. This service also provides a live operator who can provide additional road assistance services in comparison to other points and to ensure alternative means of transportation and lodging expenses when it becomes impossible to continue driving.\n\nHonda's hybrid vehicles Honda Insight, the Honda CR-Z, and the Honda Fit Hybrid provide information such as Internet navigation information, and it records the accumulated mileage of the vehicle, which can be compared to other Hybrid owners vehicles and comparisons made towards other driver's habits.\n\nWhen a Honda product with an Internavi compatible navigation system installed is purchased, the new owner can have the system activated by visiting any Japanese Honda dealership. The new owner then completes an application form to register the vehicle and pertinent information about the owner of the vehicle. Once completed, a PIN and activation instructions are sent to the owner.\n\nOlder vehicles that were not sold with Internavi installed, but were compatible with the technology can be retrofitted with the system by visiting any Honda dealer, or by visiting \"Honda Access\" accessories retailers and have Internavi installed. In Japan, an automobile parts retail chain called \"Autobacs\" sells an in-dash navigation system built by Honda called \"\" that is compatible with the Internavi technology, and can install the equipment into any vehicle. Previous navigation technology that uses either DVD loaded maps or use a Hard Disk Drive may be compatible with Internavi. In addition, the DVD navigation system installed in the JDM Honda MDX can be upgraded and made compatible with Internavi. The JDM Honda Odyssey, Elysion, and the Honda Edix also have older versions of in-car navigation systems that can be upgraded. Pioneer \"Carrozzeria\" products are also found to be compatible.\n\nWhen Internavi was introduced, NTT DoCoMo's \"mova\" (Link to Docomo Glossary) and \"au\" phone, using CDMA 1X WIN technology was compatible. Phones that are identified with 3G technology can be paired with Internavi using a Bluetooth connection. In Japan, telecom company WILLCOM offers flat-rate telecommunications services, depending on the type of third generation mobile navigation what can be connected directly to telephone or cable for in home use on personal computers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1313417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1313417", "title": "James Charles Kopp", "text": "James Charles Kopp\n\nJames Charles Kopp (born August 2, 1954) is an American citizen who was convicted in 2003 for the 1998 sniper-style murder of Barnett Slepian, an American physician from Amherst, New York who performed abortions. Prior to his capture, Kopp was on the FBI's list of Ten Most Wanted Fugitives. On June 7, 1999 he had become the 455th fugitive placed on the list by the FBI. He was affiliated with the militant Roman Catholic anti-abortion group known as \"The Lambs of Christ\".\n\nHe has been referred to as a terrorist by the National Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism, and was \"well-known in militant anti-abortion circles, where he was nicknamed Atomic Dog\".\n\nJames Charles Kopp was born in Pasadena, California and raised Lutheran, but later converted to Roman Catholicism. He graduated from the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1976, with a bachelor's degree in Biology, going on to take a master's degree in Embryology from California State University Fullerton. Kopp started providing support to anti-abortion groups after his girlfriend underwent an abortion, and used his technical abilities to create special locks that protesters then used on the doors of abortion clinics.\n\nOn October 23, 1998, at approximately 10 p.m., Barnett Slepian was standing in the kitchen of his home in Amherst, New York. Kopp fired a single shot from a rifle from a nearby wooded area, which entered the Slepian home through a rear window. Slepian was a well-known obstetrician/gynecologist who performed abortions at a women's clinic in Buffalo, New York. He also maintained a private medical practice in an office in Amherst, New York. Within hours of the murder, anti-abortion militants posted Slepian's name crossed out on their internet website, which also served as \"a virtual hit list of doctors who carry out abortions\".\n\nThe FBI believed that Kopp received assistance in fleeing the US, although Irish pro-life groups denied they assisted him.\n\nKopp fled to Mexico under an assumed name and later to Ireland. He then fled Ireland one step ahead of police on a ferry to Brittany, France on 12 March 2001, with two Irish passports besides his original U.S. document.\n\nOn March 29, 2001, Kopp was arrested by French law enforcement in the town of Dinan, Brittany, just after picking up a package containing $300. The United States requested his extradition. Attorney General John Ashcroft promised that the death penalty would not be sought, handed down or applied, a prerequisite according to the extradition treaty between France and the United States. Ashcroft's promise was made over the objections of New York State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and Erie County District Attorney Frank Clark, both of whom wanted the death penalty, though such a sentence is not available in the New York State criminal justice system. Spitzer and Clark argued that the charge of murder was a state charge, not a federal charge, and Ashcroft had no jurisdiction in the matter. The instruction chamber of the Rennes Court of Appeals ruled in favor of extradition. Kopp appealed the ruling. \n\nIn May 2002, Kopp waived all possible appeals in France and returned to the U.S. in June 2002. \n\nOn March 11, 2003, Kopp waived his right to a jury trial. Based upon an agreement between the defense and prosecution — Erie County Assistant District Attorney Joseph Maruszak and defense attorney Bruce Barkett — Erie County Judge Michael D'Amico would be required to find Kopp guilty or not guilty based on a single document of facts. In addition, the judge could not consider lesser charges; he had to find Kopp guilty or not guilty of second-degree murder. Kopp had confessed his role in the shooting to police, claiming he only meant to wound Slepian. D'Amico found him guilty and sentenced him to the maximum penalty, 25 years to life imprisonment, on May 9, 2003. D'Amico told Kopp \"It's clear the act is premeditated; there is no doubt about it. You made an attempt to avoid responsibility for the act. What may appear righteous to you is immoral to someone else.\" The Appellate Division, Fourth Department, upheld the conviction on July 7, 2006 (Shawn P. Hennessy, attorney for respondent and Timothy Murphy, attorney for appellant).\n\nKopp filed an appeal with Federal court. Judge Richard Joseph Arcara was selected to preside. Arcara limited what Kopp could say on the stand and prohibited the defense from showing pictures of aborted fetuses. There are also limitations to witness' accounts. If found guilty in Federal court, Kopp faces a mandatory life sentence. Kopp was charged with violating the Clinic Entrances Act and using a weapon in the murder of Slepian. Kopp chose to act as his own attorney. On the second day of the federal trial, and during cross examination, Kopp moved to have the court reporter from his previous state trial read back statements pertaining to abortion. Judge Arcara forbade this, holding that under the Federal Rules of Evidence, Kopp was barred from stating anti-abortion, religious or moral reasoning for his actions, which effectively prevented Kopp from giving any rationale for his actions. \n\nKopp was also charged in the United States District Court for the Western District of New York on a count of violating the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act. Kopp dismissed his court-assigned attorney, an assistant federal public defender, and chose to represent himself. On June 20, 2007, he was sentenced to life imprisonment plus 10 years for illegal use of a firearm. Additionally, the court ordered his belongings auctioned off in order to pay $2.6 million to Slepian's family. Arcara told Kopp at the end of the trial:\n\nIn his opening statement to the jury, Kopp said that although Slepian's death was \"a full-bore, 100 percent tragedy\" it wasn't murder because it was not malicious or premeditated. He did acknowledge that he had planned the shooting for a year, and that he fired a high-powered rifle with telescopic sights, but that he had only meant to wound the doctor (to keep him from performing abortions). Kopp claimed that murder means \"Shoot them in the head, blow up a car, riddle their body with bullets like they do in the movies. That's how you kill someone.\"\n\nOn April 6, 2009, The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the life sentence holding that all issues raised were without merit. \n\nIt has been speculated that Kopp has committed other crimes besides killing Slepian. The FBI notes that \"the shooting was similar to shootings in the Rochester, New York area, and three Canadian cities during the fall of 1997, in which abortion doctors were shot in their homes\". Kopp has been charged by Canadian authorities in the 1995 shooting of an Ontario, Canada doctor, Hugh Short, one of a string of Remembrance Day Shootings.\nGarson Romalis and Jack Fainman were also shot and wounded by unknown assailants. An unnamed Perinton doctor was shot on October 28, 1997; the bullet narrowly missing his or her head. His or her name has been withheld by Monroe County police.\n\nKopp received help from a sympathetic pro-life activist couple, a Vietnam veteran and former stage and film actor Dennis Malvasi and his wife Loretta Marra of Brooklyn, who pleaded guilty to one count each of conspiracy in helping Kopp avoid capture. Marra and Malvasi had communicated extensively with Kopp, telling him also via electronic communications that \"the coast is clear\", referring to his proposed secretive return to US via Canada, and also to his use of their home as a safe house. On August 21, 2003, they were sentenced to time served, and released in October that same year. The fugitive assisters later changed their names to Joyce Maier and Ted Barnes.\n\nThe murder of Barnett Slepian inspired an episode of \"\", \"The Third Horseman\", in season 1, episode 11.\n\nSinger/songwriter, Ani DiFranco wrote and performed the song, \"Hello, Birmingham\" about Kopp's shooting of Dr. Slepian. It is the sixth track on her tenth studio album, \"To The Teeth.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10577625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10577625", "title": "James Stewart (lawyer)", "text": "James Stewart (lawyer)\n\nJames Stewart is a London-based family lawyer.\n\nThe son of a County Tyrone farmer, Stewart was educated at Coleraine Academical Institution in County Londonderry, and the University of Essex. He attended the College of Law, Chester.\n\nStewart qualified as a solicitor in 1990, was accredited by Resolution as a specialist family lawyer in 1999. A year later he was appointed partner and head of the family department at Reynolds Porter Chamberlain. In 2003 he was profiled in the \"On the Verge\" series of the Observer magazine . He became a partner at Manches, now Penningtons Manches LLP, in 2006, shortly after being elected as a Fellow of the International Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers (IAML).\n\nHe is ranked as a leading individual in the 2015 edition of Legal 500, Spears WMS Legal Index and in Chambers UK 2011.\n\nIn January 2009 Stewart was appointed Governor of the IAML and invited to become a member of the Times Law Panel, an advisory body of 100 of the country's most prominent barristers and solicitors. In January 2011 Stewart was named in the Lawyer Magazines ‘Hot 100’ listing.\n\nStewart has acted on a number celebrity and high-profile divorces. His clients have included Pricilla Waters (in her divorce against Roger Waters) and Julie Le Brocquy, producer of BAFTA award-winning \"Osama\". Stewart also successfully represented Glory Annen Clibbery in the landmark family/Human Rights Act 1998 case of Clibbery v Allan (2002), where he won at first instance and on appeal. He also acted for the successful claimant, Kerry Cox, in the widely publicised cohabitation case of Cox v Jones in 2004. His firm, Penningtons Manches, represented Guy Ritchie in his divorce with his wife Madonna.\n\nIn 2015 Stewart's book, Family Law: Jurisdiction Comparisons, was published by Sweet and Maxwell.\n\nStewart lives in Covent Garden, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59122740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59122740", "title": "Jury sentencing", "text": "Jury sentencing\n\nJury sentencing is the practice, in some U.S. states, of having juries decide what penalties to give those who have been convicted of criminal offenses. The practice of jury sentencing began in Virginia in the 18th century and spread westward to other states that were influenced by Virginia-trained lawyers. As of 2018, Arkansas, Kentucky, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas, and Virginia have sentencing by jury. Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, Illinois, Mississippi, Montana, Tennessee, and West Virginia had jury sentencing in times past, but then abandoned it.\n\nProponents of jury sentencing argue that since sentencing involves fact-finding (a task traditionally within the purview of juries), and since the original intent of the founders was to have juries check judges' power, it is the proper role of juries to participate in sentencing. Opponents argue that judges' training and experience with the use of presentence reports and sentencing guidelines, as well as the fact that jury control procedures typically deprive juries of the opportunity to hear information about the defendant's background during the trial, make it more practical to have judges sentence defendants.\n\nThe impetus for introducing jury sentencing was that in the late 18th century, punishment options expanded beyond shaming sanctions and the mandatory death penalty and came to include various ranges and modes of imprisonment, creating more room for case-by-case decisionmaking to which juries were thought to be well-suited.\n\nVirginia was the first state to adopt jury sentencing. The state's first constitution was enacted in 1776, and shortly thereafter, in 1779, Thomas Jefferson proposed to the Virginia General Assembly a revised criminal code that would have eliminated pardons and benefit of clergy, abolished capital punishment for most offenses, and allowed juries to decide punishments when the penalty was discretionary. This bill failed, however, both in 1779 and 1786, after James Madison had reintroduced it while Jefferson was in France.\n\nSentencing by jury was, however, successfully enacted in Virginia's 1796 penal code, which like the 1779 bill replaced capital punishment with terms of imprisonment for most felony offenses. Kentucky adopted a penal reform bill introduced by John Breckenridge that implemented sentencing by jury in 1798. While in Virginia, magistrates continued to have misdemeanor sentencing power (possibly because of the political influence of magistrates who served in the General Assembly), in Kentucky, this power was given to juries. Kentucky juries tried and sentenced slaves and free blacks, and even decided cases involving prison discipline, imposing punishments such as flagellation or solitary confinement for infractions. Georgia and Tennessee adopted sentencing by jury in 1816 and 1829, respectively.\n\nIn contrast, northern states such as Pennsylvania, Maryland, New Jersey, and New York allowed judges to determine penalties, with Pennsylvania also allowing judges to pardon prisoners who, in their view, had evidenced sincere reformation. One hypothesis is that Virginia opted for jury sentencing because Federalists like George Keith Taylor distrusted the Republican district court judges; while in Pennsylvania, the Constitutionalists sought (over the objections of Republicans) to put sentencing power in the hands of the judges because the bench was populated by Constitutionalists. North Carolina, South Carolina, and Florida, which did not establish penitentiaries until after the American Civil War, also left sentencing to judges' discretion.\n\nThe adoption of jury sentencing happened at the same time that the movement for an elective judiciary gathered speed, with at least four states, Alabama, Mississippi, Montana, and North Dakota switching to judicial elections around the same time that they adopted jury sentencing. Both reforms may have been due to a mistrust of unelected judges.\n\nDuring the ten years of the Republic of Texas, judges determined sentences. The \nchange to jury determination of the penalty was brought about by one of the first laws passed by the first legislature of the State of Texas in 1846, which empowered the jury to sentence the defendant in all criminal cases except capital cases and cases for which punishment was fixed by law.\n\nIndiana, Illinois, Arkansas, Oklahoma, and West Virginia adopted jury sentencing later in the 19th century.\n\nThe 1895 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in \"Sparf v. United States\" reflected growing concern that letting juries decide whether or how the law should be applied in particular cases could be detrimental to the rule of law. By 1910, the role of juries in determining penalties was being eroded by the professionalization of sentencing, as many states passed laws that created parole and probation systems.\n\nThese systems were based on a consequentialist philosophy that it would be more useful for society to focus on finding ways to prevent future crime than on fixing blame for crime that had occurred in the past. Criminal behavior was viewed as the result of such factors as heredity, social circumstances, random breeding, and Darwinian struggle, rather than an abuse of divinely-granted free will. Psychology and sociology would determine the causes of crime and what social reforms and treatment programs would correct them.\n\nProbation officers gathered and analyzed information about the defendant's character and prepared a presentence report that served as the basis for the ultimate sentence. Probation provided opportunities for treatment in the community for juveniles and adults. In the prison system, parole commissioners, trained in penology and insulated from political pressures, determined when prisoners had been rehabilitated and could be reintegrated into society.\n\nThe process of preparing a presentence report, which takes weeks, only begins after the defendant is convicted, since if he/she were to be acquitted, the effort that went into preparing the report would be wasted. It would, therefore, not be possible for juries to sentence the defendant at the time of conviction, if the jury needed to rely on a presentence report in making its sentencing decision; rather, the jury would need to be broken up and reassembled later, which could be unworkable if the delay between verdict and sentencing is substantial.\n\nFurthermore, jury control procedures typically provide that during the trial, information about the defendant's background that is not relevant to the issue of guilt is not to be presented in the presence of the jury, lest it prejudice him. The assumptions that presentence reports would be more informative than presentence hearings, and that training and experience were required to intelligently consider the data and assess sanctions, militated in favor of having a judge rather than a jury do the sentencing. In the case of \"McKeiver v Pennsylvania\", the U.S. Supreme Court held that alleged juvenile delinquents have no right to a jury trial, with Harry Blackmun and three other Justices opining that an adversarial system would put an end to the prospect of a intimate, informal protective proceeding focused on rehabilitation.\n\nGeorgia and Tennessee both had periods (from 1937-1939, and from 1913-1923, respectively) in which they briefly abandoned jury sentencing while experimenting with indeterminate sentencing. By 1919, fourteen states gave juries sentencing powers in non-capital cases, although by 1960, that number had dropped to thirteen.\n\nBy the 1970s and 1980s, determinate sentencing, a new intellectual current that repudiated the rehabilitative model with its focus on using mathematical models and grids to determine sentences, had made inroads, making jury sentencing seem like more of an anachronism. Georgia permanently abandoned jury sentencing in 1974 and Tennessee did the same in 1982. By the 1980s, Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Montana, and North Dakota had also abandoned jury sentencing, and Mississippi was using jury sentencing only in rape and statutory rape cases. Oklahoma abolished jury sentencing but reinstated it in 1999.\n\nAccording to some commentators, the time is ripe for a revival of jury sentencing, because flaws in the determinate sentencing systems are becoming increasingly apparent. Lawmakers drafting legislation such as the Sentencing Reform Act have had difficulty mustering the political will to make clear choices among opposing moral and ideological viewpoints, instead delegating these decisions to agencies that lack the representativeness and democratic origin of legislatures. Prosecutors have routinely circumvented the sentencing guidelines through their charging and plea bargaining decisions, creating a new set of disparities, despite the intent of the guidelines to curtail disparities. Determinate sentencing has also failed to reduce racial disparity in sentencing.\n\nAlso, some juries have been acquitting guilty defendants to save them from what they regard as overly harsh mandatory minimum sentences, such as those imposed by the Rockefeller Drug Laws and California's three-strikes law. There have been movements to abolish sentencing commissions and guideline systems and inform jurors of their right to nullify. Decisions like \"Apprendi v. New Jersey\" (requiring a jury, rather than a judge, to find any facts that would increase a defendant's maximum sentence) and \"Ring v. Arizona\" (requiring a jury, rather than a judge, to find whether there are aggravating factors justifying capital punishment) have also signaled a willingness by the judiciary to expand the role of the jury in the legal process.\n\nJury sentencing has been seen as a way to in many cases render moot the questions raised by \"Apprendi\" and related cases such as \"Blakely v. Washington\" and \"United States v. Booker\" about the differences between elements of an offense and sentencing factors by letting the jury decide all the facts. Cases such as \"Miller v. Alabama\" and \"Graham v. Florida\" (banning mandatory life imprisonment without parole, and life imprisonment without parole in non-homicide cases, respectively, for juveniles, as contrary to the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution's prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment) also raise a question of whether the Supreme Court logically should allow only a jury, rather than a judge, to determine a juvenile should receive such a sentence, given the parallels between adult capital punishment case law and juvenile life imprisonment with parole case law.\n\nIn Virginia, under the 1796 act, capital punishment remained mandatory for first-degree murder, but the penalty for second-degree murder was any term between five and eighteen years in the penitentiary. The 1796 act gave the court in murder cases the authority to \"determine the degree of the crime, and to give sentence accordingly\" when a defendant was \"convicted by confession.\" The judge's discretion to set sentences in cases of confession did not exist in Kentucky.\n\nIn Missouri, informing juries of sentences of defendants in similar cases or the sentences of co-participants in the crime on trial is strictly prohibited under the rules of evidence.\" Similarly, the Kentucky truth in sentencing statute, which generally increases the information available to sentencing juries, does not provide for sentencing guidelines and statistics. Kentucky courts have also held parole eligibility statistics inadmissible. The military at one time provided jurors with sentencing statistics and guidelines was the military, but this practice ended in the late 1950s as the military's judicial philosophy shifted its emphasis away from sentencing uniformity and towards individualized judgments. The United States Court of Military Appeals held that jurors were not to consider sentences in similar cases or to consult the sentencing manual.\n\nUnder Virginia's current system, jurors are controversially not allowed access to the Commonwealth's sentencing guidelines or to information about whether sentences will run consecutively or concurrently, and until 2000 were also not informed that parole had been abolished in Virginia. A judge must justify any departure from the jury's recommendation in writing to the Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission. Less than one-quarter of jury-recommended sentences are modified by judges. Due to concerns about juries' imposing higher sentences than what the sentencing guidelines would suggest, many defendants opt either for bench trials or plea bargains.\n\nStates with jury sentencing have often allowed judges to intervene in the sentencing process, e.g. by reducing the sentence imposed by the jury, imposing hard labor or solitary confinement in addition to the jury's assessment of fines, or determining the place of confinement imposed by the jury. In Alabama, judges were allowed to override juries' recommendations of life imprisonment and impose capital punishment instead, until a 2017 law took that power away. All jury sentencing states except Texas allow the judge to fix the punishment in case the jury fails to agree on a sentence, making it impossible for there to be a mistrial due to a hung jury at sentencing.\n\nArguments that have been raised for sentencing by jury are that judges can be arbitrary (depending, e.g., on their mood at the time of sentencing) and partisan, and that putting the same person in charge of both deciding sentences and extending leniency (e.g. through pardons) centralizes too much power in one person. Also, different judges may be inconsistent in the judgments they render. Another argument in favor of jury sentencing is that the punishment equitably due is best determined by the particular circumstances of the case, rather than by legal technicalities; and that a jury is well-equipped for this purpose. Also, if juries have power to give a lenient sentence, they may be less likely to engage in jury nullification by acquitting a guilty defendant whom they believe is undeserving of severe punishment.\n\nAn argument based on the Sixth and Seventh Amendments to the United States Constitution is that criminal and civil juries have similar societal functions, including checking the abuse of governmental power, injecting community values into legal decisions, and aiding public acceptance of legal determinations; and therefore the criminal system should have juries decide sentences much as the civil system has juries decide judgments.\n\nArguments that have been raised against sentencing by jury are that juries are not as accountable as judges; that putting them in charge of determining both guilt and the sentence concentrates too much power in one body; and that different juries may differ widely in the sentences they impose. Counterarguments are that the lack of accountability of jurors to a higher authority preserves their judicial independence, and that judges are also capable of differing from other judges in the sentences they impose. Judges may even deviate from their own usual sentencing practices if the case is high-profile or a judicial election is coming up. Also, disparities are not always a sign of arbitrariness; sometimes they may reflect geographical differences in public attitudes toward a given crime, or a jury's taking proper account of the individual circumstances of each offender.\n\nIt is sometimes argued that an unreasonable juror may force the rest of the jury into an undesirable compromise to find the defendant guilty but impose an overly light sentence. A counter-argument is that whether this is bad or good is a matter of perception since \"one juror's principled holdout is another juror's irrational nullification. One jury's 'compromise' is another jury's perfectly appropriate give-and-take deliberations.\"\n\nAccording to University of Chicago Law School lecturer Jenia Iontcheva, sentencing decisions are well-suited to being made through a process of deliberative democracy rather than by experts such as judges, since they involve deeply contested moral and political issues rather than scientific or technical issues. She argues that since sentencing requires individualized, case-by-case assessments, sentences should be decided through small-scale deliberation by juries, as opposed to having lawmakers codify general policies for mechanical application by judges.\n\nAn advantage Iontcheva cites of having juries come together to deliberate on sentences is that the jurors may alter their preferences in the light of new perspectives. She argues that the hearing and consideration of diverse opinions will give the sentencing decisions greater legitimacy, and that engaging ordinary citizens in government through this process of deliberative democracy will give these citizens confidence about their ability to influence political decisions and thus increase their willingness to participate in politics even after the end of their jury service. Racial and other minorities may also benefit from having greater representation among jurors than among judges.\n\nIn jurisdictions that do not have any statutory provisions formally allowing jury sentencing, judges have sometimes consulted with the jury on sentencing anyway. At the federal level, the practice of polling the jury and using their input in sentencing was upheld on appeal by the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nSentencing is said to be more time-consuming for jurors than the relatively easy task of ascertaining guilt or innocence, which means an increase in jury fees and in the amount of productivity lost to jury duty. In New South Wales, a 2007 proposal by Chief Justice Jim Spigelman to involve juries in sentencing was rejected after District Court Chief Judge Reg Blanch cited \"an expected wide difference of views between jurors about questions relating to sentence\". Concerns about jury tampering through intimidation by defendants were also raised.\n\nGermany and many other continental European countries have a system in which professional judges and lay judges deliberate together at both the trial and sentencing stages; such systems have been praised as a superior alternative because the mixed court dispenses with most of the time‐consuming practices of jury control that characterize Anglo‐American trial procedure, yet serves the purposes of a jury trial better than plea bargaining and bench trials, which have displaced the jury from routine American practice.\n\nCivil rights leader James Bevel was sentenced to 15 years in prison pursuant to the recommendation of a Virginia jury that found him guilty of having sex with his teenage daughter in the 1990s when they lived in Leesburg. The sentencing range had been 5 to 20 years.\n"}
{"id": "25536085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25536085", "title": "Kirking of the parliament", "text": "Kirking of the parliament\n\nThe kirking of the parliament is a modern ceremony, adapted from those performed in the original Parliament of Scotland which was founded in the Middle Ages and adjourned in 1707. It was re-introduced as a multi-faith service to coincide with the opening of the Scottish Parliament which was devolved from the United Kingdom Parliament and reconvened in 1999. It takes place every 4 years.\n\nThe Kirking is led by the Minister of St Giles' Cathedral, Edinburgh, while the sermon is given by the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. The services have typically consisted of readings from the Bible, the Qur'an, and Jewish prayers, and are concluded by an act of commendation.\n\nThe service is attended by the leaders of all the main parties and previous Kirkings have been attended by the Duke of Rothesay, musicians from the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama (now the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland) and the National Youth Orchestra of Scotland, as well as lobbyists.\n"}
{"id": "53732223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53732223", "title": "Law Reform and Development Commission", "text": "Law Reform and Development Commission\n\nThe Law Reform and Development Commission (LRDC) is a government commission established in 1992 in Namibia, that creates reports making recommendations for legal reforms. In 2014, \"New Era\" reported that the Ministry of Justice was not seriously following up on reports submitted as far back as 2003. The LRDC is an independent panel of experts from the government that is part of the Commonwealth Association of Law Reform Agencies.\n"}
{"id": "22519539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22519539", "title": "Legatus Augusti pro praetore", "text": "Legatus Augusti pro praetore\n\nA legatus Augusti pro praetore (literally: \"envoy of the emperor - acting praetor\") was the official title of the governor or general of some imperial provinces of the Roman Empire during the Principate era, normally the larger ones or those where legions were based. Provinces were denoted imperial if their governor was selected by the emperor, in contrast to senatorial provinces, whose governors (called proconsuls) were elected by the Roman Senate.\n\nA \"legatus Augusti\" was always a senator of consular or praetorian rank (i.e. who had previously held the office of consul or praetor). However, the position of the governor of Egypt (\"praefectus Aegypti\") was unparalleled, for though an \"eques\" (Roman knight) he had legions under his command. Some smaller imperial provinces where no legions were based (e.g. Mauretania, Thrace, Rhaetia, Noricum, and Judaea) were administered by equestrian \"praefecti\" (prefects) later designated \"procuratores\" (procurators) who commanded only auxiliary forces. The \"legatus Augusti\" was both the head of the provincial administration, chief judicial officer and commander-in-chief of all military forces based in the province (legions and auxiliaries). The only function outside the remit of the \"legatus\" was finance (the collection of imperial taxes and revenues), which was handled by an independent \"procurator\", who reported direct to the emperor.\n\nIn the military hierarchy, the \"legatus\" ' direct subordinates were the \"legati legionis\" (the commanders of the legions based in the province), who in turn commanded the \"tribuni militum\" (the legion's senior staff officers) and the \"praefecti\" (commanders) of the auxiliary regiments attached to the legion.\n\nIn AD 68, 15 out of a total of 36 provinces were ruled by \"legati Augusti\": Hispania Tarraconensis, Lusitania, Gallia Aquitania, Gallia Lugdunensis, Gallia Belgica, Britannia, Germania Inferior, Germania Superior, Moesia, Dalmatia, Galatia, Cappadocia, Lycia et Pamphylia, Syria and Numidia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50305311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50305311", "title": "List of globalization-related indices", "text": "List of globalization-related indices\n\nThis article lists various economic and human development measurements related to the study of globalization.\n\n"}
{"id": "938252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938252", "title": "Manitoba Grey Party", "text": "Manitoba Grey Party\n\nThe Manitoba Grey Party was a political party in Manitoba, Canada, focusing on senior's issues. The party appears to have been founded in 2002, at the same time as the Grey Party of Canada and other provincial Grey Parties.\n\nThe national party was formed to address the health needs of seniors, and was particularly concerned with the high cost of prescription drugs. It also promoted a \"right-wing populist\" ideology on other issues, claiming that Canada's legal profession held too much sway over government policy. It is likely that the provincial party advocated similar positions.\n\nThe Grey Party may have attempted to register with Elections Manitoba before the 2003 provincial election; if so, it was unsuccessful. The party does not appear to have sponsored any candidates in the election.\n\nThe Grey Party of Canada seems to have collapsed later in 2003, and it is not clear if the Manitoba organization still exists.\n\nThe Manitoba Grey Party's first (and perhaps only) leader was Lou Hemming.\n\nSee also: Political parties of Canada\n"}
{"id": "47541124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47541124", "title": "Marcus Cooper (property developer)", "text": "Marcus Cooper (property developer)\n\nMarcus Simon Cooper (born c. 1966) is a British property developer, known for buying and selling several of London's most expensive private houses, including Witanhurst, London's second largest private residence after Buckingham Palace. His companies own over 1000 rental properties, and are undertaking projects that are estimated to have a total end value of £1.5 billion.\n\nMarcus Simon Cooper was born around 1967.\n\nIn 1991, he founded the Marcus Cooper Group, a property developing, trading and investment company. He also runs West End Investments Limited, set up in 2013, from offices at 16 Finchley Road, London NW8.\n\nIn 2007 Cooper bought Witanhurst in Highgate, London's second largest private residence after Buckingham Palace, for £30 million, and sold it 2008 for £50 million.\n\nIn 2012, the \"London Evening Standard\" reported that Cooper's companies owned over 1000 rental properties and \"are involved in 50 development projects with an end value of £1.5 billion.\"\n\nIn 2013, Cooper bought the UK's \"most expensive terraced house\", 1 Cornwall Terrace, for £80 million.\n\nIn 2013, Cooper obtained a 150-year lease on five properties at 6–10 Cambridge Terrace and 1–2 Chester Gate, close to Regent's Park, in order to have them combined to create a £200 million seven-storey \"supermansion\", with 15 bedrooms and 35 bathrooms. In October 2014, \"The Guardian\" reported that fellow property developer Christian Candy had bought the \"seven Grade I-listed John Nash townhouses\" from Cooper for about £100 million, using a British Virgin Islands company.\n\nIn July 2013, Cooper's West End Investments bought The Star, St John’s Wood from the pub company Punch Taverns for £2.1 million, and attempted to get planning permission to turn it into a luxury house. This was unsuccessful and it is now an estate agent.\n\nIn May 2013, Cooper donated £100,000 to the British Conservative Party, in addition to £65,000 previously donated by Cooper and his company.\n"}
{"id": "25128080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25128080", "title": "Multi-party authorization", "text": "Multi-party authorization\n\nMulti-party authorization (MPA) is a process to protect a telecommunications network, data center or industrial control system from undesirable acts by a malicious insider or inexperienced technician acting alone. MPA requires that a second authorized user approve an action before it is allowed to take place. This pro-actively protects data or systems from an undesirable act.\n\nExisting methods to protect data and systems from the malicious insider include auditing, job rotation and separation of duties. Auditing is a reactive method meant to discover who did what after the fact. Job rotation and separation of duties are limiting techniques meant to minimize prolonged access to sensitive data or systems in order to limit undesirable acts. In contrast, MPA is a pro-active solution.\n\nAn advantage MPA has over other methods to protect from undesirable acts by a malicious insider or inexperienced operator is that MPA is pro-active and prevents data or systems from compromise by a single entity acting alone. MPA prevents the initial undesirable act rather than dealing with a breach or compromise after the fact.\n\nMulti-party authorization technology can secure the most vulnerable and sensitive activities and data sources from attack by a compromised insider acting alone. It is somewhat analogous to weapons systems that require two individuals to turn two different keys in order to enable the system. One person cannot do it alone. Another example is to consider access to a lock box in a bank. That access requires multiple parties, one the lock box owner and another a bank official. Both individuals act together to access the lock box, while neither could do so alone. MPA, in like manner, ensures that a second set of eyes reviews and approves of activity involving critical or sensitive data or systems before the action takes place.\n\nMulti-party authorization is suitable for a wide variety of applications. MPA can be implemented to protect any type of sensitive data in electronic form or any activity within a network infrastructure or computerized control system. An electronic health record is an example of a data record that could be protected by MPA. Multi-party authorization provides pro-active protection from undesirable acts by the inexperienced technician or malicious insider.\n\nUS Patent 7,519,826, issued: April 14, 2009 for \"Near Real Time Multi-Party Task Authorization Access Control\"\n\nIT BusinessEdge, Nov 25, 2009 \"Protecting From the Malicious Insider: Multi Party Authorization\"\n"}
{"id": "56106708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56106708", "title": "National Council of European Resistance", "text": "National Council of European Resistance\n\nThe National Council of European Resistance (, officially abbreviated as CNRE) is a France-based political organization that was founded by Renaud Camus and Karim Ouchikh on by analogy to the National Council of the Resistance. It has links to the identitarian movement.\n\nThe Council is intended to bring together qualified French and European personalities who aspire to \"work for the defence of European civilization\"—to oppose the Great Replacement, immigration to Europe, and, more generally, to defeat \"replacist totalitarianism\", a concept theorized by Renaud Camus.\n\nMembers of the Council include high-ranking European officials, such as former President of the Czech Republic Václav Klaus, former members of the European Parliament Jean-Yves Le Gallou and Paul-Marie Coûteaux, current member of the European Parliament Janice Atkinson, and former \"député\" to the National Assembly of France Christian Vanneste, as well as Africanist historian Bernard Lugan, Roman Catholic abbot Father Guy Pagès, and Swiss-American businesswoman Eliana Benador. It is strictly enlarged by co-option.\n\nIn a public address in Colombey-les-Deux-Églises—the village where Charles de Gaulle is buried—Renaud Camus announced the foundation of the National Council of European Resistance and asked for a collective European commitment.\n\nThe name \"Conseil national de la résistance européenne\" is a reference to the coordinating body of the French Resistance during the German occupation of France—the National Council of the Resistance.\n\nWhen asked how the CNRE could be both national and European, Renaud Camus replied:\nAs of June 2018, members of the CNRE include:\n\n is a legal association created concurrently with the Council under the French law of 1901. Its purpose is to welcome natural persons and legal entities of French or foreign nationality, who wish to actively support the action of the CNRE, by relaying its ideas, through militant actions or through financial contributions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071970", "title": "Noocracy", "text": "Noocracy\n\nNoocracy ( or ), or \"aristocracy of the wise\", as defined by Plato, is a social and political system that is \"based on the priority of human mind\", according to Vladimir Vernadsky. It was also further developed in the writings of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin.\n\nThe word itself is derived from Greek nous, Gen. noos (νους) meaning \"mind\" or \"intellect\", and \"kratos\" (κράτος), \"authority\" or \"power\".\n\nOne of the first attempts to implement such a political system was perhaps Pythagoras' \"city of the wise\" that he planned to build in Italy together with his followers, the order of \"mathematikoi\". In modern history, similar concepts were introduced by Vladimir Vernadsky, who did not use this term, but the term \"noosphere\".\n\nAs defined by Plato, noocracy is considered to be the future political system for the entire human race, replacing democracy (\"the authority of the crowd\") and other forms of government.\n\nMikhail Epstein defined noocracy as \"the thinking matter increases its mass in nature and geo- and biosphere grow into noosphere, the future of the humanity can be envisioned as noocracy—that is the power of the collective brain rather than separate individuals representing certain social groups or society as whole\".\n\nIn the European Commission Community Research publication, \"Art & Scientific Research are Free: Towards a Culture of Life\", it states several commentaries by Hans Jonas and especially Ladislav Kovác about Noocracy.\n\nIf Plato called his conception of governments a \"sophocracy,\" then a political system characterized by social experimentation with a scientific institutionalized base could be called a \"noocracy.\" Noocracy would not be the reign of the philosopher-king as seen in Plato. Nor would it be governed by science or the scientists. Power, a power acquired and maintained according to the laws of competition, would remain in the hands of the political elites but with these elites being professionally trained, making the most of the analysis, the forecasts and the propositions emanating from a vast array of advisory groups made up of experts from all areas of science, and setting up fieldwork experiments.\n\nTake for example the current controversy about genetically modified food or organisms (GMO), a textbook case about setting up such a policy:\n\nWithin a noocracy in its own right, GMO would be tested in one or several areas or nations and scientifically monitored by all, under the aegis of a main administration body. With, at the end of the day, the costs and profits equitably shared by all. The principle of precaution, highly controversial at the present time, would then be applied, without slowing-down nor impeding the implementation of scientific inventions.\n\nSupporters of the noocratic theory mainly depart from the empirical evidence that most voters in modern democracies are largely ignorant, misinformed and irrational. Therefore, \"one person one vote\" mechanism proposed by democracy cannot be used to produce efficient policy outcomes, for which the transfer of power to a smaller, informed and rational group would be more appropriate. The irrationality of voters inherent in democracies can be explained by two major behavioral and cognitive patterns. Firstly, most of the voters think that the marginal contribution of their vote will not make a difference on election outcomes; therefore, they do not find it useful to inform themselves on political matters. In other terms, due to the required time and effort of acquiring new information, voters rationally prefer to remain ignorant. Moreover, it has been shown that most citizens process political information in deeply biased, partisan, motivated ways rather than in dispassionate, rational ways. This psychological phenomenon causes voters to strongly identify themselves with a certain political group, specifically find evidence to support arguments aligning with their preferred ideological inclinations, and eventually vote with a high level of bias.\n\nIrrational political behaviors of voters prevent them from making calculated choices and opting for the right policy proposals. On the other hand, many political experiments have shown that as voters get more informed, they tend to support better policies, demonstrating that acquisition of information has a direct impact on rational voting. For example, Martin Gilens notes in his research that low-income democrats tend to have more intolerant thoughts pertinent to LGBT rights, whereas high-income democrats have the opposite preferences. Moreover, supporters of noocracy see a greater danger in the fact that politicians will actually prefer to implement the policy decisions of citizens to win elections and stabilize their power, without paying particular attention to the content and further outcomes of these policies. In democracies, the problem is thus not only that voters are prone to make bad policy decisions, but also that politicians are incentivized to implement these policies due to personal benefits. Therefore, noocrats argue that it makes sense to limit the voting power of citizens in order to prevent bad policy outcomes.\n\nAccording to noocrats, given the complex nature of political decisions, it is not reasonable to assume that a citizen would have the necessary knowledge to decide on means to achieve their political aims. In general, political actions require a lot of social scientific knowledge from various fields, such as economics, sociology, international relations, and public policy; however, an ordinary voter is hardly specialized enough in any of those fields to make the optimal decision. To address this issue, Christiano proposes a ruling system based on division of political labor, in which citizens set the agenda for political discussions and determine the aims of the society, whereas legislators are in charge of deciding on the means to achieve these aims. For noocrats, transferring the decision-making mechanism to a body of specifically trained, specialized and experienced body is expected to result in superior and more efficient policy outcomes. Recent economic success of some countries that have a sort of noocratic ruling element provides basis for this particular argument in favor of noocracy.\n\nFor instance, Singapore has a political system that favors meritocracy; the path to government in Singapore is structured in such a way that only those with above-average skills are identified with strict university-entrance exams, recruiting processes, etc., and then rigorously trained to be able to devise best the solutions that benefit the entire society. In the words of country’s founding father, Lee Kuan Yew, Singapore is a society based on effort and merit, not wealth or privilege depending on birth. This system primarily works due to citizens’ belief that political leaders tend to have a better understanding of country’s long-term plans than themselves; therefore, as they see positive policy outcomes, they tend to go along with the system, rather than complain about the meritocratic dimensions. For example, most citizens praise their government in Singapore, stating that it managed to transform Singapore from a third world country to a developed economy, and that it successfully fostered loyalty in its citizens towards the country and gave birth to a unique concept of Singaporean citizenship despite a great level of ethnic diversity. In order to develop further Singapore’s technocratic system, some thinkers, like Parag Khanna, have proposed for the country to adapt a model of direct technocracy, demanding citizen input in essential matters through online polls, referenda, etc., and asking for a committee of experts to analyze this data to determine the best course of action.\n\nProponents of democracy attempt to show that noocracy is intrinsically unjust on two dimensions, using the \"unfairness\" and \"bad results\" arguments. The former states that since people with different income levels and education backgrounds have unequal access to information, the epistocratic legislative body will be naturally composed of citizens with higher economic status, and thus fail to equally represent different demographics of the society. The latter argument is about the policy outcomes; since there will be a demographic overrepresentation and underrepresentation in the noocratic body, the system will produce unjust outcomes, favoring the demographically advantaged group. Brennan defends noocracy against these two criticisms, presenting a rationale for the system.\n\nAs a rejection of the unfairness argument put forward by democrats, Brennan argues that the voting electorate in modern democracies is also demographically disproportionate; based on empirical studies, it has been demonstrated that voters coming from privileged background, such as white, middle aged, higher-income men, tend to vote at a higher rate than other demographic groups. Although de jure every group has same right to vote under \"one person one vote\" assumption, de facto practices show that privileged people have more influence on election results. As a result, the representatives will not match the demographics of the society either, for which democracy seems to be unjust in practice. With the right of type of noocracy, the unfairness effect can actually be minimized; for instance, enfranchisement lottery, in which a legislative electorate is selected at random by lottery, and then incentivized to become competent to address political issues, illustrates a fair representation methodology thanks to its randomness.\n\nTo refute the latter claim, Brennan states that voters do not vote selfishly; in other terms, the advantaged group does not attempt to undermine the interests of the minority group. Therefore, the worry that noocratic bodies that are demographically more skewed towards the advantaged group make decisions in favor of the advantaged one fails. According to Brennan, noocracy can serve in a way that improves the welfare of the overall community, rather than certain individuals.\n\nNoocracies, like technocracies, have been criticized for meritocratic failings, such as upholding of a non-egalitarian aristocratic ruling class. Others have upheld more democratic ideals as better epistemic models of law and policy. Noocracy criticisms come in multiple forms, two of which are those focused on the efficacy of noocracies and the political viability of them.\n\nCriticisms of noocracy in all its forms - including technocracy, meritocracy, and epistocracy (the focus of Jason Brennan's oft-cited book) - range from support of direct democracy instead to proposed alterations to our consideration of representation in democracy. Professor Hélène Landemore, while arguing for representatives to effectively enact legislation important to the polity, criticizes conceptions of representation that aim especially to remove the people from the process of making decisions, and thereby nullify their political power. Noocracy, especially as it is conceived in Jason Brennan's \"Against Democracy\", aims specifically to separate the people from the decision on the basis of the immensely superior knowledge of officials who will presumably make superior decisions to laypeople.\n\nJason Brennan's epistocracy, specifically, is at odds what is commonly considered the supreme form of government - democracy - and with certain criteria for democracies that theorists have proposed. Robert Dahl's \"Polyarchy\" sets out certain rules for democracies that govern many people and the rights that the citizens must be granted. His demand that the government not discriminatorily heed the preferences of full members of the polity is abridged by Brennan's \"restricted suffrage\" and \"plural voting\" schemes of epistocracy. In the eighth chapter of his book, Brennan posits a system of graduated voting power that gives people more votes based on established levels of education achieved, with the amount of additional votes granted to a hypothetical citizen increasing at each level, from turning sixteen to completing high school, a bachelor's degree, a master's degree, and so forth. Dahl wrote, however, that any democracy that rules over a large group of people must accept and validate \"alternative sources of information.\" Granting the full powers of citizenship based on a system like formal education attainment does not account for the other ways that people can consume information, is the commonly cited argument, and still eschews consideration for the uneducated within a group.\n\nNoocracy also receives criticism for its claims to efficiency. Brennan writes that one of the many reasons that common people cannot be trusted to make decisions for the state is because reasoning is commonly motivated, and, therefore, people decide what policies to support based on their connection to those proposing and supporting the measures, not based on what's most effective. He contrasts real people with the ultra-reasonable vulcan that he mentions throughout the book. That vulcan reflects Plato's philosopher king and, in a more realistic sense, the academic elites whom Michael Yong satirized in his essay \"The Rise of the Meritocracy\". Modern political theorists don't necessarily denounce a biased viewpoint in politics, however, though those biases are not written about as they are commonly considered. Professor Landemore utilizes the existence of cognitive diversity to argue that any group of people that represents great diversity in their approaches to problem-solving (cognition) is more likely to succeed than groups that do not. She further illustrates her point by employing the example of a New Haven task force made up of private citizens of many careers, politicians, and police who needed to reduce crime on a bridge without lighting, and they all used different aspects of their experiences to discover the solution that was to install solar lamps on the bridge. That solution has proven effective, with not a single mugging reported there since the lamp installation as of November 2010. Her argument lies mainly in the refutation of noocratic principles, for they do not utilize the increased problem solving skill of a diverse pool, when the political system because as debate between elites alone, and not a debate between the whole polity.\n\nTo some theorists, noocracy is built on a fantasy that will uphold current structures of elite power, while maintaining its inefficacy. Writing for the \"New Yorker\", Caleb Crain notes that there's little to say that the vulcans that Brennan exalt actually exist. Crain mentions a study that appears in Brennan's book that shows that even those who have proven that they have superb skills in mathematics do not employ those skills if their use threatens their already-held political belief. While Brennan utilized that study to demonstrate how deeply rooted political tribalism is in all people, Crain drew on this study to question the very nature of an epistocratic body that can make policy with a greater regard to knowledge and truth than the ordinary citizen can. The only way to correct for that seems, to many, to be to widen the circle of deliberation (as discussed above) because policy decisions that were made with more input and approval from the people last longer and even garner the agreement of the experts. To further illustrate that experts, too, are flawed, Cairn enumerates some of the expert-endorsed political decisions that he has deemed failures in recent years: \"invading Iraq, having a single European currency, grinding subprime mortgages into the sausage known as collateralized debt obligations.\"\n\nWith the contention around the reasoning for those political decisions, political theorist David Estlund posited what he considered to be one of the prime arguments against epistocracy - bias in choosing voters. His fear was that the method by which voters, and voters' quantity of votes, was chosen might be biased in a way that people had not been able to identify and could not, therefore, rectify. Even the aspects of the modes of selecting voters that are known cause many theorists concern, as both Brennan and Cairn note that the majority of poor black women would be excluded from the enfranchised polity and risk seeing their needs represented even less than they currently are.\n\n"}
{"id": "146032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146032", "title": "Official Irish Republican Army", "text": "Official Irish Republican Army\n\nThe Official Irish Republican Army or Official IRA (OIRA) was an Irish republican paramilitary group whose goal was to remove Northern Ireland from the United Kingdom and create a \"workers' republic\" encompassing all of Ireland. It emerged in December 1969, shortly after the beginning of the Troubles, when the Irish Republican Army split into two factions. The other was the Provisional IRA. Each continued to call itself simply \"the IRA\" and rejected the other's legitimacy. Unlike the \"Provisionals\", the \"Officials\" were Marxist and worked to form a united front with other Irish communist groups, named the Irish National Liberation Front (NLF). The Officials were called the NLF by the Provisionals and were sometimes nicknamed the \"Red IRA\" by others.\n\nIt waged a limited campaign against the British Army, mainly involving shooting and bombing attacks on troops in urban working-class neighbourhoods. Most notably, it was involved in the 1970 Falls Curfew and carried out the 1972 Aldershot bombing. In May 1972, it declared a ceasefire and vowed to limit its actions to defence and retaliation. By this time, the Provisional IRA had become the larger and more active faction. Following the ceasefire, the OIRA began to be referred to as \"Group B\" within the Official movement. It became involved in feuds with the Provisional IRA and the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA), an OIRA splinter group formed in 1974. It has also been involved in organized crime and vigilantism.\n\nThe Official IRA was linked to the political party Official Sinn Féin, later renamed Sinn Féin the Workers Party and then the Workers' Party of Ireland.\n\nThe split in the Irish Republican Army, soon followed by a parallel split in Sinn Féin, was the result of the dissatisfaction of more traditional and militant republicans at the political direction taken by the leadership. The particular object of their discontent was Sinn Féin's ending of its policy of abstentionism in the Republic of Ireland. This issue is a key one in republican ideology, as traditional republicans regarded the Irish state as illegitimate and maintained that their loyalty was due only to the Irish Republic declared in 1916 and in their view, represented by the IRA Army Council.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the republican movement under the leadership of Cathal Goulding radically re-assessed their ideology and tactics after the dismal failure of the IRA's Border Campaign in the years 1956–62. They were heavily influenced by popular front ideology and drew close to communist thinking. A key intermediary body was the Communist Party of Great Britain's organisation for Irish exiles, the Connolly Association. The Marxist analysis was that the conflict in Northern Ireland was a \"bourgeois nationalist\" one between the Ulster Protestant and Irish Catholic working classes, fomented and continued by the ruling class. Its effect was to depress wages, since worker could be set against worker. They concluded that the first step on the road to a 32-county socialist republic in Ireland was the \"democratisation\" of Northern Ireland (i.e., the removal of discrimination against Catholics) and radicalisation of the southern working class. This would allow \"class politics\" to develop, eventually resulting in a challenge to the hegemony of both what they termed \"British imperialism\" and the respective unionist and Irish nationalist establishments north and south of the Irish border.\n\nGoulding and those close to him argued that, in the context of sectarian division in Northern Ireland, a military campaign against the British presence would be counter-productive, since it would delay the day when the workers would unite around social and economic issues.\n\nThe sense that the IRA seemed to be drifting away from its conventional republican roots into Marxism angered more traditional republicans. The radicals viewed Ulster Protestants with unionist views as \"fellow Irishmen deluded by bourgeois loyalties, who needed to be engaged in dialectical debate\". As a result, they were reluctant to use force to defend Catholic areas of Belfast when they came under attack from Ulster loyalists—a role the IRA had performed since the 1920s. Since the Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association marches began in 1968, there had been many cases of street violence. The Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) had been shown on television in undisciplined baton charges, and had already killed five non-combatant civilians, three were children. The Orange Order's \"marching season\" during the summer of 1969 had been characterised by violence on both sides, which culminated in the three-day \"Battle of the Bogside\" in Derry.\n\nThe critical moment came in August 1969 when there was a major outbreak of intercommunal violence in Belfast and Derry, with eight deaths, six of them Catholics, and whole streets ablaze. On 14–15 August loyalists burned out several Catholic streets in Belfast in the Northern Ireland riots of August 1969. IRA units offered resistance, however very few weapons were available for the defence of Catholic areas. Many local IRA figures, and ex-IRA members such as Joe Cahill and Billy McKee, were incensed by what they saw as the leadership's decision not to take sides and in September, they announced that they would no longer be taking orders from the Goulding leadership.\n\nDiscontent was not confined to the northern IRA units. In the south also, such figures as Ruairí Ó Brádaigh and Sean MacStiofain opposed both the leadership's proposed recognition of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. This increasing political divergence led to a formal split at the 1969 IRA Convention, held in December. when a group led by Ó Brádaigh and MacStiofán walked out. The split resulted from a vote at the first IRA Convention where a two-thirds majority voted that republicans should take their seats if elected to the British, Republic of Ireland or Northern Ireland Parliaments. At a second convention, a group consisting of Mac Stiofáin, Dáithí Ó Conaill, Ó Brádaigh, Joe Cahill, Paddy Mulcahy, Leo Martin, and Sean Tracey, were elected as the \"Provisional\" Army Council. Their supporters included Seamus Twomey.\n\nAccounts at that time suggest that the IRA members split roughly in half, with those loyal to the Goulding-led \"Official\" IRA prominent in some areas while the Provisional IRA were prominent in others. IRA historian J. Bowyer Bell stated, with respect to the Provisional IRA: \"There was some support in Belfast, although less than claimed\" (p. 367). A strong area for the Official IRA in Belfast was the Lower Falls and Markets district, which were under the command of Billy McMillen. Other OIRA units were located in Derry, Newry, Strabane, Dublin, and Wicklow and other parts of Belfast. However, the Provisionals would rapidly become the dominant faction, both as a result of intensive recruitment in response to the sectarian violence and because some Official IRA units (such as the Strabane company) later defected to them.\n\nThere was a similar ideological split in Sinn Féin after a contentious 1970 Sinn Féin Ard Fheis. The leadership of Sinn Féin passed a motion to recognise the Parliaments in London, Dublin and Stormont but failed to attain the prerequisite two-thirds majority necessary to change Sinn Féin's constitutional opposition to 'partitionist' assemblies. Those defeated in the motion walked out. This resulted in a split into two groups with the Sinn Féin name. Those supportive of Seán Mac Stiofáin's \"Provisional Army Council\", were referred to in the media as Provisional Sinn Féin or 'Sinn Féin Kevin St' and contested elections as Sinn Féin. The other group, under the leadership of Tomás Mac Giolla, was to contest elections first as 'Official Sinn Féín', then Sinn Féin The Workers' Party and aligned itself with the Official IRA, as the Marxist faction had come to be known. The party retained the historic Sinn Féin headquarters of Gardiner Street, thus giving legitimacy to its claim, in the eyes of some, to be the legitimate successor of that party. It was briefly known popularly as 'Sinn Féin Gardiner Place'.\n\nThe Officials were known as the \"Stickies\" because they sold stick-on lilies to commemorate the Easter Rising; the Provisionals, by contrast, were known as \"Pinnies\" (pejoratively \"Pinheads\") because they produced pinned-on lilies. The term Stickies stuck, although Pinnies (and Pinheads) disappeared, in favour of the nickname \"Provos\" and for a time, \"Provies\".\n(The paper-and-pin Easter Lily of the IRA was the traditional commemorative badge of the Easter Rising, whereas the self-adhesive Easter Lily of the Officials was a novel invention, symbolic of the divergence of opinion between them).\n\nInitially there was much confusion among republicans on the ground; Martin McGuinness for example, joined the Official IRA in 1970, unaware that there had been a split and only later joined the Provisionals. The Provisionals eventually extended their armed campaign from defence of Catholic areas. Despite the reluctance of Cathal Goulding and the OIRA leadership, their volunteers on the ground were inevitably drawn into the violence. The Official IRA's first major confrontation with the British Army came in the Falls Curfew of July 1970, when over 3,000 British soldiers raided the Lower Falls area for arms, leading to three days of gun battles. The Official IRA lost a large amount of weaponry, and their members on the ground blamed the Provisionals for starting the firing and then leaving them alone to face the British. The bad feeling left by this and other incidents led to a feud between the two IRAs in 1970, with several shootings carried out by either side. The two IRA factions arranged a truce between them after the OIRA killing of Provisional activist, and Belfast brigade D-Company commander, Charlie Hughes (a cousin of the well-known Provisional Brendan Hughes).\n\nSoviet defector Vasili Mitrokhin alleged in the 1990s that the Goulding leadership sought, in 1969, a small quantity of arms (roughly 70 rifles, along with some hand guns and explosives) from the KGB. The request was approved and the weapons reportedly arrived in Ireland in 1972, although this has not been independently verified. On the whole, the OIRA had a more restricted level of activity than the Provisionals. Unlike the Provisionals, it did not establish \"de facto\" control over large Catholic areas of Belfast and Derry and its use of force was more defensive. However it retained a strong presence in certain localities, notably the Lower Falls Road, Andersonstown, Turf Lodge and the Markets areas of Belfast, along with a strong presence in Derry (particularly Free Derry in the Bogside area) as well as Newry and South County Down.\n\nWhile the OIRA occasionally fought the British Army and the RUC throughout 1970 (as well as the Provisional IRA during a 1970 feud), they did not have a strong paramilitary presence until early 1971. In August 1971, after the introduction of internment without trial, OIRA units fought numerous gun battles with British troops who were deployed to arrest suspected republicans. The Official IRA company in the Markets area of Belfast, led by Joe McCann, held off an incursion into the area by over 600 British troops. In December 1971, the Official IRA killed Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) Senator John Barnhill at his home in Strabane. This was the first murder of a politician in Northern Ireland or the Republic of Ireland since the assassination of Free State Minister for Justice Kevin O'Higgins in 1927. In February 1972, the organisation also made an attempt on the life of UUP politician John Taylor.\n\nOn Bloody Sunday, an OIRA man in Derry is believed by the Saville Inquiry to have fired a shot with a revolver at British troops, after they had shot dead 13 civil rights demonstrators the only republican shots fired on the day and contrary to his orders. The anger caused by Bloody Sunday among Irish people was such that the Official IRA announced that it would launch an \"offensive\" against British forces.\n\nHowever, the OIRA declared a ceasefire later in the same year. The ceasefire, on 30 May, followed a number of armed actions which had been politically damaging. The organisation bombed the Aldershot headquarters of the Parachute Regiment (the main perpetrators of Bloody Sunday), but killed only six civilians and a Roman Catholic army chaplain. After the killing of William Best, a Catholic British soldier home on leave in Derry, the OIRA declared a ceasefire. In addition, the death of several militant OIRA figures such as Joe McCann in confrontations with British soldiers, enabled the Goulding leadership to call off their armed campaign, which it had never supported wholeheartedly.\n\nAlthough formally on ceasefire (except for \"defensive actions\") since 1972, the Official IRA continued some attacks on British forces up until mid-1973, killing seven British soldiers in what it termed \"retaliatory attacks\". In addition, the OIRA's weapons were used intermittently in the ongoing feud with the Provisionals. This flared up into violence on several occasions, notably in October 1975. 11 republicans on either side were killed in the feud and a nine-year-old girl was shot dead by the Provisionals when they tried to shoot her father.\n\nIn 1974, radical elements within the organisation who objected to the ceasefire, led by Seamus Costello, established the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA). Another feud ensued in the first half of 1975, during which three INLA and five OIRA members were killed. The dead included prominent members of both organisations including Costello and the OIRA O/C, Billy McMillen. However, from the mid-1970s onwards, the Official republican movement became increasingly focused on achieving its aims through left-wing constitutional politics. This did not stop sporadic paramilitary activity from the OIRA, who on 8 September 1979 killed Hugh O'Halloran in a punishment beating in the Ballymurphy area of Belfast. O' Halloran was beaten to death with hurley sticks. The two OIRA men who carried out the killing turned themselves in to the RUC; both were convicted and sentenced to imprisonment in the Maze. The army lost a number of members who gradually drifted away from the ceasefire up to shortly after the 1981 Hunger Strike, many either joining the Provisional IRA or the INLA or some simply dropping out.\n\nFrom 1981 on, Sinn Féin the Workers Party, renamed the Workers' Party the following year, had some success in the Republic of Ireland, but little in the North.\n\nThroughout the 1980s, allegations that the Official IRA remained in existence and was engaged in criminal activity appeared in the Irish press. In June 1982 the feud with the INLA flared again after OIRA member James Flynn, the alleged assassin of Seamus Costello, was shot dead by the INLA in Dublin. In December 1985 five men, including Anthony McDonagh, pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy to defraud the Inland Revenue in Northern Ireland—McDonagh was described in court as an Official IRA commander. In February 1992 a British \"Spotlight\" programme alleged that the Official IRA was still active and involved in widespread racketeering and armed robberies.\n\nThese eventually proved a considerable political embarrassment to the Workers' Party, and in 1992 the leadership proposed amendments to the party constitution which would, inter alia, effectively allow it to purge members suspected of involvement in the Official IRA. This proposal failed to obtain the required two-thirds support at the party conference that year, and as a result the leadership, including six of the party's seven members of Dáil Éireann, left to establish a new party, later named Democratic Left.\n\nIn 1995, some former Official IRA members in the Newry area launched a \"re-founded\" Official Republican Movement (ORM). This group was believed to have engaged in attacks on drug dealers in the Newry area in the late 1990s. In 1997 violence erupted between the ORM and the IRA; two ORM members and two Sinn Féin supporters were injured in separate gun attacks.\n\nThere have been allegations of criminality against former senior Official IRA figure Seán Garland, who was accused in 2005 by the United States of helping to produce and circulate counterfeit US dollars allegedly printed in North Korea.\n\nIn October 2009, after a long period of inactivity, the Official IRA began talks with a view to decommissioning its stockpile of weapons, and in February 2010 the Newry-based Official Republican Movement announced that the process was complete. The process was confirmed to be completed by the Independent International Commission on Decommissioning on 8 February 2010, coming in the last 24 hours of the commission's existence. The decommissioning was completed at the same time as that of the republican INLA and the loyalist UDA South East Antrim Brigade. The step was described by British Prime Minister Gordon Brown as a \"central part of moving Northern Ireland from violence to peace\".\n\nIn 2015, it was reported that up to 5,000 Official IRA weapons may still be hidden in secret bunkers. The weapons were allegedly supplied to the OIRA in the 1980s by the Soviet Union's KGB and by North Korea. The report said that the weapons were to be used to defend Catholic areas if there was an outbreak of major sectarian conflict, and that the plan was known only to a few high-ranking members of the organisation.\n\nAccording to Malcolm Sutton's \"Index of Deaths from the Conflict in Ireland\", part of the Conflict Archive on the Internet (CAIN), the OIRA was responsible for at least 50 killings during the Troubles. According to the book \"Lost Lives\" (2006 edition), it was responsible for 57 killings.\n\nOf those killed by the OIRA:\n\nThe CAIN database says there were 27 OIRA members killed during the conflict, while \"Lost Lives\" says there were 35 killed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6660507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6660507", "title": "Omaha Platform", "text": "Omaha Platform\n\nThe Omaha Platform was the party program adopted at the formative convention of the Populist (or People's) Party held in Omaha, Nebraska on July 4, 1892.\n\nThe platform preamble was written by Ignatius L. Donnelly. The Omaha platform was seen as \"The Second Declaration of Independence,\" as it called for reestablishing American liberty. The planks themselves represent the merger of the agrarian concerns of the Farmers' Alliance with the free-currency monetarism of the Greenback Party while explicitly endorsing the goals of the largely urban Knights of Labor. In the words of Donnelly's preamble, the convention was \"[a]ssembled on the anniversary of the birthday of the nation, and filled with the spirit of the grand general and chieftain who established our independence, we seek to restore the government of the Republic to the hands of the \"plain people\", with which class it originated.\" The Omaha Platform called for a wide range of social reforms, including a reduction in the working day, a \"safe, sound, and flexible\" national currency, assistance to farmers with the financing of their labours, \"fair and liberal pensions to ex-Union soldiers and sailors,\" the direct election of Senators, single-terms for Presidents and Vice-Presidents, \"the legislative system known as the initiative and referendum,\" \"the unperverted Australian of secret ballot system,\" the nationalization of the railroads, the telegraph, and the telephone systems, a postal savings, \"a graduated income tax,\" and \"the free and unlimited coinage of silver.\" In referencing the Omaha Platform, Senator George Norris of Nebraska suggested the wealth of the \"super rich\" had to begin flowing \"to all the people, from whom it was originally taken.\"\n\nThe Populist, or People's, Party went on to capture 11 seats in the United States House of Representatives, several governors and the state legislatures of Kansas, Nebraska and North Carolina. 1892 Presidential nominee and former Greenbacker James B. Weaver received over a million popular votes, and won four states (Colorado, Kansas, Idaho, and Nevada) and 22 electoral votes. The Party's legislative majorities were thereafter able to elect several United States Senators. Taken as a whole, the electoral accomplishments of the Populist Party represent the high water mark for a United States third party after the Civil War.\nIn 1896, the Populists abandoned the Omaha Platform and endorsed Democratic nominee William Jennings Bryan on the basis of a single-plank free silver platform.\n\nThe first goal of the Omaha Platform was to increase the coinage of silver to gold at a 16:1 ratio. The Omaha Platform suggested a federal loans system so that farmers could get the money they needed. The platform also called for the elimination of private banks. \nThe platform required a system of federal storage facilities for the farmers' crops. The objective was to allow the farmers to control the pricing of their products. The Omaha Platform made a special taxing system for them so that they would have to pay taxes depending on how much money they made. They also asked for an eight-hour workday and the direct election of senators, as opposed to them being elected by state legislatures. Those were the main goals of the Omaha Platform, all focused on helping rural and working-class Americans. They also made it so that farmers would only work 8 hours instead of 10 or more. After 1894, Populists emphasized the demand for free coinage of silver rather than other goals, such as state-run railroads.\n\nThe platform did not appeal to the more urban areas of the country where wage earners were working industrial jobs. The platform's only clear attempt to appeal to northerners in the east was the clause mentioning pensions to ex-Union soldiers. The Populist Party dissolved before World War II as members were unable to meet in Omaha for the party's semi-centennial celebration, and for the reason that many of the party's values have been accepted by other, more dominant political parties.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3974879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3974879", "title": "Pendatang asing", "text": "Pendatang asing\n\n\"Pendatang asing\" or \"orang pendatang\" is a common Malay phrase used to refer to foreigners or immigrants; \"pendatang asing\" literally means \"foreign comer\" or \"foreign immigrant\". Although most frequently used to refer to foreign immigrants, especially illegal immigrants, \"pendatang asing\" has been used by some politicians in Malaysia as pejorative way of addressing non-Bumiputera Malaysians.\n\nIn a Malaysian political context, it is commonly used as a pejorative way of addressing the ethnic Chinese and Indians, who are not Bumiputera of Malaysia.\n\nDuring the pre-Independence period, some Straits Chinese began taking an active interest in local politics, especially in Penang, where there was an active Chinese secessionist movement. They identified themselves more with the British than the Malays and were especially angered by references to them as \"pendatang asing\" (\"aliens\"). They avoided both the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) and the Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA), believing that while UMNO and the Malay extremists were intent on extending Malay privileges and restricting Chinese rights, the MCA was too \"selfish\", and could not be relied on to protect their interests.\n\nThey had already raised their ire in the late 1940s, when the government proposed to amend the Banishment Ordinance — which allowed for the exile of Malayans \"implicated in acts of violence\" — to permit those born in the Straits Settlements to be banished to their ancestral homeland. This was a revolting idea for most of the Straits Chinese.\n\nThey were also uncomfortable about the merger of the Straits Settlements with Malaya, as they did not feel a sense of belonging to what they considered a \"Malaya for the Malays\", where they were not considered \"bumiputra\" (\"sons of the soil\"). One Straits Chinese leader indignantly declared, \"I can claim to be more \"anak Pulau Pinang\" [a son of Penang] than 99 per cent of the Malays living here today.\" The secessionist movement eventually petered out, however, because of the government's stout refusal to entertain the idea of Penang seceding from the Federation.\n\nThe phrase pendatang asing has strong connotations, and is often used in heated political situations. One such example was the May 13 Incident, where racial rioting in 1969 was triggered by a trading of political insults.\n\nAnother example is the prelude to the Ops Lallang in 1987 and the 1988 Malaysian constitutional crisis. In November 1986, MCA Selangor of which MCA's deputy president Lee Kim Sai was its head, passed a resolution in its annual convention to make it an offence to call any of the three major races immigrants or \"pendatang\". The resolution, which stated that Malaysia's three major races originated from other countries and that none of them should brand the others as immigrants and claim themselves to be natives. This was interpreted as challenging the bumiputra status of the Malays, and led to calls for Lee's sacking by members of UMNO. A compromise was eventually worked out whereby the term \"pendatang\" would not be used to describe any community and the bumiputera status of the Malays was not to be questioned. During this period, UMNO and pro-Chinese organisations frequently traded insults, with current Prime Minister, who was then UMNO Youth Chief Najib Razak. At a rally in 1987 in Kampung Baru in Kuala Lumpur, banners were hoisted carrying phrases such as \"revoke the citizenship of those who oppose the Malay rulers\", \"May 13 has begun\" (referring to the 13 May racial riots in 1969), and \"soak it (the \"keris\") with Chinese blood\". The tensions eased after Ops Lallang, when several political dissidents — most of them Chinese — were detained without trial under the Internal Security Act.\n\nTensions flared in 2004 when it was proposed to open the currently Bumiputra-only Universiti Teknologi MARA to all Malaysians. Malay media made comments about the \"pendatang\" making a \"daring challenge to Malay rights\". \n\nNon-Malay members of the opposition media have contended that the common use of phrases like \"pendatang asing\" validates their belief that non-Malay Malaysians are treated as second-class citizens. It has also been argued that the derogatory use of \"pendatang asing\" is inappropriate, as almost all of Malaysia's Prime Ministers have had foreign blood. \n\nSince the 1980s when Malaysia first experienced economic boom, the country has seen massive influx of immigrants and foreigners from many neighbouring countries such as Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam and Myanmar. Recently, Malaysia has been the destination for many Bangladeshis, Indians and Pakistanis that are looking for employment. While many entered Malaysia legally, labour shortage in Malaysia has encouraged many employers to employ illegal immigrants. Of late, the Malaysian government has tried to repatriate many of these illegal immigrants back to their countries of origin. Such effort however has annoyed several governments such as Indonesia and India.\n\n"}
{"id": "21785857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21785857", "title": "Political views of Paul Robeson", "text": "Political views of Paul Robeson\n\nEntertainer and activist Paul Robeson's political philosophies and outspoken views about domestic and international Communist countries and movements were the subject of great concern to the western mass media and the United States Government, during the Cold War. His views also caused controversy within the ranks of black organizations and the entertainment industry.\n\nRobeson was never officially identified as a member of the Communist Party USA (CPUSA), domestically or internationally. Robeson's beliefs in socialism, his ties to the CPUSA and leftist trade unions, and his experiences in the USSR continue to cause controversy among historians and scholars as well as fans and journalists.\n\nRobeson journeyed to the Soviet Union in December 1934, via Germany, having been given an official invitation. While there, Robeson was welcomed by playwrights, artists and filmmakers, among them Sergei Eisenstein who became a close friend. Robeson also met with African Americans who had migrated to the USSR including his two brothers-in-law. Robeson was accompanied by his wife, Eslanda Goode Robeson and his biographer and friend, Marie Seton. He and his wife Eslanda were nearly attacked by Nazi Sturmabteilung at the stopover in Berlin,\n\nRobeson recounted how Russian children and strangers approached him in the streets and offered to shake his hand. Robeson quickly became captivated with the Soviet experiment and its leadership, also declaring that African-American spiritual music resonated to Russian folk traditions. He told the press:\n\nHere, I am not a Negro but a human being for the first time in my life ... I walk in full human dignity.\n\nRobeson also took great interest in Article 123 of the Soviet Constitution which unlike the laws of the US at the time, effectively barred racial discrimination.\n\nDuring this time Robeson also commented about the recent execution after court-martial trial of people described by \"The Daily Worker\" as \"counter-revolutionary terrorists\":\n\nFrom what I have already seen of the workings of the Soviet government, I can only say that anybody who lifts his hand against it ought to be shot!\n\nThrough his writings and speeches during the mid-to-late 1930s, Robeson would go on to champion the cultural and political revolutions of the Soviet Union especially, as Robeson put it, \"its national minority policy as it operates among the peoples of Central Asia.\" Robeson also advocated the similarities he found between blacks all over the world and the Russian peoples, urging African Americans to look towards the Soviet Union for inspiration in gaining full citizenship within the United States. Robeson also hoped that African countries would follow the example of the USSR and embrace socialism. Robeson studied Russian language and Russian history intensely during the inter-war period .\n\nPaul Robeson's laudatory remarks for the socialist revolutions and decolonization of Africa and Asia were not considered controversial during this pre-Cold War era partially because Robeson himself publicly stated that his interest in the Soviet Union was \"non-political\" and because the USSR was not yet considered an enemy of the US. Robeson would eventually have his son educated in Moscow, widely announcing to the press that he did not want his son to face the \"same discrimination that he had faced growing up in the United States.\"\n\nWhen Robeson was given the news of Stalin's 1939 non aggression pact with Hitler, also known as the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, he saw the agreement as having been forced on the Soviets by the unwillingness of the military forces of Great Britain and France \"to collaborate with the Soviet Union in a real policy of collective security\", personally writing in his journal that an Anglo-Russian pact \"would have stopped Nazi aggression\" and thus leaving the USSR with no alternative choices in shoring up its borders.\n\nIn 1946, Robeson was questioned by the Fact-Finding Committee on Un-American Activities in California, informally known as the Tenney Committee. When he was asked whether he was a member of the Communist Party, Robeson replied that he might as well have been asked whether he was a registered Democrat or Republican—in the United States the Communist Party was equally legal. But, he added, he was not a Communist. There is no clear evidence that Robeson ever was a member of the Communist Party. According to records released under the Freedom of Information Act, the FBI believed that Robeson might have joined the Party under the name \"John Thomas\" but \"his Communist Party membership book number is not known\". Robeson's biographer, Martin Duberman, concludes that \"he was never a member of CPUSA, never a functionary, never a participant in its daily bureaucratic operations\". Paul Robeson, Jr. has also stated on numerous times that his father was never a member of the CPUSA.\n\nRobeson opposed anti-communist legislation. In 1948, he opposed a bill calling for registration of Communist Party members and appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Questioned about his affiliation with the Communist Party, he refused to answer, stating \"Some of the most brilliant and distinguished Americans are about to go to jail for the failure to answer that question, and I am going to join them, if necessary.\" (The bill was ultimately defeated in the Senate.) In 1949, he spoke in favor of the liberty of twelve Communists (including his long-time friend Benjamin Davis, Jr.) convicted under the Smith Act, which criminalized various left- and right-wing activities as seditious.\n\nIn June 1949, during the 150th anniversary celebration of the birth of Alexander Pushkin, Robeson visited the Soviet Union on a major tour including a concert at Tchaikovsky Hall. Concerned about the welfare of Jewish artists, Robeson insisted to Soviet officials that he meet with Itzik Feffer a few days earlier.\nRobeson had first met Feffer on July 8, 1943, at the largest pro-Soviet rally ever held in the United States, an event organized by the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee and chaired by Albert Einstein. Robeson then also got to know Solomon Mikhoels, the popular actor and director of the Moscow State Jewish Theater. Mikhoels also headed the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee in the Soviet Union with Feffer as his second. After the rally, Robeson and his wife Essie had entertained Feffer and Mikhoels.\n\nAccording to an account by Paul Robeson Jr told to Robeson biographer Martin Duberman, in the 1980s, Robeson was disturbed as to why he could not find his many Jewish friends when he returned to the U.S.S.R. in June 1949. After several inquires, Feffer was brought to Robeson's hotel room by the State Police. He and Feffer were forced to communicate through hand gestures and notes because the room was bugged. Feffer indicated that Mikhoels had been murdered in 1948 by the secret police and intimated that he also was going to be killed. Feffer in fact was executed along with 14 other Jewish intellectuals three years later. After the talk with Feffer Robeson would ask his friend Pete Blackman to \"stick around\" him during their stay in Moscow, he would also caution Blackman to \"watch what he said\" around party officials.\n\nThere were no eyewitnesses who went on record, so the meeting of Paul Robeson and Itzik Feffer in Moscow has been given several varying interpretations. In recent years, Paul Robeson, Jr. has been quoted as saying that his father \"tried to contact Soviet officials to see if anything could be done to release Feffer and other Jewish intellectuals.\" This conflicts somewhat with his first account to Martin Duberman, which stated that his father did not act to speak out on Feffer's behalf to Soviet officials. Solomon Mikhoels' daughter published an account that is nearly identical to that of Paul Robeson Jr., with Robeson specifically requesting to see Feffer except that places the meeting in 1951 which would not have been possible, given that Robeson was without his passport. A second and more angry account by composer Dimitri Shostakovich denounces Robeson for \"staying silent\", claiming the meeting was in a restaurant with Feffer accompanied by police agents. In \"The Long Journey\" by Slavic anthropologist Esther Markish, the author writes that Feffer, following orders from the Soviet secret police, carefully said nothing to Robeson about the purges.\n\nRobeson spoke during his concert in Tchaikovsky Hall on June 14, about his close friendship with Feffer and the recently deceased actor Solomon Mikhoels prior to singing the Vilna Partisan song \"Zog Nit Keynmol\" in both Russian and Yiddish. The concert was being broadcast across the entire Soviet Union. Historian and Robeson biographer Martin Duberman writes:\nRobeson's spontaneous translation of the Yiddish text of the \"song of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising\" into Russian and his personal tribute to Mikhoels and Feffer were censored from the tapes of the 1949 broadcast.\n\nUpon returning to the United States, he denied any persecution of Jews or other political prisoners, stating: \"I met Jewish people all over the place... I heard no word about it.\"\n\nAccording to Joshua Rubenstein's book, \"Stalin's Secret Pogrom,\" Robeson also justified his silence on the grounds that any public criticism of the USSR would reinforce the authority of anti-Soviet elements in the United States which, he believed, wanted a preemptive war against the Soviet Union. A large number of Robeson biographers, including Martin Duberman, Philip S Foner, Marie Seton, Paul Robeson Jr., and Lloyd Brown, also concur with Robeson's own words, that he felt that criticism of the Soviet Union by someone of his immense international popularity would only serve to shore up reactionary elements in the U.S., the same elements that had lifted his passport, blocked anti-lynching legislation, and maintained a racial climate in the United States that also allowed Jim Crow, impoverished living conditions for all races and a white supremacist domination of the US government to continue. Robeson is on record many times as stating that he felt the existence of a major socialist power like the USSR was a bulwark against Western European capitalist domination of Africa, Asia and the Caribbean.\n\nAt an international student peace conference held in Paris on April 20, 1949, Robeson made the widely publicized controversial comments that American blacks would not support the United States in a post-World War II Cold War with the Soviet Union. The subsequent controversy caused the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) to investigate Robeson. HUAC sought the testimony of the African American baseball star Jackie Robinson on the subject. In July 1949, Robinson eventually agreed to testify before HUAC, fearing that declining to do so might negatively and permanently damage his career. His testimony was a major media event, with Robinson's carefully worded statement appearing on the front page of \"The New York Times\" the following day.\n\nRobeson is often criticized for continuing to support the Soviet Union after he became aware (according to his son Paul Robeson, Jr.) of state sponsored intimidation and murder of Jews. Robeson would state continually in speeches and essays that having experienced firsthand for himself during the 1930s a climate in Russia that he perceived as free from racial prejudice, he saw no western country or superpower actively attempt any comparable commitment. Robeson thus refused any pressure to publicly censure the Soviet experiment. He also stated that, the existence of the USSR was the guarantee of political balance in the world. During a 1949 address to the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship, he said:\n\nYes, all Africa remembers that it was Litvinov who stood alone beside Haile Selassie in Geneva, when Mussolini's sons flew with the blessings of the Pope to drop bombs on Ethiopian women and children. Africa remembers that it was the Soviet Union which fought the attempts of the Smuts to annex Southwest Africa to the slave reservation of the Union of South Africa... if the peoples of the Congo refuse to mine the uranium for the atom bombs made in Jim Crow factories in the United States; if all these peoples demand an end to floggings, an end to the farce of 'trusteeship' in the former Italian colonies... The Soviet Union is the friend of the African and the West Indian peoples.\"\n\nIn 1952, Robeson was awarded the Stalin Peace Prize. In April 1953, shortly after Joseph Stalin's death he wrote a eulogy entitled \"To You Beloved Comrade\", in the \"New World Review\", in which he praised Stalin's \"deep humanity,\" \"wise understanding,\" and dedication to peaceful co-existence with all peoples of the world calling him \"wise and good.\" He also praised Stalin as a man that the world was fortunate to have for daily guidance: \"Through his [Stalin's] deep humanity, by his wise understanding, he leaves us a rich and monumental heritage.\"\n\nRobeson's comments of praise were made prior to Nikita Khrushchev's 1956 \"Secret Speech\" at the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union regarding Stalin's purges. Though Robeson would continue to praise the USSR throughout his life, he would neither publicly denounce nor praise Stalin personally following Khrushchev's 1956 revelations. Many historians, Robeson scholars and advocates feel that his statements about Stalin and the Peace Prize itself are routinely used out of historical context to defame or disparage his legacy by his critics. In turn, many critics and historians feel the eulogy and prize are solid proof of his being a \"hard line Stalinist.\"\n\nRobeson's very vocal support of Communist countries and his outspoken political views, became a concern of the US government. Eventually he would have his passport lifted and spend eight years trying to win it back while being unwilling to sign an oath stating he was not a Communist. Robeson viewed signing such a statement and the existence of HUAC as a gross violation of every American's civil liberties.\n\nIn 1956, Robeson was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) after he refused to sign an affidavit affirming that he was not a Communist. In response to questions concerning his alleged Communist Party membership, Robeson reminded the Committee that the Communist Party was a legal party and invited its members to join him in the voting booth before he invoked the Fifth Amendment and refused to respond. Robeson lambasted Committee members on civil rights issues concerning African Americans. When one senator asked him why he hadn't remained in the Soviet Union, he replied: \"Because my father was a slave, and my people died to build this country, and I am going to stay here, and have a part of it just like you. And no fascist-minded people will drive me from it. Is that clear? I am for peace with the Soviet Union, and I am for peace with China, and I am not for peace or friendship with the Fascist Franco, and I am not for peace with Fascist Nazi Germans. I am for peace with decent people.\"\n\nShortly thereafter he stated: \"I am here because I am opposing the neo-fascist cause, which I see arising in these committees.\" (Audio recording of Paul Robeson's testimony before the House Un-American Activities Committee, June 12, 1956) At one point he remarked, \"you are the nonpatriots, and you are the un-Americans, and you ought to be ashamed of yourselves\". In making these statements, he was the only major figure to testify before HUAC who directly attacked the committee and subsequently cited for contempt of congress. The charges were later dismissed.\n\nRobeson was also cross-examined over his opinions on Stalin and if he was no longer supporting Stalin's regime or the Soviet Union. In his testimony to HUAC he stated that: \"I have told you, mister, that I would not discuss anything with the people who have murdered sixty million of my people, and I will not discuss Stalin with you.\" He later remarked that \"I will discuss Stalin when I may be among the Russian people some day, singing for them, I will discuss it there. It is their problem.\" Asked if he had praised Stalin during his previous trip to the Soviet Union, Robeson replied, \"I do not know.\" When asked outright if he had changed his mind about Stalin, he implored:\n\nWhatever has happened to Stalin, gentlemen, is a question for the Soviet Union, and I would not argue with a representative of the people who, in building America, wasted sixty to a hundred million lives of my people, black people drawn from Africa on the plantations. You are responsible, and your forebears, for sixty million to one hundred million black people dying in the slave ships and on the plantations, and don't ask me about anybody, please.\n\nRobert Robinson, an African American toolmaker who had lived in the USSR since 1930 and who had met Robeson in the 1940s, wrote in his autobiography \"Black on Red: My 44 Years Inside the Soviet Union\", as well as stated in a 1980s interview with Martin Duberman, that he recalled rumors during the early 1960s that Robeson had an \"unpleasant confrontation\" with Khrushchev about antisemitism. Historian Duberman found inconsistencies with Robinson's dates but posits that it involves an issue of \"crucial if clouded importance\" that may shed light on Robeson's subsequent suicide attempt in Moscow, March 1961 as well as his panic attack while passing the Soviet Embassy in London, September 1961 prior to his lengthy hospitalization at the Priory for mental illness.\n\nRobinson had long since decided that Robeson was oblivious to the harsh Soviet realities, as he had refused Robinson's multiple appeals for assistance at getting out of the U.S.S.R. Robinson still recorded his astonishment when during the ball bearing factory concert (Robinson gives the date as 1961, but photographic evidence given by Duberman points to 1960), Robeson included \"a mournful song out of the Jewish tradition, that decried their persecution through the centuries.\" Singing in Yiddish, with such a \"cry in his voice\", such a seeming \"pleas to end the beating, berating and killing of Jews\", that he concluded that Robeson had made a decisive choice to protest Soviet antisemitism. Robinson also recalls conversing with Robeson's interpreter and learning that he had been singing the Jewish songs at other appearances including major concert venues.\n\nRobinson maintained having heard a rumor from five different people, none of whom knew each other and all of whom were \"officials within the party structure\". Robeson purportedly asked Khrushchev if stories in the Western press about the purges of Jews and widespread institutionalized antisemitism were true. And Khrushchev had purportedly blown up at him, accusing Robeson of trying to meddle in party affairs. Robinson also claimed to \"have never heard his records again broadcast regularly\" on radio Moscow and \"never read another word about him in the press.\" Robeson would never return to the Soviet Union after his aforementioned five month hospitalization.\n\nDuring the early days of his retirement and even after his death, rumors about his health and its connections to his supposed disillusionment with the USSR continued to persist. There were even false claims that he was living in \"self-imposed exile in the Soviet Union\" by \"The New York Times\" who called him \"the disillusioned native son\".\n\nAt no time during his retirement (or his life) is Paul Robeson on record of mentioning any unhappiness or regrets about his beliefs in socialism or the Soviet Union nor did he ever express any disappointment in its leaders including Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin. Moreover, only a few sources out of hundreds interviewed and researched by two of his biographers Martin Duberman and Lloyd Brown agreed with the claims made in the mainstream media of Robeson's supposed embitterment over the USSR.\n\nAnna Louise Strong, the radical travel journalist, remarked in 1965 that she had always felt that \"Paul's trouble had a deep psychosomatic cause in the shock and trauma he suffered from the Sino-Soviet split [...] Paul had a very deep love and devotion to both the USSR and for China's revolution and [...] consequently the split must have been especially hard for him, since his devotions have always been through passionate allegiance rather than through theory\".\n"}
{"id": "39456113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39456113", "title": "Rcl 12876 and MS 32077", "text": "Rcl 12876 and MS 32077\n\nRcl 12876 and MS 32077 (the first is pending, the second was decided), are landmark Brazil Supreme Court cases.\n\nRcl 12876\n\nCarlos Alberto Tufvesson and Andre Piva, a gay couple from Rio de Janeiro, entered on November 4, 2011, with action on Supreme Court of Brazil to legalize same-sex marriage in the country.\n\nSupreme Federal Court\nSocial Christian Party (PSC), \"Partido Social Cristão (PSC)\", entered on May 21, 2013, with action on Supreme Court of Brazil contesting the approval of same-sex marriage by National Council of Justice (CNJ), \"Conselho Nacional de Justiça (CNJ)\", and not by Supreme Court of the country.\n\nThe minister Luiz Fux decided that the decision of the National Justice Council to legalize same-sex marriage was correct. \nWith this, continues same-sex marriage valid in the country.\n\nNational Justice Council\n\nOn May 14, 2013, the Justice's National Council of Brazil legalized same-sex marriage in the entire country in a 14-1 vote by issuing a ruling that orders all civil registers of the country to perform same-sex marriages and convert any existing civil unions into marriages if such a couple desires. Joaquim Barbosa, president of the Council of Justice and the Supreme Federal Court said in the decision that notaries cannot continue to refuse to \"perform a civil wedding or the conversion of a stable civil union into a marriage between persons of the same-sex.\" The ruling was published on May 15 and took effect on May 16, 2013.\n\nSuperior Court of Justice\n\nOn October 25, 2011, the Superior Court of Justice declared that the legal union of two women who petitioned the court could be recognized as a marriage. The decision of the Superior Court will only reach the authors of the demand, different of the Supreme Court with \"stare decisis\", but a precedent for other couples do the same request.\n\nCourts of States\n\nSupreme Court legalized civil union on May 5, 2011. The Brazilian Law allows the conversion of civil union into a full marriage. Between 2011 and 2013, the Courts of 13 Brazilian States legalized same-sex marriage based on that. And finally, on May 14, 2013, the decision of National Justice Council legalized same-sex marriage nationwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "15756488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15756488", "title": "Ruth Landes", "text": "Ruth Landes\n\nRuth Landes (October 8, 1908, New York City – February 11, 1991, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada) was an American cultural anthropologist best known for studies on Brazilian candomblé cults and her published study on the topic, \"City of Women\" (1947). Landes is recognized by some as a pioneer in the study of race and gender relations.\n\nRuth Schlossberg was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Russian Jewish immigrants. Her father was Joseph Schlossberg, a co-founder and long-term secretary-general of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America. Landes received her B.A. in Sociology from New York University in 1928, and a master's degree from The New York School of Social Work (now part of Columbia University) in 1929, before studying for her doctorate in anthropology at Columbia University. She earned her Ph.D. in 1935 under the mentorship of Ruth Benedict, a pioneer in the field of anthropology and student of Franz Boas. Benedict had a profound influence on Landes. She was enthralled by the way in which Benedict taught her classes, and with the way she forced the students to think in an unconventional way. Landes also stated that she was never as happy studying anthropology as when she was studying with Benedict and Boas. Landes has recorded that the friendship between herself and Benedict was one of the most meaningful friendships of her life; it was a friendship that encouraged her to expand her thoughts about anthropology and question the social norms of society.\n\nLandes began researching the social organization and religious practices of marginalized subjects with her masters thesis on Black Jews in Harlem. Seeking to enhance her analysis of this group, she contacted Professor Boas, who suggested she move into the field of anthropology. Under Benedict's tutelage, Landes shifted her focus toward Native Americans - the more traditional anthropological subjects. Between 1932 and 1936, she undertook field work with the Ojibwa of Ontario and Minnesota, the Santee Dakota in Minnesota, and the Potawatomi in Kansas. Using her notes from these trips, Landes produced a large body of written research, including the landmark texts \"Ojibwa Sociology\" (1937), \"Ojibwa Woman\" (1938), and, much later, \"Ojibwa Religion and the Midewiwin\" (1968) and \"The Mystic Lake Sioux\" (1968). In \"Ojibwa Sociology\" and \"Ojibwa Woman\", Landes provides notes on kinship, religious rites and social organization, and in the latter, through the tales of chief informant Maggie Wilson, reported how women navigated within gender roles to assert their economic and social autonomy. In \"Ojibwa Religion\" and \"The Mystic Lake Sioux\", Landes discussed her subjects' strategies to maintain religious and cultural beliefs and practices, while also responding to rapid changes in their cultural and political environment.\n\nIn 1938-1939, Ruth Landes worked in Bahia, Brazil, to study religious syncretism and identity construction among Afro-Brazilian candomblé practictioners. She wrote that the women-centered sphere of candomblé was a source of power for certain disenfranchised blacks and a creative outlet for what she called \"passive homosexuals\". In her published work on these findings, \"City of Women\" (1947), Landes discussed how racial politics in Brazil shape many candomblé practices. She returned to Brazil in 1966 to study the effects of urban development in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nFor much of her professional career, Ruth Landes held a number of contract research positions. In 1939, she became a researcher for Gunnar Myrdal's study of African Americans. In 1941, she became research director for the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs. In 1941-1945, she was the representative for African-American and Mexican-American Affairs on President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Committee on Fair Employment Practices. At the same time, she began to study the Acadians of Louisiana. In 1948-1951, she was study director of the American Jewish Commission in New York. She was a consultant on Jewish families of New York for Ruth Benedict's Research in Contemporary Cultures during 1949-1951. In 1950-1952, Landes studied problems of immigrants of Asian and African descent in the United Kingdom. During 1946-1947 and again in the late 1950s and early 1960s, Landes lived in California and, through several consultantships, became involved with the study of Hispanic/Latino culture. At the same time, she began cross-cultural studies on minority education and the processes and effects of aging. In 1968, she began an investigation of bilingualism and bi-culturalism that developed from her interest in Quebec nationalism in Canada. The project took her to Spain and Nevada to study the Basques, to Switzerland to examine the four language groups there, and to South Africa to study the interaction of Africans, English-speakers, and Afrikaans-speakers. She resumed interest in the Acadians of Louisiana in 1963.\n\nUntil 1965, Landes's institutional affiliations consisted of fairly short-term appointments. Besides those already named, she was an instructor at Brooklyn College in 1937 and at Fisk University in 1937-1938. She was a lecturer at the William Alanson White Psychiatric Institution in New York in 1953-1954 and at the New School for Social Research in New York in 1953-1955. She was a visiting professor at the University of Kansas in 1957 and at the University of Southern California in 1957-1965. In 1959-1962, she was visiting professor and director of the anthropology and education program at the Claremont Graduate School. She was an extension lecturer at Columbia University and at Los Angeles State College in 1963, a visiting professor at Tulane University during the early months of 1964, and a visiting professor at the University of Kansas in the summer of 1964. Her association with McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, began in 1965 and continued after 1977 with her appointment as professor emerita.\n\nRuth Landes died in Hamilton, Ontario on February 11, 1991, at the age of 82. Landes' final place of work, McMaster University, has established The Ruth Landes Prize awarded each year to the student who has demonstrated outstanding academic achievement in anthropology. Additionally, the Ruth Landes Memorial Research Fund funds interdisciplinary scholarship on the various subjects that were of interest to her during her professional and academic career. Her professional papers, photographs and collected artifacts from the field are archived in the National Anthropological Archives at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C.\n\nSelected books\n\n"}
{"id": "58517105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58517105", "title": "Slavic-Eurasian Research Center", "text": "Slavic-Eurasian Research Center\n\nSlavic-Eurasian Research Center (Japanese: ユーラシア研究センター \"Surabu yūrashia kenkyū sentā\") is a scholarly institute at Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan. This Center specializes in research on the post-Soviet and postcommunist states and their inhabitants across Eurasia.\n\nThe origins of the Slavic-Eurasian Research Center’s go back to the Cold War. A year after the end of the US occupation of Japan (28 April 1952), a decision was taken at Hokkaido University on 24 June 1953 to coordinate research and activities of scholars who did research within the broad remit of Soviet and Communist studies or Area studies. Two years later, on 1 June 1955, the group was formalized as a Slavic Institute, incorporated in the University’s Faculty of Law. On 1 April 1978 this Institute gained organizational independence and was renamed as the Slavic Research Center (SRC).\n\nIn recognition of the geopolitical changes that followed the end of communism in Europe and the breakup of the Soviet Union (thus obviating the validity of Communist studies), on 1 April 2014, the Center was renamed as the Slavic-Eurasian Research Center (SRC).\n\nAt present research in the Slavic-Eurasian Research Center is conducted in the following divisions:\n\nIn 2018 the SRC collaborated with 27 universities and research institutes from across Eurasia. Within the framework of the SRC's Foreign Visitors Fellowship Program, since 1978 tens of foreign scholars have been invited to do research at the Slavic-Eurasian Research Center, for instance, Norman Davies, Tsuyoshi Hasegawa, Tomasz Kamusella, Dariusz Kołodziejczyk, Stephen Kotkin, Vladislav Krasnov, Taras Kuzio, David Marples, Vojtech Mastny, Alexander Nekrich, Sabrina Ramet, Jadwiga Staniszkis, Jerzy Tomaszewski.\n\n"}
{"id": "1033346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033346", "title": "Social imperialism", "text": "Social imperialism\n\nSocial imperialism (also called imperial socialism and socio-imperialism) can mean either of two types of left-wing phrases. The term has political and academic meanings that are quite different.\n\nAs a political term, social imperialism is the political ideology of people, parties, or nations that are, according to Soviet leader Vladimir Lenin, \"socialist in words, imperialist in deeds\". The term \"social imperialism\" is a Marxist expression, typically used in a derogatory fashion. The phrase was first used in Marxist circles during the early 20th century discussions on the position of the international workers' movement towards the impending European war and particularly in regard to the Social Democratic Party of Germany. In this context it is very similar to, but not interchangeable with, the terms social chauvinism and social patriotism.\n\nIn the later decades the most significant use of the phrase has been in the Maoist critique of the Soviet Union. Mao Zedong argued that the Soviet Union had itself become an imperialist power while maintaining a socialist façade. Albanian Stalinist leader Enver Hoxha agreed with Mao in this analysis, before later using the expression to also condemn Mao's Three Worlds Theory.\n\nThe term has also been used as a conceptual device by left-wing academics, especially in regard to modern German history. The academic use of the phrase is usually to describe governments that engage in imperialism meant to preserve the domestic social peace. The left-wing German historian Hans-Ulrich Wehler has defined social imperialism as \"the diversions outwards of internal tensions and forces of change in order to preserve the social and political status quo\", and as a \"defensive ideology\" to counter the \"disruptive effects of industrialization on the social and economic structure of Germany\". In Wehler's opinion, social imperialism was a device that allowed the German government to distract public attention from domestic problems and preserve the existing social and political order. Wehler argued that the dominant elites used social imperialism as the glue to hold together a fractured society and to maintain popular support for the social \"status quo\". Wehler argued German colonial policy in the 1880s was the first example of social imperialism in action, and was followed up by the Tirpitz Plan for expanding the German Navy starting in 1897. In this point of view, groups such as the Colonial Society and the Navy League are seen as instruments for the government to mobilize public support. The demands for annexing most of Europe and Africa in World War I are seen by Wehler as the pinnacle of social imperialism.\n\nThe British Marxist historian Geoff Eley contends that there are three flaws to Wehler's theory of social imperialism. The first is that Wehler credits leaders such as Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz and Prince Bernhard von Bülow with a greater degree of vision than what they in fact possessed. The second is that many of the pressure groups on the right who advocated an imperialist policy for Germany were not the creations of the government, and in fact often demanded far more aggressive policies than what the government was willing to undertake. The third was that many of these imperialist lobbying groups demanded a policy of political and social reform at home, in addition to imperialism abroad. Eley argued that what is required in thinking about social imperialism is a broader picture with an interaction from above and below, and a wider view of the relationship between imperialism abroad and domestic politics.\n\nOne of the more notable uses of the social imperialism concept was by the British Marxist historian Timothy Mason who argued that World War II was caused by social imperialism. In Mason's opinion, German foreign policy was driven by domestic political considerations, and the launch of World War II in 1939 was best understood as a \"barbaric variant of social imperialism\". Mason argued that \"Nazi Germany was always bent \"at some time\" upon a major war of expansion\". However, Mason states that the timing of such a war was determined by domestic political pressures, especially as relating to a failing economy. According to Mason, by 1939, the \"overheating\" of the German economy caused by rearmament, the failure of various rearmament plans caused by the shortages of skilled workers, industrial unrest caused by the breakdown of German social policies, and a sharp drop in living standards for the German working class forced Hitler into going to war at a time and place not of his choosing. Mason contended that, when faced with the deep socio-economic crisis, the Nazi leadership had decided to embark upon a ruthless \"smash and grab\" foreign policy of seizing territory in Eastern Europe which could be pitilessly plundered to support living standards in Germany. Mason described German foreign policy as driven by an opportunistic \"next victim\" syndrome after the \"Anschluss,\" in which the \"promiscuity of aggressive intentions\" was nurtured by every successful foreign policy move. In Mason's opinion, the decision to sign the German-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact and to attack Poland, and with it risking a war with Britain and France, was an abandonment by Hitler of his foreign-policy programme, outlined in \"Mein Kampf\" and \"Zweites Buch\", and was forced on him by the need to seize and plunder territory abroad in order to prevent the collapse of the German economy. Mason's theory of World War II as an act of social imperialism and as a sudden \"flight into war\" into 1939 was to involve him in the 1980s in a debate with the British historian Richard Overy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42212196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42212196", "title": "Structural violence in Haiti", "text": "Structural violence in Haiti\n\nHaiti is impacted by structural violence, a form of dysfunction where social structures prevent certain groups of people from having access to basic human rights, like education and healthcare. This has resulted from its colonial history, and from decades of political instability and social unrest. Additionally, Haitians are financially impoverished and within Haiti, there exist social inequalities. In 2012, 58.5% of its population was below its poverty line. Educational standards within the nation are low, where its literacy rate is about 60.7%, below the 84.1% global average. Haiti is also globally ranked lower than most other nations in various measurements of health outcomes. Such health outcomes include life expectancy, mortality rates, and disease levels. While there has been some international assistance, there are insufficient supportive infrastructures in place within the country to provide resources and opportunities for Haitians who are trying to attain a higher quality of life. Causes that have resulted in higher levels of structural violence within Haiti include political instability and corruption, as well as the impact of post-colonialism, which has established a caste-based class system within Haiti.\n\nAs defined by Medical Anthropologist Dr. Paul Farmer, structural violence is the way by which social arrangements are constructed to put specific members of a population in harm's way. According to Dr. Farmer, social inequalities are at the heart of structural violence, where the prevailing societal framework imposes invisible barriers that perpetuate the suffering of certain groups of people. The term structural violence was first coined by Johan Galtung, the founder of peace and conflict studies, in 1969. The term further gained exposure when it was used by Latin American liberation theologians. These social arrangements are termed structural as they are embedded into the cultural, political and economic realms of society. The term violence highlights the fact that these structures cause injury or inequality to certain groups of peoples and constrain individual agency in the society in which they operate. While structural violence exists in other parts of the world, its effects are more readily identified within Haiti.\n\nWhile the negative effects of structural violence affects almost everyone in the nation of Haiti, there are a number of social factors that render certain demographics of the population to experience a more severe form of human suffering. These include gender, ethnicity and socioeconomic status.\n\nWhile structural violence impacts Haiti as a whole, due to the presence of gender inequality, women within Haiti tend to be more heavily impacted by structural violence than men. In the 2004 United Nations Development Fund for Women report, Haitian women were found to remain as the target of oppression, independent of any political change within the nation. Among the 43% of households which are headed by women, more than 80% are reported to be living in poverty. Moreover, according to the 2000 UN Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women, a report on Haiti noted that structural gender disparities have made Haitian women disproportionately susceptible to physical violence, but also excluded from various forms of protection. For example, spousal rape is not regarded as a crime under Haiti's judicial system. Other forms of legal discrimination against women and girls include differentiated wage levels, as well as unequal penalties for both adultery and divorce.\n\nRacial or ethnic differentiation has been well acknowledged as a means of depriving certain racial or ethnic groups of basic human rights, or from receiving the same quality of resources as others. In Haiti's context, such social discrimination exists predominantly from two areas: Antihaitianismo, which is the racial bias against Haitians and descendants of Haitians by Dominicans, and remnants of the Haitian colonial hierarchy via caste discrimination. While Haitian mulattoes make up 5% of the Haitian population, they are regarded as the upper class and control approximately 44% of the national income.\n\nThe Human Suffering Index (HSI), which examines measures of human welfare ranging from life expectancy to political freedom, listed Haiti to be one of the 27 of 141 countries characterized by \"extreme human suffering\". \nComing from a lower socioeconomic background can render individuals and groups to be more vulnerable to \"extreme human suffering\". This is because economic and political structural barriers tend to have a greater impact on those who are lower down on the social order, or are affected by poverty. This stems from the fact that those who are of lower classes often have limited access to resources or do not share the quality of resources that those of higher socio-economic classes have access to. UNICEF statistics show that while less than 10% of births among the poorest 20% in Haiti had a skilled attendant present, 78.1% of all births had a skilled attendant present for the richest 20%. Underweight prevalence among the poorest 20% is 4.7 times greater than that of the richest 20%. Economically, the poorest 40% make up 8% of the nation's total household income, while the richest 20% make up 63%.\n\nThe impacts of structural violence are far reaching. They affect individuals, and overall social outcomes. Poverty is one of the biggest by-products of structural violence, as structural violence inhibits individuals and communities from achieving basic human rights. These basic rights include access to healthcare and education. As identified by the 2012 World Development Report, health and education are two key human capital endowments that can influence an individual's ability to reach his or her full potential in society. Due to the inability to receive proper education and maintain good health, individuals impacted by structural violence often are less well-positioned to attain better socio-economic opportunities or to be upwardly mobile. In 2012, Haiti was the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, with approximately 58.5% of its population lived below the nation's poverty line. The Gini coefficient for Haiti was 59.2 in 2001, making it the 7th highest nation in terms of its degree of inequality in the distribution of family income.\n\nStructural violence impacts one's ability to receive education. Haiti's literacy rate is about 60.7%, below the 90% average literacy rate for Latin American and other Caribbean countries. Due to the oppressive political and economic structures that are plaguing the nation, the educational sector in Haiti has limited financial support. The quality of education is low due to the lack of organization, expertise, and resources. There is a shortage of school supplies and qualified teachers. This problem is more prevalent in rural areas. Schools may use either outdated curricula or a partially implemented framework from the 1997 National Plan of Education and Training (NPET) curriculum. Due to the state's lack of institutional strength and capacity to provide basic education to the general Haitian population, the education sector is now predominantly privatized. A 2006 World Bank Study on the private education in Haiti found that 92% of all Haitian schools are privately owned, tuition-based institutions. Due to Haiti's widespread economic hardship, the majority of the nation's population is unable to meet the cost of education. 88% of children aged 6 to 12 are enrolled in school, and less than one-third of those enrolled reach fifth grade. Close to 60% of children drop out of school before receiving their primary education certificate. The 2006 World Bank report notes that \"the high dropout rate is generally not reflective of a Haitian disregard for or disinterest in education; rather, it is an unfortunate consequence of limited family resources\". In the poorest 20% of households in Haiti, school fees can represent up to 25% of a family's annual household income per child. Of those who were able to progress to secondary education, 75% go to private schools. Students who complete secondary schooling were not automatically eligible to enroll in a university. This is because approximately 90% of the higher education system consists of private universities with high tuition fees, making it unaffordable to the general population. While the average GDP per capita in Haiti is $673, tuition fees can exceed more than $2000 a year for Haitian private universities. There is also a lack of enrollment space among public Haitian universities, which comprise 5% of all institutions of higher learning.\n\nServiced by a mixture of the public sector, the private sector, the non-profit sector, and religious institutions, the health system in Haiti faces the challenge of establishing efficient health coordination. This is further compounded by the presence of more than 250 additional implementing partners within the health sector. Coupled with a continuing series of political upheavals that have led to an unending social instability, Haiti's inefficient healthcare framework has crippled the nation's ability to provide good healthcare access to its people. The government has limited ability to provide services, where about 55% of health care is provided by missionaries or other non-governmental organizations. While there are a small number of physicians who operate for-profit clinics, most are found in the larger cities. Additionally, medical services, whether public or private are disproportionately located in the metropolitan Port-au-Prince area. Obstetric facilities also follow a similar trend. Hospitals outside the Port-au-Prince area provide limited obstetric services. In rural areas, prenatal care services are often delivered either by outreach teams or by small clinics that do not have formal maternity wards or delivery capabilities. This physical separation of adequate medical facilitates from parts of rural Haiti makes access to healthcare by those living away from the city difficult. While most medical infrastructures are concentrated within Port-au-Prince, these hospitals and clinical facilities are often in a dilapidated state as they are compromised by infrastructural deficiencies and electrical blackouts. This lack of medical infrastructure was further exacerbated by the 2010 Haiti earthquake. In 2007, 47% of the population lacked access to basic health care, with a majority of the population turning to traditional healers for various forms of treatment. A study on Haiti's prosthetic situation also revealed that less than 25% of all amputees obtain a prosthetic limb.\n\nAccess to healthcare also includes issues like perceived quality of care. While well-known national maternity hospitals located in Port-au-Prince are either at full capacity or overcapacity, rural maternity beds outside of Port-au-Prince, are under utilized, with utilization rates of about 30 to 35%. However, evidence suggests that pregnant women want competent care. This under-utilization of existing rural services is directly tied to the perceived and actual quality of the facilities. A widespread tendency to avoid government-run public facilities is frequently credited to those institutions' low quality of care, such as a lack of equipment and services, and unfriendly attitude of the medical staff.\n\nStructural violence impacts health outcomes at both an individual and communal level. Individually, structural violence creates barriers that prevent one from properly receiving and utilizing health care systems. Some of these barriers include high user fees, which lower health facility utilization levels, as well as social stigma around certain diseases that reduce utilization and thus negatively impact health outcomes for certain individuals. An example of how the pre-existing healthcare system reinforces social stigma is the way that facility-based health care is delivered to women. In most of Haiti's public health facilities, waiting lines for family planning services and HIV/AIDS testing are designed to be separate from those of routine care. This public separation thus makes visible the social stigma of sexually transmitted diseases, which can deter women from utilizing certain sex-related health services. Aside from individual impact, structural violence also impacts the society as a whole as it facilitates inequity in terms of the distribution of a society's resources and hence the overall quality of life of a society. This uneven distribution of resources across Haiti's society has created numerous social and economic disparities, all of which have led the country to perform below other countries in a series of health outcomes.\n\nAccording to the 2011 World Health Organization data on health indicators, the average life expectancy in Haiti at birth is 61 years for males and 64 years for females, lower than the global average of 70 years. In 2014, Haiti was ranked 186 out of the 223 countries studied for life expectancy at birth. In terms of healthy life expectancy, a 2013 study funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, found Haiti's health life expectancy for males and females to be 27.8 and 37.1 years respectively, both of which are ranked as the lowest out of the 187 countries studied. Haiti's overall low ranking for life expectancy stems from a multitude of factors that includes high HIV/AIDS prevalence, lack of access to basic healthcare services, malnutrition, and poor sanitation.\n\nMortality rates in Haiti are higher than world averages across all demographics. Today, Haiti has the highest rates of infant, under-five, and maternal mortality in the Western hemisphere. High infection rates for diseases such as respiratory infections, malaria, tuberculosis, as well as sexually transmitted diseases like HIV/AIDS are the leading causes of death for Haitians. This largely comes from persisting inequalities in access to health services, especially between the rich and the rural poor. It is estimated that some 60% of Haitians, primarily those living in rural areas, lack access to basic health-care services. In terms of infant mortality, the UN Inter-agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation and World Health Organization report that 57 infants per every 1,000 live births die each year before reaching one year of age. The probability of infants dying under the age of five is 76 per 1,000 live births. With regards to maternal mortality, a maternal mortality study of 181 countries in 2008 found that Haiti’s maternal mortality rate was approximately 582 deaths per 100,000 live births, which is one of the highest rates of maternal mortality in both the Caribbean and around the world. While the high maternal mortality rate in Haiti can be attributed to the fact that women in developing countries tend to have on average more pregnancies than those in developed countries, factors that play a much larger role include poverty, distance, and inadequate services, all of which are negative impacts of structural violence. As a result, women often experience long delays in seeking medical help for obstetric emergency, difficulty reaching an obstetric facility, or not receiving adequate care at the obstetric facility, all of which can be life-threatening for pregnant women living in resource-poor settings. In terms of the overall population, the mortality rates for Haitians between 15 and 60 years old is 258 and 223 per 1000 individuals for males and females respectively.\n\nThe lack of development and spending on healthcare resources and services makes Haitians, particularly those living in rural areas, susceptible to diseases that are otherwise manageable. For example, the WHO confirmed that a typhoid fever outbreak that occurred in 2003 was due to a lack of access to doctors and clean water infrastructure. Across the nation, it is estimated that there are about 25 physicians and 11 nurses for every 100,000 Haitians. WHO also estimates that 43% of the population receives all the recommended immunizations. For communicable diseases, this means loss of herd immunity This lack of healthcare resources and a disease-friendly environment puts Haiti’s burden of disease to be much higher than that of most nations. In the 2010 World Malaria Report, confirmed cases of malaria in Haiti tripled from 16,897 to 49,535 between 2000 and 2009. As of 2012, less than 20% of all households in Haiti have Insecticide-treated bed nets to protect themselves against mosquitoes. In 2010, Haiti also experienced a cholera outbreak that spread quickly throughout the nation due to difficulties in healthcare access and the lack of experience of the healthcare system. By the end of 2010, a total of 179,379 cases, including 3,990 deaths were reported in Haiti. This represents 61% of all cases reported and 80% of all deaths globally. In 2006, prevalence of HIV/AIDS among adults was 2.2%. In 2012, the total estimated number of people of ALL ages living with HIV was approximately 150,000.\n\nOne cause that has resulted in significant levels of structural violence within Haiti is political instability and corruption. Over the past 200 years, Haitian politics have gone through periods of social unrest and turmoil. The nation has experienced more than 30 Coup d'états. There has been a long history of oppression by dictators. Political instability and corruption have left the country with a number of social problems, such as a lack of access to basic human rights, including education and healthcare; and an economy with a lower than average domestic product. According to the World Bank, Haiti ranks 162 out of 183 economies in the world and 31 out of 32 economies within Latin America and the Caribbean. This low economic ranking limits the level of job creation and availability. This lack of job creation contributes to Haiti’s unemployment rate of 40.6%, with more than two-thirds of the labor force not holding formal jobs.\n\nAnother cause of structural violence is the impact of post-colonialism. During the 19th century, European expansion into the New World created social arrangements such as slavery and institutionalized racism. The remnants of these social structures exist today in the form of caste-based racial discrimination, which contributes to the social inequality and economic disparities present within Haiti. Comprising 5% of the nation's population, Haitian mulattoes and Haitians of European ancestry have retained positions of power. This is evident in the political, economic, social, and cultural hierarchy in present-day Haiti, where they control about 44% of the nation's income and Gross Domestic Product and hold the country's important positions. For instance, prominent Haitians and political leaders throughout Haiti's history have been either mulattoes or of European-descent. Within Haiti, light skin, straight hair, and European surnames continue to be important and defining characteristics that separate the traditional elites and upper class citizens from the rest of the population.\n\n"}
{"id": "22754875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22754875", "title": "Tea Party movement", "text": "Tea Party movement\n\nThe Tea Party movement is an American fiscally conservative political movement within the Republican Party. Members of the movement have called for lower taxes, and for a reduction of the national debt of the United States and federal budget deficit through decreased government spending. The movement supports small-government principles and opposes government-sponsored universal healthcare. The Tea Party movement has been described as a popular constitutional movement composed of a mixture of libertarian, right-wing populist, and conservative activism. It has sponsored multiple protests and supported various political candidates since 2009. According to the American Enterprise Institute, various polls in 2013 estimate that slightly over 10 percent of Americans identify as part of the movement.\n\nThe movement began following Barack Obama's first presidential inauguration (in January 2009) when his administration announced plans to give financial aid to bankrupt homeowners. A major force behind it was Americans for Prosperity (AFP), a conservative political advocacy group founded by businessmen and political activist David H. Koch. It is unclear exactly how much money is donated to AFP by David and his brother Charles Koch. Following a February 19, 2009 call by CNBC reporter Rick Santelli on the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange for a \"tea party,\" over fifty conservative activists agreed by conference call to coalesce against Obama's agenda and scheduled series of protests, including the 2009 Taxpayer March on Washington. Supporters of the movement subsequently have had a major impact on the internal politics of the Republican Party. Although the Tea Party is not a party in the classic sense of the word, some research suggests that members of the Tea Party Caucus vote like a significantly farther right third party in Congress.\n\nThe movement's name refers to the Boston Tea Party of December 16, 1773, a watershed event in the launch of the American Revolution. The 1773 event demonstrated against taxation by the British government without political representation for the American colonists, and references to the Boston Tea Party and even costumes from the 1770s era are commonly heard and seen in the Tea Party movement.\n\nThe Tea Party movement focuses on a significant reduction in the size and scope of the government. The movement advocates a national economy operating without government oversight. Movement goals include limiting the size of the federal government, reducing government spending, lowering the national debt and opposing tax increases. To this end, Tea Party groups have protested the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), stimulus programs such as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA, commonly referred to as the Stimulus or The Recovery Act), cap and trade environmental regulations, health care reform such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA, also known simply as the Affordable Care Act or \"Obamacare\") and perceived attacks by the federal government on their 1st, 2nd, 4th and 10th Amendment rights. Tea Party groups have also voiced support for right to work legislation as well as tighter border security, and opposed amnesty for illegal immigrants. On the federal health care reform law, they began to work at the state level to nullify the law, after the Republican Party lost seats in congress and the Presidency in the 2012 elections. It has also mobilized locally against the United Nations Agenda 21. They have protested the IRS for controversial treatment of groups with \"tea party\" in their names. They have formed Super PACs to support candidates sympathetic to their goals and have opposed what they call the \"Republican establishment\" candidates.\n\nThe Tea Party does not have a single uniform agenda. The decentralized character of the Tea Party, with its lack of formal structure or hierarchy, allows each autonomous group to set its own priorities and goals. Goals may conflict, and priorities will often differ between groups. Many Tea Party organizers see this as a strength rather than a weakness, as decentralization has helped to immunize the Tea Party against co-opting by outside entities and corruption from within.\n\nEven though the groups participating in the movement have a wide range of different goals, the Tea Party places its view of the Constitution at the center of its reform agenda. It urges the return of government as intended by some of the Founding Fathers. It also seeks to teach its view of the Constitution and other founding documents. Scholars have described its interpretation variously as originalist, popular, or a unique combination of the two. Reliance on the Constitution is selective and inconsistent. Adherents cite it, yet do so more as a cultural reference rather than out of commitment to the text, which they seek to alter. Two constitutional amendments have been targeted by some in the movement for full or partial repeal: the 16th that allows an income tax, and the 17th that requires popular election of senators. There has also been support for a proposed Repeal Amendment, which would enable a two-thirds majority of the states to repeal federal laws, and a Balanced Budget Amendment, to limit deficit spending.\n\nThe Tea Party has sought to avoid placing emphasis on traditional conservative social issues. National Tea Party organizations, such as the Tea Party Patriots and FreedomWorks, have expressed concern that engaging in social issues would be divisive. Instead, they have sought to have activists focus their efforts away from social issues and focus on economic and limited government issues. Still, many groups like Glenn Beck's 9/12 Tea Parties, TeaParty.org, the Iowa Tea Party and Delaware Patriot Organizations do act on social issues such as abortion, gun control, prayer in schools, and illegal immigration.\n\nOne attempt at forming a list of what Tea Partiers wanted Congress to do resulted in the \"Contract from America\". It was a legislative agenda created by conservative activist Ryan Hecker with the assistance of Dick Armey of FreedomWorks. Armey had co-written with Newt Gingrich the previous Contract with America released by the Republican Party during the 1994 midterm elections. One thousand agenda ideas that had been submitted were narrowed down to twenty-one non-social issues. Participants then voted in an online campaign in which they were asked to select their favorite policy planks. The results were released as a ten-point Tea Party platform. The Contract from America was met with some support within the Republican Party, but it was not broadly embraced by GOP leadership, which released its own 'Pledge to America'.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2012 American elections, some Tea Party activists have taken up more traditionally populist ideological viewpoints on issues that are distinct from general conservative views. Examples are various Tea Party demonstrators sometimes coming out in favor of U.S. immigration reform as well as for raising the U.S. minimum wage.\n\nHistorian and writer Walter Russell Mead analyzes the foreign policy views of the Tea Party movement in a 2011 essay published in \"Foreign Affairs\". Mead says that Jacksonian populists, such as the Tea Party, combine a belief in American exceptionalism and its role in the world with skepticism of American's \"ability to create a liberal world order\". When necessary, they favor 'total war' and unconditional surrender over \"limited wars for limited goals\". Mead identifies two main trends, one personified by former Texas Congressman Ron Paul and the other by former Governor of Alaska Sarah Palin. \"Paulites\" have a Jeffersonian approach that seeks to avoid foreign military involvement. \"Palinites\", while seeking to avoid being drawn into unnecessary conflicts, favor a more aggressive response to maintaining America's primacy in international relations. Mead says that both groups share a distaste for \"liberal internationalism\".\n\nSome Tea Party-affiliated Republicans, such as Michele Bachmann, Jeff Duncan, Connie Mack IV, Jeff Flake, Tim Scott, Joe Walsh, Allen West, and Jason Chaffetz, voted for progressive Congressman Dennis Kucinich's resolution to withdraw U.S. military personnel from Libya. In the Senate, three Tea Party backed Republicans, Jim DeMint, Mike Lee and Michael Crapo, voted to limit foreign aid to Libya, Pakistan and Egypt. Tea Partiers in both houses of Congress have shown willingness to cut foreign aid. Most leading figures within the Tea Party both within and outside Congress opposed military intervention in Syria.\n\nThe Tea Party movement is composed of a loose affiliation of national and local groups that determine their own platforms and agendas without central leadership. The Tea Party movement has both been cited as an example of grassroots political activity and has also been described as an example of corporate-funded activity made to appear as spontaneous community action, a practice known as \"astroturfing.\" Other observers see the organization as having its grassroots element \"amplified by the right-wing media\", supported by elite funding.\n\nThe Tea Party movement is not a national political party; polls show that most Tea Partiers consider themselves to be Republicans and the movement's supporters have tended to endorse Republican candidates. Commentators, including Gallup editor-in-chief Frank Newport, have suggested that the movement is not a new political group but simply a re-branding of traditional Republican candidates and policies. An October 2010 \"Washington Post\" canvass of local Tea Party organizers found 87% saying \"dissatisfaction with mainstream Republican Party leaders\" was \"an important factor in the support the group has received so far\".\n\nTea Party activists have expressed support for Republican politicians Sarah Palin, Dick Armey, Michele Bachmann, Marco Rubio, and Ted Cruz. In July 2010, Bachmann formed the Tea Party Congressional Caucus; however, since July 16, 2012, the caucus has been defunct. An article in \"Politico\" reported that many Tea Party activists were skeptical of the caucus, seeing it as an effort by the Republican Party to hijack the movement. Utah congressman Jason Chaffetz refused to join the caucus, sayingStructure and formality are the exact opposite of what the Tea Party is, and if there is an attempt to put structure and formality around it, or to co-opt it by Washington, D.C., it's going to take away from the free-flowing nature of the true Tea Party movement.\n\nThe name \"Tea Party\" is a reference to the Boston Tea Party, a protest in 1773 by colonists who objected to British taxation without representation, and demonstrated by dumping British tea taken from docked ships into the harbor. The event was one of the first in a series that led to the United States Declaration of Independence and the American Revolution that gave birth to American independence. Some commentators have referred to the \"Tea\" in \"Tea Party\" as the backronym \"Taxed Enough Already\", though this did not appear until months after the first nationwide protests.\n\nReferences to the Boston Tea Party were part of Tax Day protests held in the 1990s and before. In 1984, David H. Koch and Charles G. Koch of Koch Industries founded Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE), a conservative political group whose self-described mission was \"to fight for less government, lower taxes, and less regulation.\" Congressman Ron Paul was appointed as the first chairman of the organization. The CSE lobbied for policies favorable to corporations, particularly tobacco companies.\n\nIn 2002, a Tea Party website was designed and published by the CSE at web address \"www.usteaparty.com\", and stated \"our US Tea Party is a national event, hosted continuously online and open to all Americans who feel our taxes are too high and the tax code is too complicated.\" The site did not take off at the time. In 2003, Dick Armey became the chairman of CSE after retiring from Congress. In 2004, Citizens for a Sound Economy split into FreedomWorks, for 501c4 advocacy activity, and the Americans for Prosperity Foundation. Dick Armey stayed as chairman of FreedomWorks, while David Koch stayed as Chairman of the Americans for Prosperity Foundation. The two organizations would become key players in the Tea Party movement from 2009 onward. Americans for Prosperity and FreedomWorks were \"probably the leading partners\" in the September 2009 Taxpayer March on Washington, also known as the \"9/12 Tea Party,\" according to \"The Guardian\".\n\nFox News Channel commentator Juan Williams has said that the Tea Party movement emerged from the \"ashes\" of Ron Paul's 2008 presidential primary campaign. Indeed, Ron Paul has stated that its origin was on December 16, 2007, when supporters held a 24-hour record breaking, \"moneybomb\" fundraising event on the Boston Tea Party's 234th anniversary, but that others, including Republicans, took over and changed some of the movement's core beliefs. Writing for Slate.com, Dave Weigel has argued in concurrence that, in his view, the \"first modern Tea Party events occurred in December 2007, long before Barack Obama took office, and they were organized by supporters of Rep. Ron Paul,\" with the movement expanding and gaining prominence in 2009. Barack Obama, the first African American President of the United States, took office in January 2009. Journalist Joshua Green has stated in \"The Atlantic\" that while Ron Paul is not the Tea Party's founder, or its culturally resonant figure, he has become the \"intellectual godfather\" of the movement since many now agree with his long-held beliefs.\n\nJournalist Jane Mayer has said that the Koch brothers were essential in funding and strengthening the movement, through groups such as Americans for Prosperity. In 2013, a study published in the journal \"Tobacco Control\" concluded that organizations within the movement were connected with non-profit organizations that the tobacco industry and other corporate interests worked with and provided funding for, including the group Citizens for a Sound Economy. Al Gore cited the study and said that the connections between \"market fundamentalists\", the tobacco industry and the Tea Party could be traced to a 1971 memo from tobacco lawyer Lewis F. Powell, Jr. who advocated more political power for corporations. Gore said that the Tea Party is an extension of this political strategy \"to promote corporate profit at the expense of the public good.\"\n\nFormer governor of Alaska and vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, keynoting a Tea Party Tax Day protest at the state capital in Madison, Wisconsin on April 15, 2011, reflected on the origins of the Tea Party movement and credited President Barack Obama, saying \"And speaking of President Obama, I think we ought to pay tribute to him today at this Tax Day Tea Party because really he's the inspiration for why we're here today. That's right. The Tea Party Movement wouldn't exist without Barack Obama.\"\n\nOn January 24, 2009, Trevor Leach, chairman of the Young Americans for Liberty in New York State, organized the Binghamton Tea Party, to protest obesity taxes proposed by New York Governor David Paterson and call for fiscal responsibility on the part of the government. The protestors emptied bottles of soda into the Susquehanna River, and several of them wore Native American headdresses, similar to the band of 18th century colonists who dumped tea in Boston Harbor to express outrage about British taxes.\n\nSome of the protests were partially in response to several federal laws: the Bush administration's Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, and the Obama administration's economic stimulus package the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and . The bailouts of banks by the Bush and Obama administrations triggered the Tea Party's rise, according to political analyst Scott Rasmussen. Tea party participants \"think federal spending, deficits and taxes are too high, and they think no one in Washington is listening to them, and that latter point is really, really important,\" Rasmussen said.\n\n\"New York Times\" journalist Kate Zernike reported that leaders within the Tea Party credit Seattle blogger and conservative activist Keli Carender with organizing the first Tea Party in February 2009, although the term \"Tea Party\" was not used. Other articles, written by Chris Good of \"The Atlantic\" and NPR's Martin Kaste, credit Carender as \"one of the first\" Tea Party organizers and state that she \"organized some of the earliest Tea Party-style protests\".\n\nCarender first organized what she called a \"Porkulus Protest\" in Seattle on Presidents Day, February 16, the day before President Barack Obama signed the stimulus bill into law. Carender said she did it without support from outside groups or city officials. \"I just got fed up and planned it.\" Carender said 120 people participated. \"Which is amazing for the bluest of blue cities I live in, and on only four days notice! This was due to me spending the entire four days calling and emailing every person, think tank, policy center, university professors (that were sympathetic), etc. in town, and not stopping until the day came.\"\n\nContacted by Carender, Steve Beren promoted the event on his blog four days before the protest and agreed to be a speaker at the rally. Carender also contacted conservative author and Fox News Channel contributor Michelle Malkin, and asked her to publicize the rally on her blog, which Malkin did the day before the event. The following day, the Colorado branch of Americans for Prosperity held a protest at the Colorado Capitol, also promoted by Malkin. Carender held a second protest on February 27, 2009, reporting \"We more than doubled our attendance at this one.\"\n\nOn February 18, 2009, the one-month old Obama administration announced the Homeowners Affordability and Stability Plan, an economic recovery plan to help home owners avoid foreclosure by refinance mortgages in the wake of the Great Recession. The next day, CNBC business news editor Rick Santelli criticized the Plan in a live broadcast from the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. He said that those plans were \"promoting bad behavior\" by \"subsidizing losers' mortgages\". He suggested holding a tea party for traders to gather and dump the derivatives in the Chicago River on July 1. \"President Obama, are you listening?\" he asked. A number of the floor traders around him cheered on his proposal, to the amusement of the hosts in the studio. Santelli's \"rant\" became a viral video after being featured on the Drudge Report.\n\nAccording to \"The New Yorker\" writer Ben McGrath and \"New York Times\" reporter Kate Zernike, this is where the movement was first inspired to coalesce under the collective banner of \"Tea Party.\" Santelli's remarks \"set the fuse to the modern anti-Obama Tea Party movement,\" according to journalist Lee Fang. About 10 hours after Santelli's remarks, reTeaParty.com was bought to coordinate Tea Parties scheduled for Independence Day and, as of March 4, was reported to be receiving 11,000 visitors a day. Within hours, the conservative political advocacy group Americans for Prosperity registered the domain name \"TaxDayTeaParty.com,\" and launched a website calling for protests against Obama. Overnight, websites such as \"ChicagoTeaParty.com\" (registered in August 2008 by Chicagoan Zack Christenson, radio producer for conservative talk show host Milt Rosenberg) were live within 12 hours. By the next day, guests on Fox News had already begun to mention this new \"Tea Party.\" As reported by \"The Huffington Post\", a Facebook page was developed on February 20 calling for Tea Party protests across the country.\n\nA \"Nationwide Chicago Tea Party\" protest was coordinated across more than 40 different cities for February 27, 2009, thus establishing the first national modern Tea Party protest. The movement has been supported nationally by at least 12 prominent individuals and their associated organizations. Fox News called many of the protests in 2009 \"FNC Tax Day Tea Parties\" which it promoted on air and sent speakers to. This was to include then-host Glenn Beck, though Fox came to discourage him from attending later events.\n\nOpposition to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) has been consistent within the Tea Party movement. The scheme has often been referred to as 'Obamacare' by critics, but was soon adopted as well by many of its advocates, including President Obama. This has been an aspect of an overall anti-government message throughout Tea Party rhetoric that includes opposition to gun control measures and to federal spending increases.\n\nActivism by Tea Party people against the major health-care reform law from 2009 to 2014 has, according to the \"Kansas City Star\", focused on pushing for Congressional victories so that a repeal measure would pass both houses and that President Obama's veto could be overridden. Some conservative public officials and commentators such as columnist Ramesh Ponnuru have criticized these views as completely unrealistic with the chances of overriding a Presidential veto being slim, with Ponnuru stating that \"If you have in 2017 a Republican government... and it doesn't get rid of Obamacare, then I think that is a huge political disaster\".\n\nAside from rallies, some groups affiliated with the Tea Party movement began to focus on getting out the vote and ground game efforts on behalf of candidates supportive of their agenda starting in the 2010 elections.\n\nVarious Tea Party groups have endorsed candidates in the elections. In the 2010 midterm elections, \"The New York Times\" identified 138 candidates for Congress with significant Tea Party support, and reported that all of them were running as Republicans—of whom 129 were running for the House and 9 for the Senate. A poll by the \"Wall Street Journal\" and NBC News in mid October showed 35% of likely voters were Tea-party supporters, and they favored the Republicans by 84% to 10%. The first Tea Party affiliated candidate to be elected into office is believed to be Dean Murray, a Long Island businessman, who won a special election for a New York State Assembly seat in February 2010.\n\nAccording to statistics on an NBC blog, overall, 32% of the candidates that were backed by the Tea Party or identified themselves as a Tea Party member won election. Tea Party supported candidates won 5 of 10 Senate races (50%) contested, and 40 of 130 House races (31%) contested. In the primaries for Colorado, Nevada and Delaware the Tea-party backed Senate Republican nominees defeated \"establishment\" Republicans that had been expected to win their respective Senate races, but went on to lose in the general election to their Democratic opponents.\n\nThe Tea Party is generally associated with the Republican Party. Most politicians with the \"Tea Party brand\" have run as Republicans. In recent elections in the 2010s, Republican primaries have been the site of competitions between the more conservative, Tea Party wing of the party and the more moderate, establishment wing of the party. The Tea Party has incorporated various conservative internal factions of the Republican Party to become a major force within the party.\n\nTea Party candidates were less successful in the 2012 election, winning four of 16 Senate races contested, and losing approximately 20% of the seats in the House that had been gained in 2010. Tea Party Caucus founder Michele Bachmann was re-elected to the House by a narrow margin.\n\nA May 2014 \"Kansas City Star\" article remarked about the Tea Party movement post-2012, \"Tea party candidates are often inexperienced and sometimes underfunded. More traditional Republicans—hungry for a win—are emphasizing electability over philosophy, particularly after high-profile losses in 2012. Some in the GOP have made that strategy explicit.\"\n\nIn June 2014, Tea Party favorite Dave Brat unseated the sitting GOP House Majority Leader Eric Cantor. Brat had previously been known as an economist and a professor at Randolph–Macon College, running a grassroots conservative campaign that espoused greater fiscal restraint and his Milton Friedman-based viewpoints. Brat has since won the seat by a comfortable margin.\n\nIn November 2014, Tim Scott became the first African-American member of the U.S. Senate from the South since the reconstruction era, winning the South Carolina seat formerly held by Jim DeMint in a special election. Scott remarked to political commentator Glenn Beck that the Tea Party is neither racist nor sexist, and he also stated that he hoped to see more good-faith efforts to work together between the tea party and political factions in the future. The Senator had been endorsed by several figures within the Tea Party movement prior to his election.\n\nIn the 2014 elections in Texas, the Tea Party made large gains, with numerous Tea Party favorites being elected into office, including Dan Patrick as Lieutenant Governor and Ken Paxton as Attorney General, in addition to numerous other candidates.\n\nIn the 2015 Kentucky gubernatorial election, Matt Bevin, a Tea Party favorite who challenged Mitch McConnell in the Republican primary in the 2014 Kentucky Senate election, won with over 52% of the vote, despite fears that he was too extreme for the state. Bevin is the second Republican in 44 years to be Governor of Kentucky.\n\nIn May 2013, the Associated Press and \"The New York Times\" reported that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) flagged Tea Party groups and other conservative groups for review of their applications for tax-exempt status during the 2012 election. This led to both political and public condemnation of the agency, and triggered multiple investigations.\n\nSome groups were asked for donor lists, which is usually a violation of IRS policy. Groups were also asked for details about family members and about their postings on social networking sites. Lois Lerner, head of the IRS division that oversees tax-exempt groups, apologized on behalf of the IRS and stated, \"That was wrong. That was absolutely incorrect, it was insensitive and it was inappropriate.\" Testifying before Congress in March 2012, IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman denied that the groups were being targeted based on their political views.\n\nSenator Orrin Hatch of Utah, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, rejected the apology as insufficient, demanding \"ironclad guarantees from the I.R.S. that it will adopt significant protocols to ensure this kind of harassment of groups that have a constitutional right to express their own views never happens again.\"\n\nThe resulting Senate subcommittee report ultimately found there had been \"no bias\", though Republican committee members filed a dissenting report. According to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, 18% of the conservative groups that had Tea Party or other related terms in their names flagged for extra scrutiny by the IRS had no evidence of political activity. Michael Hiltzik, writing in the \"Los Angeles Times\", stated that evidence put forth in the House report indicated the IRS had been struggling to apply complicated new rules to nonprofits that may have been involved in political activity, and had also flagged liberal-sounding groups. Of all the groups flagged, the only one to lose tax exempt status was a group that trains Democratic women to run for office.\n\nAfter a two-year investigation, the Justice Department announced in October 2015 that \"We found no evidence that any IRS official acted based on political, discriminatory, corrupt, or other inappropriate motives that would support a criminal prosecution.\"\n\nOn October 25, 2017, the Trump Administration settled with a Consent Order for the case Linchpins of Liberty v. United States; the IRS consented to express \"its sincere apology\" for singling out the plaintiff for aggressive scrutiny, stating, \"The IRS admits that its treatment of Plaintiffs during the tax-exempt determinations process, including screening their applications based on their names or policy positions, subjecting those applications to heightened scrutiny and inordinate delays, and demanding of some Plaintiffs' information that TIGTA determined was unnecessary to the agency's determination of their tax-exempt status, was wrong. For such treatment, the IRS expresses its sincere apology.\" That same month, the Treasury Department's inspector general reported that the I.R.S. had also targeted liberal groups, flagging organization names with terms that included \"Progressive\" and \"Occupy.\"\n\nPresident Donald Trump praised the Tea Party movement throughout his 2016 campaign. In August 2015, he told a Tea Party gathering in Nashville that \"The tea party people are incredible people. These are people who work hard and love the country and they get beat up all the time by the media.\" In a January 2016 CNN poll at the beginning of the 2016 Republican primary, Trump led all Republican candidates modestly among self-identified Tea Party voters with 37 percent supporting Trump and 34 percent supporting Ted Cruz.\n\nSeveral commentators, including Jonathan Chait, Jenny Beth Martin, and Sarah Palin, argued that the Tea Party played a key role in the election of Donald Trump as the Republican Party presidential nominee, and eventually as U.S. president, and that Trump's election was even the culmination of the Tea Party and anti-establishment dissatisfaction associated with it. Martin stated after the election that \"with the victory of Donald Trump, the values and principles that gave rise to the tea party movement in 2009 are finally gaining the top seat of power in the White House.\"\n\nOn the other hand, other commentators, including Paul H. Jossey, a conservative campaign finance attorney, and Jim Geraghty of the conservative \"National Review\", believed that the Tea Party to be dead or in decline. Jossey, for example, argued that the Tea Party \"began as an organic, policy-driven grass-roots movement\" but was ultimately \"drained of its vitality and resources by national political action committees that dunned the movement's true believers endlessly for money to support its candidates and causes.\"\n\nTea Party activities have declined since 2010. According to Harvard professor Theda Skocpol, the number of Tea Party chapters across the country slipped from about 1,000 to 600 between 2009 and 2012, but that this is still \"a very good survival rate.\" Mostly, Tea Party organizations are said to have shifted away from national demonstrations to local issues. A shift in the operational approach used by the Tea Party has also affected the movement's visibility, with chapters placing more emphasis on the mechanics of policy and getting candidates elected rather than staging public events.\n\nThe Tea Party's involvement in the 2012 GOP presidential primaries was minimal, owing to divisions over whom to endorse as well as lack of enthusiasm for all the candidates. However, the 2012 GOP ticket did have an influence on the Tea Party: following the selection of Paul Ryan as Mitt Romney's vice-presidential running mate, \"The New York Times\" declared that the once fringe of the conservative coalition, Tea Party lawmakers are now \"indisputably at the core of the modern Republican Party.\"\n\nThough the Tea Party has had a large influence on the Republican Party, it has attracted major criticism by public figures within the Republican coalition as well. Then-Speaker of the House John Boehner particularly condemned many Tea Party-connected politicians for their behavior during the 2013 U.S. debt ceiling crisis. \"I think they're misleading their followers,\" Boehner was publicly quoted as saying, \"They're pushing our members in places where they don't want to be, and frankly I just think that they've lost all credibility.\" In the words of \"The Kansas City Star\", Boehner \"stamped out Tea Party resistance to extending the debt ceiling... worried that his party's prospects would be damaged by adherence to the Tea Party's preference for default\".\n\nOne 2013 survey found that, in political terms, 20% of self-identified Republicans stated that they considered themselves as part of the Tea Party movement. Tea Party members rallied at the U.S. Capitol on February 27, 2014; their demonstrations celebrated the fifth anniversary of the movement coming together.\n\nSeveral polls have been conducted on the demographics of the movement. Though the various polls sometimes turn up slightly different results, they tend to show that Tea Party supporters tend more likely, than Americans overall, to be white, male, married, older than 45, regularly attending religious services, conservative, and to be more wealthy and have more education. Broadly speaking, multiple surveys have found between 10% and 30% of Americans identify as a member of the Tea Party movement. Most Republicans and 20% of Democrats support the movement according to one \"Washington Post\"–ABC News poll.\n\nAccording to \"The Atlantic\", the three main groups that provide guidance and organization for the protests, FreedomWorks, dontGO, and Americans for Prosperity, state that the demonstrations are an organic movement. Law professor and commentator Glenn Reynolds, best known as author of the Instapundit political blog, said in the \"New York Post\" that: \"These aren't the usual semiprofessional protesters who attend antiwar and pro-union marches. These are people with real jobs; most have never attended a protest march before. They represent a kind of energy that our politics hasn't seen lately, and an influx of new activists.\" Conservative political strategist Tim Phillips, now head of Americans for Prosperity, has remarked that the Republican Party is \"too disorganized and unsure of itself to pull this off\".\n\nThe \"Christian Science Monitor\" has noted that Tea Party activists \"have been called neo-Klansmen and knuckle-dragging hillbillies\", adding that \"demonizing tea party activists tends to energize the Democrats' left-of-center base\" and that \"polls suggest that tea party activists are not only more mainstream than many critics suggest\", but that a majority of them are women, not angry white men. The article quoted Juan Williams as saying that the Tea Party's opposition to health reform was based on self-interest rather than racism.\n\nA Gallup poll conducted in March 2010 found that—other than gender, income and politics—self-described Tea Party members were demographically similar to the population as a whole. A 2014 article from Forbes.com stated that the Tea Party's membership appears reminiscent of the people who supported independent Ross Perot's presidential campaigns in the 1990s.\n\nWhen surveying supporters or participants of the Tea Party movement, polls have shown that they are to a very great extent more likely to be registered Republican, have a favorable opinion of the Republican Party and an unfavorable opinion of the Democratic Party.\nThe Bloomberg National Poll of adults 18 and over showed that 40% of Tea Party supporters are 55 or older, compared with 32% of all poll respondents; 79% are white, 61% are men and 44% identify as \"born-again Christians\", compared with 75%, 48.5%, and 34% for the general population, respectively.\n\nAccording to Susan Page and Naomi Jagoda of \"USA Today\" in 2010, the Tea Party was more \"a frustrated state of mind\" than \"a classic political movement\". Tea party members \"are more likely to be married and a bit older than the nation as a whole\". They are predominantly white, but other groups make up just under one-fourth of their ranks. They believe that the federal government has become too large and powerful.\n\nAn October 2010 \"Washington Post\" canvass of local Tea Party organizers found 99% said \"concern about the economy\" was an \"important factor\". Various polls have also probed Tea Party supporters for their views on a variety of political and controversial issues. On the question of whether they think their own income taxes this year are fair, 52% of Tea Party supporters told pollsters for CBS/\"New York Times\" that they were, versus 62% in the general population (including Tea Party supporters). A Bloomberg News poll found that Tea Partiers are not against increased government action in all cases. \"The ideas that find nearly universal agreement among Tea Party supporters are rather vague,\" says J. Ann Selzer, the pollster who created the survey. \"You would think any idea that involves more government action would be anathema, and that is just not the case.\"\n\nIn advance of a new edition of their book \"American Grace\", political scientists David E. Campbell of Notre Dame and Robert D. Putnam of Harvard published in a \"The New York Times\" opinion the results of their research into the political attitudes and background of Tea Party supporters. Using a pre-Tea Party poll in 2006 and going back to the same respondents in 2011, they found the supporters to be not \"nonpartisan political neophytes\" as often described, but largely \"overwhelmingly partisan Republicans\" who were politically active prior to the Tea Party. The survey found Tea Party supporters \"no more likely than anyone else\" to have suffered hardship during the 2007–2010 recession. Additionally, the respondents were more concerned about \"putting God in government\" than with trying to shrink government.\n\nThe 2010 midterm elections demonstrated considerable skepticism within the Tea Party movement with respect to the dangers and the reality of global warming. A \"New York Times\"/CBS News Poll during the election revealed that only a small percentage of Tea Party supporters considered global warming a serious problem, much less than the portion of the general public that does. The Tea Party is strongly opposed to government-imposed limits on carbon dioxide emissions as part of emissions trading legislation to encourage use of fuels that emit less carbon dioxide. An example is the movement's support of California Proposition 23, which would suspend AB32, the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006. The proposition failed to pass, with less than 40% voting in favor.\n\nMany of the movement's members also favor stricter measures against illegal immigration.\n\nPolls found that just 7% of Tea Party supporters approve of how Obama is doing his job compared to 50% (as of April 2010) of the general public, and that roughly 77% of supporters had voted for Obama's Republican opponent, John McCain in 2008.\nA University of Washington poll of 1,695 registered voters in the state of Washington reported that 73% of Tea Party supporters disapprove of Obama's policy of engaging with Muslim countries, 88% approve of the controversial Arizona immigration law enacted in 2010 that requires police to question people they suspect are illegal immigrants for proof of legal status, 54% feel that immigration is changing the culture in the U.S. for the worse, 82% do not believe that gay and lesbian couples should have the legal right to marry, and that about 52% believe that \"[c]ompared to the size of the group, lesbians and gays have too much political power\".\n\nThe movement has been supported nationally by prominent individuals and organizations.\n\nAn October 2010 \"Washington Post\" canvass of 647 local Tea Party organizers asked \"which national figure best represents your groups?\" and got the following responses: no one 34%, Sarah Palin 14%, Glenn Beck 7%, Jim DeMint 6%, Ron Paul 6%, Michele Bachmann 4%.\n\nThe success of candidates popular within the Tea Party movement has boosted Palin's visibility. Rasmussen and Schoen (2010) conclude that \"She is the symbolic leader of the movement, and more than anyone else has helped to shape it.\"\n\nIn June 2008, Congressman Dr. Ron Paul announced his non profit organization called Campaign for Liberty as a way of continuing the grassroots support involved in Ron Paul's 2007–2008 presidential run. This announcement corresponded with the suspension of his campaign.\n\nIn July 2010, Bachmann formed the House congressional Tea Party Caucus. This congressional caucus, which Bachmann chaired, is devoted to the Tea Party's stated principles of \"fiscal responsibility, adherence to the Constitution, and limited government\". As of March 31, 2011, the caucus consisted of 62 Republican representatives. Rep. Jason Chaffetz and Melissa Clouthier have accused them of trying to hijack or co-opt the grassroots Tea Party Movement.\n\nNote: the self-reported membership numbers below are several years old.\n\nFreedomWorks, Americans for Prosperity, and DontGo, a free market political activist non-profit group, were guiding the Tea Party movement in April 2009, according to \"The Atlantic\". Americans for Prosperity and FreedomWorks were \"probably the leading partners\" in the September 2009 Taxpayer March on Washington, also known as the 9/12 Tea Party, according to \"The Guardian\".\n\n\n\n\nOther influential organizations include Americans for Limited Government, the training organization American Majority, the Our Country Deserves Better political action committee, and Glenn Beck's 9-12 Project, according to the \"National Journal\" in February 2010.\n\nSarah Palin headlined four \"Liberty at the Ballot Box\" bus tours, to raise money for candidates and the Tea Party Express. One of the tours visited 30 towns and covered 3,000 miles. Following the formation of the Tea Party Caucus, Michele Bachmann raised $10 million for a political action committee, MichelePAC, and sent funds to the campaigns of Sharron Angle, Christine O'Donnell, Rand Paul, and Marco Rubio. In September 2010, the Tea Party Patriots announced it had received a $1,000,000 donation from an anonymous donor.\n\nIn an August 30, 2010, article in \"The New Yorker\", Jane Mayer said that the brothers David H. Koch and Charles G. Koch and Koch Industries provided financial support to one of the organizations that became part of the Tea Party movement through Americans for Prosperity. The AFP's \"Hot Air Tour\" was organized to fight against taxes on carbon use and the activation of a cap and trade program. Former U.K. ambassador Sir Christopher Meyer wrote in the \"Daily Mail\" that the Tea Party movement is a mix of \"grassroots populism, professional conservative politics, and big money\", the last supplied in part by the Kochs. A Koch Industries company spokesperson issued a statement saying \"No funding has been provided by Koch companies, the Koch foundation, or Charles Koch or David Koch specifically to support the tea parties\".\n\nA \"USA Today\"/Gallup poll conducted in March 2010 found that 28% of those surveyed considered themselves supporters of the Tea Party movement, 26% opponents, and 46% neither. These figures remained stable through January 2011, but public opinion changed by August 2011. In a \"USA Today\"/Gallup poll conducted in January 2011, approximately 70% of adults, including approximately 9 out of 10 Republicans, felt Republican leaders in Congress should give consideration to Tea Party movement ideas. In August 2011, 42% of registered voters, but only 12% of Republicans, said Tea Party endorsement would be a \"negative\" and that they would be \"less likely\" to vote for such a candidate.\n\nA Gallup Poll in April 2010 found 47% of Americans had an unfavorable image of the Tea Party movement, as opposed to 33% who had a favorable opinion. A 2011 opinion survey by political scientists David E. Campbell and Robert D. Putnam found the Tea Party ranked at the bottom of a list of \"two dozen\" American \"religious, political, and racial groups\" in terms of favorability – \"even less liked than Muslims and atheists.\" In November 2011, \"The New York Times\" cited opinion polls showing that support for the Tea Party had \"fallen sharply even in places considered Tea Party strongholds.\" It quoted pollster Andrew Kohut speculating that the Tea Party position in Congress was perceived as \"too extreme and not willing to compromise\".\n\nA CBS News/\"New York Times\" poll in September 2010 showed 19% of respondents supported the movement, 63% did not, and 16% said they did not know. In the same poll, 29% had an unfavorable view of the Tea Party, compared to 23% with a favorable view. The same poll retaken in August 2011 found that 20% of respondents had a favorable view of the Tea Party and 40% had an unfavorable view. A CNN/ORC poll taken September 23–25, 2011 found that the favorable/unfavorable ratio was 28% versus 53%.\n\nAn NBC News/\"Wall Street Journal\" poll in September 2010 found 27% considered themselves Tea Party supporters. 42% said the Tea Party has been good for the U.S. political system; 18% called it a bad thing. Those with an unfavorable view of the Tea Party outnumbered those with a favorable view 36–30%. In comparison, the Democratic Party was viewed unfavorably by a 42–37% margin, and the Republican Party by 43–31%.\n\nA poll conducted by the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute in March 2010 found that 13% of national adults identified themselves as part of the Tea Party movement but that the Tea Party had a positive opinion by a 28–23% margin with 49% who did not know enough about the group to form an opinion. A similar poll conducted by the Winston Group in April 2010 found that 17% of American registered voters considered themselves part of the Tea Party movement.\n\nAfter the mid-2011 debt ceiling crisis, polls became more unfavorable to the Tea Party. According to a Gallup poll, 28% of adults disapproved of the Tea Party compared to 25% approving, and noted that \"[t]he national Tea Party movement appears to have lost some ground in popular support after the blistering debate over raising the nation's debt ceiling in which Tea Party Republicans... fought any compromise on taxes and spending\". Similarly, a Pew poll found that 29% of respondents thought Congressional Tea Party supporters had a negative effect compared to 22% thinking it was a positive effect. It noted that \"[t]he new poll also finds that those who followed the debt ceiling debate very closely have more negative views about the impact of the Tea Party than those who followed the issue less closely.\" A CNN/ORC poll put disapproval at 51% with a 31% approval.\n\nA Rasmussen Reports poll conducted in April 2012 showed 44% of likely U.S. voters held at least a somewhat favorable view of Tea Party activists, while 49% share an unfavorable opinion of them. When asked if the Tea Party movement would help or hurt Republicans in the 2012 elections, 53% of Republicans said they see the Tea Party as a political plus.\n\nA February 2014 article from Forbes.com reported about the past few years, \"Nationally, there is no question that negative views of the Tea Party have risen. But core support seems to be holding steady.\" In October 2013, Rasmussen Reports research found as many respondents (42%) identify with the Tea Party as with President Obama. However, while 30% of those polled viewed the movement favorably, 50% were unfavorable; in addition, 34% considered the movement a force for good while 43% considered them bad for the nation. On major national issues, 77% of Democrats said their views were closest to Obama's; in contrast, 76% of Republicans and 51% of unaffiliated voters identified closely with the Tea Party.\n\nOther survey data over recent years show that past trends of partisan divides about the Tea Party remain. For example, a Pew Research Center poll from October 2013 reported that 69% of Democrats had an unfavorable view of the movement, in contrast to 49% of independents and 27% of Republicans. A CNN/ORC poll also conducted October 2013 generally showed that 28% of Americans were favorable to the Tea party while 56% were unfavorable. In an AP/GfK survey from January 2014, 27% of respondents stated that they considered themselves a Tea Party supporter in comparison to 67% that said that they did not.\n\nBeginning in 2009, the Gadsden flag became widely used as a protest symbol by Tea Party protesters nationwide. It was also displayed by members of Congress at Tea Party rallies. Some lawmakers dubbed it a political symbol due to the Tea Party connection and the political nature of Tea Party supporters.\n\nThe Second Revolution flag gained national attention on January 19, 2010. It is a version of the Betsy Ross flag with a Roman numeral \"II\" in the center of the circle of 13 stars symbolizing a second revolution in America. The Second Revolution flag has been called synonymous with Tea Party causes and events.\n\nSome members of the movement adopted the term as a verb, and a few others referred to themselves as \"teabaggers.\" News media and progressive commentators outside the movement began to use the term mockingly and derisively, alluding to the sexual connotation of the term when referring to Tea Party protesters. The first pejorative use of the term was in 2007 by Indiana Democratic Party Communications Director Jennifer Wagner. The use of the double entendre evolved from Tea Party protest sites encouraging readers to \"Tea bag the fools in DC\" to the political left adopting the term for derogatory jokes. It has been used by several media outlets to humorously refer to Tea Party-affiliated protestors. Some conservatives have advocated that the non-vulgar meaning of the word be reclaimed. Grant Barrett, co-host of the \"A Way with Words\" radio program, has listed \"teabagger\" as a 2009 buzzword meaning, \"a derogatory name for attendees of Tea Parties, probably coined in allusion to a sexual practice\".\n\nOn April 29, 2009, Obama commented on the Tea Party protests during a townhall meeting in Arnold, Missouri: \"Let me just remind them that I am happy to have a serious conversation about how we are going to cut our health care costs down over the long term, how we're going to stabilize Social Security. Claire McCaskill and I are working diligently to do basically a thorough audit of federal spending. But let's not play games and pretend that the reason is because of the recovery act, because that's just a fraction of the overall problem that we've got. We are going to have to tighten our belts, but we're going to have to do it in an intelligent way. And we've got to make sure that the people who are helped are working American families, and we're not suddenly saying that the way to do this is to eliminate programs that help ordinary people and give more tax cuts to the wealthy. We tried that formula for eight years. It did not work. And I don't intend to go back to it.\"\n\nOn April 15, 2010, Obama noted the passage of 25 different tax cuts over the past year, including tax cuts for 95% of working Americans. He then remarked, \"So I've been a little amused over the last couple of days where people have been having these rallies about taxes. You would think they would be saying thank you. That's what you'd think.\"\n\nOn September 20, 2010, at a townhall discussion sponsored by CNBC, Obama said healthy skepticism about government and spending was good, but it was not enough to just say \"Get control of spending\", and he challenged the Tea Party movement to get specific about how they would cut government debt and spending: \"And so the challenge, I think, for the Tea Party movement is to identify specifically what would you do. It's not enough just to say, get control of spending. I think it's important for you to say, I'm willing to cut veterans' benefits, or I'm willing to cut Medicare or Social Security benefits, or I'm willing to see these taxes go up. What you can't do—which is what I've been hearing a lot from the other side—is say we're going to control government spending, we're going to propose $4 trillion of additional tax cuts, and that magically somehow things are going to work.\"\n\n\"US News and World Report\" reported that the nature of the coverage of the protests has become part of the story. On CNN's \"Situation Room\", journalist Howard Kurtz commented that \"much of the media seems to have chosen sides\". He says that Fox News portrayed the protests \"as a big story, CNN as a modest story, and MSNBC as a great story to make fun of. And for most major newspapers, it's a nonstory\". There were reports that the movement had been actively promoted by the Fox News Channel.\nAccording to Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting, a progressive media watchdog, there is a disparity between large coverage of the Tea Party movement and minimal coverage of larger movements. In 2009, the major Tea Party protests were quoted twice as often as the National Equality March despite a much lower turnout.\nIn 2010, a Tea Party protest was covered 59 times as much as the US Social Forum (177 Tea Party mentions versus 3 for Social Forum) despite the attendance of the latter being 25 times as much (600 Tea Party attendees versus at least 15,000 for Social Forum).\n\nIn April 2010, responding to a question from the media watchdog group Media Matters posed the previous week, Rupert Murdoch, the chief executive of News Corporation, which owns Fox News, said, \"I don't think we should be supporting the Tea Party or any other party.\" That same week, Fox News canceled an appearance by Sean Hannity at a Cincinnati Tea Party rally.\n\nFollowing the September 12 Taxpayer March on Washington, Fox News said it was the only cable news outlet to cover the emerging protests and took out full-page ads in \"The Washington Post\", the \"New York Post\", and \"The Wall Street Journal\" with a prominent headline reading, \"How did ABC, CBS, NBC, MSNBC, and CNN miss this story?\" CNN news anchor Rick Sanchez disputed Fox's assertion, pointing to various coverage of the event. CNN, NBC, CBS, MSNBC, and CBS Radio News provided various forms of live coverage of the rally in Washington throughout the day on Saturday, including the lead story on CBS Evening News.\n\nJames Rainey of the \"Los Angeles Times\" said that MSNBC's attacks on the tea parties paled compared to Fox's support, but that MSNBC personalities Keith Olbermann, Rachel Maddow and Chris Matthews were hardly subtle in disparaging the movement. Howard Kurtz has said that, \"These [FOX] hosts said little or nothing about the huge deficits run up by President Bush, but Barack Obama's budget and tax plans have driven them to tea. On the other hand, CNN and MSNBC may have dropped the ball by all but ignoring the protests.\"\n\nIn the January/February 2012 issue of \"Foreign Affairs\", Francis Fukuyama stated that the Tea Party is supporting \"politicians who serve the interests of precisely those financiers and corporate elites they claim to despise\" and inequality while comparing and contrasting it with the occupy movement.\n\nIn October 2010, a survey conducted by \"The Washington Post\" found that the majority of local Tea Party organizers consider the media coverage of their groups to be fair. Seventy-six percent of the local organizers said media coverage has been fair, while 23 percent have said coverage was unfair. This was based on responses from all 647 local Tea Party organizers the \"Post\" was able to contact and verify, from a list of more than 1,400 possible groups identified.\n\nThe movement has been called a mixture of conservative, libertarian, and populist activists. As stated before, opinions in terms of the U.S. major political parties play a large role in terms of attitudes about the Tea Party movement, with one study finding that 20% of self-identified Republicans personally view themselves as part of the Tea Party.\n\nThe movement has sponsored protests and supported political candidates circa 2009. Since the movement's inception, in the late 2000s, left wing groups have accused the party of racism and intolerance. Left leaning opponents have cited various incidents as evidence that the movement is, in their opinion, propelled by various forms of bigotry. Supporters say the incidents are isolated acts attributable to a small fringe that is not representative of the movement. Accusations that the news media are biased either for or against the movement are common, while polls and surveys have been faced with issues regarding the population surveyed, and the meaningfulness of poll results from disparate groups.\n\nAlthough the Tea Party has a libertarian element in terms of some issue convictions, most American libertarians do not support the movement enough to identify with it. A 2013 survey by the Public Religion Research Institute (PRRI) found that 61% of identified libertarians stated they did not consider themselves part of the tea party. This split exists due to the strong Christian right influence in the movement, which puts the majority of the tea party movement at direct odds against libertarians on issues such as the war on drugs (with the aforementioned survey finding that 71% of libertarians support legalizing marijuana). Some libertarian leaning supporters have grown increasingly annoyed by the influx of religious social issues into the movement. Many in the movement would prefer the complex social issues such as homosexuality, abortion, and religion to be left out of the discussion, while instead increasing the focus on limited government and states' rights.\n\nAccording to a review in \"Publishers Weekly\" published in 2012, professor Ronald P. Formisano in \"The Tea Party: A Brief History\" provides an \"even-handed perspective on and clarifying misconceptions about America's recent political phenomenon\" since \"party supporters are not isolated zealots, and may, like other Americans, only want to gain control over their destinies\". Professor Formisano sees underlying social roots and draws a parallel between the tea party movement and past support for independent candidate Ross Perot, a similar point to that made in \"Forbes\" as mentioned earlier.\n\nThe final round of debate before voting on the health care bill was marked with vandalism and widespread threats of violence to at least ten Democratic lawmakers across the country, which created public relations problems for the fledgeling Tea Party movement. On March 22, 2010, in what the New York Times called \"potentially the most dangerous of many acts of violence and threats against supporters of the bill,\" a Lynchburg, Virginia Tea Party organizer and the Danville, Virginia Tea Party Chairman both posted the home address of Representative Tom Perriello's brother (mistakenly believing it was the Congressman's address) on their websites, and encouraged readers to \"drop by\" to express their anger against Representative Perriello's vote in favor of the healthcare bill. The following day, after smelling gas in his house, a severed gas line that connected to a propane tank was discovered on Perriello's brother's screened-in porch. Local police and FBI investigators determined that it was intentionally cut as an act of vandalism. Perriello's brother also received a threatening letter referencing the legislation. Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli stated that posting a home address on a website and encouraging people to visit is \"an appalling approach. It's not civil discourse, it's an invitation to intimidation and it's totally unacceptable.\" Leaders of the Tea Party movement tried to contain the public relations damage by denouncing the violent acts and distancing themselves from those behind the acts. One Tea Party website issued a response saying the Tea Party member's action of posting the address \"was not requested, sanctioned or endorsed by the Lynchburg Tea Party\". The director of the Northern Colorado Tea Party said, \"Although many are frustrated by the passage of such controversial legislation, threats are absolutely not acceptable in any form, to any lawmaker, of any party.\"\n\nIn early July 2010, the North Iowa Tea Party (NITP) posted a billboard showing a photo of Adolf Hitler with the heading \"National Socialism\", one of Barack Obama with the heading \"Democrat Socialism\", and one of Vladimir Lenin with the heading \"Marxist Socialism\", all three marked with the word \"change\" and the statement \"Radical leaders prey on the fearful and naive\". It received sharp criticism, including some from other Tea Party activists. NITP co-founder Bob Johnson acknowledged the anti-socialist message may have gotten lost amid the fascist and communist images. Following a request from the NITP, the billboard was removed on July 14.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35508914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35508914", "title": "Tranquillitas ordinis", "text": "Tranquillitas ordinis\n\nTranquillitas ordinis is a Latin phrase meaning the \"tranquility of order\" or \"well-ordered concord\". The term is associated with the Roman Catholic tradition of just war theory, and is found in the writings of Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Aquinas. Depending on the author and the context, the term is used to convey various meanings in theology and politics. These meanings include the divine order imposed on the universe and a theoretical framework for peace. \"Tranquillitas ordinis\" remains a cornerstone of Catholic teaching on peace. It is included in the framework laid out by Pope John XXIII in his 1963 encyclical, \"Pacem in terris\", and is a featured topic at \"The Global Quest for Tranquillitas Ordinis\", a conference organized by the Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences.\n\nAugustine of Hippo defines the term \"Tranquillitas Ordinis\" in Book 19 of the \"City of God\" as \"the peace of all things\" or \"well-ordered concord\". Augustine links peace with his meaning of order, in which all things in the universe have their proper place established by God, their creator. Peace is therefore the state a person or thing achieves when it is in accordance with the larger created order. In Book 19, Augustine describes the supreme good and discusses efforts people take in order to reach happiness on earth. While Augustine denies the possibility of achieving \"tranquillitas ordinis\" on earth, he notes that aspects of the peace and happiness of heaven may still be found. Centuries later, Thomas Aquinas continued the tradition of true peace as \"tranquillitas ordinis\" in his \"Summa Theologica\". Aquinas built upon the work of Augustine and formalized a theory of just war in which the Augustinian root idea of peace as \"tranquillitas ordinis\" is linked to the just war tradition. In the \"Summa Theologica\", Aquinas describes the theory of just war as comprising a \"jus ad bellum\" and \"jus in bello\". \"Jus ad bellum\" articulates the circumstances under which war may be pursued, while \"jus in bello\" describes correct conduct in war.\n\nGeorge Weigel is a prominent Catholic political and social author who serves as a Distinguished Senior Fellow of the Ethics and Public Policy Center. In his book \"Tranquillitas Ordinis: The Present Failure and Future Promise of American Catholic Thought on War and Peace\", published in 1987, Weigel defines \"tranquillitas ordinis\" as the peace of \"dynamic and rightly ordered political community\" and \"the order created by just political community and mediated through law\". Weigel also argued that \"tranquillitas ordinis\" provided a basis for the establishment of peace as a \"jus ad pacem\" to accompany the just war theory terms \"jus ad bellum\" and \"jus in bello\", that is, a guide to achieving peace through political means, including war. Weigel expands on this concept to insist that the U.S. has a moral obligation under the criteria of \"tranquilitas ordinis\" to rid the world of terrorist organizations and prevent rogue regimes from obtaining weapons of mass destruction. Weigel states in clear terms that \"tranquillitas ordinis\" is a concept of peace that the U.S. must spread internationally in a \"quest for ordered liberty in an evolving structure of international public life capable of advancing the classic goals of politics—justice, freedom, order, the general welfare, and peace.\" Weigel establishes this view of \"tranquillitas ordinis\" as a practical concept for attempting to achieve peace on earth in combination with other like-minded nations. As such, \"tranquillitas ordinis\" exists as a framework for Public Diplomacy (U.S.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1834395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1834395", "title": "Vientiane Treaty", "text": "Vientiane Treaty\n\nThe Vientiane Treaty was a cease-fire agreement between the two warring Lao factions - the monarchial government of Laos and the communist Pathet Lao - signed in Vientiane (the capital of Laos), on February 21, 1973.\n\nThe Vientiane Treaty was in some sense a corollary to the Paris Peace Accords, signed the month before, which had ended U.S. involvement in the Vietnam war. Just as the Paris Accords had mandated the withdrawal of all US forces in Vietnam, the Vientiane Treaty called for the removal from Laos of all foreign forces allied to each side.\n\nUnder the terms of the treaty, a new coalition government was to be created; security in major cities (such as Vientiane) was to be undertaken by joint forces from both sides.\n\nThere were no outside guarantees to the terms, as the agreement was only between the Lao factions; the ICC (which had overseen the 1954 Geneva Accords ending the First Indochina War) was more powerless than before to monitor compliance.\n\nThe coalition government envisaged by the treaty did not long outlast it; as with the treaty itself, events in Laos emulated those in Vietnam. Shortly after the fall of the South Vietnamese government on 30 April 1975, the Pathet Lao took over Laos 15 August 1975.\n\n"}
{"id": "15464854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15464854", "title": "Water conflict", "text": "Water conflict\n\nWater conflict is a term describing a conflict between countries, states, or groups over an access to water resources. The United Nations recognizes that water disputes result from opposing interests of water users, public or private.\nA wide range of water conflicts appear throughout history, though rarely are traditional wars waged over water alone. Instead, water has historically been a source of tension and a factor in conflicts that start for other reasons. However, water conflicts arise for several reasons, including territorial disputes, a fight for resources, and strategic advantage. A comprehensive online database of water-related conflicts—the Water Conflict Chronology—has been developed by the Pacific Institute. This database lists violence over water going back nearly 5,000 years.\n\nThese conflicts occur over both freshwater and saltwater, and both between and within nations. However, conflicts occur mostly over freshwater; because freshwater resources are necessary, yet scarce, they are the center of water disputes arising out of need for potable water, irrigation and energy generation. As freshwater is a vital, yet unevenly distributed natural resource, its availability often impacts the living and economic conditions of a country or region. The lack of cost-effective water supply options in areas like the Middle East, among other elements of water crises can put severe pressures on all water users, whether corporate, government, or individual, leading to tension, and possibly aggression. Recent humanitarian catastrophes, such as the Rwandan genocide or the war in Sudanese Darfur, have been linked back to water conflicts.\n\nA recent report \"Water Cooperation for a Secure World\" published by Strategic Foresight Group concludes that active water cooperation between countries reduces the risk of war. This conclusion is reached after examining trans-boundary water relations in over 200 shared river basins in 148 countries, though as noted below, a growing number of water conflicts are sub-national.\n\nAccording to the 1992 International Conference on Water and the Environment, water is a vital element for human life, and human activities are closely connected to availability and quality of water. Unfortunately, water is a limited resource and in the future access \"might get worse with climate change, although scientists' projections of future rainfall are notoriously cloudy\" writes Roger Harrabin. Moreover, \"it is now commonly said that future wars in the Middle East are more likely to be fought over water than over oil,\" said Lester R. Brown at a previous Stockholm Water Conference.\n\nWater conflicts occur because the demand for water resources and potable water can exceed supply, or because control over access and allocation of water may be disputed. Elements of a water crisis may put pressures on affected parties to obtain more of a shared water resource, causing diplomatic tension or outright conflict.\n\n11% of the global population, or 783 million people, are still without access to improved sources of drinking water which provides the catalyst for potential for water disputes. Besides life, water is necessary for proper sanitation, commercial services, and the production of commercial goods. Thus numerous types of parties can become implicated in a water dispute. For example, corporate entities may pollute water resources shared by a community, or governments may argue over who gets access to a river used as an international or inter-state boundary.\n\nThe broad spectrum of water disputes makes them difficult to address. Local and international law, commercial interests, environmental concerns, and human rights questions make water disputes complicated to solve – combined with the sheer number of potential parties, a single dispute can leave a large list of demands to be met by courts and lawmakers.\n\nWater’s viability as a commercial resource, which includes fishing, agriculture, manufacturing, recreation and tourism, among other possibilities, can create dispute even when access to potable water is not necessarily an issue. As a resource, some consider water to be as valuable as oil, needed by nearly every industry, and needed nearly every day. Water shortages can completely cripple an industry just as it can cripple a population, and affect developed countries just as they affect countries with less-developed water infrastructure. Water-based industries are more visible in water disputes, but commerce at all levels can be damaged by a lack of water.\n\nInternational commercial disputes between nations can be addressed through the World Trade Organization (WTO), which has water-specific groups like a Fisheries Center that provide a unified judicial protocol for commercial conflict resolution. Still, water conflict occurring domestically, as well as conflict that may not be entirely commercial in nature may not be suitable for arbitration by the WTO.\n\nHistorically, fisheries have been the main sources of question, as nations expanded and claimed portions of oceans and seas as territory for ‘domestic’ commercial fishing. Certain lucrative areas, such as the Bering Sea, have a history of dispute; in 1886 Great Britain and the United States clashed over sealing fisheries, and today Russia surrounds a pocket of international water known as the Bering Sea Donut Hole. Conflict over fishing routes and access to the hole was resolved in 1995 by a convention referred to colloquially as the Donut Hole Agreement.\n\nCorporate interest often crosses opposing commercial interest, as well as environmental concerns, leading to another form of dispute. In the 1960s, Lake Erie, and to a lesser extent, the other Great Lakes were polluted to the point of massive fish death. Local communities suffered greatly from dismal water quality until the United States Congress passed the Clean Water Act in 1972.\n\nWater pollution poses a significant health risk, especially in heavily industrialized, heavily populated areas like China. In response to a worsening situation in which entire cities lacked safe drinking water, China passed a revised Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law. The possibility of polluted water making it way across international boundaries, as well as unrecognized water pollution within a poorer country brings up questions of human rights, allowing for international input on water pollution. There is no single framework for dealing with pollution disputes local to a nation.\n\nAccording to Aaron Wolf, et all. there were 1831 water conflicts over transboundary basins from 1950–2000. They categorized these events as following:\n\n\nA comprehensive chronology of water-related conflicts is maintained by the Pacific Institute in their Water Conflict Chronology, which includes an open-source data set, an interactive map, and full information on citations. These historical examples go back over 4,500 years. In this dataset, water conflicts are categorized as follows:\n\n\nInternational organizations play the largest role in mediating water disputes and improving water management. From scientific efforts to quantify water pollution, to the World Trade Organization’s efforts to resolve trade disputes between nations, the varying types of water disputes can be addressed through current framework. Yet water conflicts that go unresolved become more dangerous as water becomes more scarce and global population increases.\n\nThe UN International Hydrological Program aims to help improve understanding of water resources and foster effective water management. But by far the most active UN program in water dispute resolution is its Potential Conflict to Co-operation Potential (PCCP) mission, which is in its third phase, training water professionals in the Middle East and organizing educational efforts elsewhere. Its target groups include diplomats, lawmakers, civil society, and students of water studies; by expanding knowledge of water disputes, it hopes to encourage co-operation between nations in dealing with conflicts.\n\nUNESCO has published a map of trans-boundary aquifers. Academic work focusing on water disputes has yet to yield a consistent method for mediating international disputes, let alone local ones. But UNESCO faces optimistic prospects for the future as water conflicts become more public, and as increasing severity sobers obstinate interests.\n\nThe World Trade Organization can arbitrate water disputes presented by its member states when the disputes are commercial in nature. The WTO has certain groups, such as its Fisheries Center, that work to monitor and rule on relevant cases, although it is by no means the authority on conflict over water resources.\n\nBecause water is so central to agricultural trade, water disputes may be subtly implicated in WTO cases in the form of virtual water, water used in the production of goods and services but not directly traded between countries. Countries with greater access to water supplies may fare better from an economic standpoint than those facing crisis, which creates the potential for conflict. Outraged by agriculture subsidies that displace domestic produce, countries facing water shortages bring their case to the WTO.\n\nThe WTO plays more of a role in agriculturally based disputes that are relevant to conflict over specific sources of water. Still, it provides an important framework that shapes the way water will play into future economic disputes. One school of thought entertains the notion of war over water, the ultimate progression of an unresolved water dispute—scarce water resources combined with the pressure of exponentially increasing population may outstrip the ability of the WTO to maintain civility in trade issues\n\nWater conflicts can occur on the intrastate and interstate levels. Interstate conflicts occur between two or more neighboring countries that share a transboundary water source, such as a river, sea, or groundwater basin. For example, the Middle East has only 1% of the world's freshwater shared among 5% of the world's population. Intrastate conflicts take place between two or more parties in the same country. An example would be the conflicts between farmers and industry (agricultural vs industrial use of water).\n\nAccording to UNESCO, the current interstate conflicts occur mainly in the Middle East (disputes stemming from the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers among Turkey, Syria, and Iraq; and the Jordan River conflict among Israel, Lebanon, Jordan and the State of Palestine), in Africa (Nile River-related conflicts among Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan), as well as in Central Asia (the Aral Sea conflict among Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan). At a local level, a remarkable example is the 2000 Cochabamba protests in Bolivia, depicted in the 2010 Spanish film \"Even the Rain\" by Icíar Bollaín.\n\nSome analysts estimate that due to an increase in human consumption of water resources, water conflicts will become increasingly common in the near future.\n\nIn 1979, Egyptian President Anwar Sadat said that if Egypt were to ever go to war again it would be over water. Separately, amidst Egypt–Ethiopia relations, Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said: \"I am not worried that the Egyptians will suddenly invade Ethiopia. Nobody who has tried that has lived to tell the story.\"\n\nSome research from the International Water Management Institute and Oregon State University has found that water conflicts among nations are less likely than is cooperation, with hundreds of treaties and agreements in place. Water conflicts tend to arise as an outcome of other social issues. Conversely, the Pacific Institute has shown that while interstate (i.e., nation to nation) water conflicts are increasingly less likely, there appears to be a growing risk of sub-national conflicts among water users, regions, ethnic groups, and competing economic interests. Data from the Water Conflict Chronology show these intrastate conflicts to be a larger and growing component of all water disputes, and that the traditional international mechanisms for addressing them, such as bilateral or multilateral treaties, are not as effective.\n\nStrategic Foresight Group in partnership with the Governments of Switzerland and Sweden has developed the Blue Peace approach which seeks to transforms trans-boundary water issues into instruments for cooperation. The Blue Peace framework offers a unique policy structure which promotes sustainable management of water resources combined with cooperation for peace. By making the most of shared water resources through cooperation rather than mere allocation between countries, the chances for peace can be increased. The Blue Peace approach has proven to be effective in cases like the Middle East and the Nile basin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56436472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56436472", "title": "Youth Parliament Program", "text": "Youth Parliament Program\n\nThe Youth Parliament Program (YPP) is a youth organisation in the India. initiative by Youth for Better India and India's Future Foundation Foundation for Democratic Reforms under the leadership of Dr. Jayaprakash Narayan for the youth to speak up and make an impact on the change agenda for the country. To take on the policymakers in India. The Youth Parliament Program would be a debate between the best debaters and policy makers and opinion makers. The platform will inspire the youth to express their views in an organized way. It will also allow for the emergence of bright future leaders To Create Awareness and Empower Youth though Youth parliament sessions where Youth can come together, think, discuss and debate on various issues Education and Health , Electoral and Political Reforms, Judicial & Police Reforms, Local Governments & Citizen-cantered governance, Governance Reforms, Instruments of Accountability, Public Policy Reforms of India that facing India to build better future for youth. preparing solutions for problems India facing now through Youth Parliament sessions and advocate for new policies and solutions to major policies.\n"}
{"id": "10114563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10114563", "title": "Zero-rated supply", "text": "Zero-rated supply\n\nIn economics, zero-rated supply refers to items that are taxable, but the rate of tax is nil on their input supplies. The term is applied to items that would normally be taxed under valued-added systems such as Europe's Value Added Tax (VAT) or Canada's Goods and Services Tax (GST). Examples of these items include: most exports, basic groceries, and prescription drugs.\n\n\n"}
