{"id": "6344166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6344166", "title": "African Romance", "text": "African Romance\n\nAfrican Romance or African Latin is an extinct Romance language that is assumed to have been spoken in the Roman province of Africa by the Roman Africans during the later Roman and early Byzantine Empires and several centuries after the annexation of the region by the Umayyad Caliphate in 696. \n\nAfrican Roman is poorly attested as it was mainly a spoken, vernacular language; texts and inscriptions in Roman Africa were written exclusively in Classical Latin. It was, along with other languages spoken in the region such as Berber languages, subsequently suppressed and supplanted by Arabic after the Muslim conquest of the area.\n\nLater Romance languages to arrive in the continent (notably Ladino, French and Portuguese) are not covered by this article.\n\nThe Roman province of Africa was organized in 146 BC following the defeat of Carthage in the Third Punic War. Carthage, destroyed following the war, was rebuilt in the dictatorship of Julius Caesar as a Roman colony. In the time of the Roman Empire, the province had become populous and prosperous, and Carthage was the second-largest Latin-speaking city in the Empire. Latin was, however, largely an urban and coastal speech; Carthaginian Punic continued to be spoken in inland and rural areas as late as the mid-5th century. It is probable that Berber languages were spoken in some areas as well.\n\nAfrica was occupied by the Germanic Vandal tribe for over a century, between 429 and 534, when the province was reconquered by the Byzantine Emperor Justinian I. The changes that occurred in spoken Latin during that time are unknown; literary Latin, however, was maintained at a high standard, as seen in the Latin poetry of the African writer Corippus.\n\nWhat happened to African Romance following the Arab conquest in 696 is difficult to trace, though it was soon replaced by Arabic as the primary administrative language. At the time of the conquest a Romance language was probably spoken in the cities and Berber languages were also spoken in the region. Loanwords from Northwest African Romance to Berber are attested and are usually in the accusative form: examples include \"atmun\" (\"plough-beam\") from \"temonem\", and Yennayer, the Berber New Year's festival, from \"Januarius\". It is unclear for how long Romance continued to be spoken, but its influence on Northwest African Arabic (particularly in the language of northwestern Morocco) indicates it must have had a significant presence in the early years after the Arab conquest.\n\nWhether Mozarabic, the group of Romance dialects spoken in medieval Moorish Spain that developed separately from Spanish, shared features with African Latin is unknown.\n\nThe Normans, when they were acquiring their African kingdom in the 12th century, received help from the remaining Christian populations of Tunisia, and some historians such as Vermondo Brugnatelli argue that those Christians still spoke a Romance language. The language may have existed until the arrival of the Banu Hilal Arabs and probably until the beginning of the fourteenth century, according to scholar Andrew H. Merrills and others. Furthermore, the 12th-century Maghrebi geographer Muhammad al-Idrisi, describing Gafsa in southern Tunisia, noted that \"its inhabitants are Berberised, and most of them speak the African Latin tongue.\" According to Alan Rushworth, \"Christian communities, generally labelled \"Afariqa\" or \"Ajam\" in the Arab sources and speaking a Latin dialect (\"al-lisan al-latini al-Afariq\" as is termed by al-Idrisi) are known to have survived until the fourteenth century.\"\n\nMuhammad al-Idrisi gives us a single but very important datum: writing on the island of Sardinia in his work (Recreation of the desirer in the account of cities, regions, countries, islands, towns, and distant lands) defines its inhabitants: \"The Sardinians are ethnically Roman Africans, live like the Berbers, shun any other nation of Rûm; these people are courageous and valiant, that never part with their weapons.\"\n\nAugustine of Hippo states: \"African ears have no quick perception of the shortness or length of [Latin] vowels.\" That describes the evolution of vowels in the Sardinian language, which has only five vowels (and no diphthongs): unlike some other surviving Romance languages, the five long and short vowel pairs of classical Latin (a/ā, e/ē, i/ī, o/ō, u/ū) have merged into five \"single\" vowels with no length distinction (a, e, i, o, u).\n\nOther Romance languages spoken in Northwest Africa before the European colonization were the Mediterranean Lingua Franca, a pidgin with Arabic and Romance influences, and Judaeo-Spanish, a dialect of Spanish brought by Sephardi Jews.\n\nThe Italian linguist Vermondo Brugnatelli pinpoints some Berber words, relating to religious topics, as being originally words from Latin: for example, in Ghadames the word \"äng'alus\" (ⴰⵏⵖⴰⵍⵓⵙ, أنغلس) refers to a spiritual entity, clearly using a word from the Latin \"angel\".\n\nThe Polish Arabist T. Lewicki (1958) tried to reconstruct some sections of this language based on 85 lemmas mainly derived from Northwest African toponyms and anthroponyms found in medieval sources. According to him, several other authors adventured themselves to discover be it some parts of this extinct language.\n\nDue to the historical presence in Northwest Africa of Classical Latin, modern Romance languages, as well as the influence of the Mediterranean Lingua Franca (that has Romance vocabulary) makes it very difficult to differentiate the precise origin of words in Berber languages and in the varieties of Maghrebi Arabic.\n\nGenerally speaking, words originally from African Romance are:\n\nThe studies concerning the African Romance are difficult and often highly conjectural. Another difficulty comes from that, considering the immensity of the North-African territory, it is highly probable that not one but several varieties of African Romance existed, much like the wide variety of Romance languages in Europe.\n\nBecause there are doublets of Northwest African Romance words, in many cases one can assume that they come from different Romance languages or that they originate from different periods. See for example:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5603964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5603964", "title": "Bassam Abdullah bin Bushar al-Nahdi", "text": "Bassam Abdullah bin Bushar al-Nahdi\n\nBassam Abdullah bin Bushar al-Nahdi (born in 1976 in Saudi Arabia, identified as a Yemeni citizen) became wanted in 2002, by the United States Department of Justice's FBI, which was then seeking information about his identity and whereabouts. He was identified as a known associate of the Yemen cell leader, Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei.\n\nHe is no longer listed by the FBI on their \"Seeking Information\" lists.\n\nOn February 11, 2002, al-Nahdi was named in a suspected Yemen plot, for which he was among 17 suspected terrorists (3 days later reduced to 11 suspects) were added to the FBI's third major \"wanted\" list, the \"Seeking Information\" list.\n\nBy 2006, his details had been removed and archived from the FBI's current main wanted pages.\n\nWhether foiled, aborted, or merely incorrect specific intelligence, the February 12, 2002 attack never occurred. However, other attacks and plots in Yemen soon followed.\n"}
{"id": "28810163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28810163", "title": "Biate people", "text": "Biate people\n\nThe Biate people are one of the oldest tribes of Assam, Mizoram and Meghalaya. Their language belongs to the Tibeto-Burman family. Spread over many parts of North-East India, they have a unique identity with a rich and distinctive history, culture, dialect and religious heritages. They are also one of the oldest living tribes in North East India especially among the Chin-Kuki-Mizo family. The term Biate comes from the word Bia-te. The word ‘Bia’ or ‘Biak’ means ‘speak’ or ‘worship’. ‘Te’ is a suffix denoting plurality. Hence, the two words combine to form the word \"Biate\", which means \"worshipper\".\n\nAccording to legends, while they were in Saitual, a group of people known as the Koilom or Kawilom from Rulchawm village of Mizoram (India) used to sacrifice human to appease a large python called Rulpui, believing that the snake had supernatural power. Thus, some writers are of the opinion that the word Biate originates from the term \"Rul-Bia-Te\"or \"Rul-Biak-Te\", which means \"snake-worshippers\" in other dialects. However, this hypothesis is questionable, because the Biates, as a tribe, never fed or worshipped a snake except one. The offering sacrifices by one village was also not as worshiping a God, but due to their fear and timidity and that too only for some time. Some other tribes call them in different names. The Thados call them ‘Baite’ the Bengalis and other plain tribes call them ‘Baite’, the Dimasa Kacharis call them ‘Bedesa’ and the Khasis call them \"Hadem\", which includes all the old-Kuki tribes of Meghalaya. Soppitt C. A. a renowned English writer account as ‘Bêtê’.\n\nThe present population of the Biate tribe are distributed in many parts of the North-East states India \"viz.,\" Mizoram, Tripura, Assam, Meghalaya and Manipur.\n\nAccording to legend, the Biates descended from the Manmasi, whose progeny were Riama and Vaia. Riama (ancestor of the Biate tribe) descended by Kuangpuia and Vaia, who were descended by Khuangzang, Khuangsai, Chilzang, and Lamzang (Lamkang). Kuangpuia had a son named Ralkhana, whose wife Kolsingi gave birth to five children namely Beia, Thianga, Laia, Ngola and Thiaia.\n\nThey are believed to have originated from a place called Khurpui or great cave. The ancient home of the Biates is also known as Sinlung (Sinlung means the core of Sin or cave close with stone) supposedly believed to be the Qin dynasty ruled by Qin Shi Huang. The conjecture of Sinlung as the origin of the Biate tribe is strongly supported by a folk song about the glory of Sinlung:\n\nThe word \"chongzil\" seems to be a mispronunciation of Changzhi, a place in the province of Shanxi, in Central China. Chongzil is the place where the Biate ancestors began their historical migration. Tracing back through orally histories, the Biate tribe with its cognate clans may have started a migration from China between 206 B. C. and 202 BC—between the fall of the Shi Huang kingdom and the emergence of the Hun dynasty. Their migration, according to L. H. Songate, was due to acute oppression and maltreatment in the construction of that great wall or fortress by a cruel king Shi-Huang. At the same time many of them lost their lives. The tribes then proceeded towards south met stiff resistance when they began to settle in the bordering area of Burma and China. They finally waged a war against ‘Zainghong’ and won a triumphant victory. This victory has been immortalised in a song:\n\nThe word \"Zainghong\" may be a corrupted word of Jinghong, which is in the province of Yunnan. They are also believed to have settled in the area of Mengban, Lancang, Menglian and Menghai for some time in the bygone days. The tribe flourished and was mark by a period of prosperous condition and life of ease. They learned and improved their art of war and began to observe and celebrate religious festivals. The tribe were now much more advanced than they were in Sinlung. C. A. Soppitt has accounted that the tribe had already reached Burma previous to the introduction of Buddhist doctrines, that is to say, in the 8th or 10th century. However, opinion varies among writers. According to P.M.Gangte the Mizo tribes (Old Kuki) has already occupied the present Chin Hills before the end of the 8th century AD. While the tribes settled in Shan (Burma), Zamadian (Zamadiai according to Songate, L. H.) was the Biate (Reng) monarch of all the Khawthlang tribes. The Khawthlang or Thlangfa tribes (Westerner) as considered by J. Shakespeare, were the Old Kukis, the Biate (Beteh), Hrangkhol (Hrangchul) and other cognate clans. Zamadian introduced almost all the customary laws of the Biate tribe and except for a few, most of them are still in use. Tradition says that Zamadiana had a written script 'Savunziak' of Kung-fu-tzu or Confucius. This script however was lost after his demise when a dog carried it away. He is believed to be the first to introduce ‘Zolbûk’ among his people. Zolbûk is a kind of dormitory or club, where young people use to learn different kind of art in it. Folk song tells of the migration of the Biate tribe from Shan to Kachin state, Sagaing, and Chin state and to Mizoram, India.\n\nMizo Historian K. Zawla says the Biate were the first to set foot in Mizoram. They also claim the hills round Champhai as their places of origin, and the sites are still known by their names. In the early days of their settlement in Mizoram, the Khawthlang tribes were ruled by the Biate king Vannuailala, son of Tengtonga Khoreng, who gave himself the title of ‘Chonpuimang’ (Chonmang in the account of Songate, L.H.). The Biates by spreading to all sides of the corner of Mizoram settled for nearly a thousand years, numerous hills and mountain, rivers, lakes, and places of Mizoram were named by the Biates, being a forerunner of the land. While they were settling in and around Invol (believed to be present day Lunglei district) they were invaded by the king of Ava (1364–1555), a new kingdom founded by king Thadominbya after the Mongols left the Irrawaddy valley, Burma. During the invasion, one of the Biate clan the Ralvong Thiaite was hiding in a Ralvawng cave. These particular clans including the Ngamlai clans of Troi (present day Tawipui, Mizoram) who faced the brunt of the Ava invasion still tells of the account today.\n\n\"Ava ten khua hong fanga, Kua Invol laia; Aimo zola an ril, Khua Invol laia.\"\n\n\"Ava had invaded us, The time we were in Invol; They tell in the valley of Aimo, While we were in Invol.\"\nIn olden days Aizawl was called Aimo zôl (Aimo valley) by the Biate tribe. Aimoroi is a kind of wild ginger found in that place, the term Aimo is believed to be derived from the name aimoroi. According to traditions soon after the invasion of Ava, the Pawi tribe took advantage of their weakness, waged a tribal war with the intention of driving them out of their land and finally succeeded in chasing majority of them out of their land. From Mizoram they scattered in different places like Chittagong (Bangladesh), Rengpuiram (Tripura), Cachar, N. C. Hills Assam, then Jaintia Hills Meghalaya and some part of Manipur. Lamlira and a few of his followers were the first to migrate to the present land N. C. Hills, Assam and Jaintia Hills, Meghalaya. According to B. Pakem, Lamlira (A Biate legendary hero) led a section of the Biate tribe to their present hills. This was sometime in the 13th century. That was before the invasion of Ava. Their migration is believed to have been a search for better land.\n\nLamlira marked the land with his handiwork by moulding stones in different shape and sizes like man, animal, stone altar and different kind of vessels called Lungzubel which literally means \"Stone rice beer container\" in the Biate language. The artefacts could still be seen today in all Biate dominated areas and some other areas of Assam and Meghalaya which are also believed to have been inhabited by the Biates in olden days. Pakem, also wrote that these round stones and hollow ground resemble those found in the nearby Sumer Elaka, between Umkyurpong and Kseh villages in Meghalaya. He also believed that it might have been the sacrificial or dancing places of the Biates forefathers of the forerunner. In Biate it is called ‘Lamlira Lung Sin’ meaning ‘handiwork of Lamlira’ Many of the relics were gradually destroyed over time, by nature or man, as it was left abandoned and unguarded so long. The vast mountainous region of Jaintia and Naga Hills in the north, according to G. A. Grierson, is the home of the Kuki-Chin tribes. The second migration of the Biate tribe from Mizoram and nearby hills of Tripura took place between 1500 and 1600 AD. Whereas J. Shakespear wrote that the old Kukis made their appearance in Cachar about the end of the 18th century. Those of the old Kuki that migrates in the 18th centuries were the left over tribes in the second migration, who moved out of Mizoram to the plain of Cachar was due to the Sailo rebellion in the hills. B. Pakem, stated that the period under reference might have referred to the popular Biate in Mizoram and not to the Biates of Assam and Meghalaya. The Biate dialect is akin to Mizo (Lushai), Hrangkhol, Khawsak / Hmar, Khelma (Sakachep), Darlong, Chorai, Ranglong, Kaipeng and Bawm (Bawng), etc. Biate tribe have five major clans, and there are about 49 sub-clans. The five major clans are Nampui, Darnei, Ngamlai, Ngirsim(Lalsim) and Thiaite. Sub-clans of the Biate tribe are : \n1.Chungngol \n2.Kungte \n3.Thianglai\n4. Betlu \n5. Bapui\n6. Zamate \n7. Durpui \n8. Darzau\n9. Dau \n10.Darngôn \n11.Fathlei \n12.Faiheng \n13.Fairiam \n14.Dôn Zamate \n15.Munring \n16.Ngaite \n17.Ngenrang \n18.Khurbi \n19.Khampuia \n20.Khoreng \n21.Khongul \n22.Lianate \n23.Lungngoi \n24.Lungtrai \n25.Pazamate \n26.Pungte \n27.Puilo \n28.Rangchal \n29.Roichek (Roichên) \n30.Raiheng \n31.Ranglem \n32.Ralvong \n33.Riamate \n34.Saivate \n35.Sonlen \n36.Subuma \n37.Salon \n38.Theisir \n39.Thangbei \n40.Thloichir \n41.Thlung-ur \n42.Taizang \n43.Tamatê \n44.Tamlo \n45.Thliran \n46. Troi\n47. Vangkal\n48.Zali\n49. Zate\n\nAccording to Biate legends ‘Zampui tlang dunga ei om laiin Saivate namtual asuak’ meaning the term Saivate clan came into existence while they were in ‘Zampui tlang dung’ Zampui hill range, presently Jampui Hills in Tripura.\n\nThe Biate village is generally built on some high slope or ridge. They build their house with a rise platform, about 3 or 4 feet from the ground, is first put up and on this an ordinary hut is erected and a thatched roof with grass or cane leaves. In front of the main entrance, a space is left for veranda. The interior of the house is partitioned off into two, three and sometimes more rooms, according to the number of inmates. Houses in the villages are built facing one another with a broad path running in the centre.\n\nIn marriage alliances a Biate is not restricted to any particular clan or sub-clan. Intermarriage may take place within the clan or the sub-clans; preference is given to get married to other sub-clan of the tribe. A Biate can marry any woman but must avoid blood relations. The marriageable age for the male and female are 21 and 18 years respectively. If the boy is willing to marry a girl, a negotiator (Palai), usually the boy’s relative is sent to negotiate with the girl’s parents. This is called \"Ibiak\", which is basically an engagement. If negotiation is successful, the parents fix a wedding date. The night of the wedding, the groom's family pays the bride price to the girl parents, around INR 185.00, and a bronze or copper plate called Mairang. According to tradition, the groom stays for seven years for 'Mak-sin' or 'in-law's duty' in his father-in-law's house, to assist them and develop a good relationship with his new family. At present, it is reduced to three years, but few practice this custom now. Divorce is rare, usually only for reasons like adultery, cruelty, barrenness, maladjustment, impotence, or insanity.\n\nIn Biate, the youngest son (Itlum) inherits the family properties. Women are not allowed to inherit family properties. The eldest and the middle sons also have no right to claim the family properties. The youngest son is the formal heir who lives with his parents and has the responsibility of looking after his parents in their old age. But there are no hard and fast rules with regards to inheritance. All sons and daughters can share the family properties according to the will of their father. The whole family uses the clan name as surname by the whole family; the sons take his father surname throughout their life.\n\nThe words taboo in Biate dialect is ‘iser’, ‘ikhap’ or ‘rithiangino.’ They believe in various taboos. For instance, the Biate man must avoid sexual intercourse with his wife before going to war or hunting. It is believed that failure to observe this will lead them to dangerous situation or death or defeat by the enemies. Another belief is that, while a wife is pregnant, the husband must not kill an animal. Even today, many believe that violating this would affect the child in the mother’s womb. Biate women are not allowed to carry a pair of machetes, axe etc., during pregnancy. They may not eat any conjoint fruits or vegetable. They believe that if a woman eats these during pregnancy, she will bear twins with severe problem.\n\nHistorically, the Biate tribe practiced animism, but they also strongly believed in a supreme being called \"Chung Pathian\"—which means the God above.\" They believe and feel the omnipresence, and thus acknowledge that Chung Pathian is above all gods. Meanwhile, the primordial god of the earth is called ‘Nuaia Malal’. Other primal gods and goddesses were Bolong Raja or Tarpa, Theisini Kara, Khua Vuai, Dangdo, Fapite, Sangkuru, Truanpuia etc. With the coming of Welsh Missionary Rev. Robert Evan and the Khasi missionary Mr. Khulu Malang the Biate embraced Christianity in the year 1890. In fact the whole Biate population had embraced Christianity by the time it celebrated its hundred years of Christianity in 1990. The Quasquicentennial (125 years) Jubilee of Christianity was recently celebrated in the month of December'2015 by the Biates with soulful and prayer meetings held in all Biate dominated areas of Northeast India.\n\nUnlike other tribes, the Biate have a self-governing democratic administration—which they introduced after reaching the hills of Assam and Meghalaya—known as Kalim Kabur Dan (Law of the Chiefs). They are headed by the two head chiefs of the entire community, a Kalim and Kabur who is aided by the Lalchor or secretary to look after the affairs of the community. Each village has their own Siarkalim (Village Chief), and under him, several people are appointed for the Village Council. The Khochor (Secretary) and Thlangva is the village announcer. Any matter relating to marriage, disputes, quarrels and fight etc. are brought before the court of Namringa Devan (Court of the five clans), which is headed by Kalim and Kabur through the Siarkalim. At present the whole Biate tribe is administered by the court called 'Biate Devanpui' meaning 'The Biates Supreme Court'. This apex body looks after the internal and external matter of the community except the law dealt by the chiefs Kalim and kabur.\n\nAs regard to their economic life, their main occupation is agriculture and they practice shifting cultivation (Loi). Each year before they start sowing their millet, rice, maize etc. the villagers observe ‘Chichoi’ or ‘Burit-in-om’ for one day. The day is spent by praying to God to ensure good crops and good luck.The year is divided into four main seasons, Khothral-Spring, Fur-Summer, Favang-Autumn, Phalbi-Winter. The Biate's economic life, especially among the rural population largely revolved around these four seasons.\nEven though the majority of the Biates are still dependent on subsistent agriculture, the number of Biates working in government and private sectors in towns and cities are growing gradually with the spread of education.\n\nLike all other hill tribes of North East India, the Biates have their own cloth making system since time immemorial. A blanket (Puanpui) made out of cotton is highly regarded for the customary marriage gift. Besides cotton work, the Biates have a tradition of rearing silkworm. A shawl (Rilungpuan) and headgear (Lukom) is manufactured out of the silk thread. Among the Chin-Kuki-Mizo group, the Biates, Hrangkhols and Sakacheps (Khelma) are the only tribes who practice weaving silk clothings since time immemorial. The common dresses of Biate men and women are Puanbom (Mekhla), Zakua (shirt), Lukôm or Satoldiayr (headgear), Rilungpuan, Choipuan (especially for women to put over their shoulders), Puandam(a white rectangular piece of cloth with black border on longer sides and black woven motifs with the Vangsake pattern). Ritai Sam ep (a hairband made out of sliced cane and bamboo), Rithei (beads) Sumngoi Banbun (silver bangles), Kuarbet (earring), Toya (round earring like horn), Zakser (arm ring) and Kaipereng is a flap of cloth hanging in front and back to cover the private parts.\n\n The Biate have many kinds of festivals; Nulding Kut, Pamchar Kut, Lebang Kut, Favang Kut etc. for different occasion. They no longer practise or observe those festivals except ‘Nulding Kut'. The word Nulding means renewal of life and Kut indicates a festival. Thus, Nulding Kut literally means the Festival of the Renewal of Life. Nulding Kut is observed every year on 11 January with singing, dancing, and traditional games—after the Priest (Thiampu) pray to Chung Pathian to bless them in every sphere of life. Apart from these, many community events are organized on this day where Biates from every age group clothing themselves in colourful traditional attires assemble to celebrate the festival.Various dances include, Dar lâm, Sikpui-Zollâm, Buantum lâm, Lampalak, Kolrikhek lâm, Rikifachoi, Ar-ek inuai lâm, Mebur lâm, Sul-ribum lâm, Tuipui lenthluk, Chichoi-lam, Parton lâm, Tuihol Sirphaia Chitu-a lâm, and Salu aih-lâm. The year is divided into four main seasons, Khothral-Spring, Fur-Summer, Favang-Autumn, Phalbi-Winter.\n\nThe Biate play various musical instruments—such as, \"khuang\" (a drum), \"jamluang\" (a large gong), \"dar-ribu\" (a set of small brass cymbals), \"rosem\" (a wind instrument), \"theile (a small bamboo flute), tringtrang (a stringed instrument. The modern guitar is called a \"perkhuang\". A \"seranda\", similar to a modern violin, is made from a dried gourd. It generally has three strings and a bow made of palm hair. The \"theiphit\" is a whistle made from a simple stalk of bamboo with one end open for blowing. The \"chompereng—similar to a mandolin, is generally played while camping in the jhum (shifting cultivation) Hut. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9668850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9668850", "title": "Bombay Progressive Artists' Group", "text": "Bombay Progressive Artists' Group\n\nThe Progressive Artists' Group, PAG, was a group of modern artists, mainly based in Bombay, from its formation in 1947. Though it lacked any particular style, there might be said to have been a move towards a synthesis of influences from Indian art history together with styles prevalent in Europe and North America during the first half of the 20th Century, including Post-Impressionism, Cubism and Expressionism.\n\nThe Progressive Artists' Group was formed by six founder members, F. N. Souza, S. H. Raza, M. F. Husain, K. H. Ara, H. A. Gade, and S. K. Bakre (the only sculptor in the group). Others associated with the group included Manishi Dey, Ram Kumar, Akbar Padamsee and Tyeb Mehta. \n\nThe group wished to break with the revivalist nationalism established by the Bengal school of art and to encourage an Indian avant-garde, engaged at an international level. The Group was formed just months after the 14 August 1947 \"Partition of India\" and Pakistan that resulted in religious rioting and death of tens of thousands of people displaced by the new borders. The founders of the Progressive Artists Group often cite \"the partition\" as impetus for their desire for new standards in India, starting with their new style of art. Their intention was to \"paint with absolute freedom for content and technique, almost anarchic, save that we are governed by one or two sound elemental and eternal laws, of aesthetic order, plastic co-ordination and colour composition.\"\n\nIn 1950, Vasudeo S. Gaitonde, Prafulla Dahanukar, Krishen Khanna and Mohan Samant joined the Group. Following the departure of the two main founders Souza and Raza from India few years later, S.K. Bakre also left the group, which ultimately disbanded in 1956.\n\nEuropean Modernism was the most distinctive influence on the group, but its members worked in dramatically different styles, from the Expressionism of Souza to the pure abstraction of Gaitonde. Specific Indian imagery and landscapes were also adopted, particularly by Mehta and Husain. Through the incorporation and mixture of new, abstract styles with traditional Indian art elements and Media, the PAG is one of the most influential art movements in India until today. \nIn 2015, F.N. Souza's painting \"Birth\" set a new record for Indian art with a hammer price above US$ 4 Mio, which shows the worldwide appeal of the group.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2773899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773899", "title": "Burmese Indians", "text": "Burmese Indians\n\nBurmese Indians () are a group of people of Indian origin who live in Burma. While Indians have lived in Burma for many centuries, most of the ancestors of the current Burmese Indian community emigrated to Burma from the start of British rule in the mid-19th century to the separation of British Burma from British India in 1937. During British times, ethnic Indians formed the backbone of the government and economy serving as soldiers, civil servants, merchants and moneylenders. A series of anti-Indian riots beginning in 1930 and mass emigration during the Japanese occupation of Burma followed by the forced expulsion of 1962 left ethnic Indians with a much reduced role in Burma.\n\nEthnic Indians today account for approximately 2% (about 950,000) of the population of Burma and are concentrated largely in the two major cities (Yangon and Mandalay) and old colonial towns (Pyin U Lwin and Kalaw). Burmese Indians wield considerable influence and control over the Burmese economy and have a major socio-cultural presence within the country. Amongst the well-known Burmese Indians is S N Goenka, a leading practitioner and teacher of vipassanā meditation and Helen, a well-known Bollywood film actress who is also of Anglo-Burmese descent.\n\nThe term 'Burmese Indian' refers to a broad range of ethnic groups from India, most notably from present-day South Asian countries such as Bangladesh, India and also Pakistan. Indians have a long history in Burma with over 2000 years of active engagement in politics, religion, culture, arts and cuisine. Within Burma, they are often referred to as \"ka-la\" or \"ka-laar\" (a term generally used for dark-skinned foreigners from India, Africa and the west). Its root is believed to be derived from the Sanskrit word “Kalaa”; simply the color black. An alternative explanation is that the word is derived from 'Ku lar', meaning the people who adhere to a caste system.Contrary to popular narratives, these terms are not degratory and are in fact simply words that have been absorbed into the Burmese language after centuries of lingua franca adaptation. It must be noted that only modern day reviews of the term are deemed degratory possibly resulting from nationalistic sentiments of the Burmans to distinguish themselves from the multitude of races that reside within Myanmar. \n\nBefore the British conquest, the Indians in Lower Burma primarily engaged in trade. The small Indian community was located almost wholly in Rangoon during Konbaung and preceding eras. After 1852, they migrated to Lower Burma because of the jobs available in the expanding economy and the new provincial bureaucracy of the British Raj. Their population rapidly rose from 37,000 in 1871 in Lower Burma to 297,000 in 1901 with 86% being born outside Burma by that year. Most Indians were from Madras Presidency and Bengal Presidency. Over 60% in the last decades of 19th century were from Madras. 30% were from Bengal in 1881 and 25% in 1901.\n\nThere were no effective curbs on Indian immigration until the eve of World War II despite the implementation of the \"Government of Burma Act\". By 1931, there were more than one million Indians in Burma, about 7% of the population, and were mostly concentrated in Lower Burma. The census of 1931 enumerated 1,017,825 Indians in Burma with 617,251 born in India. Per the census of 1931, the total population of Rangoon was 400,415 out of which comprised 212,929 Indians. They comprised 2.5% of population in Upper Burma and 10.9% in Lower Burma.\n\nThe majority of Indians arrived in Burma whilst it was part of British India. Starting with the annexation of Tenasserim and Western Burma after the First Anglo-Burmese War, a steady stream of Indians moved to Burma as civil servants, engineers, river pilots, soldiers, indentured labourers and traders. Following the annexation of Upper Burma in 1885, numerous infrastructure projects started by the British colonial government and increases in rice cultivation in the delta region caused an unprecedented economical boom in Burma that drew many Indians, particularly from southern India, to the Irrawaddy Delta region.\n\nAfter the First World War, anti-Indian sentiments began to rise for a number of reasons. The number of ethnic Indians was growing rapidly (almost half of Yangon's population was Indian by the Second World War). Indians played a prominent role in the British administration and became the target of Burmese nationalists. Racial animosity toward Indians because of their skin-colour and appearance also played a role. Meanwhile, the price of rice plummeted during the economic depression of the 1930s and the Chettiar from South India, who were prominent moneylenders in the rice belt, began to foreclose on land held by native Burmese.\n\nIn May 1930, a British firm of stevedores at the port of Rangoon employed Burmese workers in an attempt to break a strike organised by its Indian workers. When, on 26 May, the strike ended and the Indians returned to work, clashes developed between the returning Indian workers and the Burmese workers who had replaced them. The clashes soon escalated into large-scale anti-Hindu and anti-Muslim riots in the city. Over 200 Indians were killed and their bodies flung into the river. Authorities ordered the police to fire upon any assembly of five or more who refused to lay down their arms, under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Within two days the riot spread throughout the country to locations such as Maymyo.\n\nAt the start of World War II, almost half of Rangoon's (Yangon) population was Indian, and about 16% of the population of Burma was ethnically Indian. As a consequence of the Japanese invasion of 1942, half a million members of the Indian community fled Burma overland into Assam, largely on foot. The refugees suffered terribly and thousands died. Some of the Indian community remained in Burma during the war, others returned after the war, although many never did. After Independence, Burmese law treated a large percentage of the Indian community as 'resident aliens'. Though many had long ties to Burma or were born there, they were not considered citizens under the 1982 Burma citizenship law which restricted citizenship for groups immigrating before 1823.\n\nAfter he seized power through a military coup in 1962, General Ne Win ordered a large-scale expulsion of Indians. Although many Indians had been living in Burma for generations and had integrated into Burmese society, they became a target for discrimination and oppression by the junta. This, along with a wholesale nationalisation of private ventures in 1964, led to the emigration of over 300,000 ethnic Indians from Burma. Indian-owned businesses as well as Burmese businesses were nationalised due to the so-called \"Burmese way to Socialism\". Many Indians returned and were given 175 kyat for their trip to India. This caused a significant deterioration in Indian-Burmese relations and the Indian government arranged ferries and aircraft to lift Burmese of Indian ethnicity out of Burma.\n\nIndia has been particularly influential in Burmese culture as the cradle of Buddhism, and ancient Hindu traditions can still be seen in Brahmans presiding over important ceremonies such as weddings and ear-piercings but most notably in Thingyan, the Burmese New Year festival. The Burmese poetry tradition of \"niti\" (notably the \"Dhammaniti\") also has Indian origins. Traditions of kingship including coronation ceremonies and formal royal titles as well as those of lawmaking were also Hindu in origin. Many Burmese dishes and breads came as a result of Indian influence, prominently reflected in the Burmese version of Indian biryani.\n\nBurmese Indians came from various groups from different parts of India, including Tamils, Telugus, Hindi speakers, Bengalis, Gujaratis, Oriya, and Punjabis. Today they form approximately 2% (about 950,000) of the population, according to the CIA \"World Factbook 2006\", although exact figures do not exist due to uncertainties over census results and methods in Myanmar. Disaffected young Indians often flee the cities and join ethnic resistance movements. The All Burma Muslim Union whose members consist largely of Muslims of Indian origin is routinely labelled by the government as \"Muslim terrorist insurgents\". It operates alongside the Karen National Union which has a militant wing and, despite a swelling of its ranks following anti-Muslim riots in the eighties, remains a very minor force.\n\nBurmese Indians practise Hinduism, Islam, Sikhism, Buddhism and Christianity. Burmese-Indian Hindus have good and peaceful relationships with the native Burmese. Burmese-Indian Muslims have the decades old ongoing conflict with the native Burmese.\n\nPredominantly, Burmese Indians are Hindu. The practice of Hinduism among Burmese Indians is also influenced by Buddhism. In addition of Hindu deities, the Buddha is also worshiped and many Hindu temples in Myanmar house statues of the Buddha.\n\nBurmese Muslims, some of them of mixed blood born of Burmese mothers and some of them with full Burmese blood, call themselves \"Bama Musalin\" (); the majority are Sunni with small numbers of Twelvers. The Burmese call them \"Zaydabayi\".\n\nThe constitution grants limited rights to freedom of religion; however, some articles in the constitution, as well as other laws and policies, restrict those rights. In practice the government enforced those restrictions. \"Muslims continue to experience the most severe forms of legal, economic, religious, educational, and social restrictions and discrimination\". The military dictatorship rejects or ignores their requests when they want to build mosques in the country or to go abroad for religious ceremonies. Although there is freedom of religion in Burma, Muslims decided not to hold Eid al-Adha in 2012 due to Rakhine-Rohingya strikes in Rakhine State.\n\nBurmese Indians are from an array of ethnic backgrounds. There are Tamils from Tamil Nadu, Telugus from Andhra Pradesh and Marwaris from the Marwar region of India's Rajasthan state as well as Bengalis hailing from the Indian state of West Bengal as well as the present-day independent nation of Bangladesh. \nPrior to the expulsion of Indians, there were also Malayalis from Kerala, Odias from Odisha, Punjabis from the state of Punjab who are mostly Sikhs and two groups of Gujaratis, both Gujarati-speaking Parsis and Gujaratis proper who are mostly Hindus or Muslims by faith hailing from the state of Gujarat. \nAll can and were able to communicate in Burmese due to years of assimilation and lack of education in languages other than English. Other languages used by Burmese Indians include Tamil, Telugu and small pockets of Malayalam speakers.\n\nHistorically, Burmese Indians have made their livelihoods as merchants, traders and shopkeepers as well as manual labourers such as coolies, dockers, municipal workers, rickshaw men, pony cart drivers, malis and durwans. They were also heavily represented in certain professions such as civil servants, university lecturers, pharmacists, opticians, lawyers and doctors. They dominated several types of businesses such as auto parts and electrical goods, ironmongery and hardware, printing and bookbinding, books and stationery, paper and printing ink, tailoring and dry-cleaning, English tuition, and money lending. They traded in textiles, gold and jewellery, where the market was traditionally dominated by Burmese women. The Chettiars of Burma functioned as moneylenders and have been thought crucial in the growth in agricultural output of Burma during the colonial era. Today, many Indians live in central Rangoon on both sides of the Su Lei Paya Road and are largely involved in businesses, including restaurants, jewellery shops and money exchanges.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2714047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2714047", "title": "Clarke Paulus", "text": "Clarke Paulus\n\nMajor Clarke Paulus was a United States Marine Corps officer who was briefly in charge of Camp Whitehorse.\n\nPaulus was an active duty officer, who had volunteered for service in Iraq just one month after his marriage. According to the San Diego Union-Tribune Paulus was about 35 years old. The troops he commanded at Camp Whitehorse were all reservists.\n\nSeveral hundred POWs passed through Camp Whitehorse. One of them, Nagem Hatab, died on or around June 5, 2003. Hatab was captured for an alleged role in the March 23, 2003 ambush of the 507th Maintenance Battalion in An Nasiriyah that resulted in the deaths of 9 U.S. soldiers and the capture of Private Jessica Lynch. He was only in custody for about three days. Unlike the other detainees who were at Camp Whitehorse, Hatab refused to communicate with the Marine translator at the detention facility, which led to a later misperception of his condition. Moreover, Paulus had been informed by the Marine Human Intelligence Exploitation Team who interrogated Hatab his first day in confinement that it was unlikely that Hatab would cooperate with his captors. On June 5 he began to display listless behavior, first appearing unstable on his feet then lying down and soiling himself, becoming covered in excrement. As other prisoners had been known to exhibit false signs of faking physical distress, it was unclear if Hatab's behavior was legitimate, and his failure to communicate with the Marine translator compounded the situation. Paulus ordered one of his Marines to haul Hatab out of the common cell to where he could be hosed off. He ordered his soiled clothes removed and burned, and for him to be placed in an outside wire enclosure so his loss of bowel control wouldn't soil the other prisoners' living and eating areas.\n\nA medical corpsman examined Hatab at approximately 5pm, and reported to Paulus that options for Hatab's condition included that he may have suffered a heart attack. However, the medic said Hatab's vital signs were normal and therefore he should be left under observation. (Hatab's autopsy report confirmed he did not suffer a heart attack.) Because the detention facility had no replacement clothing Hatab was left outside naked that evening. At midnight Hatab was found dead. A post-mortem alleged that Hatab had haemorrhaged and suffocated because his hyoid bone had been broken. The hyoid break allegedly occurred when the Marine Paulus had ordered to remove Hatab from the general living area dragged him out. Hatab would not stand so he was hauled by the Marine who cupped his hands under the man's chin, dragging him to the wire enclosure. Once in the enclosure, Hatab was cleaned off, provided food and water and left under direct observation of one of the Marine guards. The entire episode occurred with Major Paulus's commanding officer present.\n\nAccording to the \"Houston Chronicle\":\n\nMedical testimony for the defense stated that there was nothing clear about the autopsy photo of the hyoid bone and that Ingwersen's autopsy report contradicted her final conclusions. For example, her autopsy report showed Hatab's larynx was not bruised. When confronted with this Ingersen flatly replied that on that point the autopsy report was mistaken.\n\nAccording to the North County Times Ingwersen said Hatab's was not the usual kind of suffocation—that his death would have spanned hours. When pressed by Paulus' lawyers to present medical literature supporting her theory of death Ingwersen admitted there was none but that she stood by her findings.\n\nMaj. Paulus was charged with negligent homicide, aggravated assault, abetting an assault, maltreatment, false official statement and dereliction of duty and went through a preliminary hearing in January 2004 to determine if he should be referred to a court martial. The presiding judge, Colonel William Gallo, heard all evidence presented by the prosecution and defense. At the conclusion of the Article 32 hearing Gallo recommended to then-Major General James Mattis, Commanding General of the 1st Marine Division and presiding officer, that the negligent homicide, assault, abetting an assault and false official statement charges be dropped. Col. Gallo's recommendation was for Paulus to receive non-judicial punishment. MajGen Mattis rejected Gallo's recommendation and referred Paulus to a General Court Martial. He also overruled Gallo and keeping the assault charge against Paulus\n\nDuring Paulus's court martial in November 2004 the presiding judge, Colonel Robert Chester, was highly critical when he learned that key prosecution exhibits, including various of Hatab's body parts- specifically the hyoid bone that LTC Ingwersen alleged was broken- were unaccountably missing.\n\nThe treatment of Hatab’s body did not improve after his death. A United States Navy surgeon, Dr. Ray Santos, testified that when Hatab’s body arrived at the morgue: “It kept slipping from my hands so I did drop it several times.” The U.S. Army Medical Examiner, Lieutenant Colonel Ingwersen, who performed the autopsy, reportedly acknowledged that Hatab’s body had undergone decomposition because it was stored in an unrefrigerated drawer at the An Nasiriyah Hospital before the autopsy. A second Navy doctor, Commander Dennis McKenna, testified that the manner in which Hatab's body was removed from the holding cell would not have caused him bodily harm and would not have been the cause for a hyoid bone fracture. Following this testimony the most serious charge against Paulus, aggravated assault, was dropped by the judge.\n\nPaulus was found guilty of maltreatment and dereliction of duty and was administratively dismissed from the service.\n\n"}
{"id": "58326591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58326591", "title": "Coding it Forward", "text": "Coding it Forward\n\nCoding it Forward is an American 501c3 non-profit organization building a talent pipeline into civic tech, primarily through creating and marketing data science and technology internships in United States federal government agencies for undergraduate and graduate students at colleges and universities across the United States.\n\nSeveral Harvard University students were inspired by former Chief Technology Officer of the United States Megan Smith's appeal for technologists to work in public service at the annual Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing. They started a blog highlighting how students were contributing to civic tech which quickly grew to 800 members within two months. Two of the students took a course with the former Deputy Chief Technology Officer of the United States Nick Sinai where they had the opportunity to work on tech projects in government. That experience led to the idea of organizing tech focused student internships in government.\n\nThe primary program of Coding it Forward is their \"Civic Digital Fellowship\", a competitive 10-week data science and technology internship program for undergraduate and graduate students in United States federal agencies. To date, they have received more than 1,100 applications from students from more than 175 colleges and universities for 50 fellowship positions..\n\nCo-founders Athena Kan and Chris Kuang were selected to give the closing keynote at the 2018 Code for America Summit in Oakland, CA, in front of an audience of 1,200 civic technologists (Video of Keynote).\n\nThe organization has attracted support from philanthropic sources such as the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, the Knight Foundation, and the Shuttleworth Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "2827293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2827293", "title": "CountyWatch", "text": "CountyWatch\n\nCountyWatch is a direct action group in the United Kingdom that was set up in 2004 to remove what they consider to be wrongly placed county boundary signs that do not mark the historic or ancient county boundaries of England and Wales. Since 2005, Count Nikolai Tolstoy has been Patron of CountyWatch. CountyWatch and its supporters claim to have removed, re-sited or erected 80 county boundary signs in Dorset, County Durham, Greater Manchester, Hampshire, Lancashire, Lincolnshire, North Yorkshire, Somerset and Warwickshire.\n\nA prominent member of the group is Anthony Bennett, a British politician. In May 2002 Bennett was prosecuted for removing 29 metric road signs that he claimed were illegal and that he was preventing the law from being broken. He buried the signs in four locations under bushes. Initially found guilty of theft and criminal damage, his theft conviction was overturned in October 2002 on appeal. The judge stated that \"there was no evidence of dishonesty or that he intended to permanently deprive the owners of their signs.\" His conviction for criminal damage was upheld, but the Judge discharged the sentence, which had been 50 hours of community service.\n\nCountyWatch sees the abolition of democratically elected county councils in the UK as part of a long-term project to weaken the constituent nations of Europe, notably the UK, and to concentrate power at two levels: Brussels (the European Commission) and the \"regions\" within countries. CountyWatch believes in taking direct action within the law to counter aspects of this project.\n\nThere have been similar illegal acts before. The former county of Humberside was extremely unpopular with some of its residents. The book \"The Fight for Yorkshire\" by Michael Bradford detailed a series of cases where signs were altered to read \"East Riding of Yorkshire\" in North Humberside. None of these acts were ever prosecuted and in 1996 the county was abolished.\n\nIn August 2007, CountyWatch took its campaign to Bedfordshire, where, in November 2006, Bedfordshire County Council erected four signs on the main roads on the north, west and south sides out of Luton proclaiming 'Welcome to Bedfordshire'. Luton is the largest town within the historic and ceremonial county of Bedfordshire. Some letter writers still address mail to \"Luton Beds\". Some organisations based in Luton, such as the University of Bedfordshire, include 'Bedfordshire' as part of their address. In 1996, the Royal Mail stopped using Postal Counties as a method of sorting mail, using instead the post code. However, they have a \"flexible addressing policy\" whereby historic counties can be used. Luton became a unitary authority on 1 April 1997. Bedfordshire County Council no longer runs any services in the area covered by Luton Borough Council.\n\nThe County Council erected the signs only in November 2006 in a struggle to save Bedfordshire County Council from extinction against rival bids from the Borough of Bedford to become a unitary Borough Council and from Mid Bedfordshire and South Bedfordshire Councils to become another unitary authority, to be called \"Central Bedfordshire\".\n\nThe signs were unpopular with some Luton residents, some of whom called the signs \"snooty\". Bedfordshire County Council responded by saying, \"Luton has been a unitary authority since 1997 and is therefore not part of Bedfordshire. In July 2007, the government announced that Bedfordshire County Council would be abolished in 2010.\n\nOn 9 August 2007, CountyWatch removed four \"Welcome to Bedfordshire\" signs from Luton, claiming they were misleading to the public. One sign was removed from the B653 to Wheathampstead and re-erected on the A505 near Stopsley in front of a \"Welcome to Luton\" sign. The other three signs were removed from the A6, the A505 and the B579. CountyWatch claimed these were being stored at a secure location and added that the signs would be returned to the County Council if they were re-sited on what CountyWatch deem to be the \"true\" Bedfordshire boundaries. The County Council responded by stating that, \"This is absolutely crazy. We are proud of our county and we like to ensure that visitors are given a warm welcome. The signs on the edge of Luton mark the boundaries of their responsibilities and the beginnings of ours.\"\n\nIn April 2006 the group set up \"Royal County of Berkshire\" signs on the ancient border between Berkshire and Oxfordshire. The signs were quickly removed. The Mayor of Abingdon, once the county town of Berkshire, now administered by Oxfordshire County Council, said \"I still get letters addressed to me with Abingdon, Berkshire, and many older people still have allegiances.\" The Mayor of Wantage, however, noted, \"I think Count Tolstoy and his supporters are living in the past. They need to face reality. I know there are many older people in Wantage who still think of themselves as Berkshire people, but the reality is that time has moved on and we can't go backwards.\" The Mayor of Faringdon said that \"Faringdon should stay in Oxfordshire\", noting that \"when we were in Berkshire, County Hall in Reading was so far away. It's much better for us to get into Oxford.\"\n\nOn 10 November 2005, Tony Bennett removed a Dorset sign from Chewton Bunny at Highcliffe and moved it to its historic location at the original County Gates border between Bournemouth and Poole, claiming that while Bournemouth and neighbouring Christchurch had been administered by Dorset County Council for the past 30 years, they remained historically Hampshire towns.\n\nIn May 2006, CountyWatch announced that it has been contacted by Durham residents who were unhappy that Durham County Council had recently relocated signs from the historic boundary between Durham and Yorkshire and relocated them to the Darlington boundary. It would be travelling around Durham looking to see whether signs were on what it consider to be the correct, true border and would remove County Durham signs from the border with the unitary authority of Darlington to the historic and currently ceremonial border with North Yorkshire on the River Tees on 25 May 2006 and re-erect them on suitable posts along the River Tees.\n\nThe BBC and Tyne Tees Television filmed CountyWatch removing the boundary signs at Royal Oak. Twelve signs with, \"County Durham: Land of the Prince Bishops\" were removed. Three of them were re-erected along the historic border between Yorkshire and Durham – the River Tees, also the current ceremonial border. The Council were informed by CountyWatch of the location of the other signs they removed. Durham County Council issued a statement saying that CountyWatch's actions were \"nothing more than sheer vandalism, no less mindless or anti-social than smashing bus stops or phone boxes\".\n\nOn 31 May 2006, an article in \"The Northern Echo\" newspaper praised the group's actions, calling the council's statement \"a trifle wide of the mark\" and ended the article - \"Carry on CountyWatch\".\n\nIn November 2005 CountyWatch removed over thirty 'Welcome to Lancashire' signs from Blackburn, Blackpool, Skelmersdale and Southport, placing all of them on the historic Lancashire/Yorkshire border at Blacko near Nelson, where they telephoned the Council's Solicitor. Lancashire County Council reacted by stating that \"the cost of replacing the signs would be met from taxpayers' money.\" and also that it would be speaking to the police about the group. The Welcome to Lancashire signs were erected on the boundaries with Blackburn with Darwen and Blackpool unitary authorities by the county council in 2004 to show where its services begin. CountyWatch responded stating that, \"The sign says 'Welcome to Lancashire', it doesn't say 'Welcome to the administrative unit of Lancashire County Council - that would be all right.\" The signs which were dumped by the side of the A682 in Blacko, near to the historic border with Yorkshire, were recovered by Lancashire County Council who stated that they would re-erect them.\n\nCountyWatch also claimed to have removed the larger brown-coloured motorway signs on the M6, M66 and M61 which read \"Welcome to Lancashire the Red Rose County\". They also claimed that they had a legal right to remove signs under the section 131 of the Highways Act 1980 because \"they misinform the public\".\n\nOn 27 July 2005, the BBC TV \"Look North\" regional news programme featured the group and filmed it in the act of removing a \"Welcome to the County of Lincolnshire\" sign near Brigg. Lincolnshire County Council Area Highways Manager Eric Jorgensen described the group as \"self-appointed and unelected\" and stated that taxpayers would be forced to pay for the signs to be replaced.\n\nOn 22 September 2005, CountyWatch removed ten road signs stating: \"Welcome to the County of Lincolnshire\" between Brigg and Immingham, which the group claimed there was no point in putting up a welcome sign 15 miles into the historic county. CountyWatch claimed, \"Lincolnshire starts where Yorkshire finishes – not 20 miles into Lincolnshire. We want them erected on the proper boundary\". Lincolnshire County Council however attacked the group for taking council property and said \"it will cost the taxpayer to put the signs back up\". The signs were deposited at a council depot after being removed.\n\nIn August 2004, CountyWatch's first action was the removal of five signs saying 'Welcome to the County of Somerset', on the northern border of the non-metropolitan county of Somerset with either Bath and North East Somerset or North Somerset. The signs were taken down by CountyWatch members and relocated on the historic borders of Somerset with neighbouring historic counties Gloucestershire and Wiltshire.\n\nOn 25 July 2007, the Local Government Minister, John Healey from the Department for Communities and Local Government announced that nine all-purpose local authorities would be created in 2009 in England.\n\nCountyWatch see this as the next phase of attempts to replace the administration of England and Wales by county and district councils with a series of so-called 'unitary' authorities, which combine the administrative functions of both district councils and county councils. Region-wide functions will be carried out by regional development agencies and new government quangos, following the announcement earlier in the month of the abolition of unelected regional assemblies from 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "9296327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9296327", "title": "Digital era governance", "text": "Digital era governance\n\nThe first idea of a digital administrative law was born in Italy in 1978 by Giovanni Duni and was developed in 1991 with the name teleadministration (look).\nIn the public administration debate about New Public Management (NPM), the concept of digital era governance (or DEG) is claimed by Patrick Dunleavy, Helen Margetts and their co-authors as replacing NPM since around 2000-05. DEG has three key elements: reintegration (bringing issues back into government control, like US airport security after 9/11); needs-based holism (reorganizing government around distinct client groups); and digitization (fully exploiting the potential of digital storage and Internet communications to transform governance).\n\n\n, L'utilizzabilità delle tecniche elettroniche nell'emanazione degli atti e nei procedimenti amministrativi. Spunto per una teoria dell'atto amministrativo emanato nella forma elettronica, in \"Rivista amm. della Repubblica italiana\", 1978, pag.407 ss. \nPatrick Dunleavy, Helen Margetts et al., Digital Era Governance: IT Corporations, the State and E-Government (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006).\n"}
{"id": "11021994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11021994", "title": "Domestic violence in Russia", "text": "Domestic violence in Russia\n\nIn 2008 a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Lt. Gen Mikhail Artamoshkin expressed his concerns over the country's crime rate, that had doubled in a mere five years between 2002 and 2006. He emphasized that also domestic violence had increased so that up to 40 percent of all serious violent crimes were committed within families. Every year about 14,000 women died in the hands of partners or other relatives, and 3,000 women killed their partners. In 90 percent of cases, a woman had first experienced systematic beating and violence.\n\nAbout two-thirds of premeditated murders and grievous bodily harm was done in intimate relations or within families. The violence in one form or another was observed in almost every fourth family. The reasons for domestic crimes were different and included quarrels and scandals, hostile relations on the basis of families' problems, housing and domestic conflicts, which were often of long-lasting character.\n\nAs the main causes over the whole populae Artamoshkin referred \"low morale\" and income problems. While in wealthy families crimes happened also due to jealousy and avarice. High unemployment frustrated people and led to the abuse of alcohol and violence towards women and adolescents. \n\nArtamoshkin pointed out that many preventing features in society vanished with the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. He stated that the militia officers of districts had started in co-operation with child protection officials to work with families. And that, as a result of the preventive work the annual cases of domestic violence had decreased by 25-30 percent.\nIn a 2003 press release, Amnesty International claimed that, each day, 36,000 women in the Russian Federation were beaten by their husbands or partners.\n\nThe situation was exacerbated by the lack of statistical data on violent crimes, which took into account the nature of relationship between the offender and the victim as well as gender breakdown, and by the attitude of law enforcement officers that did not regard such violence as a serious crime, but rather, as a \"private matter\" between the spouses and avoid to \"interfere with family scandals\".\n\nA 2008 article published in \"Journal of Interpersonal Violence\" regarding domestic violence among Russian college students found that \"High prevalence rates were found for all types of violence, aggression, and [sexual] coercion. Consistent with previous research, male and female students were about equally likely to be victims and perpetrators of all violent and aggressive actions.\"\n\nAccording to figures reported by the western media in 2013, women's deaths due to domestic violence had not been markedly diminished in a decade. BBC reported information from a Russian interior ministry that 600,000 women were physically or verbally abused at home and 14,000 of them died that year from injuries inflicted by their partner. Reuters also reported that an estimated 10,000 to 14,000 women die at the hands of their partner or close relative every year. This was still on par with the 14,000 reported in 2005 by Womensenews.org.\n\nA 1997 report published in the \"Journal of Family Violence\", found that among male perpetrators of spousal homicide, 60–75% of offenders had been drinking prior to the incident. A survey conducted by the \"Scientific Research Institute of the Family\", 29% of people responding to the question “Why are children beaten in families with which you are acquainted?” reported that the violence was carried out by drunks and alcoholics.\n\nIn a 2004 study of domestic violence in the Central Black Earth Region of Russia, 77% of offenders of violent crime (towards family members) were frequent drinkers - 12% engaged in regular binge drinking (three or four times a month), 30% three times a week or more, and 35% every day or almost every day.\n\nYelena Makkey, the legal consultant of the Yekaterina Crisis Centre in the Urals, said that when facing victims of domestic violence police frequently don't understand that they should treat the cases as a violation of human rights. Often, they do not even register the complaints.\n\nLara Griffith, an AI advocate who is also affiliated with the campaign for human rights in the Russian Federation, explained: \"Economic difficulties, experienced by a significant number of Russian families in the past decade, have put additional strain on family relations and have led to an upsurge in domestic violence in which women are most often the victims.\"\n\nMen who beat or rape their wives or harass them in other ways are unlikely to face prosecution. Law enforcement officials and society in general tend to view domestic violence not as a crime, but as a private matter. Many women who have suffered such abuses do not seek redress because they fear further involvement with the authorities.\n\nOfficial statistics from the Russian Police Department (MVD) for 2008:\nAccording to the data of 2015, more than 300 women per year die from the hands of husbands or other relatives.\n\nIn 2017, Vladimir Putin signed a law which decriminalizes a first offense of domestic violence which does not seriously injure the person, making that offense a less serious administrative offense in Russia. It served as an addition to the law that was signed by the president in August 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "870611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870611", "title": "Eugenio Martínez", "text": "Eugenio Martínez\n\nEugenio Rolando Martínez (alias Musculito, born July 8, 1922) is a current real estate agent who was a member of the anti-Castro movement in the early 1960s, and later was one of the five men recruited by G. Gordon Liddy and E. Howard Hunt in 1972 for the Memorial Day weekend Watergate burglary at the Democratic National Committee (DNC) headquarters in Washington, D.C.\n\nWeeks later, on June 17, 1972, the men were arrested by District of Columbia Police inside DNC headquarters during what they said was a second entry into the building to correct problems with the first break-in. Martinez and the others were convicted in the ensuing Watergate scandal. The others were Frank Sturgis, Virgilio Gonzalez, Bernard Barker and James McCord. He worked for Bernard Barker's real estate firm. \n\nMartinez and Barker were also recruited by Hunt and Liddy to help break into the office of Dr. Lewis J. Fielding, psychiatrist to former State Department and United States Department of Defense analyst Daniel Ellsberg in September 1971, prior to Watergate.\n\nAfter completing his prison term, Martinez was pardoned by President Ronald Reagan in 1983.\n\nOn August 31, 2016, the conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch obtained CIA internal documents, through a FOIA request, that stated Mr. Martinez was a paid asset of the Agency at the time of the break in. Although his connection to the Agency was acknowledged, until this release CIA had maintained that his service had ended and he no longer had an association with the Agency for at least two years prior to the incident at the Watergate Hotel.\n\n"}
{"id": "46487614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46487614", "title": "G1 Group", "text": "G1 Group\n\nG1 Group is a Scottish hospitality and leisure operator based in Glasgow, run by entrepreneur Stefan King. The company operates more than 45 venues, including nightclubs, bars, restaurants and cinemas.\n\nThe G1 Group's first venue, Club X on Royal Exchange Square in Glasgow, was opened in 1990. In 2011, the Group moved into the former BBC headquarters in Queen Margaret Drive, which was built in 1869 and had housed BBC Scotland between 1936-2007. The G1 Group expanded into Edinburgh in 2011 after investing almost £30 million in acquiring a number of Edinburgh pubs.\n\nThe Shimmy Club in Glasgow, which is a G1 Group venue, hit headlines in 2013 after allowing male patrons to use a spy mirror into the women's bathrooms. The city's licensing board forced the venue to close for a week because of the risk of \"predatory behaviour\" towards young women, then ordered the club to remove the two-way mirror and put its staff through equalities training as a licensing condition.\n\nThe club had re-opened on 3 May 2013 following a £300,000 makeover, and the first complaints about the mirror were made that month; one complaint to the police was made by a 23-year-old woman following \"an incident\" relating to the two-way mirror. Clubbers said that there were no notices or signs to inform women entering the bathrooms that they could be spied on by men who had booked private booths on the other side of the mirror.\n\nA post on the club's Facebook page at the time stated: \"The Shimmy Club's two-way mirror is a design feature created as a bit of fun.\"\n\nIn 2014, a disabled couple won a discrimination case against G1 Group after they were refused entry from the Polo Lounge, a G1 Group venue. Bouncers did not allow them into the Glasgow venue, which the couple had visited before, because they claimed it had no disabled facilities.\n\nIn 2015, G1 Group was named and shamed for not paying the minimum wage to almost 3,000 workers.\n\nThe firm illegally underpaid staff by more than £45,000 by making deductions from wages to pay for staff uniforms and training. G1 Group stopped this practice after it was named by the Department for Business Innovation and Skills in a list of companies that failed to pay the minimum wage.\n"}
{"id": "16031825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16031825", "title": "Hina language", "text": "Hina language\n\nThe Mina language, also known by the names Hina and Besleri, is a Chadic language spoken in Northern Cameroon by 10,000 people. Speakers of Mina are generally bilingual, with Fulfulde (Fula) being the second language. Fulfulde is often joined by French as a third language in educated speakers.\n\nFrajzyngier & Johnston (2005) list three Mina dialects: Marbak, Kefedjevreng and Dzundzun. \"Ethnologue\" also lists three: Besleri, Jingjing (Dzumdzum), Gamdugun. While the correspondence of \"Jingjing\" and \"Dzundzun\" is clear, the identity of the others is not. Mutual intelligibility between dialects is difficult to ascertain, but Frajzyngier & Johnston (2005:3) demonstrate one-way intelligibility between Dzundzun and Mina (presumably meaning the Marbak dialect).\n\n"}
{"id": "31516805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31516805", "title": "Human trafficking in Egypt", "text": "Human trafficking in Egypt\n\nEgypt is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children who are subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically forced labor and forced prostitution.\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017 meaning that its government does not fully meet the minimum standards described in the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA), but is making significant efforts toward meeting those standards.\n\nSome of Egypt's estimated two hundred thousand to one million street children – both boys and girls – are exploited in prostitution and forced begging. Local gangs are, at times, involved in this exploitation. Egyptian children are recruited for domestic and agricultural labor; some of these children face conditions indicative of involuntary servitude, such as restrictions on movement, non-payment of wages, threats, and physical or sexual abuse. In addition, wealthy men from the Gulf reportedly travel to Egypt to purchase \"temporary\" or \"summer marriages\" with Egyptian females, including girls who are under the age of 18; these arrangements are often facilitated by the females' parents and marriage brokers and are a form of commercial sexual exploitation of children. Child sex tourism occurs in Cairo, Alexandria, and Luxor. Egypt is a transit country for women trafficked from Uzbekistan, Moldova, Ukraine, Russia, and other Eastern European countries to Israel for commercial sexual exploitation; organized crime groups are involved in these movements.\n\nMen and women from South and Southeast Asia may be subjected to forced labor in Egypt. Ethiopians, Eritreans, Sudanese, Indonesians, Filipino, and possible Sri Lankan females migrate willingly to Egypt but may be subjected to forced domestic work. Some conditions they face include no time off; sexual, physical, and emotional abuse; withholding of wages; and restrictions of movement. Employers may use the domestic workers' illegal status and lack of employment contracts as a coercive tool. Some of the immigrants and refugees who engage in prostitution may have been coerced to do so. Young female Sudanese refugees, including those under 18, may be coerced into prostitution in Cairo's nightclubs by family or Sudanese gang members. NGO and media reports indicate some Egyptians are forced to work in Jordan and experience the withholding of passports, forced overtime, non-payment of wages, and restrictions of movement.\n\nIn 2010, the Egyptian government approved new legislation criminalizing trafficking in persons for labor and sexual exploitation. In 2009/2010, the government made its first two convictions under the 2008 anti-trafficking amendments to the Child Law and raised awareness on \"summer marriages\", which are often used to facilitate commercial sexual exploitation. According to the U.S. government, the Egyptian government's lack of formal victim identification procedures and protection services allowed unidentified victims of trafficking to be punished for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked.\n\nThere is a phenomenon in Egypt known as 'seasonal' or 'temporary' marriages. This is when young women and girls particularly from poor families are married off to men from Gulf States to provide sexual services to non-Egyptian men. Pursuant to a survey that was conducted by the National Council for Childhood and Motherhood (NCCM), 67% of 2,000 of families selected from a sample in Al Hawamdia, Al Badrashein and Abu Almonros were personally aware of child marriages. The survey also showed that the purpose of these marriages is mainly economic.\n\nIn some instances Egyptian girls may return to the husbands home country and work as a maid. The girls that stay in Egypt often become shunned from society and struggle to remarry the orthodox way especially in cases where the women has given birth to a child with the husband.\n\nEgypt: Law No. 103 of 1976 also known as the new tourism marriage law was enacted to deter and protect young girls from seasonal/temporary marriage. The law requires documentation of marriage contracts, requiring a foreign man to present a certificate from his country's embassy stating that there are no impediments to the effecting marriage, a deposit is also made in the girl's name, as security for her when the women is 25 years or more younger than him. The minimum age for marriage was also raised to 18. The special rapporteur Joy Ngozi Ezeilo states that in practice, this law is largely ineffective as an arbitrary number of seasonal/temporary marriages between Egyptian women and non-Egyptian men continue to take place.\n\nThe National Coordinating Committee directs all anti-trafficking efforts at the national level. The National Coordinating Committee is directed by the Advisor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and is made up of relevant representatives of ministries, such as the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Manpower and Migration, the Ministry of Social Solidarity and the Ministry of Tourism. The committee drafts legislation and a plan on fighting trafficking persons in Egypt, by combatting illegal migrants groups and identifying human trafficking activities. There has also been legislation enacted to combat human trafficking and protect those illegal migrants by diminishing their suffering.\n\nThe National Council of Women (NCW), was established in 2000 to monitor accomplishments and to strengthen women's role in society. In 2007 the Prime Minister launched a coordinating committee to combat trafficking in humans, namely women and children. This committee aims to review legislation and policies implemented to prevent trafficking. NCW also Implemented the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (CEDAW) This is a specialist unit which fights against trafficking and carries out follow up studies and reports on trafficking of girls and women. In April 2009, NCW issued a report on violence against women in Egypt, which recognized \"seasonal\" or \"temporary\" marriage as a possible form of human trafficking and suggested that decision makers determine whether it should be considered as human trafficking.\n\nIn 2016 the Government implemented a 2016–2021 plan to fight and prevent trafficking. This was approved by the prime minister however there were little means and resources allocated towards its implementation. In 2016 the national anti trafficking committee and the national committee merged aiming to prevent illegal migration, the government also launched 90 anti-trafficking campaigns. In June 2016, the government ran conferences about migration, smuggling, and human trafficking issues affecting Africa and Europe. Surprise inspections were carried out by the Ministry of Manpower particularly at work sites for foreign workers, though the ministry did not report potential trafficking victims.\n\nEgypt's parliament has passed legislation criminalizing all forms of human trafficking and prescribing penalties from three to 15 years' imprisonment – and up to life imprisonment if aggravating circumstances are present – with fines ranging from $9,000 to $36,000 for offenses. Amendments to the Child Law (No. 126 of 2008) include provisions prohibiting the trafficking of children for commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor. These amendments prescribe sentences of at least five years' imprisonment.\n\nAccording to the U.S. government, Egyptian officials did not employ formal procedures to identify victims of trafficking and refer them to providers of care; as a result, trafficking victims, including many street children and women arrested for prostitution, were often treated as criminals rather than victims. Some children may be sent to juvenile detention centers, which are in bad condition. Others may be subject to incarceration with adults, despite the Child Law which prohibits this practice. Border security personnel in the Sinai continued efforts to interdict undocumented imagrints, occasionally killing some of them, while showing no evidence of efforts to identify possible trafficking victims among this vulnerable population. As of 2009, the Ministry of Social Solidarity operated 19 drop-in centers for street children, women, and the disabled that may have provided care to trafficking victims.\n\nThe NCCM operates a 24-hour hotline to respond to complaints of child abuse. Specialized care for adults or foreign victims was not provided as of 2009. In prisons or detention centers, law enforcement officers may have further mistreated these victims through verbal, physical, and sexual abuse. Foreign victims are not offered legal alternatives to removal to countries in which they may face hardship or retribution. The government does not actively encourage victims to assist in investigations against their traffickers.\n\nThe government made progress in preventing \"summer marriages\" in the reporting period, but did not otherwise undertake efforts to prevent human trafficking. The government was mandated by the newly passed law to create an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate anti-trafficking enforcement activities, victim protection, and programs. The government did not institute any other public campaigns to raise awareness on trafficking, including any on involuntary domestic servitude. The government made no efforts to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts or to raise awareness of sex tourism. The government has a well-developed birth registration and national identity card system. There were no reports of Egyptian government's efforts to provide anti-trafficking training for its troops before deploying them to international peacekeeping missions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35340817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35340817", "title": "Illegal immigration in Libya", "text": "Illegal immigration in Libya\n\nIllegal immigration in Libya has become a major port to enter Europe. The Libyan government has been criticised for breaching illegal immigrants rights during the deportation of people .\n"}
{"id": "263185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263185", "title": "Jewish Renewal", "text": "Jewish Renewal\n\nJewish Renewal () is a recent movement in Judaism which endeavors to reinvigorate modern Judaism with Kabbalistic, Hasidic, and musical practices. Specifically, it seeks to reintroduce the \"ancient Judaic traditions of mysticism and meditation, gender equality and ecstatic prayer\" to synagogue services. It is distinct from the baal teshuva movement of return to Orthodox Judaism.\n\nThe term Jewish Renewal describes \"a set of practices within Judaism that attempt to reinvigorate what it views as a moribund and uninspiring Judaism with mystical, Hasidic, musical and meditative practices drawn from a variety of traditional and untraditional, Jewish and other, sources. In this sense, Jewish renewal is an approach to Judaism that can be found within segments of any of the Jewish denominations\".\n\nThe term also refers to an emerging Jewish movement, the Jewish Renewal movement, which describes itself as \"a worldwide, transdenominational movement grounded in Judaism's prophetic and mystical traditions\". The Jewish Renewal movement incorporates social views such as egalitarianism, environmentalism and pacifism. About the movement, Jewish Renewal rabbi Rachel Barenblat writes:\n\nJewish Renewal rabbi Barbara Thiede writes:\n\nThe movement's most prominent leader was Zalman Schachter-Shalomi. Other leaders, teachers and authors associated with Jewish Renewal include Arthur Waskow, Michael Lerner, Rachel Barenblat, David Markus, Tirzah Firestone, Phyllis Berman, Shefa Gold, David Ingber, and Marcia Prager.\n\nJewish Renewal brings kabbalistic and Hasidic theory and practice into a non-Orthodox, egalitarian framework, a phenomenon sometimes referred to as neo-Hasidism. Like Hasidic Jews, Renewal Jews often add to traditional worship ecstatic practices such as meditation, chant and dance. In augmenting Jewish ritual, some Renewal Jews borrow freely and openly from Buddhism, Sufism and other faiths.\n\nJewish Renewal, in its most general sense, has its origins in the North American Jewish countercultural trends of the late 1960s and early 1970s. During this period, groups of young rabbis, academics and political activists founded experimental \"chavurot\" (singular: \"chavurah\") or \"fellowships\" for prayer and study, in reaction to what they perceived as an over-institutionalized and unspiritual North American Jewish establishment.\n\nInitially the main inspiration was the pietistic fellowships of the Pharisees and other ancient Jewish sects.\n\nAlso initially, some of these groups, like the Boston-area \"Havurat Shalom\" attempted to function as full-fledged communes after the model of their secular counterparts. Others formed as communities within the urban or suburban Jewish establishment. Founders of the havurot included the liberal political activist Arthur Waskow, Michael Strassfeld (who later became rabbi for a Conservative congregation and then moved on to serve a major Reconstructionist congregation), and Zalman Schachter-Shalomi. Although the leadership and ritual privileges were initially men-only, as in Orthodox Jewish practice, the second wave of American feminism soon led to the full integration of women in these communities.\n\nApart from some tentative articles in \"Response\" and other Jewish student magazines, the early havurot attracted little attention in the wider North American Jewish community. Then, in 1973, Richard Siegel, and Michael and Sharon Strassfeld released \"The Jewish Catalog: A Do-It-Yourself Kit\". Patterned after the \"Whole Earth Catalog\", the book served both as a basic reference on Judaism and American Jewish life, as well as a playful compendium of Jewish crafts, recipes, meditational practices, and political action ideas, all aimed at disaffected young Jewish adults. \"The Jewish Catalog\" became one of the bestselling books in American Jewish history to that date and spawned two sequels. A much more widespread havurah movement soon emerged, including self-governing havurot within Reform, Conservative and Reconstructionist synagogues.\n\nBy 1980 an increasing number of \"havurot\" had moved away from strictly traditional Jewish worship practices, as members added English readings and chants, poetry from other spiritual traditions, percussion instruments, and overall a less formal approach to worship.\n\nIn an interview (published in Zeek in 2012), scholar and folklorist Chava Weissler—who has been a \"participant-observer\" in both the Havurah movement and in Jewish Renewal—articulated her sense of the differences between Jewish Renewal and the Havurah movement as it evolved:\n\nZalman Schachter-Shalomi, a Hasidic-trained rabbi ordained in the Lubavitch movement, broke with Orthodox Judaism beginning in the 1960s, and founded his own organization, The B'nai Or Religious Fellowship, which he described in an article entitled \"Toward an Order of B'nai Or\". \"B'nai Or\" means \"sons\" or \"children\" of light, and was taken from the Dead Sea Scrolls material, where the \"sons of light\" battle the \"sons of darkness\". Schachter-Shalomi envisioned B'nai Or as a semi-monastic ashram-type community, based upon the various communal models prevalent in the 1960s and 1970s. This community never materialized as he envisioned it, but B'nai Or did produce a number of important leaders in the Renewal movement. It also produced the \"B'nai Or Newsletter\", a quarterly magazine that presented articles on Jewish mysticism, Hasidic stories and Schachter-Shalomi's philosophy. The masthead of this publication read: \"B'nai Or is a Jewish Fellowship established for the service of G-d through prayer, Torah, celebration, meditation, tradition, and mysticism. We serve as a center to facilitate people in the pursuit of Judaism as a spiritual way of life.\"\n\nSchachter-Shalomi was strongly influenced by Sufism of Islam and Buddhism, even translating some of the prayers into Hebrew. He also focused more on urban sustainable living than rural culture, and suggested for instance interconnected basements of houses in urban neighborhoods that would create collective space (especially for holidays), while providing the level of privacy secular life had encouraged. Some of these ideas have influenced urban economics.\n\nIn 1985, after the first national \"Kallah\" (conference) gathering in Radnor, Pennsylvania, the name was changed from \"B'nai Or\" to \"P'nai Or\" (\"Faces of Light\") to reflect the more egalitarian perspective of the rising feminist movement. Together with such colleagues as Arthur Waskow, Schachter-Shalomi broadened the focus of his organization. In 1993 it merged with The Shalom Center, founded by Waskow, to become ALEPH: Alliance for Jewish Renewal.\n\nIn 1979, Waskow had founded a magazine called \"Menorah\", which explored and encouraged many creative ritual and social issues from a Jewish perspective. It was in this publication that Waskow coined the term \"Jewish Renewal\". In 1986, \"Menorah\" merged with \"The B'nai Or Newsletter\" to become \"New Menorah\", now available online through ALEPH. The new version of the publication addressed Jewish feminism, the nuclear arms race, new forms of prayer, social justice, etc. Several of the early \"New Menorah\" issues explored gay rights, and became an important catalyst for opening this discussion in more mainstream synagogues.\n\nThe greater cohesion and focus created by B'nai Or/ALEPH and its magazine led gradually to the spread of Jewish Renewal throughout the United States and, by the close of the century, to the establishment of communities in Canada, Latin America, Europe and Israel.\n\nBy this time, the beginnings of institutionalization were in place, in the form of the nonprofit organization ALEPH: Alliance for Jewish Renewal, the rabbinical association OHaLaH, and an increasingly formalized rabbinic ordination program that today is accepted by the National Council of Seminaries which includes the heads of all major non-Orthodox North American Rabbinical and Cantorial Training programs.\n\nStatistics on the number of Jews who identify themselves as \"Renewal\" are not readily available. However, the evidence of Renewal influence can be found throughout the spectrum of Jewish denominational affiliation and in many diverse other arenas of Jewish life. it is not uncommon for congregations that are not associated with the Renewal movement to feature many Renewal influences. These include workshops on Jewish meditation and various Judaized forms of yoga which may even be incorporated into religious services. \"Chanting\" and \"healing\" services have become increasingly common. Many melodies and liturgical innovations have found their way into the Reform, Conservative and Reconstructionist movements. Rabbis and Cantors trained by the ALEPH Ordination Program, the Jewish Renewal seminary, have begun to serve congregations with other affiliations and bring Renewal-informed influences to these environments.\n\nJewish Renewal is \"part of the burgeoning world of transdenominational Judaism—the growing number of synagogues, rabbis and prayer groups that eschew affiliation with a Jewish stream\".\n\nRabbi Marcia Prager writes:\n\nThe ALEPH Ordination Program emerged out of ALEPH founder Reb Zalman's earlier project of training and ordaining an inner circle of students, many with extensive yeshiva backgrounds, to be inspiring progressive post-denominational community organizers and spiritual leaders. \nThe ALEPH Ordination Program has grown to become the largest rigorous liberal Jewish seminary in North America, comprising 4 schools:\n• Rabbinic Program \n• Rabbinic Pastor Program (training Jewish clergy specializing in pastoral care) \n• Cantorial Program \n• Hashpa'ah Program (training Jewish Spiritual Directors)\n\nEnrollment in these four programs embraces over 90 students from all denominational backgrounds, from the US, Canada, Europe and Israel, who study both locally and through ALEPH courses and retreats. The rabbinic students undertake a rigorous academic program comprising a minimum of 60 graduate-level courses and practica covering a comprehensive curriculum of rabbinic education. Cantorial students are masters of liturgy and nusach, traditional and contemporary Jewish music, western and non-western traditions, and also fulfill course requirements in Jewish history, philosophy, text, thought and practice. Rabbinic Pastors are specialists, trained to provide Jewish wisdom, spiritual direction, support, and counseling in chaplaincy and in congregational settings. The Hashpa'ah Program offers a three-year concentration in Jewish Studies and Jewish Spiritual Counseling and Guidance, leading to Certification as Mashpia/Spiritual Director.\n\nSince 1973, more than 200 Jewish Renewal spiritual leaders have been ordained through the ALEPH Ordination Program and/or its predecessor the B'nai Or/P'nai Or Ordination Program.\n\nThe ALEPH Ordination Program is unique in its blend of low-residency and residential components. Semester-length seminars and courses are offered using state-of-the-art live videoconference technology, while winter and summer residential retreats bring students and faculty together as a living-learning community for in-depth intensives and practica.\n\nAOP offers both a fully accredited Master of Divinity degree and Doctor of Ministry Degree in cooperation with New York Theological Seminary (NYTS)\n\nDetails about the curriculum and philosophy of the AOP can be found on the AOP website.\n\nCritics of Jewish Renewal claim that the movement emphasizes individual spiritual experience and subjective opinion over communal norms and Jewish textual literacy; Jewish Renewal is sometimes criticized as New Age, touchy-feely and stuck in the 1960s.\n\nThe ALEPH website offers the following response:\n\nMany Jewish Renewal techniques, ideas, and practices have become mainstream and are now familiar to Jews across the denominations:\nDespite the prevalence of Renewal practices, ideas, and teachings across the denominational spectrum, Jewish Renewal is not always known or credited with having originated these teachings and ideas. \"Our influence is penetrating much deeper into the mainstream, but without acknowledgement,\" said Rabbi Daniel Siegel. \"There is still a lot of ignorance and prejudice toward us in other movements.\"\n\nLike all religious movements, the movement faces challenges today. Some within the Renewal community maintain that the movement has been more successful in providing occasional ecstatic \"peak experiences\" at worship services and spiritual retreats than in inculcating a daily discipline of religious practice. Others have observed a tension within the community between those who prefer to focus on liberal social activism on American, Middle East and global issues; and those who favor an emphasis on meditation, text study and worship. And as a summer 2017 article in The Forward notes, there are tensions within ALEPH that have led many of its recent and in particular younger leaders not directly associated with the movement's early years to walk away, preferring to pursue the renewal of Judaism outside that organization.\n\nThese, together with the challenge of training and recruiting future generations of leaders, are among the issues facing Jewish Renewal today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "306281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306281", "title": "John Murrell (bandit)", "text": "John Murrell (bandit)\n\nJohn Andrews Murrell (1806 – November 21, 1844), the \"Great Western Land Pirate\" also known as John A. Murrell and commonly spelled as Murel and Murrel, was a bandit and criminal operating in the United States, along the Mississippi River, in the 19th century. Murrell had his first criminal conviction, for horse theft, as a teenager and was branded with an \"HT\", flogged, and sentenced to six years in prison. He was released in 1829. Murrell was convicted a second and final time, for the crime of slave stealing, in the Circuit Court of Madison County, Tennessee, and incarcerated in the Tennessee State Penitentiary in Nashville from 1834 to 1844.\n\nAccording to Tennessee prison records, John Andrews Murrell was born in Lunenburg County, Virginia, and raised in Williamson County, Tennessee. Murrell was the son of Jeffrey Murrell and Zilpha Andrews and was the third born of eight children. While incarcerated, his mother, wife, and two children lived in the vicinity of Denmark, Tennessee.\n\nJohn A. Murrell had his first criminal conviction, for horse theft, as a teenager and was branded on the base of his thumb with an \"HT\" for horse thief, flogged, and sentenced to six years in prison. He was released in 1829. Murrell was convicted a second and final time, for the crime of slave stealing, in the Circuit Court of Madison County, Tennessee, and incarcerated in the Tennessee State Penitentiary in Nashville from 1834 to 1844.\nWhile in the Tennessee State Penitentiary, Murrell, as part of his reform, was required to work as a blacksmith. A decade in prison under the Auburn penitentiary system, of mandatory convict regimentation, through prison uniforms, lockstep, silence, and occasional solitary confinement, broke Murrell mentally and supposedly left him an imbecile. He spent the last months of his life as a blacksmith in Pikeville, Tennessee. The \"Nashville Daily American\" newspaper mentioned a different account of his last year of life, that, upon his release from prison, at 38 years old, he became a reformed man, a Methodist in good standing, was a carpenter by trade, and lived at a boarding house in Pikeville\n\nIn a deathbed confession, Murrell admitted to being guilty of most of the crimes charged against him except murder, to which he claimed to be \"guiltless\". John A. Murrell died on November 21, 1844, just nine months after leaving prison, having contracted \"pulmonary consumption\", now known as tuberculosis. Murrell was interred at Smyrna First United Methodist Church Cemetery, in Smyrna, Tennessee. After Murrell died, parts of him were dug up and stolen by grave robbers. Although the corpse had been half-eaten by scavenging hogs, the head was separated from the torso, pickled, and displayed at county fairs. His skull is missing, but one of his thumbs is in the possession of the Tennessee State Museum.*\n\nAccepted facts about his life include stealing horses, for which he was branded. He was also caught with a freed slave living on his property. Murrell was known to kidnap slaves and sell them to other slave owners. He received his 10-year prison sentence for slave-stealing. Murrell would be considered a conductor on the Reverse Underground Railroad.\n\nIn 1835, Virgil Stewart wrote an account of a slave rebellion plot sponsored by highwaymen and Northern Abolitionists. On Christmas Day, 1835, Murrell and his \"Mystic Clan\" planned to incite an uprising in every slaveholding state by invoking the image of the Haitian Revolution, the most successful slave rebellion in history. In rising up against Southern whites, the slaves involved in Murrell's conspiracy would cause enough chaos to allow Murrell to take over the South, with New Orleans as the center of operations of his criminal empire. Stewart's account of his interactions with Murrell was published as a pamphlet, and Stewart wrote the pamphlet under the pseudonym of \"Augustus Q. Walton, Esq.,\" for whom he invented a fictitious background and profession. The validity of the pamphlet has been debated since its publication. Some historians assert that Stewart's pamphlet was largely fictional and that Murrell (and his brothers) were at best inept thieves, having bankrupted their father over the years for bail money.\n\nHowever, many of the claims made in the pamphlet were believed at the time in some parts of the South, and led to the \"Murrell Excitement\". During this time, there was increased tension between the races and between locals and outsiders. On July 4, 1835, there were disturbances in the red-light districts of Nashville, Memphis, and Natchez, and twenty slaves and ten white men were hanged after confessing to complicity in Murrell's plot. On July 6 in Vicksburg, Mississippi, an angry mob decided to expel all professional gamblers from the town, based on a rumor that the gamblers were part of the plot. The gamblers resisted, and as a result, five gamblers were hanged by the mob. Similar panic surrounding Murrell and his conspiracy spread throughout the South long after his death, with cities from Huntsville, Alabama to New Orleans, Louisiana creating committees dedicated to identifying Murrell's conspirators and potential signs of slave rebellion.\n\nMurrell was known as a \"land-pirate\", using the Mississippi River as a base for his operations. He used a network of anywhere from 300 to 1,000, and even as much as 2,500 (as some newspaper reports claimed) fellow bandits collectively known as the Mystic Clan to pull off his escapades. Many of these were members of cultural/ethnic groups such as the Melungeons and the Redbones. He was also known as a bushwhacker along the Natchez Trace. To cover up his misdeeds, he played the persona of a traveling preacher. Twain's work and others say he would preach to a congregation while his gang stole the horses outside. However, the accounts are unanimous that Murrell's horse was always left behind. The location of his hideout and operations base has been in question. Possibilities are Jackson County, Tennessee; Natchez, Mississippi, at Devil's Punch Bowl; Tunica County, Mississippi; the Neutral Ground in Louisiana; and even the tiny Island 37 on the Mississippi River. One record, a genealogical note, even places him as far east as Georgia; in fact Atlanta historian Franklin Garrett makes it clear there was a lawless district in that town named for him, \"Murrell's Row,\" in the 1840s. Because Murrell has come to symbolize Natchez Trace lawlessness in the antebellum era, it is understandable that his \"hideouts\" (whether there were any hideouts or not) have been said to have been located at most of the well-known areas of particular lawlessness along the Natchez Trace.\n\nJust before he was apprehended, he was about to spearhead a slave revolt in New Orleans in an attempt to take over the city and install himself as a sort of potentate of Louisiana. Some say he began to plot his takeover of New Orleans in 1841, although he was in the sixth year of a ten-year sentence in the prison at Nashville at the time, and Stewart had already published his account of Murrell's plot in 1835. Others say he was in operation from 1835 to 1857; he was in prison for ten of those years and died of tuberculosis in 1844 shortly thereafter.\n\nA stream in Chicot County, Arkansas, called Whiskey Chute is named for his raid on a whiskey-carrying steamboat that was sunk after it was pillaged. It was named such in 1855. We know from Record Group 25, \"Prison Records for the Main Prison at Nashville, Tennessee, 1831-1922,\" that Murrell was born in 1806, most likely in Williamson County, Tennessee.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21972653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21972653", "title": "Katowice urban area", "text": "Katowice urban area\n\nThe Katowice urban area (, ), also known as the Upper Silesian urban area (, ), is an urban area/conurbation in southern Poland. It is located in the Silesian Voivodeship and in a small part of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. The Katowice urban area is the largest urban area in Poland and one of the largest in the European Union.\n\nIts population is about 2.7 million. The Katowice urban area covers the majority of the population and area of the Katowice metropolitan area (a population of between 3 million and 3.5 million) and is part of the Upper Silesian metropolitan area, which has a population of 5,294,000 people. Also this is part of \"Upper Silesian metropolitan region\" (\"Katowice-Kraków metropolitan region\"), which has a population of about 7 million with among others Kraków metropolitan area. \n\n. \n\nThere are given differing population numbers in different sources.\n\n\nAdjacent cities and statistics (1 January 2008):\n"}
{"id": "10831035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10831035", "title": "Koreans in Iran", "text": "Koreans in Iran\n\nKoreans in Iran have a history dating back to the 1970s, when South Korean labour migrants began flowing into the country. However, most returned home or moved on to other countries; , only 405 Koreans lived in the country, according to the statistics of South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade.\n\nSouth Korean migration to Iran grew at an average annual rate of 90% between 1971 and 1977, although the total number of migrants from Korea grew only by an annual average of 18% during that same period; South Koreans departing their home country for Iran composed just 0.2% of all officially-registered emigrants in 1971 (roughly 150 individuals), and only 177 individuals in 1974, but 1.8% (2,402 individuals) in 1975 and 3.4% (6,264 individuals) in 1977. The vast majority were male. Hyundai Construction's first project in the entire Middle East was a 1975 contract for the construction of a shipyard for the Iranian Navy near Bandar-e Abbas, and they and other \"chaebol\" quickly expanded their business in the region. Between 1977 and 1979, nearly 300,000 South Korean workers from two dozen companies came to work in the Middle East. The largest proportion of those went to Saudi Arabia, though Iran was also a major destination; at one point, migration to Iran made up 17% of all migration to the region. In total, in the decade following 1975, 25,388 South Koreans went to Iran.\n\nThe 1979 Iranian Revolution would have a negative effect on South Korean business in Iran, as well as proving dangerous for Korean workers in the country; on one occasion, revolutionaries attacked a construction site seeking to drive away \"foreign devils\"; five workers were killed and twenty others injured in a traffic accident that arose as they fled. The Korean Air Force had to be called in to evacuate Korean nationals. The number of South Koreans going to Iran fell from 7,418 in 1978 to 64 in 1979 and only 30 in 1980, though by 1985 the rate of migration had recovered to almost half of its pre-revolutionary level, with 3,669 migrants. However, due to the economic effects of the revolution and the Iran–Iraq War, as well as South Korea's rising labour costs, the practise of importing labourers from South Korea to work in the Middle East slowly became less widespread during the late 1980s; for example, the proportion of Korean labourers working on construction projects for Hyundai declined from 70% to only 20-30%, with the shortfall being taken up by local labourers instead.\n\nBy 2009, only 614 South Korean nationals remained in the country. They consist primarily of government officials, corporate expatriates, and Koreans married to Iranians. By 2011, the number of South Korean nationals or former nationals in the country had shrunk further, to 405 persons. Among them, 42 (3 men, 39 women) had Iranian nationality, 20 were international students, and the remaining 342 had other kinds of visas. Most (315) lived in Tehran, with a smaller concentration of 32 at Asaluyeh.\n\nNorth Koreans also have a presence in the country, mainly related to their assistance to Iran's nuclear programme; according to \"The Los Angeles Times\", there is one hotel in Tehran and another on the Caspian Sea coast set aside for the use of North Korean diplomats.\n\nThe Korean Association of Iran (이란한인회) was set up in 1970. Its president, Jo Seung-mi, graduated from Hanyang University and formerly worked as a ballet dancer. She met her Iranian husband while he was studying at the Seoul Agricultural College (now part of the University of Seoul) as an international student; in 1977, she followed him back to Iran. She was elected to her post in 1997. , the association had roughly 300 members.\n\nIran's sole school for South Korean nationals, the Tehran Korean School (테헤란한국학교; also known as the Korean Embassy School), was established on 30 April 1976; it uses Korean as the primary medium of instruction, with English used for science and computer classes, and Persian offered as a foreign language. , it enrolled 29 elementary-school students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33517055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33517055", "title": "Kuya language", "text": "Kuya language\n\nKuya (Kouya, Kowya) is a Kru language of Ivory Coast. The language was first put in written form in the 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "15735582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15735582", "title": "Languages of Kyrgyzstan", "text": "Languages of Kyrgyzstan\n\nKyrgyzstan is one of two former Soviet republics in Central Asia to have Russian as an official language, Kazakhstan being the other. The Kyrgyz language was adopted as the official language in 1991. After pressure from the Russian minority in the country, Kyrgyzstan adopted Russian as an official language as well in 1997, to become an officially bilingual country.\n\nKyrgyz is a Turkic language of the Kipchak branch, closely related to Kazakh, Karakalpak, and Nogay Tatar. It was written in the Arabic alphabet until the twentieth century. Latin script was introduced and adopted in 1928, and was subsequently replaced on Stalin's orders by Cyrillic script in 1941.\n\nAccording to the 2009 census, 4.1 million people spoke Kyrgyz as native or second language and 2.5 million spoke Russian as native or second language. Uzbek is the second most widely spoken native language, followed by Russian. Russian is the most widely spoken second language, followed by Kyrgyz and Uzbek.\n\nMany business and political affairs are carried out in Russian. Until recently, Kyrgyz remained a language spoken at home and was rarely used during meetings or other events. However, most parliamentary meetings today are conducted in Kyrgyz, with simultaneous interpretation available for those not speaking Kyrgyz.\nIn Bishkek Russian is the main language while Kyrgyz continues losing ground especially among the younger generations\n\n"}
{"id": "18519532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18519532", "title": "List of Miss Earth titleholders", "text": "List of Miss Earth titleholders\n\nList of Miss Earth titleholders is an overview of the winners and top finalists of the Miss Earth competition.\n\nNotes<br>\n\nNotes<br>\n\nMiss Earth has specific titles and crowns for each runner-up. To distinguish the runners-up at the national competition from the global level, Miss Earth international edition include the title \"Miss Earth\" before the names of the element - Air, Water and Fire - in the sash of runners-up; for example, \"Miss Earth-Air.\"\n\nNotes<br>\nA. In the pilot pageant of Miss Earth in 2001, the title of the 1st Runner-Up was formerly known as Miss Wind, before it was changed to Miss Air the following year.<br>\nB. Džejla Glavović of Bosnia and Herzegovina who was crowned as Miss Earth 2002 was dethroned on May 28, 2003 due to the reason cited by the Miss Earth Foundation as \"failure to comply with the stipulations in her contract\". Winfred Adah Omwakwe from Kenya, then-Miss Air, was formally crowned as the new Miss Earth 2002 on August 7 due to pageant rules stipulating that the 1st Runner-Up/Miss Air will take over if Miss Earth does not fulfill her duties. Prior with this result, each runner-up moved one position so Yugoslavia was the new Miss Air, Greece is Miss Water and Elina Hurve of Finland is the new Miss Fire. Hurve is a semi-finalist in the said competition. This year also marked the dethronement of another beauty queen Oxana Fedorova of Russia (her fellow European), who was originally Miss Universe 2002 (she was replaced by Justine Pasek of Panama who is the 1st Runner-Up).<br> \nC. Yanina Gonzalez, then-Miss Fire 2004, competed at Miss Universe 2004 and eventually placed 3rd Runner-Up in the said competition, marking her as the first Paraguayan woman to obtain the highest position ever slated to a Miss Paraguay, obtain same placements at separate pageants, marking at the Top 5 respectively and the first Miss Earth titleholder to do so.<br>\nD. Jennifer Pazmiño of Ecuador, then-Miss Air 2010 was dethroned due to her upcoming marriage with her fiancee in February 2011. Therefore, Carousel Productions decided that the new Miss Air 2010 would be Viktoria Shchukina from Russia, who was originally placed as a semi-finalist in the pageant (For the first time, a semi-finalist was appointed to become the 1st Runner-Up in a particular pageant should the original winner would relinquish her position, other than a finalist.) Unlike the 2002 dethronement, there was no movement of one position higher so those under Miss Air (Miss Water and so on) stayed the same.<br>\nE. Punika Kulsoontornrut of Thailand, then-Miss Water 2013 was dethroned due to her violations in her contract as titleholder last October 13, 2014, with regards to her participation in Miss International 2014 last November 11. She eventually placed 2nd Runner-Up in the competition (the same placement she held last year), making her the second to have the same placement in separate pageants, after Yanina Gonzalez of Paraguay did.<br>\nF. Maira Alexandra Rodriguez, Miss Water 2014, from Venezuela wasn't actually the original delegate of her home country to Miss Earth 2014. It was originally Stephanie de Zorzi who would represent Venezuela, but later withdrew by pageant organizers due to weight issues. Rodriguez was originally the Venezuelan delegate who would compete at Miss Earth 2015 which was held at Vienna, Austria on December. De Zorzi competed in the 2016 edition obtaining the 2nd runner up (Miss Earth Water) position.<br>\nG. Corrin Stellakis, Miss Earth United States 2016, was declared as the new Miss Earth Fire 2016 on March 8, 2017. If Brazil didn't resigned, they would have completed their reigns by becoming the first country to score back-to-back Miss Earth-Fire titles. <br>\nH. This edition marked a number of firsts. Apart from Vietnam's first win in Miss Earth, Melanie Mader made history by being the first candidate to compete in both the origin regional pageant Miss Philippines Earth and Miss Earth itself. She managed to become Miss Philippines Eco-Tourism (then Miss Philippines Water afterwards) 2016 prior to her win as Miss Earth-Air 2018. Colombia became the first country to score back-to-back wins as Miss Earth-Water.\n\n"}
{"id": "31593261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31593261", "title": "List of Old West gunfights", "text": "List of Old West gunfights\n\nThis is a list of Old West gunfights. Gunfights have left a lasting impression on American frontier history; many were retold and embellished by dime novels and magazines like Harper's Weekly during the late 19th century. The most notable shootouts took place in Arizona, California, New Mexico, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. Some like the Gunfight at the O.K. Corral were the outcome of long-simmering feuds and rivalries but most were the result of a confrontation between outlaws and law enforcement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42290123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42290123", "title": "List of Six Sigma certification organizations", "text": "List of Six Sigma certification organizations\n\nThis is a list of notable organizations that provide Six Sigma certification.\n\n"}
{"id": "1082934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082934", "title": "List of cyclists with a cycling-related death", "text": "List of cyclists with a cycling-related death\n\nThe first documented deaths of professional cyclists during competition date to the 1890s. Before 1929 at least 47 professional riders and pacemakers died at velodromes in track cycling and since 1994 a number of professionals have been killed in accidents with motorized vehicles while training on public roads. The dangers of cycling continue to be disputed among modern sources. For example, the 2005 United States Consumer Products Safety Commission (CPSC) data showed bicycling to be nearly as dangerous as American football. A survey of 2008 Olympics teams, however, indicated that cycling was not even in the top six most injury-prone sports during competition that year.\n\nThese athletes did not die during competition, but rather died during training, during scheduled breaks while participating in a professional race or from another reason related to cycling. Since 1994, at least twenty-eight professional cyclists have been killed after being struck by a car or truck while training.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39823165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39823165", "title": "List of journalism schools in South America", "text": "List of journalism schools in South America\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32459110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32459110", "title": "Mario Marathon", "text": "Mario Marathon\n\nMario Marathon is an annual fund raiser for Child's Play Charity. , the event has raised more than $600,000 during the seven years it has been running. In 2008, the event organizers also orchestrated a smaller \"Zelda\" marathon that managed to bring in an additional $2,477.00 for Child's Play Charity.\n\nThe Mario Marathon team plays the \"Super Mario\" video game series. Levels to be played are each unlocked at specific total donation levels, which the Mario Marathon team plays nonstop until either all the games are completed or until gameplay catches up to the current unlocked level.\n\n\"Mario Marathon\" began in 2008 when Brian Brinegar, a 29-year-old web developer in Lafayette, Indiana, was inspired to start a \"Super Mario\" video game marathon after watching a group of college students who attempted to complete all four of the 3-D Zelda games in a 48-hour time period. Over a period of 57 hours starting on June 27, Brian Brinegar, Dan May, and John Groth raised $11,767.00 for \"Child's Play Charity\". Later that year, they teamed up with the Four48 group who inspired the original Mario Marathon. Together they held the \"Zelda Marathon\", raising $2,477.00.\n\nThe second \"Mario Marathon\" began on July 10, 2009. Chris \"SlouchGuy\" Deckard expanded the player roster to take the place of Dan May, who was out of the country. The event raised $29,082.76 and lasted over four days. It was also the first year that \"Mario Marathon\" started to finish various \"Mario\" games at 100% completion.\n\nThe third \"Mario Marathon\" started on June 25, 2010 and raised $82,382.70 over 109 hours. This was the first year to include Skype interactivity with both Wil Wheaton and Felicia Day making Skype calls during the Marathon. \"Mario Marathon 2010\" also achieved $25,310 within the first 24 hours, nearly the total of \"Mario Marathon 2009.\"\n\nThe fourth \"Mario Marathon\" began on June 24, 2011 and raised $112,668.62 (as of July 18, 2011) over a period of 110 hours. \"Mario Marathon 2011\" advances include \"\" and upgraded video and audio equipment.\n\nThe fifth \"Mario Marathon\" started on June 22, 2012 and ran for about four days. It raised approximately $112,757.90.\n\nThe sixth \"Mario Marathon\" began on June 21, 2013 and ran for 72 hours, raising $67,708.75. Within the first day, multiple news outlets including Haverzine and Brazilian video game news site Reino do Cogumelo reported on the event.\n\nThe seventh \"Mario Marathon\" got underway on June 20, 2014. At 10:05 PM Eastern Time on June 24, 2014, the lifetime \"Child's Play Charity\" donation total crossed over the half-million dollars mark.\n\nAfter being idle during 2015, the eighth edition is named \"Mario Marathon '16\" and began at 11:00 AM Eastern Time on June 24, 2016.\n\n\"Mario Marathon '17\" commenced at 11:00 AM Eastern Time on June 23, 2017. On June 25, 2017, the donation total crossed the $600,000 mark. The event concluded June 27 and for the first time occurred at Jed's house and featured several fans on-site for the event such as CoW mAn of Vacation Impossible.\n\nIn 2018 the event is being held later in the year than usual, commencing July 20th at 7:00 PM Eastern Time and will only feature one game, Super Mario Odyssey.\n\nThere are a number of recurring members of the Mario Marathon team. The players trade off on a game-to-game basis. The supporting cast interacts with viewers in real time via an IRC chat room and Twitter (monitoring posts which include the \"#MarioMarathon\" hash tag) and acknowledges donations as they come in. The list below are those who have appeared in two or more Mario Marathons:\n\n\n\nTo break up the monotony of playing games around the clock for several days, the participants started performing special dances for the viewers. These dances were most often a re-enactment of Lou Albano's \"Do The Mario\" from the \"Super Mario Super Show\", Peanut Butter Jelly Time, or a Rick Roll.\n\nIn 2011, the team implemented the \"Wheel of Awesome\". For every $1,000 donated, a random event is chosen that the participants must perform. The name is a reference to Wil Wheaton's skype call from Mario Marathon 3 in which he referred to the event as a \"Laser of Awesome\". While the \"Super Mario Super Show\" dance was included on the wheel, other events such as \"Blindfold Mode\" were included.\n\nThe family dog Zoe, known as \"Couch Dog,\" is the unofficial mascot of the Mario Marathon. In Mario Marathon 2, the participants set up a camera that focused on Zoe. This became so popular that they used this camera to drive donations.\n\nIn 2010, the \"Couch Pig\" was introduced. This large ceramic piggy bank became a fixture of the later stages of the marathon. Certain donation amounts would allow the Couch Pig to be placed on the couch, while other donations would revoke those privileges. In 2011, \"Love Seat Pig\", a smaller Couch Pig replica, was raffled off for donations.\n\nIn 2012, 2013, and 2014 Sundeep \"OrangeShirtGuy (OSG)\" Rao performed live \"fortune telling\" segments, offering humorous predictions about viewers' future lives when they sent in donations to Child's Play Charity.\n\nTo close the marathon during some years, Jedediah \"Jed\" Johnson performed an improvisational song, \"I Don't See Nothing Wrong (With the Mario Marathon),\" in the style of R. Kelly's \"Bump and Grind.\" References to events in the just-completed marathon were typically included.\n\nIn 2012, the concept of \"Gold Membership\" was introduced - a supposed exclusive avenue to obtain special perks. In 2013, a small number of donators were randomly designated \"Gold Members\". No real perks were involved.\n\nIn 2016, \"combo trains\" were introduced. When users donate any sum of money three times in a row, it triggers a donation combo train that users must extend with donations. Those who participated in combos were typically entered into a raffle to win a T-shirt. As of Day 2 of Mario Marathon 2016, the record combo is made up of over 300 donations.\n\nTo keep the stream civil and child-safe, the Mario Marathon team conforms to a list of rules:\n\n"}
{"id": "17302392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17302392", "title": "Marital separation", "text": "Marital separation\n\nMarital separation occurs when spouses in a marriage stop living together. The three main reasons why couples separate are (1) as a step in the divorce process, (2) to gain perspective on the marriage, and (3) to enhance the marriage. Some experts regard a six-month separation as good amount of time for a temporary separation, since it is long enough to set up a second household and gain perspective, but not long enough to seem permanent. A separation can be initiated informally, or there can be a legal separation with a formal separation agreement. Many U.S. state statutes, for example Virginia's, specify that being separated for a given period of time can be grounds for divorce.\n"}
{"id": "40088094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40088094", "title": "Model Aeronautical Association of Australia", "text": "Model Aeronautical Association of Australia\n\nThe Model Aeronautical Association of Australia Inc (MAAA) is an organisation recognised by CASA as a Recreational Aviation Administration Organisation. MAAA has no regulatory authority conferred to it by the CASA, however is required under a Deed of Agreement with CASA as an RAAO, to carry out certain functions on behalf of CASA paid from the public purse.\n\nThe MAAA is responsible for providing for its members: \n\nThe MAAA produces a quarterly newsletter called Wingspan\n\nThe MAAA offers a Wings program, teaching beginners how to safely operate radio controlled model aircraft.\n\nAeromodelling started in Australia in the early 1900s following the invention of the aeroplane however, it was not until the 1930s that organised modelling groups appeared. Two rival groups formed in NSW, the MAA, Model Aeroplane Association of Australia in 1930 and the MFC, Model Flying Club of Australia in 1931. The two groups merged in 1947 to become the Model Aeronautical Association of Australia or MAAA.\n\nThe first national competition was held in 1938 and was organised as entertainment to coincide with Australia's 150th Anniversary. The competition was actually called the Grand International Model Aeroplane Championships and included indoor and outdoor Free Flight models only, a total of five events. It was hoped that model flyers from the UK and USA would come to the competition however it ended up being only Australian's and New Zealander's who attended.\n\nWorld War 2 prevented any further flying competitions from occurring due to ban on model flying during the war, so as such, no competitions were held between 1939 and 1947.\n\nThe 2nd Nationals did not occur until 1948 after the MAAA had formed and it included Control line which was only new at the time and the 3rd Nationals in 1950 included radio controlled models. Following the 3rd Nationals there has been a Nationals in Australia every year since organised by the State Associations on a roster basis and usually held over the Christmas/New Year break at the end of the year.\n\nIndividuals are able to join the MAAA through a recognized MAAA club or on their own in exceptional circumstances. Affiliate members are able to have a say in the running of the association through their State body which is the MAAA. Membership of the MAAA is gained through associate membership via State Associations whom the individual aeromodelling or flying clubs are members. People become affiliate members of the MAAA when they join an aeromodelling club or a state association.\n\nState Associations are the MAAA and have individual aeromodellers as members. The aeromodelling clubs are associate members of the relevant State Association. In other words, when someone joins a model flying club they become a member of that club and an associate member of their affiliated State Association as well as an affiliate member of the MAAA automatically. Individuals can also become associate members of other aeromodelling clubs if they want to. This structure allows affiliate members to enact change through their club and State Association.\n\nList of MAAA Nationals competitions held since 1938\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21774274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21774274", "title": "Nattar", "text": "Nattar\n\nNattars were an administrative body in the Tamil kingdoms of Chola, Pandya and Pallava, who had the right to sell and purchase land, and make them tax-free whenever such a request was made. Nattar generally meant an official of an area called \"nadu\".\n\nThe institution of the \"nattar\" was well-defined. It was in charge of all matters pertaining to a village, including water-management. It was noted that: \"If ruling class is taken to mean those with the power and authority to manage community resources, then the \"nattar\" was this class in Tamil country\".\n\nDr R Kalaikkovan and Dr M Nalini studied eighty three inscriptions from various parts of the temple complex of Saptarishisvara at Thiruthavathurai (Lalgudi, Trichy District). A seventeenth regnal year inscription of Jatavarman Sundarapandiya records that the nattar of Pandikulasani valanadu and Vadakarai Rajaraja valanadu exempted taxes on certain lands which were given to the temple for lamps, offerings and festivals. Another inscription presents the name of a nattar accountant as Muththaiyil Udaiyan. It was noted that despite the role of the nattars as an administrative body, their modus operandi was not clear.\n\nThe book \"Feudalism and Non-European Societies\" by TJ Byres and Harbans Mukhia, speaks of Tamil peasant militias in the Chola kingdom domains as stratified peasant groups with dominance exercised by one group identified with the \"nadu\" locality as a nattar. From the nattars, one lineage provided chiefs called \"araiyar\" ( one of the Devendra Kula vellalar name) (for example thiruchendur temple houses) of the locality. Settlements within the nadu included centres of commerce called \"nagaram\" (resided in by nagarathars) and settlements supporting brahmanical functions called \"brahmadeya\" (resided in by brahmins). The nattars were the highest of the peasant groups with entitlement (called \"kani\") to the major share (called \"melvaram\") of the agrarian production. While ordinary peasant families were suggested to have received minor entitlement (called \"kudivaram\"), the field labourers had no fixed share.\n\nCeremonial establishments of brahmin villages in the \"nadus\" to pursue dharmic ends were important in effecting links beyond the nadu. The \"brahmadeyas\" of different nadus created a network of ritual specialists and in doing so fortified the standing of the nattar upon whose patronage this depended. As per Arun Majumder in \"Structural Evolution of Indian Economy\", whenever the Chola overlords failed to reward its rural base of clients, that is, the nattars, the system began to corrode from within. That was because, apart from various administrative functions, the jobs of temple construction and giving landgrants to brahmins depended on the nattar.\n\nNattar as a political body was recognized by the Pallavas and Pandyas. The Pallava and Pandya copper plates regarding grants of land had nattars mentioned in them.\n\nShanti Jayewardene-Pillai notes in her work \"Imperial Conversations\" (page 30):\n\n“The local counterparts of the new British elite were the nattars whose economic interests included agriculture, trade and production. Nattars were influential city patrons...” Their social life was captured in the work, Sarva Deva Vilasa, a eulogy to the city life of merchant princes, written around 1800. “Nattars were cultured high caste vellalars or brahmins with reputations gained from local social status and service to indigenous regimes. They played an important role as representative of multi-skilled \"jathis\", collective bargaining / kinship bodies, at the higher councils or the \"nadus\"”.\n\n“Nattars were of orthodox religion, supported temples and patronised Sanskrit learning and the arts. Although they maintained homes in Madras and FSG (a privilege only accorded to influentital Indians), their village links were never severed. Individuals like Manali Mudaliya were owners of extensive tracts of land in the city, but most seemed to prefer smaller suburban gardens in the older temple centres or villages outside the city wall. In the city, Pachaiyappa Mudaliar and his friends lived in the leafy exclusive residential suburb of Komaleswaram Kovil on the banks of Cooum River. Nattars travelled regularly to their country homes to fulfil their traditional duties, \"kaniyatchi\" associated with dominion over land.\n\nThe Tamil identity, high social status and intimate knowledge of diplomacy and local social and political networks made the nattars indispensable to the Company as its administrative role expanded. Some Telugu and Maratha Brahmins, with \"kaniyatchi\" status, served as agents in the revenue administration of the Carnatic and offered their skills to the British. Members of such establishment families served on the Madras Council that governed the city.”\n\nNiels Brimnes wrote in \"Constructing the Colonial Encounter\" (page 157):\n\nIn the early days of the 19th century the offices of the nattar and desayi appear as important institutions of leadership within the right hand division. The nattars were village headmen and came from agricultural communities, such as the Vellalas. The desayi constituted a kind of petty chief in some areas and the office was closely associated with the Telugu community of Balijas. Transformed into the urban context of Madras, these offices seem to have been primarily concerned with questions of caste. In early 19th century Madras, the office of nattar was held by the Vellala Arnachellum Mudali. Apparently the co-existence of these two offices did not give rise to any problems. Instead, the established positions of leadership were challenged from outside.\n\nNattar as a title was used by several castes, groups and communities.\n\nThe book, Castes and Tribes of Southern India by Edgar Thurston and K Rangachari, states that 12,000 individuals returned themselves as Nattan in the census of 1901. They called it a \"vague term meaning people of the country, reported by some to be a main caste and by others to be a sub-caste of Vellala\". Nearly all of them who returned the name were cultivators from Salem possessing the title of Nattu kavunder, which usually a subcaste of kongu vellala.\n\nThurston and Rangachari noted that the term was also used as a title of the Sembadavan and Pattanavan fishing castes,\n\nIn the old times, the Mudali community was engaged in village administration, the Pillai community in village accounting, the Maravar community in policing villages, the Brahmin community in education and the Chetty community in trading. Individuals from these communities were said to have been designated as a Nattar or Saandror, as a terminology or designation for an \"eminent personality\".\n\nKanakalatha Mukund in his book The Trading World of the Tamil Merchant, noted the presence of a caste / class called Mahanattar in Pondicherry.\n\n\"The New Cambridge History of India\" series (by Gordon Johnson, Christopher Alan Bayly, John F. Richards, pg.78), noted of work by Karashima where they wrote of local chiefs known as Vanniyars who ruled in the middle parts of the river basin of the Vellar valley. In the 15th century, they were independent as an authority and in addition to their ancient title of Nattar, they added the more fashionable Tamil equivalent of a Nayaka as Nayanar.\n\nIn the 18th century, the Vallambars of Karaikudi, helped the Maruthu brothers fight many wars against the British. The Vallambars were subsequently declared rulers of Karaikudi and 15 other villages, or one pallayam (also see: Poligars), by the Shivagangai King. Vallambars were then given the surname Amballam and came to be known as \"Pallaya Nattars\" or the citizens of Pallaya Nadu.\n\nIn the Madras Presidency, the East India Company employed Nattars to collect land revenue. Like other land-owners in South India (known as Mirasidars), the Nattars employed padiyals and pannaiyals (workers), and claimed on their behalf the right to a share of the harvest. Before the grain on the threshing floor was divided between the state share (melvaram) and the cultivator’s share (kutivaram), several deductions were made, including one for the paraiyar, padiyals and pannaiyals. This share was known as \"tuṇạu\" (remnant) or \"kalavāsam\" (Tamil “kal ̣avācam”).\n\n"}
{"id": "30009411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30009411", "title": "Nepalese people in Malaysia", "text": "Nepalese people in Malaysia\n\nThere is a large community of Nepalese people in Malaysia, recruited from Nepal, foreign workers and their families. There are about 700,000 Nepalis currently living in Malaysia.\n\nAfter the Federation of Malaya became independent from the United Kingdom in August 1957, many Gurkhas became soldiers in the Malayan armed forces, especially in the Royal Ranger Regiment. Others became security guards, mainly in the urban areas. The number of Nepalese workers going to Malaysia has increased in the recent years due to the recovery from global recession and the removal of levy. Nepalese foreign employment agencies think that Malaysia might revise its decision to absorb labour from Nepal. As far as Malaysia is concerned, Nepal is the second largest labour supplying country after Indonesia. Most Nepalis work in small restaurants, hotels, factories and industries. Recently, the Malaysian government has decided to stop hiring Nepalese workers, reasoning that they want to give priority to their own increasing number of unemployed countrymen.\n\nIn Malaysia, Nepalese workers have formed 73 organisations related to political parties. Malaysia is also famous among the returnees as well because 30 percent working currently in Malaysia have re-visited there for work and 20 percent are those have gone to the country after coming back from Gulf countries. It is estimated that there are about 0.2 million foreign illegal workers in Malaysia with about 50,000 from Nepal alone. In March 2010, Malaysian authorities have arrested over 500 Nepalis working and staying illegally along with illegal workers from other countries from various factories and industries they were working.\n\nDue to the weaker policies of both the Government (ie. Nepal Government & Malaysian Government), Many Nepalese workers in Malaysia have been suffering different problems including human rights. Both the government has become weaker in providing the Nepalese workers the basic requirement or consideration that should be given to any foreign workers. The plight of Nepalese workers abroad is not new and many recruiters and employers in Malaysia continue to get away with exploitation because the workers have nowhere to turn. However, it seems the Malaysian government is more concerned about the welfare of Nepalese workers than the Nepalese government. But due to the lack of regular inspection and very poor strategical operation of Malaysian Government as of recruitment procedure of Nepalese workers from Nepal, the Nepalese workers are also suffering more in the name of GSG (ISC- Immigration Security Clearance) and FWCMS Medical system and even in the name of Visa Stamping. \n\nAnother concern is that the deaths of Nepalese workers in Malaysia have significantly increased with at least 81 aspirants having died within the first six months of 2010. According to the Nepalese embassy at Kuala Lumpur, road accidents, chronic disease, workplace and even suicide cases has been identified as the cause for deaths.\n\n"}
{"id": "2276214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276214", "title": "Ovimbundu", "text": "Ovimbundu\n\nThe Ovimbundu, also known as the Southern Mbundu, are a Bantu ethnic group who live on the Bié Plateau of central Angola and in the coastal strip west of these highlands. As the largest ethnic group in Angola, they make up almost 40 percent of the country's population. Overwhelmingly the Ovimbundu follow Christianity, mainly the \"Igreja Evangélica Congregacional de Angola (IECA)\", founded by American missionaries, and the Catholic Church. However, some still retain beliefs and practices from African traditional religions.\n\nThe origins of the Ovimbundu are Bantu populations who drifted in from the North, over the last millennium, and formed local/regional groups which slowly became political units and foci of social identity: M'Balundu, Sele, Wambo, Bieno and others. They developed a sophisticated agriculture, completed by the breeding of small animals (chicken, goats, swine) as well as of a modicum of cows bought from the farmer-herders to the South (Nyaneka-Nkhumbi, Ovambo).\n\nIncisive change came about when the Portuguese established a colonial bridgehead in Benguela, in the 16th century. Several of the small \"kingdoms\" saw their advantage in organising an intense caravan trade between Benguela and peoples of the East, in particular the Chokwe, the Luvale and the Mbunda, from whom they obtained wax, rubber, honey and ivory. Each trading caravan had a professional leader and diviner. Trade agreements that had linked the independent chiefdoms led to the development of regional specializations, including metalwork and cornmeal production. Slavery and the slave trade were also an integral part of Ovimbundu societies. Caravan trading declined with the suppression of the slave trade and, more importantly, the construction of the Benguela Railway in 1904, and came to an end shortly after 1910.\n\nIn the following years, the Ovimbundu completely changed their economy to cash crop production of corn, sold to a rapidly increasing network of Portuguese traders. However, because of their demographic growth, and because significant portions of their lands were appropriated by Europeans for coffee, sisal and other plantations, many Ovimbundu started to work as paid labour, mainly on European plantations in their own region or in Northwest Angola, but also in Namibian mines.\n\nThe Ovimbundu are the main social basis of UNITA, an anti-colonial movement that fought against the Portuguese from 1966 to 1974, was an adversary of the rival movement MPLA during the Angolan Civil War of 1975 to 2002, and is at present an opposition political party.\n\nDuring the Civil War the two major cities located in Umbundu territory, Huambo and Kuito, were to a large extent destroyed by the MPLA and UNITA respectively, as were a considerable number of villages and much infrastructure (roads, railways, bridges etc.). Many people died, and many others fled to cities either in their own area (Benguela, Lobito) or in distant areas (mainly Luanda and its surroundings, but also Lubango). During long periods parts of Umbundu territory were under UNITA control.\n\nSince 2002, considerable efforts at reconstruction have been made - by the government, interested in national reconciliation, but to a large extent by the people themselves, by the churches and by a variety of NGOs. A significant proportion of the \"internally displaced\" Ovimbundu have returned to their places of origin, where traditional forms of social organization have often survived or then been reconstituted. However, larger or smaller Ovimbundu communities have remained in many cities outside their habitat, so that a significant part of this people is now scattered all over Angola.\n\nIn political terms, the Angolan parliamentary elections of 2008 reflected an important shift in Ovimbundu loyalty: while most of them had voted UNITA in the previous (1992) election, their majority now voted MPLA - because (after the death of Jonas Savimbi) UNITA had lost much of its credibility, but also because strengthening UNITA was seen as implying the risk of a renewal of armed violence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48233625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48233625", "title": "Poles in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Poles in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nPoles are one of 17 constitutionally recognized ethnic minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They arrived during the Austro-Hungarian rule in Bosnia and Herzegovina and settled mostly in the north of Bosnia proper, bringing new technology and skilled manpower. Their destiny was tied closely to that of the Ukrainian minority, with whom they joined the Yugoslav Resistance after the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia. After the Second World War, Bosnian Poles faced difficulties with establishing their rights as a minority as well as persecution by local population and remaining fascist collaborators. This forced a vast majority to answer the Polish government's call for repatriation. There were around 30,000 Poles in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1930, while their number today is estimated to be less than a thousand, with communities in the major cities of Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Zenica and Mostar.\n\nHistory of Poles in Bosnia begins during the Ottoman rule, but a significant influx only took place following the Austro-Hungarian occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878. The occupying authorities wished to colonize the country with politically reliable people, whom they rewarded with land and benefits. Germans and Hungarians were not considered suitable, while Croatians and Serbians were not desirable. The authorities decided on Poles and Czechs, expecting their Slavic roots to help them acclimatize well among Bosniaks. Official settlement lasted from 1896 until 1906. The Polish settlers were predominantly ethnic Roman Catholic farmers from the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria, a crown land of Austria. Along with them came the Eastern Orthodox Ruthenians. Civil servants, physicians, engineers and lawyers, all driven by expectations of fast career advancement and higher wages, were also among Polish settlers. The farmers were settled in the flatlands of Bosanska Krajina and Posavina, mostly in the vicinity of Prnjavor, Derventa, Bosanska Gradiška, Banja Luka, Bosanski Novi and Prijedor. In the areas surrounding Prnjavor and Bosanska Gradiška, there existed villages inhabited solely by Poles; Poles otherwise lived in villages with Bosnian Serbs or, less commonly, in villages with Bosnian Croat majority. The two largest Polish colonies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rakovac () and Novi Martinac (\"Nowy Martyniec\") near Prnjavor, were formed between 1899 and 1901.\nThe Bosnian Poles were appraised beekeepers and also left a great mark on the country's agriculture, as they introduced synthetic fertilizers and non-food crops in the regions they inhabited. They also taught Bosnians about cattle breeding. The colonists, in turn, were taught to grow maize by the native population and viticulture by another minority, the Italians. The Poles never integrated into the Bosnian society and functioned as a separate ethnic community even in areas where they had direct contact with the Bosnians, their relations consisting of a varying degree of tolerance. The native Bosnians resented the privileges granted to Polish colonists, which caused many disagreements. These benefits lapsed following the First World War, when Austria-Hungary broke apart and Bosnia and Herzegovina was incorporated into the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Some Poles at the time wanted to move to Poland, but its government refused them.\n\nThe 1910 census recorded 10,975 Poles living in Bosnia and Herzegovina; by 1930, Bosnia and Herzegovina was part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and numbered around 30,000 Poles. In 1934, the Polish writer Maria Dąbrowska spent some time in Bosnia and Herzegovina and wrote a report about the lives of Bosnian Poles for the authorities of the Second Polish Republic. She focused on their economic and political status, the issue of maintaining their ethnic identity and coexistence with indigenous population. Dąbrowska wrote that as much as 80% were pressured into becoming Yugoslav citizens, which deprived them of the right to appeal to Polish consulates and had an adverse effect on their political status. On the other hand, she noted that Bosnian Poles enjoyed better living conditions than villagers in Poland.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Bosnia and Herzegovina was absorbed into the fascist puppet-state known as the Independent State of Croatia. Its regime organized the transfer of many Bosnian Poles to villages in the adjacent region of Slavonia in order to raise the percentage of Roman Catholics there. Bosnian Poles joined the resistance movement led by the Yugoslav Partisans rather reluctantly, possibly due to a \"different treatment by the Germans in Bosnia\". The Ukrainians in Bosnia and Herzegovina accepted Polish leadership in this regard. The Partisans were eager to induce both groups and considered it a success when the number of mobilized Poles and Ukrainians from the Prnjavor area rose to 20. In the spring of 1944, a representative of the Polish government-in-exile in Yugoslavia influenced Bosnian Poles to join the Partisans. The latter eventually formed the Initiative Council of Poles to both help the mobilization and by-pass the Polish government representative. Thanks to the council and collaboration of Polish village headsmen, the Yugoslav Partisans founded a so-called Polish Battalion, the 5th Battalion of the 14th Central Bosnian Brigade, on 7 May 1944. It was active in the aeras of Teslić, Žepče, Zavidovići and Zenica. Numbering \"a modest 200 ethnic-Polish soldiers\", the Battalion helped mobilise other Bosnian Poles, and eventually around 3,000 Poles took part in the liberation of Yugoslavia.\n\nIn late 1944, Ignac Kunecki represented Poles at sessions of the State Anti-fascist Council for the National Liberation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ZAVNOBiH), which sought to restore the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina (previously divided into banovinas) and make it a federative unit of Yugoslavia. Kunecki cited the precedent of the Second Partition of Poland and its effects on his people. ZAVNOBiH, however, declined his request that the Declaration of the Rights of Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina \"be amended, so that it emphasizes the equality of national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina\" because the equivalent declaration by AVNOJ had already done so and because, unlike in Croatia and Vojvodina, \"the minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are, on the basis of their numbers, insignificant minorities.\" Despite assurances that they would be \"granted full freedom of use of their mother tongue\", Polish representatives remained unsatisfied.\n\nMeanwhile, the Polish People's Republic called on Polish diaspora to return and repopulate the areas previously inhabited by Germans. More than 15,000 Poles saw the end of the Second World War in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 1 July 1945, their representatives held a conference and decided in favour of repatriation. Their emigration was hastened by a terror campaign launched against them and Ukrainians by the Chetniks \"with the support of a large part of the Serb population\" who \"did not view these minorities with sympathy\". Thousands of Poles and Ukrainians were expelled from their homes by Chetnik elements in late 1945 and early 1946. A Polish militia, supported by the Yugoslav authorities, was set up to defend the minority following the Polish ambassador's visit to Prnjavor in December 1945, but Kunecki criticized it as ineffective. After notifying the Yugoslav authorities and the Polish embassy in Belgrade, the Polish delegation went to Poland and opted for Bolesławiec County in Lower Silesia. They encountered problems with the Yugoslav government when the latter refused to compensate them for the houses and land they had left behind. The Yugoslav government even demanded that Poland pay for the cattle that the Bosnian Poles took to Poland. The insulted and disappointed Poles appealed directly to the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia Josip Broz Tito. Their transfer from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Poland took place between 28 March and 2 November 1946. By 1953, their numbers had fallen to 1,161, and by 1981, there were 609 Poles living in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nBosnian Poles who emigrated and their descendants have held onto certain aspects of Bosnian culture, such as certain songs and burek recipes. They maintain a choir called Tomislav-Osieczov, which occasionally visits Bosnia and Herzegovina. In 1991, there were 526 Poles in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is estimated that their number today ranges from a few hundred to a thousand. They are organized into four communities, situated in the major cities of Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Zenica and Mostar. According to the 2013 Census there are 258 persons who identify as Poles in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nNotable Bosnian Poles include:\n\n"}
{"id": "11953129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11953129", "title": "Portuguese Luxembourger", "text": "Portuguese Luxembourger\n\nA Portuguese Luxembourger or Lusoburguês is a citizen of Luxembourg that either was born in Portugal or is of Portuguese ancestry. Although estimates of the total Portuguese Luxembourg population vary, in 2013 there were 82,363 people in Luxembourg with Portuguese nationality. They constitute 16.1% of the population of Luxembourg, making them the largest group of foreigner citizens living in the country.\n\nIt is illegal to collect statistics about the race, ethnicity, or ancestry of Luxembourg citizens, which makes it very difficult to come to a proper estimate of the number of Portuguese Luxembourgers. In the 2001 census, there were 58,657 inhabitants with Portuguese nationality, up from negligibly few in 1960. \n\nFrom 1875 onwards, Luxembourg's economy relied upon the immigration of cheap labour of mostly Italians to work in the country's steel mills and to counter the natural demographic decline of the native Luxembourgish population. The successive waves of immigrants were predominated by Germans and Italians, but, by the 1960s, the influx of foreign workers from these countries slowed, as their home countries' economies had recovered. By 1967, the Italian expatriate population had begun to decline as Italians returned home. This coincided with the rise of a booming financial services sector, which caused native Luxembourgers to turn away from industrial jobs.\n\nThe mid-1960s saw the arrival of the first Portuguese guest workers (including Cape Verdeans, who also had Portuguese citizenship). At the time, Portugal was ruled as a corporatist military dictatorship, and an economic downturn coincided with the so-called 'Academic Crisis' and deteriorating conditions in Portugal's colonies to put further pressure on many young Portuguese people to emigrate. \n\nThe two countries signed a treaty in Lisbon in 1970 to allow family unification, and this was enshrined into Luxembourgish law in 1972. This turned the Portuguese community into a demographically self-sustaining unit, marking it out as separate from the Germans, who had little desire to move permanently to Luxembourg, and Italians, who were not granted special status for family immigration.\n\nWhen Portugal entered the European Economic Community in 1986, Portuguese citizens were to be guaranteed the same rights to the labour market as Luxembourgish citizens. All countries were given a transitional period of seven years to adapt to the new conditions, during which they could impose restrictions upon immigration from Portugal (and Spain, the other new EEC member). Luxembourg was given a longer transitional period, of ten years, as the government feared a large influx of Portuguese immigrants. When, in 1990, the government found that immigration had barely increased since 1985, it dropped its limitations.\n"}
{"id": "4165586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4165586", "title": "Public Library Association", "text": "Public Library Association\n\nThe Public Library Association (PLA), a division of the American Library Association, is a professional association of public librarians and supporters dedicated to the \"development and effectiveness of public library staff and public library services.\" In keeping with this mission, the PLA provides continuing education to members, hosts a biennial professional conference, publishes a trade journal, and advocates for public libraries and literacy. The PLA has over 9,000 members. It was founded in 1944.\n\nThe mission of the PLA is as follows.\n\nThe Public Library Association enhances the development and effectiveness of public library staff and public library services. This mission positions PLA to:\nThe goals of the PLA, as revised in 2014, are:\nThese Mission & Goals come from the PLA Strategic Plan, approved by the PLA Board of Directors, June 2014.\n\nThe PLA identifies the following areas as \"priority concerns\":\n\nThe PLA is governed by an 11-member Board of Directors elected by the association's members. The PLA Board of Directors consists of the President, President-Elect, Past-President, six Directors-at-Large, ALA Division Councilor, and PLA Executive Director. The Executive Director is an ex-officio and non-voting board member tasked with enacting the board's decisions. The PLA's current president is Carolyn Anthony, its president-elect is Larry Neal, and its executive director is Barbara Macikas.\n\nMembers of PLA standing committees, award juries, task forces, and advisory groups are appointed to one- or two-year terms by the president-elect. Active committees include a Budget and Finance Committee, Every Child Ready to Read Oversight Committee, Intellectual Freedom Committee, Leadership Development Committee, Legislation and Advocacy Committee, Public Libraries Advisory Committee, and committees to manage the PLA's biennial conferences and nominate candidates for committee service.\n\n\"Public Libraries\" is the PLA's official trade magazine. Published six times annually, this magazine focuses on news and issues pertaining to public libraries and librarianship. It commenced publication in January 1947 under the editorship of Muriel E. Perry of Decatur Public Library. \"Public Libraries Online\" is the digital companion to the print journal and offers three full articles from each print issue, plus daily updates, interviews, blogging, and other exclusive content. The print magazine is a delayed open access journal; its web companion is free and open to all users. PLA is also responsible for the publication of many key monograph titles in the field of public librarianship.\n\nPLA was formed in 1944 as the Division of Public Libraries of the American Library Association. The formation of the Division of Public Libraries of the American Library Association was approved by the ALA Council in 1944 following petitions signed by nearly 1,200 members. The first PLA president was Amy Winslow of Cuyahoga County Library. The first Executive Secretary (a position now known as Executive Director) was Julia Wright Merrill. The original mission of the division was to advance public library interests and to cooperate in the promotion of library service in general. The PLA's First National Conference, with the theme \"Serving People: Public Libraries Today and Tomorrow\" was presented March 23-26, 1983 in Baltimore, Maryland. The conference chair was Charles W. Robinson. The core purposes was to strengthen public libraries and their contribution to the communities they serve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36881426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36881426", "title": "Public disclosure", "text": "Public disclosure\n\nPublic disclosure is any non-confidential communication which an inventor or invention owner makes available to one or more members of the public, revealing the existence of the invention and enabling an appropriately experienced individual (\"person having ordinary skill in the art\") to reproduce the invention. In the U.S., public disclosure of an invention results in the loss of patentability of the invention after a period of one year. In other countries, public disclosure may result in the immediate loss of invention patentability unless a patent application has already been filed, and disclosure may be considered to include oral as well as written communication.\n\n\"(b) the invention was patented \"or described in a printed publication\" in this or a foreign country or in public use or on sale in this country, \"more than one year prior to the date of the application for patent\" in the United States...\"\n\n\"Printed publications\" generally include all paper and electronic forms of publication. For example, books, scientific journals, posters, conference slide presentations, and website articles would all qualify as disclosure media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27820836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27820836", "title": "Risbadstugan", "text": "Risbadstugan\n\nRisbadstugan (English: The name means a sauna or bathhouse where \"ris\", or twig bundles, were used) was a Swedish case of abuse from 1754 which became famous in its time. It was later made the subject of a theatre play. \n\nAt Christmas 1754, a man in Stockholm abused his wife. She complained to a group of female friends, and they agreed to avenge the abuse. A night after the man retired to bed, he was attacked by his wife and four other women. The women beat him so hard he could not get out of bed for several days. He sued the women, who were sentenced to 70 daler in fines for trespassing. The case became one of the most talked about crime cases in Sweden during the age of liberty. The press reported widely about the event, illustrations were made - among them an engraving by J Gillberg - and in 1755, a play, a comedy entitled \"Risbadstugan\" was published by the poet and author Johan Stagnell. \n\n"}
{"id": "53924566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53924566", "title": "Roger J.R. Levesque", "text": "Roger J.R. Levesque\n\nRoger J.R. Levesque (born October 17, 1963) is professor in the Department of Criminal Justice at Indiana University, as well as an affiliated professor of law in the Indiana University Maurer School of Law. He is the editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Youth and Adolescence\", \"New Criminal Law Review\", and \"Adolescent Research Review\". He is a fellow of the Association for Psychological Science, the American Psychological Association, the American Psychology–Law Society, and the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues.\n\nIn 2016, Levesque was editor for \"Adolescents, Rapid Social Change, and the Law: The Transforming Nature of Protection\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44052544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44052544", "title": "Romani people in Libya", "text": "Romani people in Libya\n\nRomani people in Libya speak the Domari language. They immigrated to the territory of the present day Libya from South Asia, particularly from India, in Byzantine times. Romani (Dom or Nawar) people self-segregated themselves for centuries from the dominant culture of Libya, who view Romani as dishonorable though clever. Historically, Gypsies in Libya have provided musical entertainment as weddings and other celebrations. The Romani people or Gypsies in Libya include subgroups like Nawar, Halebi and Ghagar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2949526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2949526", "title": "Sam Lucas", "text": "Sam Lucas\n\nSam Lucas (August 7, c. 1848 – January 5, 1916) was an African American actor, comedian, singer, and songwriter. Sam Lucas's exact date of birth is disputed. Lucas's year of birth, to freed former slaves, has also been cited as 1839, 1840, 1841, and 1850.\n\nHis career began in blackface minstrelsy, but he later became one of the first African Americans to branch out into more serious drama, with roles in seminal works such as \"The Creole Show\" and \"A Trip to Coontown\". He was the first black man to portray the role of Uncle Tom on both stage and screen. James Weldon Johnson described him as the \"Grand Old Man of the Negro Stage\".\n\nLucas was born Samuel Mildmay Lucas (or Samuel Lucas Milady) in Washington Court House, Ohio to free black parents. He showed a talent for guitar and singing as a teenager, and while working as a barber, his local performances gained him a positive reputation.\n\nIn 1858 he began his career as a performer with the traveling African-American minstrel companies. Over the next five years, he sang and acted on stage and on riverboats, and composed music for his shows. Meanwhile, he found ways to integrate his African-American roots into the mostly white form; for instance, his tune \"Carve Dat Possum\" borrowed its melody from a black religious song. As black minstrelsy grew popular with the general public, Lucas became one of its first celebrities, particularly known for his portrayals of pitiable, comic characters.\n\nHis fame allowed him to choose his engagements, and over the span of his career, he performed with some of the best black minstrel troupes. He never led a troupe of his own, however. Throughout his life, Lucas performed with many minstrel groups including Lew Johnson's Plantation Minstrels (1871–73), Callender’s Georgia Minstrels (1873–74, 1875–76), and Sprague’s Georgia Minstrels (1878–79) in Havana, Cuba. After his time as a minstrel performer, Lucas began to perform in vaudeville.\n\nMeanwhile, Lucas attempted to branch out into non-minstrel material. In 1875, for instance, he performed alongside Emma and Anna Hyer in \"Out of Bondage\", a musical drama about a freed slave who is made over to fit into upper-class, white society. He followed this by another stint in black minstrelsy, and in 1876, he was playing with Sprague's Georgia Minstrels, alongside both James A. Bland and Billy Kersands.\n\nIn 1878, Charles and Gustave Frohman needed an advertising gimmick to help rescue a poorly performing comedy troupe. Their answer was to stage a serious production of \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" with a black man in the lead role. Lucas's reputation as an actor was well known, as was his wealth; Gustave wired Charles, \"Get me an Eva and send her down with Sam Lucas. Be sure to tell Sam to bring his diamonds.\"\n\nLucas became the first African American to play Uncle Tom in a serious production. Nevertheless, the show fared poorly in Richmond, Virginia, and not even a change of venue to Lucas's home state of Ohio could save the production. The problems seem to have been many. One critic remarked that \"little\" Eva was so large that she nearly flattened St. Clair when she sat in his lap. Lucas had to hawk his stash of diamonds to pay the troupe's transport back to Cincinnati.\n\nLucas rejoined the Hyer sisters for \"The Underground Railroad\", only to go back to blackface acts after its run. He also continued to write, and much of his output shows a more African American perspective when compared to work of other black composers, such as James Bland. For example, the lyrics to \"My Dear Old Southern Home\" say:\n\nAnother Lucas tune declares, \"I nebber shall forget, no nebber, / De day I was sot free.\"\n\nIn 1890, Lucas served as an endman in Sam T. Jack's \"The Creole Show\", often cited as the first African American production to show signs of breaking the links to minstrelsy.\n\nHe married during its run, and afterward he and his wife played a succession of variety houses, vaudeville stages, and museums. In 1898, he performed in Boston in \"A Trip to Coontown\", produced by Bob Cole. This was the first black production to use only African American writers, directors, and producers, and the first black musical comedy to make a complete break with minstrelsy.\n\nFrom 1905-06, he starred in \"Rufus Rastus\", which was directed by Ernest Hogan. In 1907, Lucas starred in the second showing of an original musical comedy from Cole and Johnson, \"The Shoe-Fly Regiment\", which ran from June 3, 1907 to August 17, 1907. This production showed at the Grand Opera House in New York City from June 6–8, 1907 and at the Bijou Theatre, which was also located in New York, from August 6 to August 17, 1907. \"The Shoe-Fly Regiment\" was a three-act musical, with Acts One and Three taking place in the Lincolnville Institute in Alabama and act two taking place in the Philippines. Lucas played Brother Doolittle, who was a member of the \"Bode of Education\".\n\nLucas later performed in another original musical comedy \"The Red Moon\", portraying Bill Webster, a barber. The Red Moon ran from May 3, 1909 to May 29, 1909. \"The Red Moon\" was also a three-act musical, but set in fictional \"Swamptown, Virginia\".\n\nIn 1908, he became a charter member for the professional theatrical club The Frogs, and in 1913 he participated in \"The Frog Follies\".\n\nIn 1913, Lucas was featured in the unfinished film, \"Lime Kiln Field Day\", produced by the Biograph Company and Klaw and Erlanger. The footage of the unfinished film was assembled in 2014 by the Museum of Modern Art, which had rescued the film cans from a Biograph film storage vault in 1938.\n\nIn 1914, Lucas revived his role of Uncle Tom in William Robert Daly's film adaptation of Harriet Beecher Stowe's \"Uncle Tom’s Cabin\". He is generally credited as the first black man to portray Uncle Tom, a character that had typically been played by white actors in black face. The film was released on August 10, 1914, by the World Film Company.\n\nThis silent film was shot on location in the South with scenes of its fields of cotton and Mississippi river boats. Its screening was accompanied by organs or other instruments at local theatres. It was an inductee to the 2012 National Film Registry list.\n\nLucas was married no fewer than three times; his second wife was Carrie Melvin, whom he married in Boston, Massachusetts on August 11, 1886.\n\nCarrie Melvin Lucas was a violinist, coronetist, and actress. They had one daughter together, Marie Lucas (1891–1947). Marie went on to become a successful pianist, trombonist, arranger, and conductor. Sam and Carrie performed together in vaudeville, but they divorced in 1899. Marie and Sam later worked together.\n\nAfter completing \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", Lucas died in 1916 from pneumonia, after suffering from liver disease for many years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18154646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18154646", "title": "Saville Sax", "text": "Saville Sax\n\nSaville Sax (July 26, 1924 – September 25, 1980) was the Harvard College roommate of Theodore Hall who recruited Hall for the Soviets and acted as a courier to move the atomic secrets from Los Alamos to the Soviets.\n\nSaville Sax was born in New York City on July 26, 1924 and went by the name of Sarry Sax. He was the son of Bernard Sax (1896–1936) and Bluma Sax (1895–1986). Bluma and Bernard were both born in Russia, of Jewish ancestry. In 1930 they were living in Manhattan with their grandfather Jacob Sax (1874–?). Saville was introduced to Soviet agents by his mother, Bluma, who worked for a Communist front organization called Russian War Relief. Sax went by the cover name \"Oldster,\" and periodically traveled to New Mexico to collect information from Hall. Saville had a son, Boria Sax, a daughter, Sarah Sax, and a sister, Anne Saville Arenberg. (1925-1967). After drifting from job to job, Saville ended up teaching \"values clarification\" in a Great Society funded education program called NEXTEP, when he was \"something of an adult hippie, disheveled in his personal habits and given to LSD and other hallocinogenic drugs\" and \"openly boasted of his role in the [atomic] spying.\" He died on September 25, 1980 in Edwardsville, Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "47377684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47377684", "title": "Shooting of Samuel DuBose", "text": "Shooting of Samuel DuBose\n\nOn July 19, 2015, in Cincinnati, Ohio, Samuel DuBose, an unarmed man, was fatally shot by Ray Tensing, a University of Cincinnati police officer, during a traffic stop for a missing front license plate and a suspended driver's license. Tensing fired after DuBose started his car. Tensing stated that DuBose had begun to drive off and that he was being dragged because his arm was caught in the car. Prosecutors alleged that footage from Tensing's bodycam showed that he was not dragged, and a grand jury indicted him on charges of murder and voluntary manslaughter. He was then fired from the police department. He was released on bond before trial. A November 2016 trial ended in mistrial after the jury became deadlocked. A retrial begun in May 2017 also ended in a hung jury. The charges against Tensing were later dismissed with prejudice.\n\nSamuel \"Sam\" Vincent DuBose (March 12, 1972 – July 19, 2015), a 43-year-old black man, was a rapper, music producer, entrepreneur, and motorcycle enthusiast. He was the founder of a motorcycle club, Ruthless Riders. He attended high school in Cincinnati and was the father of 13 children. Between 1995 and 2009 he was charged thirteen times for not having a license and four times for not having a proper license plate. He also served less than a year in a state prison on a 2005 marijuana trafficking charge.\n\nRaymond Tensing (born November 13, 1989), a white police officer who was 25 years old at the time of the shooting, had four years of law enforcement experience. He joined the University of Cincinnati Police Department (UCPD) in April 2014, having previously been an officer with the department of Greenhills, Ohio. He had left the Ohio State Highway Patrol's training academy after attending for just one day. According to a highway patrol spokesman, he was unable to adapt to the physical and mental requirements.\n\nTensing graduated \"cum laude\" with a degree in criminal justice from University of Cincinnati Clermont College in 2012 and had a clean performance record. He was involved in a fight in August 2010, a few weeks after he completed his training at the police academy. Tensing conducted an independent investigation of the incident, was described as being unhappy with the Cincinnati Police Department's handling of the case, and was noted for his aggressive attitude at the time. As a result of his investigation, the case against other combatants was dismissed.\n\nThe University of Cincinnati Police Department is certified by the state of Ohio and has full police authority throughout the state. They focus their patrols areas on three campuses and the areas around them. UCPD officers receive 616 hours of training at the police academy, plus 80 of rookie training, while city police officers spend 1,040 hours in training. Since the UCPD's patrol area was expanded to include neighboring areas in 2009, the number of reported crimes in those areas was cut in half by 2014. Officers increased their traffic stops on- and off-campus, tripling the number from 2012 to 2015. Of its 72 officers, 4 are African American and 1 is Asian American. Unlike the Cincinnati Police Department (CPD), the UCPD was not included in federally mandated reforms following the nearby riots of 2001 that had been in reaction to a shooting of a young black man by city police. One UCPD chief resigned in 2013 amid reported low morale, and he was not replaced immediately. Two other black men had been killed by UCPD officers, both with Tasers: a mental patient in 2010 and a student in 2011.\n\nAt , on Rice Street near Thill Street in the Mount Auburn district, Tensing was patrolling off-campus when he stopped DuBose for failure to display a front license plate, which is a primary offense for vehicles with Ohio license plates. The incident was recorded on Tensing's bodycam, which he activated before the traffic stop.\n\nSeen in the bodycam video, Tensing repeatedly requests a driver's license and DuBose replies that he has a driver's license, then stating that he does not have it with him. Tensing asks, \"Are you suspended?\" Tensing starts to open the driver's door and orders DuBose to remove his seat belt. DuBose pulls the door closed, starts the engine, and puts the car in drive. Within the next few seconds, Tensing reaches into the car with his left hand, yells \"Stop! Stop!\", draws his pistol with his right hand, and fires once striking DuBose. Sources differed as to whether the car was moving before the shot was fired. According to the Kroll Report, \"it is difficult to determine with precision how much, if at all, the car moved [prior to the gunshot], but whatever movement may have occurred appears to have been minimal.\"\n\nAfter firing, Tensing falls away from the vehicle which accelerates as he and two other officers run after it. After travelling about , the vehicle collided into a telephone pole and came to a stop. After the officers reach the car, the video shows DuBose inside with a gunshot wound to his head. The county coroner's preliminary autopsy results, released on , confirmed that as the cause of death. \n\nIn bodycam footage, Tensing repeatedly tells other officers that he was dragged when his arm became caught in the car, possibly in the steering wheel. In the police report that he filed after the incident, he stated that he was dragged, forcing him to fire his weapon. Through lawyers, he released a public statement that he was afraid that he would be run over. On , authorities released Tensing's bodycam video, which, according to prosecutors, shows that Tensing was not dragged.\n\nA day after the shooting, it was reported that DuBose was driving on an indefinitely suspended driver's license, and had four bags and a jar of marijuana and about $2,600 cash in the car.\n\nUCPD officers Phillip Kidd and David Lindenschmidt arrived at the scene just after the gunshot. In his bodycam video, Kidd is heard supporting Tensing's statement that he was dragged by the car. According to County Prosecutor Joe Deters, neither officer stated in his official statement to Cincinnati police that he saw Tensing being dragged. Officer-in-Training Lindenschmidt, who had started working in the field only that month, made what have been called \"rookie mistakes\" in picking up Tensing's fallen flashlight and moving Tensing's vehicle.\n\nEric Weibel, a UCPD officer who did not witness the shooting, stated in a report that Tensing's uniform looked like he had been dragged.\n\nThe CPD took over the investigation soon after they were called to the scene.\n\nOn , Hamilton County Prosecuting Attorney Joe Deters stated in a press conference that the shooting was \"asinine\" and \"senseless\". He said that DuBose was not acting violently or aggressively. With \"an abundance of caution in anticipation\" of Deters' announcement, the University of Cincinnati closed its Uptown and Medical campuses at The campuses resumed normal operations the next day.\n\nOn , the Fraternal Order of PoliceOhio Labor Council, a union that represents UCPD employees, filed a grievance asking that Tensing be reinstated to his position on the police force, asserting that he was terminated \"without just cause\". Resolution of the grievance is postponed pending the outcome of the criminal case.\n\nIn the wake of the shooting, Deters called for the disbandment of the UCPD force and its replacement with city police officers. The incident also drew attention to the presence of armed law enforcement on college campuses. \nThere was some public and academic criticism of Deters' comments, on the basis that his rhetoric would jeopardize Tensing's right to a fair trial and that they were anti-police.\n\nThe Chief of the CPD said that the memorandum of understanding, signed in 2009 by his predecessor, which allowed UCPD to patrol areas neighboring the university, should be revoked. He said, \"I don't believe their officers have the skill set to police Cincinnati with the same philosophy of fairness and cultural competency that my officers display.\"\n\nThe body camera recording of Tensing shooting DuBose has garnered considerable attention. The footage has been compared to a first-person-shooter video game and described as so \"disturbing\" that Cincinnati police prepared for large protests and riots before the footage's release.\n\nAs of , at least four demonstrations have been held around the country in response to DuBose's death. A Black Lives Matter vigil and rally in support of DuBose was held in Cincinnati on , the third such event since the shooting. The victim's mother said, \"As long as we stand up for the righteous, we going to be OK. I would come out here every night, I will go city to city because now I'm involved, my child was involved.\" Participants chanted \"I am Sam DuBose.\" Around 300 participants subsequently walked through Over-the-Rhine to Fountain Square. Six people were arrested on charges of disorderly conduct and resisting arrest during the march. One hundred protesters joined a \"United March for Justice\" on , linking DuBose's killing with the deaths of Tamir Rice, John Crawford, and Samantha Ramsey.\n\nA report, commonly called the \"Kroll Report\", released in September 2015 by Kroll Inc., a risk consulting firm hired by the university, said that Tensing's bodycam video showed that he was not dragged. It also said that the car had not moved, or had barely moved, before the gunshot was fired. It faulted both men for unnecessarily escalating the situation, DuBose by failing to comply with Tensing's command to get out of the car and starting the engine. The report offered no opinion as to Tensing's guilt or innocence in the criminal case. Tensing's attorney said, \"I don't agree with their analysis or their conclusions.\" The report's recommendations include reviewing the scope of the UCPD's jurisdiction, improving relevant training and policies, clarifying reporting requirements following officer-involved shootings, providing cultural diversity training, and assessing the diversity of officers within the UCPD.\n\nFollowing the shooting the UCPD stopped making off-campus traffic stops. \n\nOn , a student group, named \"Irate 8\" for the eight percent of black students at University of Cincinnati campuses, presented a list of demands to the university president. The list includes taking officers Kidd and Lindenschmidt off patrol, conducting full background checks of police and other university employees, and mandating racial sensitivity training for all staff and students. President Santa J. Ono agreed to meet with them and discuss their demands.\n\nKidd and Lindenschmidt were not indicted by the grand jury. \"These officers have been truthful and honest about what happened and no charges are warranted,\" Deters said. Kidd and Lindenschmidt were placed on administrative leave during a university investigation.\n\nOn , 2015, Tensing was indicted on charges of murder and voluntary manslaughter. The murder charge carries a penalty of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for 15 years. As a result of the indictment, he was fired from the UCPD. At his arraignment, he pleaded not guilty to the charges, and he was released on $1 million bond later that day. A trial began on , 2016; on , the judge declared a mistrial after the jury became deadlocked. Ten days later the prosecution announced that they intended to retry Tensing, requesting a change of venue due to the amount of publicity surrounding the case in the Cincinnati area. A judge denied the change of venue, while extending a gag order in the case. A retrial was slated to begin on May 25, 2017.. The presiding judge ruled that prosecutors could not present the T-shirt Tensing was wearing at the time of the shooting to the jury. The shirt depicted a Confederate battle flag, and the judge agreed with Tensing's defense that allowing the shirt as evidence would be prejudicial. On June 23, 2017, the second trial also ended in mistrial due to a deadlocked jury. On July 18, 2017, Deters said he was dropping the case against Tensing, as two previous juries could not reach a unanimous agreement on murder and voluntary manslaughter charges.\n\nStew Mathews, Tensing's attorney, said that Tensing was being dragged by the car, and that the officer fired in self-defense while fearing for his life. Mathews said that video from Lindenschmidt's bodycam helped substantiate that claim. However, video forensics expert and FBI instructor Grant Fredericks disagreed with these claims—testifying the video showed Tensing had never been dragged, and in fact pulled and aimed his gun at Dubose's head before the vehicle moved. Fredericks further testified he believed the vehicle's later acceleration occurred \"after\" the shooting, as a result of a \"post-mortem reflex.\"\nIn January 2016, following two days of mediation with civil rights attorney Al Gerhardstein, the University of Cincinnati agreed to pay $4.85 million to the DuBose family. In addition to financial compensation, the settlement included free undergraduate education for DuBose's children, the creation of a memorial in his name, an apology from the school's president, and engagement by the family in police reform at the university. It also protected all potential defendants from any future civil litigation in DuBose's death.\nOn 23rd March 2018 Ray Tensing was awarded nearly $350,000 in compensation for unfair dismissal from his former employer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55634527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55634527", "title": "Siviyar", "text": "Siviyar\n\nSiviyar (, also written \"Chiviar\" and ) is a caste found in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka. They were traditionally palanquin bearers. They are a single community in Sri Lanka, but are however a subcaste of the Idaiyar caste of Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe name is derived from the Tamil word\" Civikai\" meaning \"palanquin\" and the suffix -ar denoting honorific plural. The headmen of them were known as \"Kūriyan\", meaning \"proclaimer\", in reference to his proclaiming or announcement of the titles of the person whom he carries before the palanquin.\n\nThe Siviyars worked under the kings of Jaffna Kingdom as palanquin bearers, woodcutters and water carriers. After the fall of Jaffna Kingdom, were the Siviyars under Dutch Ceylon serving as palanquin bearers under the Commanders and Dissavas, and were a powerful class in Jaffna, who also held titles such as Mudaliyars.\n\nThe Siviyars of Tamil Nadu migrated from Mysore region to Tamil Nadu during the reign of Tipu Sultan.\n\nSeveral from this caste were strongly represented in the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam.\n\n"}
{"id": "246311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246311", "title": "Slovenes", "text": "Slovenes\n\nThe Slovenes, also known as Slovenians ( ), are a nation and South Slavic ethnic group native to Slovenia, and also to Italy, Austria and Hungary in addition to having a diaspora throughout the world. Slovenes share a common ancestry, culture, history and speak Slovene as their native language.\n\nMost Slovenes today live within the borders of the independent Slovenia (2,007,711 est. 2008). In the Slovenian national census of 2002, 1,631,363 people ethnically declared themselves as Slovenes, while 1,723,434 people claimed Slovene as their native language.\n\nThe autochthonous Slovenian minority in Italy is estimated at 83,000 to 100,000, the Slovene minority in southern Austria at 24,855, in Croatia at 13,200, and in Hungary at 3,180.\nSignificant Slovene expatriate communities live in the United States and Canada, in other European countries, in Argentina, and in Australia. The largest population of Slovenes outside of Slovenia is in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\nIn total 39-36% of 399-458 sampled Slovenian males belong to Y-DNA Haplogroup R1a, more frequent than in South Slavic peoples, constituting 41% in the capital region and greater in some regions. Slovenian population displays close genetic affiliations with West Slavic populations. The homogenous genetic strata of the West Slavic populations and the Slovenian population suggest the existence of a common ancestral Slavic population in central European region. The M458 branch constitutes 4%, while the dominant clade is Z280, specifically its R1a-CTS3402 clade, the same as that of their Slavic and not Slavic neighbours. The Z92 branch of Z280 which is significant among East Slavs is recorded as completely absent among Slovenes.\n\nOf 100 sampled Slovenians, 18% belong to R1b, of which 8% of R1b belongs to the P312 branch, 6% to the eastern and 4% to U106. The Dinaric-North (DYS448- 20) haplotypes of I2a1b are with overwhelming higher frequency than Dinaric-South(DYS448- 19) even in regions with high frequency.\n\nIn the 6th century AD, Slavic people settled the region between the Alps and the Adriatic Sea in two consecutive migration waves: the first wave came from the Moravian lands around 550, while the second wave, coming from the southeast, moved in after the retreat of the Lombards to Italy in 568 (see Slavic settlement of Eastern Alps).\n\nFrom 623 to 658 Slavic peoples between the upper Elbe River and the Karavanke mountain range united under the leadership of King Samo (\"Kralj Samo\") in what was to become known as \"Samo's Tribal Union\". The tribal union collapsed after Samo's death in 658, but a smaller Slavic tribal principality, Carantania (Slovene: \"Karantanija\"), remained, with its centre in the present-day region of Carinthia.\n\nDue to pressing danger of Avar tribes from the east, the Carantanians accepted a union with Bavaria in 745 and later recognized Frankish rule and accepted Christianity in the 8th century. The last Slavic state formation in the region, the principality of Prince Kocelj, lost its independence in 874. Slovene ethnic territory subsequently shrank due to pressing of Germans from the west and the arrival of Hungarians in the Pannonian plain, and stabilized in the present form in the 15th century.\n\nThe first mentions of a common Slovene ethnic identity, transcending regional boundaries, date from the 16th century. During this period, the first books in Slovene were written by the Protestant preacher Primož Trubar and his followers, establishing the base for the development of standard Slovene. In the second half of the 16th century, numerous books were printed in Slovene, including an integral translation of the Bible by Jurij Dalmatin.\n\nAt the beginning of the 17th century, Protestantism was suppressed by the Habsburg-sponsored Counter Reformation, which introduced the new aesthetics of Baroque culture.\n\nThe Enlightenment in the Habsburg monarchy brought significant social and cultural progress to the Slovene people. It hastened economic development and facilitated the appearance of a middle class. Under the reign of Maria Theresa and Emperor Joseph II (1765–1790) many reforms were undertaken in the administration and society, including land reforms, the modernization of the Church and compulsory primary education in Slovene (1774). The start of cultural-linguistic activities by Slovene intellectuals of the time brought about a national revival and the birth of the Slovene nation in the modern sense of the word. Before the Napoleonic Wars, some secular literature in Slovene emerged. During the same period, the first history of the Slovene Lands as an ethnic unity was written by Anton Tomaž Linhart, while Jernej Kopitar compiled the first comprehensive grammar of Slovene.\n\nBetween 1809 and 1813, Slovenia was part of the Illyrian Provinces, an autonomous province of the Napoleonic French Empire, with Ljubljana as the capital. Although the French rule was short-lived, it significantly contributed to the rise of national consciousness and political awareness of Slovenes. After the fall of Napoleon, all Slovene Lands were once again included in the Austrian Empire. Gradually, a distinct Slovene national consciousness developed, and the quest for a political unification of all Slovenes became widespread. In the 1820s and 1840s, the interest in Slovene language and folklore grew enormously, with numerous philologists advancing the first steps towards a standardization of the language. Illyrian movement, Pan-Slavic and Austro-Slavic ideas gained importance. However, the intellectual circle around the philologist Matija Čop and the Romantic poet France Prešeren was influential in affirming the idea of Slovene linguistic and cultural individuality, refusing the idea of merging Slovenes into a wider Slavic nation.\n\nIn the 1840s, the Slovene national movement developed far beyond literary expression. In 1848, the first Slovene national political programme, called \"United Slovenia\" (), was written in the context of the Spring of Nations movement within the Austrian Empire. It demanded a unification of all Slovene-speaking territories in an autonomous kingdom, named \"Slovenija\", within the empire and an official status for the Slovene language. Although the project failed, it served as an important platform of Slovene political activity in the following decades, particularly in the 1860s and 1870s, when mass Slovene rallies, named \"tabori\", were organised. The conflict between Slovene and German nationalists deepened. In 1866, some Slovenes were left to Italy, and in 1867 some remained in the Hungarian part of the Austria-Hungary. This significantly affected the nation and led to further radicalisation of the Slovene national movement. In the 1890s, the first Slovene political parties were established. All of them were loyal to Austria, but they were also espousing a common South Slavic cause.\n\nBetween 1880 and World War I, the largest numbers of Slovenes emigrated to America. Most of these went between 1905 and 1913, although the exact number is impossible to determine because Slovenes were often classified as Austrians, Italians, Croats, or under other, broader labels, such as Slavonic or Slavic. Those who settled in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania came to be called \"Windish\", from the Austrian German term \"Windisch\" 'Wend'.\n\nThe largest group of Slovenes in the United States eventually settled in Cleveland, Ohio, and the surrounding area. The second-largest group settled in Chicago, principally on the Lower West Side. The American Slovenian Catholic Union (Ameriško slovenska katoliška enota) was founded as an organization to protect Slovene-American rights in Joliet, Illinois, southwest of Chicago, and in Cleveland. Today there are KSKJ branches all over the country offering life insurance and other services to Slovene-Americans. Freethinkers were centered around 18th and Racine Ave. in Chicago, where they founded the Slovene National Benefit Society; other Slovene immigrants went to southwestern Pennsylvania, southeastern Ohio and the state of West Virginia to work in the coal mines and lumber industry. Some Slovenes also went to the Pittsburgh or Youngstown, Ohio, areas, to work in the steel mills, as well as Minnesota's Iron Range, to work in the iron mines. Many also went west to Rock Springs in Wyoming to work in the coal mines that supported the Union Pacific Railway.\n\nThere were more than 30,000 casualties among ethnic Slovenes during World War I because they were and still are inhabiting the territory where the Isonzo Front was fought. While the majority of them were drafted in the Austro-Hungarian Army, also Slovene civil inhabitants from the Gorizia and Gradisca region suffered in hundreds of thousands because they were resettled in refugee camps where, however, Slovene refugees were treated as state enemies by Italians and several thousands died of malnutrition in Italian refugee camps.\n\nAfter the First World War (1914–1918), the majority of Slovenes joined other South Slavs in the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs, followed by the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, and finally the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In the new system of banovinas (since 1929), Slovenes formed a majority in the Drava Banovina.\n\nIn the ex-Austrian Empire area given to Italy in exchange for joining Great Britain in World War I, the forced Fascist Italianization of Slovene minority in Italy (1920-1947) was under no international restraint especially after Benito Mussolini came to power in 1922. Already during the period of Italian occupation, between the years 1918 and 1920, all Slovene cultural associations (Sokol, \"reading rooms\" etc.) had been forbidden Fascist Italy brought Italian teachers from South Italy to \"Italianize\" ethnic Slovene and Croatian children, while the Slovene and Croatian teachers, poets, writers, artists and clergy were exiled to Sardinia and elsewhere to South Italy. In 1926, claiming that it was restoring surnames to their original Italian form, the Italian government announced the Italianization of names and surnames not only of citizens of the Slovene minority, but also of Croatian and German. Some Slovenes willingly accepted Italianization in order to lose the status of being second-class citizens with no upward social mobility. By the mid-1930s, around 70,000 Slovenes had fled the region, mostly to Yugoslavia and South America.\n\nIn the bilingual regions people of Carinthia decided in a 1920 referendum that most of Carinthia should remain in Austria.\n\nSlovene volunteers also participated in the Spanish Civil War and the Second Italo-Abyssinian War.\n\nDuring World War II, Slovenes were in a unique situation. While Greece shared its experience of being trisected, Slovenia was the only country that experienced a further step—absorption and annexation into neighboring Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Hungary. After Yugoslavia was invaded by Axis Powers on 6 April 1941, Germany and Hungary occupied northern Slovenia. Some villages in Lower Carniola were annexed by the Independent State of Croatia.\n\nThe Nazis started a policy of violent Germanisation. During the war, tens of thousands of Slovenes were resettled or chased away, imprisoned, or transported to labor, internment and extermination camps. Many were sent into exile to Nedić's Serbia and Croatia. The numbers of Slovenes drafted to the German military and paramilitary formations has been estimated at 150,000 men and women, almost a quarter of them lost their lives on various European battlefields, mostly on the Eastern Front.\n\nCompared to the German policies in the northern Nazi-occupied area of Slovenia and the forced Fascist italianization in the former Austrian Littoral that was annexed after the First World War, the initial Italian policy in the central Slovenia was not as violent. Tens of thousands of Slovenes from German-occupied Lower Styria and Upper Carniola escaped to the Province of Ljubljana until June 1941.\n\nHowever, after resistance started in Province of Ljubljana, Italian violence against the Slovene civil population easily matched that of the Germans. The province saw the deportation of 25,000 people — which equated to 7.5% of the total population of the province — in one of the most drastic operations in the Europe that filled up many Italian concentration camps, such as Rab concentration camp, in Gonars concentration camp, Monigo (Treviso), Renicci d'Anghiari, Chiesanuova and elsewhere. To suppress the mounting resistance by the Slovene Partisans, Mario Roatta adopted draconian measures of summary executions, hostage-taking, reprisals, internments, and the burning of houses and whole villages. The \"3C\" pamphlet, tantamount to a declaration of war on civilians, involved him in Italian war crimes.\n\nIn the summer of 1941, a resistance movement led by the Liberation Front of the Slovene Nation, emerged in both the Italian and in the German occupation zones. The resistance, pluralistic at the beginning, was gradually taken over by the Communist Party, as in the rest of occupied Yugoslavia. Contrary to elsewhere in Yugoslavia, where on the freed territories the political life was organized by the military itself, the Slovene Partisans were subordinated to the civil political authority of the Front.\n\nIn the summer of 1942, a civil war between Slovenes broke out. The two fighting factions were the Slovenian Partisans and the Italian-sponsored anti-communist militia, later re-organized under Nazi command as the Slovene Home Guard. Small units of Slovenian Chetniks also existed in Lower Carniola and Styria. The Partisans were under the command of the Liberation Front (OF) and Tito's Yugoslav resistance, while the Slovenian Covenant served as the political arm of the anti-Communist militia. The civil war was mostly restricted to the Province of Ljubljana, where more than 80% of the Slovene anti-partisan units were active. Between 1943–1945, smaller anti-Communist militia existed in parts of the Slovenian Littoral and in Upper Carniola, while they were virtually non-existent in the rest of the country. By 1945, the total number of Slovene anti-Communist militiamen reached 17,500.\n\nImmediately after the war, some 12,000 members of the Slovene Home Guard were killed in the Kočevski Rog massacres, while thousands of anti-communist civilians were killed in the first year after the war. In addition, hundreds of ethnic Italians from the Julian March were killed by the Yugoslav Army and partisan forces in the Foibe massacres; some 27,000 Istrian Italians fled Slovenian Istria from Communist persecution in the so-called Istrian exodus. Members of the ethnic German minority either fled or were expelled from Slovenia.\n\nThe overall number of World War II casualties in Slovenia is estimated at 97,000. The number includes about 14,000 people, who were killed or died for other war-related reasons immediately after the end of the war, and the tiny Jewish community, which was nearly annihilated in the Holocaust. In addition, tens of thousands of Slovenes left their homeland soon after the end of the war. Most of them settled in Argentina, Canada, Australia, and the United States.\n\nMost of Carinthia remained part of Austria and around 42,000 Slovenes (per 1951 population census) were recognized as a minority and have enjoyed special rights following the Austrian State Treaty (Staatsvertrag) of 1955. Slovenes in the Austrian state of Styria (4,250) are not recognized as a minority and do not enjoy special rights, although the State Treaty of 27 July 1955 states otherwise. Many Carinthians remain uneasy about Slovene territorial claims, pointing to the fact that Yugoslav troops entered the state after each of the two World Wars. The former governor, Jörg Haider, regularly played the Slovene card when his popularity started to dwindle, and indeed relied on the strong anti-Slovene attitudes in many parts of the province for his power base.\n\nYugoslavia acquired some territory from Italy after WWII but some 100,000 Slovenes remained behind the Italian border, notably around Trieste and Gorizia.\n\nFollowing the re-establishment of Yugoslavia at the end of World War II, Slovenia became part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, declared on 29 November 1943. A socialist state was established, but because of the Tito-Stalin split, economic and personal freedoms were broader than in the Eastern Bloc. In 1947, Italy ceded most of the Julian March to Yugoslavia, and Slovenia thus regained the Slovene Littoral.\n\nThe dispute over the port of Trieste however remained opened until 1954, until the short-lived Free Territory of Trieste was divided among Italy and Yugoslavia, thus giving Slovenia access to the sea. This division was ratified only in 1975 with the Treaty of Osimo, which gave a final legal sanction to Slovenia's long disputed western border. From the 1950s, the Socialist Republic of Slovenia enjoyed a relatively wide autonomy.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1948, a wave of political repressions took place in Slovenia and in Yugoslavia. Thousands of people were imprisoned for their political beliefs. Several tens of thousands of Slovenes left Slovenia immediately after the war in fear of Communist persecution. Many of them settled in Argentina, which became the core of Slovenian anti-Communist emigration. More than 50,000 more followed in the next decade, frequently for economic reasons, as well as political ones. These later waves of Slovene immigrants mostly settled in Canada and in Australia, but also in other western countries.\n\nIn 1948, the Tito-Stalin split took place. In the first years following the split, the political repression worsened, as it extended to Communists accused of Stalinism. Hundreds of Slovenes were imprisoned in the concentration camp of Goli Otok, together with thousands of people of other nationalities. Among the show trials that took place in Slovenia between 1945 and 1950, the most important were the Nagode trial against democratic intellectuals and left liberal activists (1946) and the Dachau trials (1947–1949), where former inmates of Nazi concentration camps were accused of collaboration with the Nazis. Many members of the Roman Catholic clergy suffered persecution. The case of bishop of Ljubljana Anton Vovk, who was doused with gasoline and set on fire by Communist activists during a pastoral visit to Novo Mesto in January 1952, echoed in the western press.\nBetween 1949 and 1953, a forced collectivization was attempted. After its failure, a policy of gradual liberalization was followed.\n\nIn the late 1950s, Slovenia was the first of the Yugoslav republics to begin a process of relative pluralization. A decade of industrialisation was accompanied also by a fervent cultural and literary production with many tensions between the regime and the dissident intellectuals. From the late 1950s onward, dissident circles started to be formed, mostly around short-lived independent journals, such as \"Revija 57\" (1957–1958), which was the first independent intellectual journal in Yugoslavia and one of the first of this kind in the Communist bloc, and \"Perspektive\" (1960–1964). Among the most important critical public intellectuals in this period were the sociologist Jože Pučnik, the poet Edvard Kocbek, and the literary historian Dušan Pirjevec.\n\nBy the late 1960s, the reformist faction gained control of the Slovenian Communist Party, launching a series of reforms, aiming at the modernization of Slovenian society and economy. A new economic policy, known as workers self-management started to be implemented under the advice and supervision of the main theorist of the Yugoslav Communist Party, the Slovene Edvard Kardelj.\n\nIn 1973, this trend was stopped by the conservative faction of the Slovenian Communist Party, backed by the Yugoslav Federal government. A period known as the \"Years of Lead\" (Slovene: \"svinčena leta\") followed.\n\nIn the 1980s, Slovenia experienced a rise of cultural pluralism. Numerous grass-roots political, artistic and intellectual movements emerged, including the Neue Slowenische Kunst, the Ljubljana school of psychoanalysis, and the \"Nova revija\" intellectual circle. By the mid-1980s, a reformist fraction, led by Milan Kučan, took control of the Slovenian Communist Party, starting a gradual reform towards a market socialism and controlled political pluralism.\n\nThe first clear demand for Slovene independence was made in 1987 by a group of intellectuals in the 57th edition of the magazine \"Nova revija\". Demands for democratisation and increase of Slovenian independence were sparked off. A mass democratic movement, coordinated by the Committee for the Defense of Human Rights, pushed the Communists in the direction of democratic reforms.\nIn 1991, Slovenia became an independent nation state after a brief ten-day war. In December 1991, a new constitution was adopted, followed in 1992 by the laws on denationalisation and privatization. The members of the European Union recognised Slovenia as an independent state on 15 January 1992, and the United Nations accepted it as a member on 22 May 1992.\n\nThe disillusionment with domestic socio-economic elites at municipal and the State's level was expressed at the 2012–2013 Slovenian protests on a wider scale than in the smaller 15 October 2011 protests – Slovenian disillusionment with the elites and financial institutions at the European and global level. In relation to the leading politicians' response to allegations made by official Commission for the Prevention of Corruption of the Republic of Slovenia, law experts expressed the need for changes in the system that would limit political arbitrariness.\n\nThe first researchers of the origin of Slovenes believed, on the basis of the German name for Slovenes, \"Wenden\" or \"Winden\", that Slovenes were descendants of the Germanic tribe of the Vandals. Even today, some German speakers refer to the Slovenian minority in Carinthian Austria as \"Windische\", an ethnicity distinct from Slovenes. This claim is rejected by linguists on the basis that their dialect is by all standards a variant of the Slovene language. The Germanic word Wenden generally refers to the Wends, a West Slavic tribe that settled along the now Eastern Germany, and who are more commonly known as Sorbs. The first to define Slovenes as a separate branch of the Slavic people was Anton Tomaž Linhart in his work \"An Essay on the History of Carniola and Other Lands of the Austrian South Slavs\", published in 1791. In it, Linhart also established the linguistic unity of the Slovene ethnic territory and set the foundations of the Slovene ethnography.\n\nAfter the disintegration of Yugoslavia during the late 1980s and the formation of independent Slovenia in the early 1990s motivated interest in a particularly Slovenian national identity. One reflection of this was an attempt at the rejection of a Slavic identity in favour of a \"Venetic\" one. The autochthonist (protochronist) \"Venetic theory\" was advanced in the mid 1980s, but it never gained wide currency. The identification with Slavic roots remains strong in Slovenia and in 2004 even led to the establishment of the Forum of Slavic Cultures in Ljubljana.\n\nIn the late 1980s, several symbols from the Middle Ages were revived as Slovenian national symbols. Among them, the most popular are the so-called Slovene Hat which featured in the coat of arms of the Slovene March, and the Black Panther, a reconstruction of the supposed coat of arms of the Carolingian duchy of Carantania. After being used in the Flag of Slovenia, the graphical representation of Triglav has become recognised as a national symbol. Per the Constitution of Slovenia and the Slovenian act on national symbols, the flag of the Slovene nation is a white-blue-red flag without the coat-of-arms. The ratio of the width to height of the flag is one to two.\n\nMost Slovenes are Roman Catholic with some Protestant minorities, especially Lutherans in Prekmurje. A large minority of Slovenes are non-religious or atheists.\n\nAccording to the published data from the 2002 Slovenian census, out of a total of 47,488 Muslims (2.4% of the total population) 2,804 Muslims (5.90% of the total Muslims in Slovenia) declared themselves as ethnic Slovenian Muslims.\n\n"}
{"id": "53135263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53135263", "title": "Surveillance capitalism", "text": "Surveillance capitalism\n\nSurveillance capitalism is a novel market form and a specific logic of capitalist accumulation that was first described in a 2014 essay by business theorist and social scientist Shoshana Zuboff. She characterized it as a \"radically disembedded and extractive variant of information capitalism\" based on the commodification of \"reality\" and its transformation into behavioral data for analysis and sales.\n\nIn a subsequent 2015 scholarly article, Zuboff analyzed the societal implications of this mutation of capitalism. She differentiated \"surveillance assets\", \"surveillance capital\", and \"surveillance capitalism\" and their dependence on a global architecture of computer mediation that she calls \"Big Other\", a distributed and largely uncontested new expression of power which constitutes hidden mechanisms of extraction, commodification, and control that threatens core values such as freedom, democracy, and privacy.\n\nAccording to Zuboff, surveillance capitalism was pioneered at Google and later Facebook, in much the same way that mass-production and managerial capitalism were pioneered at Ford and General Motors a century earlier, and has now become the dominant form of information capitalism. \n\nIn her Oxford University lecture published in 2016, Zuboff identified surveillance capitalism's mechanisms and practices, including the manufacture of \"prediction products\" for sale in new \"behavioral futures markets\". She introduced the concept \"dispossession by surveillance\" and argued that it challenges the psychological and political bases of self-determination as it concentrates rights in the surveillance regime. This is described as a \"coup from above\".\n\nEconomic pressures of capitalism are driving the intensification of connection and monitoring online with spaces of social life becoming open to saturation by corporate actors, directed at the making of profit and/or the regulation of action. Relevantly, Turow writes that \"centrality of corporate power is a direct reality at the very heart of the digital age\". Capitalism has become focused on expanding the proportion of social life that is open to data collection and data processing. This may come with significant implications for vulnerability and control of society as well as for privacy. However, increased data collection may also have various advantages for individuals and society such as self-optimization (Quantified Self), societal optimizations (such as by smart cities) and new or optimized services (such as various Google applications). Still, collecting and processing data in the context of capitalism's core profit-making motive might present an inherent danger.\n\nZuboff contrasts mass production of industrial capitalism with surveillance capitalism with the former being interdependent with its populations who were its consumers and employees and the latter preying on dependent populations who are neither its consumers nor its employees and largely ignorant of its procedures.\n\nShe notes that surveillance capitalism reaches beyond the conventional institutional terrain of the private firm and accumulates not only surveillance assets and capital, but also rights and operates without meaningful mechanisms of consent. Surveillance has been changing power structures in the information economy. This might present a further power shift beyond the nation-state and towards a form of corporatocracy.\n\nOliver Stone, creator of the film \"Snowden\" pointed to the location-based game \"Pokémon Go\" as the \"latest sign of the emerging phenomenon of surveillance capitalism\".\n\nIn 2014 Vincent Mosco referred to the marketing of information about customers and subscribers to advertisers \"surveillance capitalism\" and makes note of the surveillance state alongside it. Christian Fuchs found that the surveillance state fuses with surveillance capitalism. Similarly Zuboff informs that the issue is further complicated by highly invisible collaborative arrangements with state security apparatuses. According to Trebor Scholz, companies recruit people as informants for this type of capitalism.\n\nThe term \"surveillance capitalism\" has also been used by political economists John Bellamy Foster and Robert W. McChesney, though with a different meaning. In an article published in \"Monthly Review\" in 2014, they apply it to describe the manifestation of the \"insatiable need for data\" of financialization, which they explain is \"the long-term growth speculation on financial assets relative to GDP\" introduced in the United States by industry and government in the 1980s that evolved out of the military-industrial complex and the advertising industry.\n\nZuboff identifies four key features in the logic of surveillance capitalism and explicitly follows the four key features identified by Google's chief economist, Hal Varian:\n\n\nNumerous organizations have been struggling for free speech and privacy rights in the new surveillance capitalism and various national governments have enacted privacy laws. It is also conceivable that new capabilities and uses for mass-surveillance require structural changes towards a new system to prevent misuse.\n\nZuboff compares demanding privacy from surveillance capitalists or lobbying for an end to commercial surveillance on the Internet to asking Henry Ford to make each Model T by hand and states that such demands are existential threats that violate the basic mechanisms of the entity's survival.\n\nZuboff warns that principles of self-determination might forfeit due to \"ignorance, learned helplessness, inattention, inconvenience, habituation, or drift\" and states that \"we tend to rely on mental models, vocabularies, and tools distilled from past catastrophes\", referring to the twentieth century's totalitarian nightmares or the monopolistic predations of Gilded Age capitalism with countermeasures that have been developed to fight those earlier threats not being sufficient or even appropriate for the novel challenges.\n\nShe also poses the question: \"will we be the masters of information, or will we be its slaves?\" and states that \"if the digital future is to be our home, then it is we who must make it so\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6984327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6984327", "title": "Teenage rebellion", "text": "Teenage rebellion\n\nAs part of their development into young adults, humans must develop an identity independent from their parents or family and a capacity for independent decision-making. They may experiment with different roles, behaviors, and ideologies as part of this process of developing an identity. Teenage rebellion has been recognized within psychology as a set of behavioral traits that supersede class, culture, or race; some psychologists, however, have disputed the universality of the phenomenon.. According to Terror Management Theory, the child's allegiance to parental authority and worldviews can weaken after the discovery that parents, like themselves and everyone else, are mortal. This unwelcome realization creates an unconscious need for security that is broader than what the parents alone provide. This can lead to new cultural allegiances, in the (sometimes flawed) search for a more enduring sense of meaning. The teenager seeks to perceive him or herself as a valued contributor to aspects of culture that more convincingly outlive or transcend the mortal individual's lifespan. However, since the parents also instill their cultural beliefs onto the child, if the child does not come to associate their parent's mortality with their cultural beliefs, the chances of rebellion decrease. \n\nThere remains some debate as to whether the causes of teenage rebellion are completely natural or necessary. Some posit that an adolescent's failure to achieve a sense of identity can result in role confusion and an inability to choose a vocation, and/or that these pressures may develop from being viewed as adults. Indeed, in the Western world the age at which one is considered an adult (in both the cultural and legal sense) has advanced from the early teens in earlier centuries to the late teens – or even, in today's society, one's early twenties. However, simply focusing on contemporary western or western-influenced cultures, cannot answer the question of 'universality'. For example, if our hunter gatherer ancestors or historic agrarian cultures had different patterns of behaviour this would suggest that 'teenage rebellion' is not 'completely natural'. \nIn \"Scientific American\", however, Harvard psychologist Robert Epstein disparaged the notion of \"the immature brain that supposedly causes teen problems\" as largely a myth, and wrote that the turbulence often seen as typical of these years is not \"a universal developmental phenomenon.\" Epstein alternatively contends that external factors – notably \"treating older and older people as children while also isolating them from adults and passing laws to restrict their behavior\" – are more likely responsible for the angst seen among many American teens. Likewise, in an article by Robin Lustig of BBC, academic Cynthia Lightfoot states that what is now considered youth culture was created by the advent of compulsory formal education in the United States, due to the unprecedented separation of younger and older people that resulted from it. Lustig notes that the efflorescence of rebellious attitudes in teenagers of other countries has been concurrent with the introduction of Western culture into those countries.\n\nTemple University psychologist Laurence Steinberg suggests that \"stopping systems within the brain make adolescents more susceptible to engaging in risky or dangerous behavior.\" He argues that social programs and measures discouraging youth from taking part in risky behavior (such as drug and alcohol abuse, reckless driving, and unsafe sex) have been largely ineffective.\n\nSteinberg also posits that this is because teenage risk-taking is generated by competition between the socioemotional and cognitive-control networks. Both go through maturation processes during adolescence, but do so at different rates. Specifically, the socioemotional network, which dictates responses to social and emotional stimulation, develops more rapidly and earlier during puberty. The cognitive-control network, which imposes regulatory control over dangerous decision making, develops over a longer period of time, across the whole of adolescence.\n\nSteinberg states in his article \"Risk Taking in Adolescence: New Perspectives from Brain and Behavioral Science\" that \"systematic research does not support the stereotype of adolescents as irrational individuals who believe they are invulnerable and who are unaware, inattentive to, or unconcerned about the potential harms of risky behavior.\"\n\nTeenagers have the same ability as adults to evaluate risks and their own vulnerability to the risks. Increased availability of information and education regarding the consequences of risky behavior have improved adolescents' understanding of the risks. It has done little, however, to change the actual behavior.\n\nThis is because the rules that teenagers break when they rebel are based upon the logical system supported by the cognitive-control network. This network is utilized by the adult authority, but is overthrown in adolescents by the stronger socioemotional network. From the point of view of a cognitive psychologist, a large factor in teenage rebellion is the natural early development of the socioemotional network.\n\nA Cornell study from 2006 determined that teens are more likely to consider risk while making a decision, and for a longer period of time, than adults. They are more likely to overestimate the risks, in fact. Teens also, however, will take risks because they find the reward (such as instant gratification or peer acceptance) more valuable.\n\nNot all teenage rebellion takes the form of violation of rules (i.e. illegal activity such as drug and alcohol abuse, vandalism, theft and other delinquency). Often teenage rebellion takes form in the violation of societal norms. And as these norms are set in place as much by teens themselves as by their adult caretakers, teenage rebellion within teenage culture is also commonplace. Rebecca Schraffenberger comments in her article \"This Modern Goth (Explains Herself)\" that her peers saw her bookishness and shyness \"as vulnerability and ... made a game of preying upon it. I wasted a couple of years trying to conform and fit in, to wear the clothes from Benetton and buy the ultra-trendy Guess jeans. By the time I was fifteen, I gave up.\"\n\nIn this case Schraffenberger abandoned the societal norms of Guess jeans for an alternative minority goth culture. Much of goth culture defies majority norms within the teen community; specifically it values fascination with subjects such as death, dark music, depression, and emotional demonstration, subjects which by nature are counter to societal norms.\n\nThe phenomenon has been categorized by mainstream media and popular culture, and is a very common subject in music and film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8822487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8822487", "title": "Tintamarre", "text": "Tintamarre\n\nTintamarre is an Acadian tradition of marching through one's community making noise with improvised instruments and other noisemakers, usually in celebration of National Acadian Day. The term originates from the Acadian French word meaning \"clangour\" or \"din\". The practice is intended to demonstrate the vitality and solidarity of Acadian society, and to remind others of the presence of Acadians. It originated in the mid-twentieth century, likely inspired by an ancient French folk custom.\n\nTintamarre is a recent tradition established by people of Acadian descent in Canada in the mid-20th century, although it is believed to have been inspired by the ancient French folk custom of \"Charivari\". In 1955, during the commemorations of the 200th anniversary of the Expulsion of the Acadians, the Archbishop of Moncton, Norbert Robichaud, circulated an instruction sheet for the marking of the event. He advised families to kneel in outdoor prayer once the church bells began to ring, and he wrote:\n\nRené Lévesque, a Radio-Canada journalist was in Moncton covering the commemoration of the Acadian deportation, and described the \"tintamarre\" in his report:\n\nIn 1979, the \"Société Nationale des Acadiens\" sought to revive the Tintamarre for the celebrations in Caraquet, New Brunswick of the 375th anniversary of the founding of Acadia. Organizers urged celebrants to reaffirm their Acadian identity loudly and clearly, so as to emphasize the slogan of the celebrations: \"On est venus c'est pour rester\" (\"We've come back and we're here to stay\"). In 1980, although there were no official efforts to organize any noisemaking, spontaneous Tintamarres were reported in Caraquet and in other Acadian communities in New Brunswick. By 1984, area newspapers noted discussions of holding \"traditional Tintamarres\" to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Flag of Acadia, even though the \"tradition\" was only a few decades old.\n\nThe Tintamarre held during the 2009 \"Festival acadien\" in Caraquet involved 40,000 participants.\n\nAlong with the Acadian flag and the hymn \"Ave Maris Stella\", the Tintamarre has become widely recognized as an Acadian symbol. It has become an important part of National Acadian Day celebrations in Canada and of any other events affirming Acadian identity and accomplishments. In 2006, a Tintamarre was held to help inaugurate a new medical training program at the Université de Moncton; when asked why noisemaking had been included in an academic event, organizers explained that the Tintamarre was \"an essential Acadian custom\".\n\nA number of communities in Atlantic Canada, including Bouctouche, Moncton, Summerside, Caraquet, Clare and Chéticamp, hold annual Tintamarres, with the provincial governments of both New Brunswick and Nova Scotia promoting these events as tourist attractions. The tradition has extended beyond Acadia, with Tintamarres being held to celebrate the Franco-Ontarian community in Hawkesbury, Ontario, to launch the annual \"Semaine de la Francophonie\" in Toronto, and to mark Acadian Week in the town of Saint-Aubin-sur-Mer, Calvados, France. A Tintamarre was held on the Saint Leonard – Van Buren International Bridge on the Canada–United States border as part of the 2014 Acadian World Congress, which took place in the border counties of Aroostook in Maine, Témiscouata in Quebec, and Victoria, Madawaska and Restigouche in New Brunswick. The largest tintamarre parade is actually held in Bouctouche, New Brunswick, while in Caraquet, New Brunswick people gather in the streets to make noise, making more like a “foire” meaning a fair or festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "11995116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11995116", "title": "Tula massacre", "text": "Tula massacre\n\nThe Tula massacre was the title given to an incident near the municipality of Atotonilco de Tula in the Mexican state of Hidalgo, north of Mexico City, where 13 Colombian men were murdered. The incident resulted in a minor political scandal, though no one was ever convicted of the crime.\n\nOn 14 January, 1981, the bodies of 13 men were found on the borders of a drainage canal in the Tula River. There was a doubt about the sexual identity of one of the victims, who could have been a woman dressed in men's clothing.\n\nThe bodies showed signs of extreme torture and mutilation, some of them with their heads still conserved in plastic bags. Some were decapitated, while others were slashed with machetes, and most with a shot to the head. The facts of what was to be known as the \"Tula River Massacre\" were denounced by J. Gonzales Gonzales, who accused his boss, Arturo Durazo Moreno, the then Mexico City police chief, of being the intellectual author of the ghastly crime. Moreno was the chief of police in Mexico City during the administration of his friend, President José López Portillo.\n\nThe dead, apparently all Colombians, formed a band of criminals who were exploited by Moreno. Moreno allegedly hid them in jail and released them to rob banks repeatedly. It was said that Durazo decided to keep the loot and do away with the Colombians and their Mexican taxi driver, who also disappeared, last seen in June 1981 by his mother. It was said that the group were held in secret jails and the La Castaneda psychiatric hospital tortured and murdered them, and then dumped them into a sewer in Mexico City. Their decomposed remains were later fished out of the Tula River by a Red Cross diving team.\n\nMoreno was considered to be corrupt, incompetent, and criminal. His friend, then President López Portillo, put up with it because they were childhood friends. Moreno fled Mexico in 1982 following the election of a new president and investigations into police corruption. He returned some time later and died in August 2001 in Acapulco, Guerrero.\n\nThe pictures of the 13 dead and partial information of the crime was published by \"¡Alarma!\", an explicit Mexico City publication that deals in images of dead, mutilated and deformed bodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "25270893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25270893", "title": "V. Eshwaraiah", "text": "V. Eshwaraiah\n\nVangala Eshwaraiah, also spelt as V. Eswaraiah was the former chairperson, National commission for backward classes from 19.09.2013 to September 2016. Prior to this appointment, he was Chief Justice of High Court of Andhra Pradesh in India. He was elevated to the constitutional post as additional Judge of Andhra Pradesh high court in 1999 and then as judge in 2000. Government of India appointed Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former Acting Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court as the Chairperson of the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) on 23 September 2013.He was succeeded by Justice M. N. Rao, a retired Chief Justice of Himachal Pradesh High Court.\n- See more at: View Profile:Justice V. Eswaraiah, Chairperson, National Commission for Backward Classes\n\nHe says in an interview to a journal as, we can only minimize but never eradicate crime no matter how many new laws are enacted unless people and the society mindset changes to respect the laws. The laws are not able to be effective as value for obedience, honesty and principles are getting diminished.\n\nHe is influenced by Lekhraj Kripalani, the founder of Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University. During his visit to Institute of Sindhology in Sindh of Pakistan, he called upon India and Pakistan to focus on universal peace, harmony and development of their people by curtailing defence budget on border tensions.\n\nHe got married when he was in final year of Bachelor of Science(B.Sc) which he did from City College in Hyderabad. After marriage, his uncle encouraged him to do medicine which he could not write entrance exam due to the death of his family member.\n\nHe did his L.L.B from Law College of Osmania University in Hyderabad. He enrolled as an advocate in 1978 and started working under his senior Talluri Dasharatha Ramaiah to handle cases related to excise. Right from 1980, he started his own practise to handle civil, criminal, service and constitutional matters in both high courts and civil courts in Hyderabad.\n\nHe worked as government pleader from January 1990 till December 1994 for five years. He also worked as standing counsel for Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation Limited (A.P.D.D.C.L) and Nalgonda District Cooperative Central Bank. He was also advisor to Mother Teresa's Charity Secunderabad.\n\nOn May 17, 1999, he was appointed as additional judge of Andhra Pradesh high court. Later, he was appointed as judge of Andhra Pradesh high court on April 20, 2000 and still working as honourable judge.\n\nFrom the date of his appointment he turned as a vegetarian and practicing continuously for spiritual elevation to keep up the oath taken at the time of the swearing as a Judge. He is the follower of Prajapitha Bramha Kumaris Ishwariya Vishwavidyala.\n\nThrough interim order, he stopped skyscraper project being constructed by Emaar Properties and Lanco Group owned by Rajagopal Lagadapati in plots belonging to Muslims Wakf Boards erroneously and illegally allocated by YSR government to his party Member of Parliament Rajagopal Lagadapati.\n\nHe prevented the exploitation of laws for political harassment on opposition political parties by ruling political parties by preventing police authorities from taking any coercive \nsteps.\n\nHe directed the state government ruled by Indian National Congress (INC) to act in a fair and non-discriminatory manner by framing a uniform procedure when differential treatment biased on caste or religion towards employees caught by Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths.\n\nHe decided that the writ petitions are maintainable on the letters addressed by the siting MLA Mr.Shankar Rao, about the fraud and corrupt activities committed by the EMMAR properties, its sister companies in view of the involvement of the larger public interest and also about the alleged ill-gotten money and illegal gratification invested in the companies floated by YS Jagan Mohan Reddy former MP and son of former Chief Minister YS Rajshekar Reddy, as a quid pro quo for the benefit confirmed on the invested companies by taking advantage of his father's position.\n\n"}
{"id": "238043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238043", "title": "Votic language", "text": "Votic language\n\nVotic, or Votian (\"vađđa ceeli\" or \"maaceeli\"; also written \"vaďďa tšeeli\", \"maatšeeli\" in old orthography), is the language spoken by the Votes of Ingria, belonging to the Finnic branch of the Uralic languages. Votic is spoken only in Krakolye and Luzhitsy, two villages in Kingiseppsky District, and is close to extinction. In 1989, there were 62 speakers left, the youngest born in 1938. In its 24 December 2005 issue, \"The Economist\" wrote that there are only approximately 20 speakers left.\n\nVotic is one of numerous Finnic varieties known from Ingria, and generally considered the oldest of these. Votic shares some similarities with and has acquired loanwords from the adjacent Ingrian language, but also has deep-reaching similarities with Estonian to the west, which is considered its closest relative. Some linguists including Tiit-Rein Viitso and Paul Alvre have claimed that Votic evolved specifically from northeastern dialects of ancient Estonian. Votic regardless exhibits several features that indicate its distinction from Estonian (both innovations such as the palatalisation of velar consonants and a more developed system of cases, and retentions such as vowel harmony). According to Estonian linguist Paul Ariste, Votic was distinct from other Finnic languages, such as Finnish and Estonian, as early as the 6th century AD and has evolved independently ever since.\n\nIsoglosses setting Votic apart from the other Finnic languages include:\n\nFeatures shared with Estonian and the other southern Finnic languages include:\n\nIn the 19th century Votic was already declining in favour of Russian (there were around 1,000 speakers of the language by the start of the World War I). After the Bolshevik Revolution, under Lenin, Votic had a brief revival period, with the language being taught at local schools and the first-ever grammar of Votic (Jõgõperä/Krakolye dialect) being published. But after Joseph Stalin came into power, the language began to decline. World War II had a devastating effect on the Votic language, with the number of speakers considerably decreased as a result of military offensives, deliberate destruction of villages by Nazi troops, forced migration to the Klooga concentration camp in Estonia and to Finland under the Nazi government, and the Stalinist policy of \"dispersion\" immediately after the war against the families whose members had been sent to Finland under the Nazi government. Since then, the Votes have largely concealed their Votic identity, pretending to be Russians in the predominantly Russian environment. But they continued to use the language at home and when talking to family members and relatives. After the death of Stalin, the Votes were no longer mistreated and many of those who had been sent away returned to their villages. But the language had considerably declined and the number of bilingual speakers increased. Because Votic was stigmatised as a language of \"uneducated villagers\", Votic speakers avoided using it in public and Votic children were discouraged from using it even at home because, in the opinion of some local school teachers, it prevented them from learning to speak and write in Russian properly. Thus, in the second half of the 20th century there emerged a generation of young ethnic Votes whose first language was Russian and who understood Votic but were unable to speak it.\n\nThree definite dialect groups of Votic are known:\n\nThe Western dialect area can be further divided into the Central dialects (spoken around the village of Kattila) and the Lower Luga dialects.\n\nOf these, only the Lower Luga dialect is still spoken.\n\nIn 1848 it was estimated that of a total of 5,298 speakers of Votic, 3,453 (65%) spoke the western dialect, 1,695 (35%) spoke the eastern and 150 (3%) spoke the dialect of Kukkuzi. Kreevin had 12-15 speakers in 1810, the last records of Kreevin speakers are from 1846. The Kreevin dialect was spoken in an enclave in Latvia by descendants of Votic prisoners of war who were brought to the Bauska area of Latvia in the 15th century by the Teutonic order. The last known speaker of the eastern dialect died in 1960, in the village of \"Icäpäivä\" (Itsipino).\n\nA fourth dialect of Votic has often been claimed as well: the traditional language variety of the village of Kukkuzi. It shows a mix of features of Votic and neighboring Ingrian, and some linguists have claimed that it is actually rather a dialect of Ingrian. The vocabulary and phonology of the dialect are largely Ingrian-based, but it shares some grammatical features with the main Votic dialects, probably representing a former Votic substratum. In particular, all phonological features that Votic shares specifically with Estonian (e.g. the presence of the vowel \"õ\") are absent from the dialect. The Kukkuzi dialect has been declared to be extinct since the 1970s, although three speakers have still been located in 2006.\n\nIn the 1920s, the Votic linguist Dmitri Tsvetkov wrote a Votic grammar using a modified Cyrillic alphabet. The current Votic alphabet was created by Mehmet Muslimov in 2004:\nIn linguistic works, one may find different transcriptions of Votic. Some use a modified Cyrillic alphabet, and some Latin. The transcriptions based on Latin have many similarities with closely related Finnic languages, such as the use of \"č\" for . At least a couple of ways exist for indicating long vowels in Votic; placing a macron over the vowel (such as \"ā\"), or as in written Estonian and Finnish, doubling the vowel (\"aa\"). Geminate consonants are generally represented with two characters. The representation of central vowels varies. In some cases the practice is to use \"e̮\" according to the standards of Uralic transcription, while in other cases the letter \"õ\" is used, as in Estonian.\n\nVotic has 10 vowels, which are loosely represented by the following chart. The Votic \"õ\", however, is known to be a bit higher than the Estonian \"õ\", but the rest of the vowels generally correspond to Estonian.\n\nAll of the vowels may occur short or long, however in some central dialects the long mid vowels have been diphthongized to as in Finnish. Thus, \"tee\" 'road' is pronounced as \"tie\". Votic also has a large inventory of diphthongs.\n\nVotic has a system of vowel harmony, rather similar to Finnish in its overall behavior: the vowels are divided in three groups, \"front-harmonic\", \"back-harmonic\" and \"neutral\". Words may generally not contain both front-harmonic and back-harmonic vowels; but both groups can combine with neutral vowels. The front-harmonic vowels are \"ä e ö ü\"; the corresponding back-harmonic vowels are \"a õ o u\". Unlike Finnish, Votic only has a single neutral vowel, \"i\".\n\nHowever, there are some exceptions with the behavior of \"o ö\". Some suffixes including the vowel \"o\" do not harmonize (the occurrence of \"ö\" in non-initial syllables is generally a result of Finnish or Ingrian loan words), and similarly onomatopoetic words and loanwords are not necessarily subject to rules of vowel harmony.\n\nNotes:\n\nNearly all Votic consonants may occur as geminates. Also, Votic also has a system of consonant gradation, which is discussed in further detail in the consonant gradation article, although a large amount of alternations involve voicing alternations. Two important differences in Votic phonetics as compared to Estonian and Finnish is that the sounds and are actually fully fricatives, unlike Estonian and Finnish, in which they are approximants. Also, one possible allophone of is , \"ühsi\" is thus pronounced as IPA: .\n\nThe lateral has a velarized allophone when occurring adjacent to back vowels.\n\nVoicing is not contrastive word-finally. Instead a type of sandhi occurs: voiceless are realized before words beginning with a voiceless consonant, voiced before voiced consonants (or vowels). Before a pause, the realization is voiceless lenis, ; the stops are here similar to the Estonian \"b d g\". Thus:\n\nVotic is an agglutinating language much like the other Finnic languages. In terms of inflection on nouns, Votic has two numbers (singular, plural), and 16 cases: nominative, genitive, accusative (distinct for pronouns), partitive, illative, inessive, elative, allative, adessive, ablative, translative, essive, exessive, abessive, comitative, terminative.\n\nUnlike Livonian, which has been influenced to a great extent by Latvian, Votic retained its Finnic characteristics. There are many loan words from Russian, but not a phonological and grammatical influence comparable with the Latvian influence to Livonian.\n\nIn terms of verbs, Votic has six tenses and aspects, two of which are basic: present, imperfect; and the rest of which are compound tenses: present perfect, past perfect, future and future perfect. Votic has three moods (conditional, imperative, potential), and two 'voices' (active and passive). Caution however should be used with the term 'passive', with Finnic languages though as a result of the fact that it is more active and 'impersonal' (it has an oblique 3rd person marker, and so is not really 'passive').\n\n"}
