{"id": "758618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=758618", "title": "Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act", "text": "Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act\n\nThe Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) is a United States federal law passed on November 12, 1980, by the U.S. Congress and signed into law by President Jimmy Carter on December 2 of that year. ANILCA provided varying degrees of special protection to over 157,000,000 acres of land, including national parks, national wildlife refuges, national monuments, wild and scenic rivers, recreational areas, national forests, and conservation areas. It was, and remains to date, the single largest expansion of protected lands in history and more than doubled the size of the National Park System.\nThe Act provided for 43,585,000 acres of new national parklands in Alaska; the addition of 9.8 million acres to the National Wildlife Refuge System; twenty-five wild and scenic rivers, with twelve more to be studied for that designation; establishment of Misty Fjords and Admiralty Island National Monuments in Southeast Alaska; establishment of Steese National Conservation Area and White Mountains National Recreation Area to be managed by the Bureau of Land Management; the addition of 9.1 million acres to the Wilderness Preservation System, and the addition of 3,350,000 acres to Tongass and Chugach National Forests.\n\nThe act provided for the creation or expansion of several Conservation System Units (CSUs) including:\n\n\nIn 1971 the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) was signed into law to resolve the long-standing issues surrounding aboriginal land claims in Alaska, as well as to stimulate economic development throughout Alaska. Section 17 (d) (1) gave the Secretary of the Interior ninety days to withdraw from development any lands necessary \"to insure that the public interest in these lands is properly protected.\" Additionally, Section 17 (d) (2) of the Act directed the Secretary of the Interior to withdraw up to 80 million acres of land from development for conservation purposes. These lands, referred to as \"d-2\" lands, were to be available for potential congressional designation as National Parks, Wildlife Refuges, Wild and Scenic rivers, or National Forests. The \"d-2\" provision of ANCSA gave the Secretary nine months to withdraw lands before they would re-open to development. On December 17, 1972, Interior Secretary Morton forwarded 127,100,000 acres of selected lands to Congress under 17 (d) (1) and 17 (d) (2), known as the \"Morton Proposal.\" These lands were withdrawn from all forms of public appropriation under the public land laws pending action from Congress, setting the stage for the eventual passage of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA).\n\nAs stated, the \"d-2\" provision of ANCSA set a deadline for the Secretary to withdraw lands within nine months of the passage of ANCSA. In addition, ANCSA also set a deadline for Congress to act on the Secretary's withdrawal within 5 years of the passage of ANCSA; if the Secretary did not act to withdraw lands earmarked for special protections within nine months of the passage of ANCSA, or Congress did not act to implement the Secretary's selection within five years of the passage of ANCSA, the lands would be reopened to development.\n\nOn January 29, 1973 Congressman James A. Haley introduced the Morton proposal as H.R. 12336, and the next day Senator Henry M. Jackson introduced the Senate version of the bill. These bills were the first of many failed proposals leading to the eventual passage of ANILCA seven years later. Over the course of the seven years many bills were introduced with a wide range of proposals for disposal of the selected lands. \nAs the sunset date approached in 1978 both chambers of Congress scrambled to pass a bill. On May 19, 1978, H.R. 39 was passed by the House of Representatives. H.R. 39 was referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources for mark up and combined with a number of other bills pertaining to Alaska lands. Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska was instrumental in making significant changes to the original House resolution. The final bill submitted by the Senate energy committee was deemed unacceptable by the Carter administration and supporters of H.R. 39 in the House. With limited time left before adjournment, the House and Senate conferenced in order to resolve differences between the two bills. Senator Mike Gravel of Alaska inserted himself into the negotiations, making a number of new demands not included in either bill. Changes made to the bill did not satisfy Gravel, and he refused to support the bill. With adjournment fast approaching, a provision to extend the (d) (2) protections for one more year to allow for additional time to pass a bill was passed in the House, and introduced in the Senate on October 16, 1978. Senator Gravel threatened a filibuster, and the provision did not pass the Senate. The sunset provision of section (d) (2) of ANCSA was set to expire on December 18, 1978.\n\nThe Interior Department and the National Park Service became concerned as 1978 dragged on that no action would be taken on the \"national interest lands\" included in the Morton Proposal, and as early as July 1978 the Park Service had taken the first steps to secure additional protection when it began to draft national monument proclamations for proposed NPS areas.\n\nPresident Carter used the Antiquities Act to designate 56 million acres as National Monuments by executive order on December 1, 1978. Much of the lands designated as National Monument were part of the original Morton Proposal. An additional 40 million acres were withdrawn under the authority of section 204(c) of the Federal Lands Policy Management Act by Secretary Andrus.\n\nCarter stated that he had been forced to use the Antiquities Act by Congress's failure to act in a reasonable time, but his actions nevertheless caused wide protest across Alaska. President Carter was burned in effigy in Fairbanks. Residents in the Cantwell area undertook a large act of civil disobedience known as the \"Great Denali Trespass\" — they went into the park, fired off guns, made campfires, and conducted various other activities prohibited under Federal regulations. The towns of Eagle and Glennallen, both in the shadow of new monuments, produced official proclamations stating that the towns would not support NPS authorities, not enforce NPS regulations, and would shelter individuals who broke the regulations.\n\nThough these protests continued for some time, the designation of the monuments broke the legislative opposition to ANILCA. Some in Congress, and various oil and gas industry, and other development interest, continued to oppose passage of the bill, but in the wake of Carter's proclamations most opponents recognized the need to work toward passage of an acceptable bill, rather than no bill at all. However, in 1978, 75 seats in the House of Representatives had changed hands, producing a much more conservative body than the one that had supported Carter's use of the Antiquities Act. Proponents were forced to continue to work compromises, and the bill's passage was further delayed.\n\nIn early November 1980, Jimmy Carter lost re-election to Ronald Reagan, and the Republican Party won a majority of seats in the Senate. Conservationists and other proponents of the legislation recognized that if they did not accept the compromise then on the table, they would be forced to begin again in the next Congress with decidedly less support. The bill was passed in late November, and signed into law by President Carter in December.\n\n\nSenator Mike Gravel, meanwhile, took considerable blame in Alaska for forcing Carter's hand with the Antiquities Act. Though Carter was hardly held blameless for the creation of the new national monuments, Gravel was taken to task for the unpopular decision as well and was denied his party's nomination for his Senate seat in the 1980 election.\n\nWith the passage of time, however, and now, several decades later, support for the vision of ANILCA has increased, even among former detractors in Alaska—as the spectacular parks, monuments, refuges and other areas set aside by the 1980 legislation have become a significant boon to Alaska tourism and the State's economy. A telephone poll in 2000 showed that 45 percent of Alaskans supported the protection of the ANILCA-designated 1002 coastal plain area of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, the most controversial aspect of ANILCA's protected areas, while 49 percent opposed the protection.\n\nUnder Title VIII, Subsistence Management And Use, Not just Alaska Natives qualified but also rural residents were granted hunting and fishing rights when fish and game are not under outside threat. In addition the bill expedited the enactment of the 1971 Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "21099921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21099921", "title": "Albany Government Law Review", "text": "Albany Government Law Review\n\nThe Albany Government Law Review is a biannual student-edited law review at Albany Law School. It covers legal aspects of government and public policy. The journal hosts a symposium each year. In 2011 and 2012, the journal published a third issue focused on New York legislation.\n\nThe \"Albany Government Law Review\" replaced the \"Environmental Outlook Journal\" in the 2007-2008 academic year.\n\nThe following persons have been editor-in-chief of the journal:\n"}
{"id": "11601154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11601154", "title": "American Psychology–Law Society", "text": "American Psychology–Law Society\n\nThe American Psychology–Law Society (AP–LS) is an academic society for legal and forensic psychologists, as well as general psychologists who are interested in the application of psychology to the law. AP–LS serves as Division 41 of the American Psychological Association and publishes the academic journal \"Law and Human Behavior\".\n\nThe American Psychology–Law Society has three main goals, which are to advance the contributions of psychology to the understanding of law and legal institutions through basic and applied research, to promote the education of psychologists in matters of law and the education of legal personnel in matters of psychology, and to inform the psychological and legal communities and the general public of current research, educational and service activities in the field of psychology and law. The AP-LS publishes the journal \"Law and Human Behavior\" and a newsletter entitled AP-LS News.\n\nThe American Psychology–Law Society (AP-LS) was developed at a San Francisco meeting in September 1968, by founders Eric Dreikurs and Jay Ziskin. The society was created for forensic and clinical psychologists. The first newsletter was published in October 1968. The original constitution was published later that year, and outlined the reasons for creating the society. These were to promote the study of law, influence legislation and policy, and to promote psychology in legal processes. A year after the San Francisco meeting, the AP-LS had 101 members. Most of the members were clinical psychologists, and nine of these original members were women. This group had a stronger focus on psychology, as opposed to the Law and Society Association, which has similar goals, but a broader focus.\n\nThere was a controversy in 1971, when the founder, Jay Ziskin, wrote a book which stated that psychological evidence often did not meet reasonable criteria and should not be used in court of law. This statement sprouted debate in the society and caused the society’s popularity to decline for a while. After this, June Louin Tapp became president of the society.\n\nIn 1976, Bruce Sales became the society's president, and helped refocus the society on the field of psychology and law. Sales had the goal to have the American Psychology–Law Society be the driving force behind the group. Sales, along with Ronald Roesch, helped the group publish many books, including \"Psychology in the Legal Process\", \"Perspectives in Law and Psychology\", and \"Law and Human Behavior\".\n\nIn the 1980s, Florence Kaslow asked the group to help develop a certification for forensic psychologists, but the group was not interested. This led Kaslow to create the American Board of Forensic Psychology, which helped keep the American Psychology–Law Society and forensic psychology separated. In the 1980s Division 41 of the APA began to discuss law and psychology, and began covering many similar policies of the AP-LS. Therefore, in 1983, Division 41 and AP-LS merged, under the agreement that Law and Human Behavior would be the journal for the group, and that the biennial meetings would continue to be held. The \"new AP-LS\" allowed for previous presidents to have a second term in the society, including Bruce Sales, who was the first president of the merged society.\n\nIn 1991, the Committee on Ethical Guidelines for Forensic Psychologists began working to establish rules for forensic psychologists to follow in the court room. In 1992, the committee released \"Specialty Guidelines\" for forensic psychologists, on top of the Code of Conduct that they already were required to follow. Additionally in the 1990s, the society also established the Committee on Careers and Education, to help students find training programs to become psychologists in the legal system. In 1995, they held a conference to discuss education at undergraduate and post doctorate levels, how to offer legal psychology courses in the curriculum, and how to offer students experiences. The AP-LS also provides grants and funding for students who are interested in attending school for law-related psychology.\n\nThe Specialty Guidelines for Forensic Psychologists were first published in 1991. They are guidelines for forensic psychologists to encourage professional, quality, and systematic work in the law system and to those who the forensic psychologists serve. These are the only sets of APA-approved guidelines for a specific area of practice. The guidelines cover 11 points – responsibilities, competence, diligence, relationship, fees, informed consent notification and assent, conflicts in practice, privacy confidentiality and privilege, methods and procedures, assessment, and professional and other public communications.\n\nAfter an extensive revision process, the Specialty Guidelines for Forensic Psychology were updated in 2013.\n\nThe Specialty Guidelines may be found on the APA's website.\n\nThe AP-LS is composed of APA members, graduate and undergraduate students, and people in related fields to join the society. The members primarily have an interest in psychology and law issues. Many members are also members of the American Psychological Association, though it is not a requirement. Members gain access to the publications of Law and Human Behavior and the American Psychology-Law newsletter.\n\nThe AP-LS offers many grants and aid for undergraduates, graduates, early careers, and research. In addition to grants, many awards are handed out yearly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38850020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38850020", "title": "Anglo-Portuguese Treaty of 1891", "text": "Anglo-Portuguese Treaty of 1891\n\nThe Anglo-Portuguese Treaty of 1891 was an agreement between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and Portugal which fixed the boundaries between the British Central Africa Protectorate, (now Malawi) and the territories administered by the British South Africa Company in Mashonaland and Matabeleland (now parts of Zimbabwe) and North-Western Rhodesia (now part of Zambia) and Portuguese Mozambique, and also between the British South Africa Company administered territories of North-Eastern Rhodesia (now in Zambia), and Portuguese Angola.\n\nThis treaty brought to an end over 20 years of increasing disagreement over conflicting territorial claims in the eastern part of Central Africa, where Portugal had long-standing claims based on prior discovery and exploration but where British citizens set up missions and embryonic trading concerns in the Shire Highlands in what is now Malawi from the 1860s. These disagreements were increased in the 1870s and 1880s, firstly by a dispute over a British claim to part of Delagoa Bay and by the failure of bilateral negotiations between the two countries over the boundaries of Portuguese territories and secondly as a result of the Berlin Conference of 1884–85, which set-out the doctrine of effective occupation. After the Berlin Conference, Portugal tried to establish a zone of effective occupation linking its colonies in Angola and Mozambique through expeditions making treaties that would establish protectorates over local peoples and obtaining recognition from other European powers. The relative success of these Portuguese efforts alarmed the British government of Lord Salisbury, which was also under pressure from missionaries in the Shire Highlands, and also Cecil Rhodes, who founded the British South Africa Company in 1888 with the aim of controlling as much of south-central Africa as it could. For these reasons, and in response to a minor armed conflict in the Shire Highlands, Lord Salisbury issued the 1890 British Ultimatum which required Portugal to evacuate the areas in dispute. Lord Salisbury refused the Portuguese request for arbitration and, after an abortive attempt to fix the boundaries of their respective territories in 1890, the Anglo-Portuguese Treaty of 1891 was accepted by Portugal under duress.\n\nAt the start of the 19th century, effective Portuguese governance in Africa south of the equator was limited, in Portuguese Mozambique to the Island of Mozambique and several other coastal trading as far south as Delagoa Bay, and in Portuguese Angola to Luanda and Benguela and a few outposts, the most northerly of which was Ambriz Portugal had occupied the coast of Mozambique from the 16th century, and later initiated the Prazo system of large leased estates under nominal Portuguese rule in the Zambezi valley. By the end of the 18th century, the valleys of the Zambezi and lower Shire River were controlled by four families that claimed to be Portuguese but which were virtually independent, and from 1853 the Portuguese government embarked on a series of military campaigns to bring these under its effective control. In the second half of the 19th century, various European powers had an increasing interest in Africa. The first challenge to Portugal's wider claims came from the Transvaal Republic, which in 1868 claimed an outlet to the Indian Ocean at Delagoa Bay. Although in 1869 Portugal and the Transvaal reached agreement on a border under which all of Delagoa Bay was Portuguese, Britain then lodged a claim to the southern part of that bay. This claim was rejected after arbitration by President MacMahon. His award made in 1875 upheld the border agreed in 1869. A second challenge came from the foundation of a German colony at Angra Pequena, now known as Lüderitz, in Namibia in 1883. Although there was no Portuguese presence there, Portugal had claimed it on the basis of discovery.\n\nDuring the 1850s, the areas south of Lake Nyasa (now Lake Malawi) and west of the lake were explored by David Livingstone, and several Church of England and Presbyterian missions were established in the Shire Highlands in the 1860s and 1870s. In 1878 the African Lakes Company was established by businessmen with links to the Presbyterian missions. Their aim was to set up a trading company that would work in close co-operation with the missions to combat the slave trade by introducing legitimate trade and to develop European influence in the area. A small mission and trading settlement was established at Blantyre in 1876.\n\nPortugal attempted to secure its position in Africa through the expeditions of Alexandre de Serpa Pinto first to the eastern Zambezi in 1869, then to the Congo and upper Zambezi from Angola in 1876 and lastly in 1877–79 crossing Africa from Angola, with the intention of claiming the area between Mozambique and Angola. In addition to these expeditions, Portugal attempted bi-lateral negotiations with Britain and in 1879, as part of talks on a treaty on freedom of navigation on the Congo and Zambezi rivers and the development of trade in those river basins, the Portuguese government made a formal claim to the area south and east of the Ruo River (which forms the present south-eastern border of Malawi). The 1879 treaty was never ratified, and in 1882 Portugal occupied the lower Shire River valley as far as the Ruo and again asked the British government to accept this territorial claim. Further bi-lateral negotiations, led to a draft treaty in February 1884, which would have included British recognition of Portuguese sovereignty over the mouth of the Congo in exchange for freedom of navigation on the Congo and Zambezi rivers but the opening of the Berlin Conference of 1884–85 ended these discussions, which could have led to British recognition of Portuguese sovereignty stretching across the continent. Portugal's efforts to establish this corridor of influence between Angola and Mozambique were hampered by one of the articles in the General Act of the Berlin Conference requiring effective occupation of areas claimed rather than historical claims based on discovery or claims based on exploration as used by Portugal.\n\nTo establish further Portuguese claims, Serpa Pinto was appointed as its consul in Zanzibar in 1884, with a mission to explore the region between Lake Nyasa and the coast from the Zambezi to the Rovuma River and secure the allegiance if the chiefs in that area. His expedition reached Lake Nyasa and the Shire Highlands, but failed make any treaties of protection with the chiefs in territories west of the lake. At the northwest end of Lake Nyasa around Karonga, the African Lakes Company made, or claimed to have made, treaties with local chiefs between 1884 and 1886. Its ambition was to become a Chartered company and control the route from the Lake along the Shire River. Any ambition it may have had to control the Shire Highlands was given up in 1886, following protests from local missionaries that it could not police this area effectively.\n\nDespite the outcome of the Berlin Conference, the idea of a trans-African Portuguese zone was not abandoned. In 1885, the Portuguese Foreign Minister prepared what became known as the Rose Coloured Map representing a claim stretching from the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean. Portugal also signed treaties with France and Germany in 1886. The French treaty \"noted\" the Rose Coloured Map, and the German treaty noted Portugal's claim to territory along the course of the Zambezi linking Angola and Mozambique. The act of \"noting\" Portuguese claims did not amount to accepting them, only that Portugal had made them. In 1887, the British Minister in Lisbon proposed that the Zambezi should be recognised as the northern limit of British influence, which would have left the Scottish missionaries in the Shire Highlands within the Portuguese zone and created a band of Portuguese territory linking Angola and Mozambique. This was rejected by Portugal because the Shire Highlands and their missions could at that time only be accessed through coastal areas acknowledged as Portuguese, and because the proposal would involve giving up the southern and more valuable half of the transcontinental zone of the Rose Coloured Map for little in return. However, by 1889 the Portuguese government felt less confident and its Foreign Minister, Barros Gomez proposed to the British government that it was willing to abandon its claim to a zone linking Angola and Mozambique in exchange for recognition of its claim to the Shire Highlands. This time, it was the British government that rejected the proposal, firstly because of the opposition of those supporting the Scottish missions, and secondly, because the Chinde River entrance to the Zambezi had been discovered in April 1889. As the Zambezi could now be directly entered by ocean-going shops, it and its tributary the Shire River could be regarded as an international waterway giving access to the Shire Highlands.\n\nNorth of the Zambezi, the Portuguese claims, were opposed both by the African Lakes Company and the missionaries. To the south, the main opposition to Portuguese claims came from Cecil Rhodes, whose British South Africa Company was founded in 1888. As late as 1888, the British Foreign Office declined to offer protection to the tiny British settlements in the Shire Highlands. However, it did not accept an expansion of Portuguese influence, and in 1889 it appointed Henry Hamilton Johnston as British consul to Mozambique and the Interior, and instructed him to report on the extent of Portuguese rule in the Zambezi and Shire valleys. He was also to make conditional treaties with local rulers outside Portuguese control. These conditional treaties did not establish a British protectorate, but prevented the rulers from accepting protection from another state.\n\nIn 1888, the Portuguese government instructed its representatives in Mozambique to make treaties of protection with the Yao chiefs southeast of Lake Nyasa and in the Shire Highlands. Two expeditions were organised, one under Antonio Cardosa, a former governor of Quelimane set off in November 1888 for Lake Nyasa. The second expedition under Serpa Pinto, (now governor of Mozambique) moved up the Shire valley. Between them, these two expeditions made over 20 treaties with chiefs in what is now Malawi. The expedition led by Pinto was well armed, partly in response to a request from the Portuguese resident on the lower Shire for help in resolving disturbances caused by the Makololo chiefs. The Makololo had been brought into the area by David Livingstone as part of his Zambezi expedition, and remained on the Shire north and west of the Ruo river when it ended in 1864. They claimed to be outside Portuguese control, and asked for British assistance to remain independent. Serpa Pinto met Johnston in August 1889 east of the Ruo, when Johnston advised him not to cross the river into the Shire Highlands.\n\nHowever, it is likely that members of the British community in the Shire Highlands encouraged the Makololo to attack Serpa Pinto’s camp, which led to a minor battle between Pinto’s Portuguese troops and the Makololo on 8 November 1889 near the Shire river. Although Serpa Pinto had previously acted with caution, he now crossed the Ruo into what is now Malawi. Serpa Pinto occupied much of Makololo territory after this minor clash, at which Johnston's vice-consul, John Buchanan, accused Portugal of ignoring British interests in this area and declared a British protectorate over the Shire Highlands in December 1889, despite contrary instructions. Shortly after this, Johnston himself declared a further protectorate over the area to the west of Lake Nyasa, also contrary to his instructions, although both protectorates were later endorsed by the Foreign Office. These actions formed the background to an Anglo-Portuguese Crisis in which a British refusal of arbitration was followed by the 1890 British Ultimatum.\n\nThe Ultimatum refers to a memorandum sent to the Portuguese Government by Lord Salisbury on 11 January 1890 in which he demanded the withdrawal of the Portuguese troops from Mashonaland and Matabeleland (now Zimbabwe) and the area between the Shire river north of the Ruo and Lake Nyasa (including all the Shire Highlands), where Portuguese and British interests in Africa overlapped. It meant that Britain was now claiming sovereignty over territories, some of which had been claimed by Portugal for centuries. There was no dispute regarding the borders of Angola, as neither country had effectively occupied any part of the sparsely populated border area.\n\nThe Ultimatum caused violent anti-British sentiments in Portugal and demonstrations leading to riots. The Portuguese Republicans used it as an excuse to attack the government, and riots eventually led to a Republican coup d'état in Oporto in January 1891, when the first attempt at a treaty to resolve the dispute was published. Although much attention has been paid to the Portuguese reaction to the Ultimatum, less has been given to the attitude of the British government in using tactics that could have led to war, and it has been plausibly argued that Lord Salisbury, whose government was diplomatically isolated, feared being humiliated by a Portuguese success. The British government had also granted a Royal Charter to Rhodes’ British South Africa Company in October 1889, before it received news of Serpa Pinto's skirmish with the Makololo. This allowed the company to claim Mashonaland and also Manicaland and the Zambezi valley above Zumbo. Only Portugal had any claim to effective occupation of any part of the latter two areas.\n\nAlthough the Ultimatum required Portugal to cease from activity in the disputed areas, there was no similar restriction on further British occupation there. Agents for Rhodes were active in Mashonaland and Manicaland and in what is now eastern Zambia, and John Buchanan asserted British rule in more of the Shire Highlands. There were armed clashes between Rhodes’ men and Portuguese troops who were already in occupation in Manicaland in 1890 and 1891, which only ceased when areas that had been allocated to Portugal in the unratified 1890 treaty were reassigned to Rhodes’ British South Africa Company in the 1891 treaty, with Portugal being given more land in the Zambezi valley in compensation for this loss.\n\nThe General Act of the Berlin Conference required disputes to go to arbitration and issuing the Ultimatum was a breach of this rule. After the Ultimatum Portugal asked for arbitration, but because the 1875 Delagoa Bay arbitration had been in favour of Portugal, Lord Salisbury refused and demanded a bi-lateral treaty. Talks started in Lisbon in April 1890, and in May the Portuguese delegation proposed joint administration of the disputed area between Angola and Mozambique. The British government refused this, and drafted a treaty that imposed boundaries that were generally unfavourable to Portugal.\n\nThese proposals were included in an agreement over Portuguese African borders signed on 20 August 1890 but never ratified by the Portuguese Parliament. When the treaty was presented to that parliament on 30 August, it led to a wave of protests and the downfall of the Portuguese government. Not only was it never ratified by the Portuguese Parliament, but Cecil Rhodes, whose plans of expansion it affected, also opposed this treaty. A new treaty was negotiated which gave Portugal more territory in the Zambezi valley than the 1890 treaty, but what is now the Manicaland Province of Zimbabwe passed from Portuguese to British control. This treaty, which also fixed the borders of Angola, was signed in Lisbon on 11 June 1891, and in addition to defining boundaries allowed freedom of navigation on the Zambezi and Shire rivers and allowed Britain to lease land for a port at Chinde at the mouth of the Zambezi.\n\nThe other boundaries of the Central Africa Protectorate were also agreed around this time. The northern border was fixed at the Songwe River as part of an Anglo-German Convention in 1890. Its western border with Northern Rhodesia was fixed in 1891 at the drainage divide between Lake Malawi and the Luangwa River by agreement with the British South Africa Company, which governed what is today Zambia under Royal Charter until 1924.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29458101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29458101", "title": "Arbitration Act 1979", "text": "Arbitration Act 1979\n\nThe Arbitration Act 1979 (c.42) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that reformed arbitration law in England and Wales. Prior to 1979, arbitration law was based on the Arbitration Act 1950, which allowed use of the \"Case Stated\" procedure and other methods of judicial intervention, which marked English arbitration law as significantly different from that of other jurisdictions. The prior law significantly increased the cost and time required for arbitration, which made England an unpopular jurisdiction to conduct such negotiations in. As a result, while London maintained its traditional position as a centre for arbitration in insurance, admiralty and commodities trading, it failed to attract more modern forms of trade. Following pressure from industry groups, the Lord Chancellor introduced the Arbitration Bill into Parliament, having it passed hours before the dissolution of James Callaghan's government. It was given the Royal Assent on 4 April 1979, and commenced working on 1 August 1979.\n\nThe Act completely abolished the \"Case Stated\" procedure and other forms of judicial interference, replacing it with a limited system of appeal to the High Court of Justice and Court of Appeal of England and Wales; it also allowed for exclusion agreements limiting the rights of parties to arbitration to appeal to the courts, and gave arbitrators the ability to enforce interlocutory orders. Academics met the Act with a mixed response; while some praised it for bringing English law more into line with that of other nations, others criticised the wording used as unnecessarily complex and hazy. The Act did, in the eyes of some commentators, lead to a shift in judicial policy away from legal certainty and towards a system focused on speed and finality. Having been repealed in its entirety by Section 107(2) of the Arbitration Act 1996, the Act is no longer in force.\n\nLondon was historically a centre for trade and arbitration, which Peter S. Smedresman, writing in the \"Journal of Maritime Law and Commerce\" divides into three categories of transaction. English commodities trading, through bodies such as the Baltic Exchange, specify that any conflicts are to be settled through arbitration in London, even when the goods being traded have no relation to the United Kingdom. London has also been a centre for arbitration on maritime issues, and insurance. However, it failed to significantly attract more modern forms of trade, such as major communications developments or high-technology projects, due to the nature of its arbitration law. These contracts normally involve large amounts of money and are administered by the International Chamber of Commerce, which rarely sent arbitration cases to London due to the individual nature of English law on the subject.\n\nIn most nations, arbitrators can apply the principle of \"amiable composition\"; the case is decided under broad, sweeping principles of equity, without judicial oversight or the application of national commercial law. In England, this was not the case; the Arbitration Act 1950, in Section 22(1), allowed the courts to instruct an arbitrator to \"correct\" his decision, if it had an incorrect statement of law immediately obvious. In response to this, English arbitrators simply stopped giving reasons for their decisions. The second form of judicial oversight was found in Section 21, and was an application of the \"Case Stated\" procedure. This allowed judicial review of a decision by the High Court of Justice, and was regularly applied during the 1970s, because the freeze on interest rates during a delayed case made it attractive for debtors to delay; conversely, this made London a far less attractive venue for creditors.\n\nBefore the 1979 Act, English law did not provide many ways to avoid the Case Stated procedure, even prohibiting parties from agreeing in advance not to use it; this was due to Scrutton LJ's statement, in \"Czarnikow v Roth, Schmidt & Co\", that \"There must be no Alsatia in England where the King's writ does not run\". In \"The Lysland\", the Court of Appeal of England and Wales gave a decision interpreted as saying that the courts must consider a Case Stated \"even if there is no great some in dispute, no point of general importance is involved or the answer is reasonably clear\". Lord Denning's statement in that case has been described as \"[T]he death knell of arbitrator autonomy\", and led to arbitrators almost automatically asking for judicial supervision for fear that they would otherwise be found to have committed misconduct. For obvious reasons, companies and parties to a case who submit their issues to arbitration expect something private, quick, and cheap, with fixed results. The traditional English emphasis on judicial oversight, therefore, meant that with the Case Stated procedure, London was a highly unpopular venue for arbitration.\n\nBy the 1960s, even before the increase of abuse of the Case Stated procedure, the United Kingdom was estimated to be losing £500 million a year through the movement of arbitration business to other countries. In response, the Lord Chancellor convened a Commercial Court Users Conference in 1960, and tasked them with reviewing the system; the conclusion was that the \"status quo\" should remain. With the increased use of the Case Stated procedure, more calls for reform came. In June 1977 the London Arbitration Group (LAG) was formed, taking it upon itself to make the government aware of the damage current law was causing. In 1978, in reaction to the continued pressure, the Lord Chancellor established a Commercial Court Committee to again look at the issue; their report, in June 1978, recommended changing the system so that appeal was only allowed when either the High Court permitted it, or both parties to the arbitration agreed it was necessary. This was intended to ensure that any new Act of Parliament fulfilled two roles – firstly, decreasing the use of the Case Stated procedure, and secondly, encouraging arbitrators to give reasons for their decisions.\n\nThe report was endorsed by the government, and published the following month. After being announced in the Queen's Speech, the Arbitration Bill was introduced to the House of Lords by the Lord Chancellor in late 1978, given its second reading on 12 December 1978, and after passing through the committee stage, its third reading on 15 February 1979. Before it could be sent to the House of Commons, however, James Callaghan's government collapsed following a motion of no confidence. As \"the final drama\", the Arbitration Bill quickly made it to the House of Commons and was passed during the few hours it took Callaghan to get to Buckingham Palace and ask for a dissolution. Royal Assent was granted on 4 April 1979, and the Arbitration Act 1979 came into force on 1 August.\n\nThe Act was \"a compromise between two opposing jurisprudential approaches to arbitration...that the courts should be kept out of arbitration altogether except to prevent abuses against the rules of natural justice, [and] that the courts should retain a substantial measure of control over arbitrations to ensure that arbitral awards apply the law\".\n\nThe primary reforms are found in Section 1 of the Act. Section 1(1) repeals Section 21 of the 1950 Act, abolishing the Case Stated procedure in arbitration matters, and states that the courts cannot set aside a decision based on an error in law or fact that is blatantly obvious, effectively repealing Section 22(1). Instead, Sections 1(2) and 1(3) provide that an appeal may be made \"on any question of law arising out of an award made on an arbitration agreement\", if either the High Court agrees the appeal is valid, or if both parties to the arbitration request it. In \"Petraco (Bermuda) Ltd v Petromed International\", the Court of Appeal was asked to explain what guidelines should be applied by a High Court judge when deciding whether or not to grant an appeal. The High Court had refused leave to appeal, because a point was raised which had not been mentioned during arbitration. Staughton LJ, with the rest of the Court in agreement, explained that: \nThe conditions for leave to appeal are laid out in Section 1(4). No conditions attach to an appeal where all parties consent, but when the permission of the High Court is sought, the judge may only grant leave if he \"considers that...the question of law concerned could substantially affect the rights of one or more parties to the arbitration agreement\". Under Sections 1(5) and 1(6), the High Court may ask for additional reasons as to why the arbitrator reached the decision that he did, but only if one of the parties gave notice to the arbitrator that reasons would be required, or there was \"some special reason why such a notice was not given\". In \"Universal Petroleum Co v Handels und Transport GmbH\", the Court of Appeal interpreted the meaning of Sections 1(4) and 1(5). The dispute came from a highly detailed \"Schedule of Further Reasons\" ordered by the High Court because the judge felt that there was an ambiguous element in the reasons given. The appellate judges found that Section 1(5) required judges to order further reasons only to deal with points of law arising from the award. Material ambiguity was \"inadmissible and irrelevant for the purpose of the exercise of any jurisdiction under section 1 of the Act\".\n\nIf the High Court refuses to hear an appeal, the case cannot proceed further; similarly, with one exception, once the High Court has heard a case, no decision may be reviewed by the Court of Appeal. The one exception is laid out in Section 1(7), and provides that leave to appeal is only valid if either the High Court or Court of Appeal certifies it as such, and the High Court confirms that the case concerns a point of law which merits consideration. In \"National Westminster Bank Plc v Arthur Young McClelland Moores & Co (No.1)\", the Court of Appeal confirmed that, once the High Court has decided not to allow an appeal, the registrar of the Court of Appeal cannot intervene and otherwise validate such a request.\n\nSection 21 of the 1950 Act contained a secondary method of appeal to the High Court. Through the \"Consultative Case\" procedure, parties in a pending arbitration could ask the High Court to quickly give a decision on a point of law. This provision was maintained in the 1979 Act, despite efforts by legislators to remove it. Section 2 provides that, should a party apply to the High Court with either the consent of the arbitrator or the other parties, the High Court may explain any point of law given in the reference, on the condition that the point of law meets the requirements laid out in Section 1, and if \"the determination of the application might produce substantial savings in costs to the parties\".\n\n\"Czarnikow v Roth, Schmidt & Co\", the decision in which it was decided agreements excluding judicial supervision are invalid, is partially overruled by Sections 3 and 4. Section 3 provides that, where such an agreement is drafted, the High Court no longer has the automatic right to request additional reasons from the arbitrator or grant leave to appeal the decision. Such exclusion clauses must be specific, but can be general in nature; Section 3(2) states that it can be framed \"to relate to a particular award, to awards under a particular reference or to any other description of awards, whether arising out of the same reference or not\". Section 3(6) provides an exception, which covers \"domestic\" arbitration agreements; these are defined as agreements where leave to appeal would not be valid in a jurisdiction outside the United Kingdom, and no parties are businesses or individuals legally based in the UK. In this situation, the exclusion clause is only valid if agreed to after the start of arbitration. A second exception is found in Section 4(1); where the contract arbitration is based on is within admiralty jurisdiction, to do with commodities trading, or an insurance agreement, it will not be valid unless either it was entered into after the start of arbitration or the law applicable to the contract is not that of England and Wales. In any situation, the High Court can be asked to give a decision on a point of law, or the exclusion clause removed, should all parties agree.\n\nPrior to the 1979 Act, arbitrators were allowed to make interlocutory orders penalising parties who failed to follow the arbitrator's timetable or requests; there was, however, no effective enforcement mechanism. Section 5 of the Act allows the High Court to intervene; if a party fails to comply, the High Court may (on the application of the arbitrator or any other party) order the arbitrator to continue as if the offending party was not there; he can immediately issue an award without considering their missing submission or failure to appear. Section 6 amends the 1950 Act, which required any two arbitrators hearing a case to immediately appoint an umpire. This caused unnecessary delay and expenditure. Section 6 instead provides that arbitrators can choose to appoint an umpire at any point, but must do \"forthwith\" if they fundamentally disagree.\n\nDavid Shenton and Gordon Toland concluded that the Act brought judicial oversight in English law into compliance with that of other nations, saying that it is \"broadly comparable to the provisions...to be found in Swedish, Swiss and French law\". Smedresman, however, argued that it would do little to help attract new arbitration and would in fact drive it away, saying that \"the vagueness of the statutory language, combined with the rather hazy policy considerations behind the Act, make confusion and litigation likely\". David Hacking, who helped promote the Act, says that it \"was not drafted with the elegance of the 1996 Arbitration Act. In the style of the Parliamentary Draftsmen of that time, many of its provisions were drafted with a complexity which was happily avoided in the 1996 Act\", and criticises the failure to achieve more than minor reform of existing law. However, he does note that the Act led to a shift in judicial policy, with future judgments to be issued with regards \"to the need for finality...the striving for legal accuracy may be said to have been overtaken by commercial expediency\". Jaffe agrees, writing in the journal \"Arbitration\" that \"[i]t is clear that with the passage of the 1979 Act...there has been a distinct and noticeable shift of emphasis from legal certainty to finality for arbitral awards\". The Act is no longer in force, having been repealed in its entirety by Section 107(2) of the Arbitration Act 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "32941109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32941109", "title": "Australian citizenship affirmation", "text": "Australian citizenship affirmation\n\nThe Australian citizenship affirmation is a short statement that enables Australian citizens to publicly display their pride in being Australian.\n\nThe affirmation is based on the pledge of commitment made by new citizens at their Australian citizenship ceremony. It allows Australian-born citizens to publicly make the same commitment.\n\nCitizenship is a unifying symbol in Australia's culturally diverse society. The affirmation provides a means of expressing that unity.\n\nThe Australian citizenship affirmation states:\n\nAffirmation ceremonies were introduced in 1999 as part of the 50th anniversary of Australian citizenship celebrations. Until then, the only Australian citizens who made a pledge of commitment to Australia, its people and its civic principles were those who became citizens at Australian citizenship ceremonies.\n\nThe affirmation proved popular with ceremony participants and the Australian Citizenship Council (1998-2001) received submissions from members of the public who supported the continuation of affirmation ceremonies beyond the 50th anniversary celebrations. The council recommended that affirmation ceremonies be included in appropriate formal civic occasions hosted by state, territory and local governments and noted that the Centenary of Federation in 2001 would provide further appropriate opportunities for affirmation ceremonies to be conducted.\n\nThe 1999 National Schools Constitutional Convention delegates also expressed support for the concept of voluntary affirmation ceremonies for all Australians as a means of enhancing awareness of Australian citizenship.\n\nThe Australian Government supported the continuation of affirmation ceremonies for Australian citizens beyond the 50th anniversary of Australian citizenship (1999) and Centenary of Federation (2001) celebrations, noting that participation in affirmation ceremonies should be voluntary, have no legal status and be conducted with dignity and respect.\n\nAustralian citizenship affirmation ceremonies can be hosted by any Australian citizen. They are often held in conjunction with an Australian citizenship ceremony but can also be celebrated as a separate ceremony.\n\nAffirmation ceremonies may be included as part of civic occasions, community events, school assemblies or on days of national significance such as Australia Day (26 January), Harmony Day (21 March), Constitution Day (9 July), Wattle Day (1 September) and Australian Citizenship Day (17 September).\n\nThe National Australia Day Council encourages the inclusion of Australian citizenship affirmation ceremonies as part of Australia Day celebrations.\n\nAffirmation ceremonies are conducted according to the guidelines outlined in the Australian Citizenship Ceremonies Code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18727566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18727566", "title": "Background, foreground, sideground and postground intellectual property", "text": "Background, foreground, sideground and postground intellectual property\n\nIn the context of research and development (R&D) collaborations, background, foreground, sideground and postground intellectual property (IP) are four distinct forms of intellectual property assets. These are included in the broader and more general categories of knowledge in R&D collaborations or open innovation. While background and foreground IP and knowledge are fairly established concepts, sideground and postground IP and knowledge have more recently been added to the conceptual vocabulary. This set of four concepts was first introduced by Prof. Ove Granstrand in a European Commission report in 2001.\n\nThe four knowledge/IP types are defined by Granstrand and Holgersson (2014):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "181435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181435", "title": "Biculturalism", "text": "Biculturalism\n\nBiculturalism in sociology describes the co-existence, to varying degrees, of two originally distinct cultures.\n\nOfficial policy recognizing, fostering, or encouraging biculturalism typically emerges in countries that have emerged from a history of national or ethnic conflict in which neither side has gained complete victory. This condition usually arises from colonial settlement. Resulting conflicts may take place either between the colonisers and indigenous peoples (as in Fiji) and/or between rival groups of colonisers (as in, for example, South Africa). A deliberate policy of biculturalism influences the structures and decisions of governments to ensure that they allocate political and economic power and influence equitably between people and/or groups identified with each side of the cultural divide. \n\nExamples include the conflicts between Anglophone and Francophone Canadians, between Anglophone White South Africans and Boers, and between Tangata whenua (i.e. Māori) and Tangata tiriti New Zealanders—i.e. settlers and their descendants whose right to be in New Zealand derives from the \"Tiriti\" (Treaty) of Waitangi. The latter group is sometimes referred to generally as \"non-Māori\"; their ancestors trace to the Pacific (known as Pasifika); Asia (people from eastern Asia, including from Mongolia, China, Japan, Indo-China and the Philippines are usually referred to as Asians; those from the rest of Asia normally are associated with their country or region of origin within Asia); North and South America; Europe (often called Pākehā), and Africa. The term biculturalism was originally adopted in Canada, most notably by the Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism (1963–1969), which recommended that Canada become officially bilingual.\n\nBecause the term biculturalism suggests, more or less explicitly, that only two cultures merit formal recognition, advocates of multiculturalism (for which biculturalism formed a precedent) may regard bicultural outlooks as inadequately progressive by comparison. This was the case in Canada were Ukrainian Canadians activists such as Jaroslav Rudnyckyj and Paul Yuzyk and other \"third force\" successfully pressured the Canadian government to adopt multiculturalism as official policy in 1971.\n\nIn the context of relations between the cultures of deafness and non-deafness, people find the word \"biculturalism\" less controversial because the distinction between spoken language and sign language commonly seems like a genuine binary distinction—transcending the distinctions between various spoken languages.\n\nIn the context of the United States of America, bicultural distinctions have traditionally existed between the US and Mexico, and between the White and the African-American population of the US.\n\nCountries which formally recognize biculturalism include:\n\n\nBiculturalism can also refer to individuals (see bicultural identity).\n\n"}
{"id": "30584148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30584148", "title": "Bombardier Aerospace and Embraer S.A. government subsidy controversy", "text": "Bombardier Aerospace and Embraer S.A. government subsidy controversy\n\nBrazil and Canada engaged in the Bombardier Aerospace and Embraer S.A. government subsidy controversy over government subsidies to domestic plane-makers in the late 1990s and early 2000s. It was an international, adjudicated trade dispute.\n\nThe following were brought to the World Trade Organization (WTO):\n\n\nThere was also a more recent fifth case, WTO Dispute DS522, filed on 8 February 2017 by Brazil. It was based on Brazil's allegations that the Canadian government unfairly subsidized the Bombardier CSeries. Embraer SA claimed that the subsidies are an \"unsustainable practice that distorts the entire global market, harming competitors at the expense of Canadian taxpayers.\" In late September 2017, the WTO announced that it would consider this dispute. A government of Canada spokesman provided the following comment. \"All aircraft-producing countries provide some form of support to their aircraft industry ... Canada will be examining closely Brazilian government support.\" The WTO is not expected to issue a ruling until 2019 at the earliest.\n\nBrazil ran an illegal subsidy program, Proex, benefiting its national aviation industry, Embraer, from at least 1999 to 2000.\n\nA 1999 WTO ruling named a Brazilian scheme paying banks providing loans to Embraer clients, the Proex program, an illegal subsidy. The ruling concluded, \"...PROEX interest rate equalization payments on exports of Brazilian regional aircraft are subsidies... (b) PROEX interest rate equalization payments... are not \"permitted\"... 8.2. Accordingly, we find that payments on exports of regional aircraft under the PROEX interest rate equalization scheme are export subsidies... ...[W]e recommend that Brazil withdraw the subsidies identified above without delay. [W]e conclude that Brazil shall withdraw the subsidies within 90 days.\"\n\nA 2000 WTO ruling requested the Brazilian government eliminate the Proex (Programa de Financiamento às Exportações) program, as it was, in fact, an illegal subsidy. The ruling stated, \"...we conclude that Brazil has failed to implement the ...1999 recommendation that it withdraw the export subsidies for regional aircraft under PROEX within 90 days.\"\n\nAs a result of the 2000 WTO ruling, Brazil presented a modified program that satisfied the WTO, Proex III.\n\nThe WTO states, \"our conclusion that the PROEX III programme, as such, is not inconsistent [with the ruling] is based on the view that it is legally possible for Brazil to operate the PROEX III programme in such a way that it will: (a) not result in a benefit being conferred on producers of regional aircraft and, hence, not constitute a subsidy... 6.3 We wish to be clear, however, that it does not necessarily follow from our conclusion that future application of the PROEX III programme will, likewise, be consistent [with the ruling].\"\n\nA WTO panel also ruled that Canada illegally subsidized its indigenous regional airliner industry, comprising Bombardier Aerospace.\n\nIn 1999, a WTO ruling found Canadian \"assistance programs\" in contravention of WTO anti-subsidy policy. While rejecting some of Brazil's claims, the ruling suggested Canada remove these subsidies and determined that \"(b) ...Canada Account debt financing since 1 January 1995 for the export of Canadian regional aircraft constitutes export subsidies...\"\n\nA 2002 WTO ruling named some low-interest loans from the Canadian government designed to aid Bombardier in gaining market share as illegal subsidies. CBC reported on one of the six illegal Canadian subsidies in late 2001 months prior to the actual ruling. While dismissing some of Brazil's claims that Canadian aircraft financing deals were illegal subsidy events, the 2002 ruling did: \"(e) uphold Brazil's claim that the EDC Canada Account financing to Air Wisconsin constitutes a prohibited export subsidy... (f) ...that the EDC Canada Account financing to Air Nostrum constitutes a prohibited export subsidy... (g) ...that the EDC Corporate Account financing to Comair in July 1996, August 1997 and February 1999 constitutes a prohibited export subsidy...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2644469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2644469", "title": "Bouvier's Law Dictionary", "text": "Bouvier's Law Dictionary\n\nBouvier's Law Dictionary is a set consisting of two or three books with a long tradition in the United States legal community. The first edition was written by John Bouvier.\n\nJohn Bouvier (1787–1851) was born in Codogno, France, but came to the United States at an early age. He became a U.S. citizen in 1812, was admitted to the bar in 1818, and began practicing law in Philadelphia. During his years of practice and study, he noticed the lack of a solid American law dictionary. He decided to fill this need, and worked on a new law dictionary incessantly for 10 years. One of his main goals was to distinguish American law from its English antecedent. He finally presented it for publication in 1839. Like many of his generation, Bouvier used his preface to justify his work, stating the irrelevance of English legal dictionaries to the American legal system of the United States. He wanted to create a totally new law dictionary that would address the American legal system, so he derived his definitions almost wholly from customs, court decisions, and statutes of the United States.\n\nFrom his preface:\n\nIn addition, Bouvier included entries for all the states that had formed the union as of 1839. A large 2-volume work, Bouvier's dictionary has been especially useful for understanding obsolete terms given in older authorities, amplifying their meanings in the American context.\n\nThe dictionary quickly became popular and received excellent reviews. The book is well written and extensively researched; Bouvier made significant contribution to each new edition and rewrote several articles. Many well known legal scholars have contributed to its revisions. Bouvier published three editions in twelve years and was preparing a fourth at the time of his death in 1851. By the year 1886, when it was first revised, there had been fifteen editions. The work is still widely used. Volumes of the early edition are considered collector items and a pristine set can fetch hundreds of dollars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15665910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15665910", "title": "Clawson v. United States", "text": "Clawson v. United States\n\nClawson v. United States, 113 U.S. 143 (1885), was a case regarding a Utah territorial statute which authorized an appeal by a defendant in a criminal action from a final judgment of conviction, which provides that an appeal shall stay execution upon filing with the clerk a certificate of a judge that in his opinion there is probable cause for the appeal, and further provides that after conviction, a defendant who has appealed may be admitted to bail as of right when the judgment is for the payment of a fine only, and as matter of discretion in other cases, does not confer upon a defendant convicted and sentenced to pay a fine and be imprisoned the right, after appeal and filing of certificate of probable cause, to be admitted to bail except within the discretion of the court.\n\nThe appellant, Rudger Clawson, having been found guilty by a jury in the District Court for the Third Judicial District of Utah, of the crimes of polygamy and unlawful cohabitation, charged in separate counts of the same indictment, was sentenced, on the conviction for polygamy, to pay a fine of $0 and to be imprisoned for the term of three years and six months, and, on the conviction for unlawful cohabitation, to pay a fine of $0 and be imprisoned six months. From the whole of the judgment an appeal was taken to the supreme court of the territory, and the judge before whom the trial was had given a certificate that in his opinion there was probable cause thereof. The appeal was perfected and the certificate was filed in the proper office.\n\nThe defendant thereupon applied to the court in which he was sentenced to be let to bail pending his appeal. The application was denied, the order reciting that\n\nThe accused then sued out an original writ of habeas corpus from the supreme court of the territory. In his petition therefor, he stated that he was then imprisoned and in the actual custody of the United States marshal for the territory at the penitentiary in the County of Salt Lake. He also averred that upon the denial of bail by the court in which he was tried, \"he was remanded to the custody of said United States marshal, who from thenceforth has imprisoned and still imprisons him\" under said order of commitment, which \"is the sole and only cause and authority\" for his \"detention and imprisonment,\" that \"his said imprisonment is illegal\" in that \"he has been and is able and now offers to give bail pending his appeal in such sum as the court may reasonably determine,\" and that \"as a matter of right and in the sound exercise of a legal discretion, the petitioner is entitled to bail pending the hearing and determination of said appeal.\"\n\nThe supreme court of the territory overruled the application for bail, and remanded the petitioner to the custody of the marshal. From that order the present appeal was prosecuted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53984289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53984289", "title": "Contributory copyright infringement", "text": "Contributory copyright infringement\n\nContributory copyright infringement is a way of imposing secondary liability for infringement of a copyright. It is a means by which a person may be held liable for copyright infringement even though he or she did not directly engage in the infringing activity. In the United States, the Copyright Act does not itself impose liability for contributory infringement expressly. It is one of the two forms of secondary liability apart from 'vicarious liability'.\nContributory infringement is understood to be a form of infringement in which a person is not directly violating a copyright but, induces or authorises another person to directly infringe the copyright.\n\nThis doctrine is a development of general tort law and is an extension of the principle in tort law that in addition to the tortfeasor, anyone who contributed to the tort should also be held liable.\n\nThe requirements for fulfilling the threshold of contributory infringement and imposing liability for copyright infringement on a party are-\nContributory infringement leads to imposition of liability in two situations. First situation is when the defendant, through his conduct, assists in the infringement, and the second situation is when the means for facilitating the infringement such as machinery is provided by the defendant.\n\nThe knowledge requirement for contributory infringement is an objective assessment and stands fulfilled if the defendant has actual or constructive knowledge of an infringement, i.e., if he or she has reason to believe that an infringement is taking place. But, constructive knowledge need not be imputed to the defendant if the product was capable of significant noninfringing uses.\n\nMaterial contribution is the second limb of contributory infringement. For instance, merely providing facilities or the site for an infringement might amount to material contribution. But, some courts put emphasis on the contribution to be 'substantial' and therefore, would hold that providing equipment and facilities for infringement is not in itself determinative of material contribution.\n\nVicarious liability is another form of secondary liability for copyright infringement through which a person who himself has not directly infringed a copyright can, nevertheless, be held liable. The requirements for attracting vicarious liability under copyright law are-\nUnlike contributory infringement, vicarious liability can be imposed even in the absence of any intent or knowledge on part of the defendant. In the Napster case, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit observed:\n\n\"In the context of copyright law, vicarious liability extends beyond an employer/employee relationship to cases in which a defendant \"has the right and ability to supervise the infringing activity and also has a direct financial interest in such activities.\"\n\nIn the United States of America, the doctrine of contributory infringement is based on the 1911 case of \"Kalem v Harper Brothers.\" The ingredients of contributory infringement were laid down in the Second Circuit Court of Appeals decision in \"Gershwin Publishing Corp v Columbia Artists Management Inc.\" in which the court said that contributory infringement is said to happen when someone, with knowledge of the infringing activity, induces, causes, or materially contributes to the infringing conduct of another.\nThis doctrine was developed in the context of the 1909 Copyright Act which did not have any reference to contributory infringement. But, the 1976 Act recognised the exclusive right of a copyright owner 'to do and to authorize' the rights attached to a copyright enumerated in the Act. The words 'to authorize' were meant to bring contributory infringements within the purview of the Act. But, still, the Act did not specify the requirements of such forms of infringement and left its application to the discretion of courts.\n\nThe case of \"Sony Corp v Universal City Studios Inc\", commonly known as the Betamax case, gave the United States Supreme Court its first opportunity to comprehensively look into and interpret the rules regarding secondary liability and contributory infringement in context of the 1976 Copyright statute. The primary issue in this case was whether a VCR manufacturing company could be held liable for copyright infringements done by its customers. \nThe court held that secondary liability for copyright infringements was not a foreign concept to US Copyright law and it was well enshrined in the copyright law of the United States. In the court's own words\nBut, in this case, the Court held that Sony did not have actual knowledge of the infringing activities of its customers. At the most it could be argued that Sony had constructive knowledge of the fact that \"its customers may use that equipment to make unauthorised copies of copyrighted material.\" The court then relied on the \"staple article of commerce\" doctrine of patent law and applied it to copyrights. The 'staple article of commerce' defence is available under Patent law in the United States and it lays down that when an infringing article is capable of 'substantial non infringing uses', it would become a 'staple article of commerce' and therefore, not attract any liability for infringement.\n\nBased on this reasoning, it was held\n\nSince the Betamax was capable of \"significant noninfringing uses\", Sony was not held liable for contributory infringement.\n\nContributory infringement has been the central issue in the cases involving 'peer to peer' services such as Napster, Aimster, Grokster and Morpheus. The courts have applied the \"Sony Betamax\" ratio differently in all these cases. For instance, Napster was held liable for contributory infringement. But, a similar service like Grokster was not held liable for contributory infringement as in this case, a district court, grounding its reasoning on the \"Sony Betamax\" decision, held that secondary liability could not be applied to peer to peer services.\n\nNapster was the first peer to peer service to be subject to copyright infringement litigation. In the Napster case, the issue was regarding the infringement of copyrights through the 'Music Share' software of Napster. Whenever, this software was used on a computer system, it would collect information about the MP3 files stored on the computer and send it to Napster servers. Based on this information, the Napster created a centralised index of files available for download on the Napster network. When someone wanted to download that file, the Music Share software would use the Napster index to locate the user who already had that file on their system and then connect the two users directly to facilitate the download of the MP3 file, without routing the file through Napster's servers.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals found Napster liable for both \"contributory infringement\" and \"vicarious infringement\". Regarding the issue of contributory infringement, the court held that Napster had \"actual knowledge\" of infringing activity, and providing its software and services to the infringers meant that it had \"materially contributed\" to the infringement. It was held that the defence in \"Sony\" was of \"limited assistance to Napster\". The test whether a technology is capable of substantial non infringing uses was relevant only for imputing knowledge of infringement to the technology provider. But, in Napster's case, it was found that Napster had \"actual, specific knowledge of direct infringement\", and therefore, the \"Sony\" test would not be applicable.\n\nIn \"In re Aimster\", the Seventh Circuit was called upon to decide the liability of peer to peer sharing of music files through the Instant Messaging services provided by Aimster. Aimster had argued that the transmission of files between its users was encrypted and because of that, Aimster could not possibly know the nature of files being transmitted using its services. But, the Seventh circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the district court which had issued a preliminary injunction against Aimster. \nIt was found that Aimster had knowledge of the infringing activity. Its tutorial showed examples of copyrighted music files being shared. Also, the 'Club Aimster' service provided a list of 40 most popular songs made available on the service. It was also held that the encrypted nature of the transmission was not a valid defence as it was merely a means to avoid liability by purposefully remaining ignorant. It was held that 'wilful blindness is knowledge, in copyright law..\"\nThe Sony defence raised by Aimster was also rejected because of the inability of Aimster to bring on record any evidence to show that its service could be used for non infringing uses. Lastly, Aimster could also not get benefit of DMCA 'safe harbor' provisions because it had not done anything to comply with the requirements of Section 512. Instead, it encouraged infringement.\n\nThe District Court for the Central District of California, in \"MGM Studios v Grokster\", held that the peer to peer services Morpheus and Grokster were not liable for copyright infringements carried out by their users. Unlike Napster, these services did not maintain a centralised index. Instead, they created \"ad hoc\" indices known as supernodes on the users computers. Sometimes, the software operated without creating any index at all. Thus, it was held that Grokster and Morpheus had no way of controlling the behaviour of their users once their software had been sold, just like Sony did with Betamax. \nIt was found that the defendants did have knowledge of infringement because of the legal notices sent to them. But, it was also held that to attract liability under contributory infringement, there should be knowledge of a specific infringement at the precise moment when it would be possible for the defendant to limit such infringement. Also, it was found that there was no material contribution. For this, the court relied on \"Sony\" and compared the technology to that of a VCR or a photocopier to hold that the technology was capable of both infringing as well as non infringing uses.\nGrokster differs from Sony, as it looks at the intent of the defendant rather than just the design of the system. As per Grokster, a plaintiff must show that the defendant actually induced the infringement. The test was reformulated as \"one who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright, as shown by clear expression or other affirmative steps taken to foster infringement, is liable for the resulting acts of infringement by third parties.\"\n\nThe Digital Millennium Copyright Act's Title II, known as the Online Copyright Infringement Liability Limitation Act, provides a safe harbor for online service providers and internet service providers against secondary liability for copyright infringements provided that certain requirements are met. Most importantly, the service provider must expeditiously take down or limit access to infringing material on its network if it receives a notification of an infringement.\n\nThe Inducing Infringement of Copyrights Act, or the INDUCE Act, was a 2004 proposal in the United States Senate which meant to insert a new subsection '(g)' to the existing Section 501 of the copyright Act which defines 'infringement'. The proposed amendment would provide that whoever intentionally induces a violation of subsection (a) would be liable as an infringer. The term 'intentionally induces' has been defined in the bill as-\n\"intentionally aids, abets, induces, or procures, and intent may be shown by acts from which a reasonable person would find intent to induce infringement based upon all relevant information about such acts then reasonably available to the actor, including whether the activity relies on infringement for its commercial viability\".\n\nIn the European Union, the European Court of Justice has issued several rulings on related matters, mainly based on the InfoSoc Directive and E-Commerce Directive and focused on what constitutes an act of \"communication to the public\" or of \"making available\".\n\nSection 51 of the Copyright Act, 1957 deals with copyright infringement in India. Section 51(a)(i) provides for when an infringement of a copyright is deemed to have taken place. It states that when somebody does anything, the exclusive right to which is conferred on a copyright owner, without first securing a license to do so from the copyright owner or in contravention of a licence, the copyright shall be deemed to have been infringed.\nThe basis for contributory infringement under Indian copyright law can be found in Section 51(a)(ii) which states that when someone 'permits for profit any place to be used for the communication of the work to the public where such communication constitutes an infringement of the copyright in the work, unless he was not aware and had no reasonable ground for believing that such communication to the public would be an infringement of copyright', then also, the copyright shall be deemed to have been infringed. \nSecondary infringement itself can be sub divided into two categories- activities which assist primary infringements, and activities which accentuate the effects of the primary infringement. Section 51(a)(ii) deals with cases in which somebody assist the primary infringement. Section 51(a)(ii) itself gives the defence which can be taken by a defendant to avoid liability under this provision, i.e., the defendant was not aware or had no reasonable ground for believing that the communication to the public would be an infringement of the copyright.\nSection 51(b) deals with situations in which the effects of an already existing primary infringement are accentuated by the actions of the defendant. Section 51(b) provides that a copyright infringement will also be deemed to have taken place if a person sells, distributes, imports or exhibits in public by way of trade an infringing copy of a copyright protected work.\nTherefore, Section 51(a)(ii) and Section 51(b) are the statutory basis for secondary liability in India including contributory infringement.\n\nThe Information Technology Act, 2000 (\"IT Act\") contains specific provisions dealing with liabilities of Internet Service Providers. These provisions provide for 'safe harbors' for Internet Service Providers. Section 2(w) of the IT Act defines an 'intermediary' as 'intermediary with respect to any particular electronic message means any person who on behalf of another person receives, stores or transmits that message or provides any service with respect to that message'. Due to this wide definition, almost every entity, including ISPs, search engines and online service providers can get benefit of the safe harbor provisions in the IT Act.\nSection 79 of the IT Act provides that an intermediary shall not be liable for any third party information, data, or communication link made available or hosted by the intermediary. But, an intermediary will get benefit of the safe harbor provisions only if it satisfies certain conditions. The intermediaries function should be limited to providing access to a communication system, the intermediary should not initiate the transmission, select the receiver or modify the transmission and should observe the guidelines formulated by the Central Government in this regard.\nThe 'IT (Intermediary guidelines) Rules 2011' have been formulated to specify the conditions that an intermediary must satisfy to get protection of safe harbor provisions. As per these guidelines, the intermediary must observe due diligence measures specified under Rule 3 of the guidelines. For instance, the intermediary should take down any infringing material on its network within thirty six hours of the infringement being brought to its notice.\n\nIn December, 2016, the Delhi High Court reversed the judgement passed by a single judge bench earlier to hold that unless 'actual knowledge' was proved, an intermediary could not be held liable for contributory copyright infringement.\nIn 2008, T-Series (Super Cassettes) had instituted a copyright infringement suit against MySpace for hosting infringing material in which Super Cassettes was the copyright owner, without first obtaining a licence. The infringing material primarily consisted of sound recordings. It was alleged that MySpace was commercially exploiting the works of T Series by including advertisements with the works made available by it. The Single Judge had held that MySpace was guilty of copyright infringement under Section 51 of the copyright Act and the benefit of safe harbor provisions under Section 79 of the IT Act were not available to it in light of Section 81 of the IT Act.\nThe judgment of the single judge was reversed on the following grounds-\nLiability under Section 51(a)(ii) can be avoided by the defendant if he or she is able to show that he or she did not have any knowledge of the infringing act or that he or she did not have any reason to believe that the communication would amount to an infringement. Super Cassettes had argued that 'place' under Section 51(a)(ii) includes a virtual space similar to the one provided by MySpace. It was argued that MySpace had knowledge of the infringement based on the fact that it had incorporated safeguard tools to weed out infringing material and that it invited users to upload and share content. Therefore, it was argued that there was implied knowledge. The Court held that to qualify as knowledge there should be awareness in the form of \"actual knowledge\" as opposed to just general awareness.Without specific knowledge of infringements, the intermediary could not be said to have reason yo believe that it was carrying infringing material. Therefore, there was a duty on the plaintiff to first identify specific infringing material before knowledge could be imputed to the defendant.\nSection 79 of the IT Act provides safe harbor to intermediaries provided certain conditions are met by them. But, Section 81 of the IT Act also states that nothing in the IT Act shall restrict the rights of any person under the Copyright Act, 1957. The single judge had interpreted Section 81 to mean that safe harbor under IT Act is not applicable in cases of Copyright Infringement.\nThe Court reversed this and held that Section 79 starts with a \"non obstante\" clause and precludes the application of any other law including Copyright law. Thus, any restriction on safe harbor provisions such as Section 81 can be read only within the limits of Section 79. Also, the IT Act and the Copyright Act should be construed harmoniously given their complementary nature.\nFurther, MySpace's role was limited to providing access to a communication system. It only modified the format and not the content and even this was an automated process. Therefore, there was no material contribution also. To amount to an infringement under Section 51 of the Copyright Act, the authorisation to do something which was part of an owner's exclusive rights requires more than merely providing the means or place for communication. To be held liable for being an infringer on the grounds of authorisation, it was necessary to show active participation or inducement.\nTherefore, Section 79 is available in cases of copyright infringement also provided the conditions under the Act and Intermediary Guidelines, 2011 are fulfilled. Since MySpace had fulfilled these requirements, it was given the protection of Section 79 of IT Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "192053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192053", "title": "Copyright Duration Directive", "text": "Copyright Duration Directive\n\nCouncil Directive 93/98/EEC of 29 October 1993 harmonising the term of protection of copyright and certain related rights is a European Union directive in the field of copyright law, made under the internal market provisions of the Treaty of Rome. It was replaced by Directive 2006/116/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on the term of protection of copyright and certain related rights.\n\nThe principal goal was to ensure that there was a single duration for copyright and related rights across the entire European Union. The chosen term for a work was 70 years from the death of the author (\"post mortem auctoris\", pma) for authors' rights regardless of when the work was first lawfully published (Art. 1), longer than the 50-year \"post mortem auctoris\" term required by the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (Art. 7.1 Berne Convention). In the case that the author is anonymous or pseudonymous the term for a work is 70 years from the date of first lawful publication. The directive notes that the original goal of the Berne Convention was to protect works for two generations after the death of the author, and that fifty years was no longer sufficient for this purpose (para. 5 of the preamble). It is often stated that 70 years pma was the longest copyright term of any Member State at the time: this is not strictly correct, and is not quoted as the reason for the choice in the directive. Where a Member State protected a work for a longer period at the time the directive came into force, the copyright term is not reduced [Art. 10(1)], but other Member States will not respect the longer period.\n\nThe duration of protection of related rights (those of performers, phonogram and film producers and broadcasting organisations) was set at fifty years with the following rules for calculating the starting date (Art. 3). This fifty-year period was in reflexion of the negotiating position of the European Community at the negotiations which led to the Marrakech Agreements, including the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS).\n\nThe new copyright terms applied also to works which were already in existence when it came into force, as was held by the European Court of Justice in the \"Butterfly\" case, even if they had previously entered the public domain. Strictly, they applied to works which were protected in at least one Member State on 1 July 1995, although most Member States chose to apply them to all works which would qualify on the basis of the protection terms, regardless of protection elsewhere: this approach is much simpler for national courts to apply, as they do not have to consider foreign laws.\n\nThe effect of the approach was shown by the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the \"Puccini\" case, which covered facts arising before the directive entered force. The State of Hesse in Germany had staged the opera \"La Bohème\" by Puccini during the 1993/94 season at the Hessische Staatstheater Wiesbaden without the permission of the copyright holder. The opera was first published in Italy and Puccini died on 29 November 1924. At the time, Italy applied a copyright period of 56 years pma, so Italian protection had expired at the end of 1980: Germany, however, applied a 70 years pma period to works of German authors and the \"rule of the shorter term\" (Art. 7.8 Berne Convention) to foreign works. The Court ruled that the application of the rule of the shorter term between Member States was a breach of the principle of non-discrimination enshrined in Article 12 of the Treaty instituting the European Community: hence the work should have been protected in Germany even if it was no longer protected in Italy. Such cases should no longer arise with the implementation of the directive.\n\nThe directive also harmonises the copyright treatment of films (\"cinematographic and other audiovisual works\") and photographs throughout the European Union. Films are protected for 70 years from the death of the last of the following people to die [Art. 2(2)]: the principal director, the author of the screenplay, the author of the dialogue and the composer of music specifically created for use in the cinematographic or audiovisual work. This applies regardless of the provisions of national law regarding the authorship of the film, ensuring a common duration of copyright between Member States. The principal director of the film is always considered as an author of the film, although national legislations may provide for other co-authors [Art. 2(1)].\n\nBefore the directive, different Member States had applied widely different criteria of originality and creativity to the copyright protection of photographs. These were harmonised by article 6, which states that the only permissible criterion for full protection (70 years pma) is that the photograph is \"original in the sense that [it is] the author's own intellectual creation\". Member States may protect photographs which do not meet this criterion by \"sui generis\" related rights.\n\nThe directive accords a publication right to the publisher of a public domain work which was previously unpublished, for 25 years after the date of publication (Art. 4). The work must have been \"legally published\". In some countries (e.g. France), authors and their heirs have a perpetual right to authorise (or not) the publication of a work and, in these cases, publication must be with the consent of the holders of the moral rights in the work.\n\nAs is normal in the field of copyright law, all periods of protection run until the end of the calendar year in which they would otherwise expire (Art. 8). Member states may protect \"critical and scientific publications of works which have come into the public domain\" for a maximum of thirty years (Art. 5). The protection of moral rights is left to national legislation (Art. 9).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4010106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4010106", "title": "Covenant of the League of Nations", "text": "Covenant of the League of Nations\n\nThe Covenant of the League of Nations was the charter of the League of Nations.\n\nEarly drafts for a possible League of Nations began even before the end of the First World War. The London-based Bryce Group made proposals adopted by the British League of Nations Society, founded in 1915. Another group in the United States—which included Hamilton Holt and William B. Howland at the Century Association in New York City—had their own plan. This plan was largely supported by the League to Enforce Peace, an organization led by former U.S. President William Howard Taft. In December 1916, Lord Robert Cecil suggested that an official committee be set up to draft a covenant for a future league. The British committee was finally appointed in February 1918; it was led by Walter Phillimore (and became known as the Phillimore Committee) but also included Eyre Crowe, William Tyrrell, and Cecil Hurst. U.S. President Woodrow Wilson was not impressed with the Phillimore Committee's report, and would eventually produce three draft covenants of his own with help from his friend Colonel House. Further suggestions were made by Jan Christiaan Smuts in December 1918.\n\nAt the Paris Peace Conference in 1919, a commission was appointed to agree on a covenant. Members included Woodrow Wilson (as chair), Colonel House (representing the U.S.), Robert Cecil and Jan Smuts (British Empire), Léon Bourgeois and Ferdinand Larnaude (France), Prime Minister Vittorio Orlando and Vittorio Scialoja (Italy), Foreign Minister Makino Nobuaki and Chinda Sutemi (Japan), Paul Hymans (Belgium), Epitácio Pessoa (Brazil), Wellington Koo (China), Jayme Batalha Reis (Portugal), and Milenko Radomar Vesnitch (Serbia). Further representatives of Czechoslovakia, Greece, Poland and Romania were later added. The group considered a preliminary draft co-written by Hurst and President Wilson's adviser David Hunter Miller. During the first four months of 1919 the group met on ten separate occasions, attempting to negotiate the exact terms of the foundational Covenant agreement for the future League.\n\nDuring the ensuing negotiations various major objections arose from various countries. France wanted the League to form an international army to enforce its decisions, but the British worried such an army would be dominated by the French, and the Americans could not agree as only Congress could declare war. Japan requested that a clause upholding the principle of racial equality should be inserted, parallel to the existing religious equality clause. This was deeply opposed, particularly by American political sentiment, while Wilson himself simply ignored the question. \n\nDuring a certain interval while Wilson was away, the question of international equality was raised once again. A vote on a motion supporting the \"equality of nations and the just treatment of their nationals\" was made, and was supported by 11 of the 19 delegates. Upon Wilson's return he declared that \"serious objections\" by other delegates had negated the majority vote, and the amendment was dismissed. Finally on April 11, 1919, the revised Hurst-Miller draft was approved, but without fully resolving certain questions as had been brought forth regarding matters such as national equality, racial equality, and how the new League might be able to practically enforce its various mandates.\n\nThe new League would include a General Assembly (representing all member states), an Executive Council (with membership limited to major powers), and a permanent secretariat. Member states were expected to \"respect and preserve as against external aggression\" the territorial integrity of other members, and to disarm \"to the lowest point consistent with domestic safety\". All states were required to submit complaints for arbitration or judicial inquiry before going to war. The Executive Council would create a Permanent Court of International Justice to make judgements on the disputes.\n\nThe treaty entered into force on 10 January 1920. Articles 4, 6, 12, 13, and 15 were amended in 1924. The treaty shares similar provisions and structures with the UN Charter.\n\nArticle X of the Covenant of the League of Nations is the section calling for assistance to be given to a member that experiences external aggression. It was signed by the major Peacemakers (Allied Forces) following the First World War, most notably Britain and France. Due to the nature of the Article, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson was unable to ratify his obligation to join the League of Nations, as a result of strong objection from U.S. politicians.\n\nAlthough Wilson had secured his proposal for a League of Nations in the final draft of the Treaty of Versailles, the U.S. Senate refused to consent to the ratification of the Treaty. For many Republicans in the Senate, Article X was the most objectionable provision. Their objections were based on the fact that, by ratifying such a document, the United States would be bound by international contract to defend a League of Nations member if it was attacked. Henry Cabot Lodge from Massachusetts and Frank B. Brandegee from Connecticut led the fight in the U.S. Senate against ratification, believing that it was best not to become involved in international conflicts. Under the United States Constitution, the President of the United States may not ratify a treaty unless the Senate, by a two-thirds vote, gives its advice and consent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43677819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43677819", "title": "Dehn v Attorney-General", "text": "Dehn v Attorney-General\n\nDehn v Attorney-General CA180/88 [1989] NZCA 57; [1989] 1 NZLR 320 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding trespass and the implied licence to enter a property.\n\nOne night Dehn phoned her sister in Auckland suggesting that their mother and her grandchildren were now dead. Not surprisingly, the sister rang the Police to do a welfare check at their Christchurch residence.\n\nThe police soon discovered that the mother was very much still alive. So much so, that she even joined Dehn in taunting the attending police officers with comments such as \"Nazi's\" and \"Gestapo\".\n\nThey later sued the police for trespass and assault. The court awarded the nominal damages of $1 for the trespass, and nothing for assault, as due to ACC law, damages for assault can only be awarded if the conduct merits exemplary damages.\n\nThe Dehn's appealed.\n\nThe court confirmed that this case did not merit exemplary damages.\n"}
{"id": "1545452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1545452", "title": "Dharmaśāstra", "text": "Dharmaśāstra\n\nDharmaśāstra () is a genre of Sanskrit texts, and refers to the treatises (shastras) of Hinduism on dharma. There are many Dharmashastras, variously estimated to be 18 to about 100, with different and conflicting points of view. Each of these texts exist in many different versions, and each is rooted in Dharmasutras texts dated to 1st millennium BCE that emerged from Kalpa (Vedanga) studies in the Vedic era.\n\nThe textual corpus of Dharmaśāstra were composed in poetic verses, are part of the Hindu Smritis, constituting divergent commentaries and treatises on duties, responsibilities and ethics to oneself, to family and as a member of society. The texts include discussion of ashrama (stages of life), varna (social classes), purushartha (proper goals of life), personal virtues and duties such as ahimsa (non-violence) against all living beings, rules of just war, and other topics.\n\nDharmaśāstra became influential in modern colonial India history, when they were formulated by early British colonial administrators to be the law of the land for all non-Muslims (Hindus, Jains, Buddhists, Sikhs) in India, after Sharia was already accepted as the law for Muslims in colonial India.\n\nThe Dharmashastras are based on ancient Dharmasūtras texts, which themselves emerged from the literary tradition of the Vedas (Rig, Yajur, Sāma, and Atharva) composed in 2nd millennium BCE to the early centuries of the 1st millennium BCE. These Vedic branches split into various other schools (\"shakhas\") possibly for a variety of reasons such as geography, specialization and disputes. Each Veda is further divided into two categories namely the Saṃhitā which is a collection of mantra verses and the Brahmanas which are prose texts that explain the meaning of the Samhita verses. The Brāhmaṇa layer expanded and some of the newer esoteric speculative layers of text were called Aranyakas while the mystical and philosophical sections came to be called the Upanishads. The Vedic basis of Dharma literature is found in the Brahmana layer of the Vedas.\n\nTowards the end of the vedic period, after the middle of the 1st millennium BCE, the language of the Vedic texts composed centuries earlier grew too archaic to the people of that time. This led to the formation of Vedic Supplements called the Vedangas which literally means ‘limbs of the Veda’. The Vedangas were ancillary sciences that focused on understanding and interpreting the Vedas composed many centuries earlier, and included Shiksha (phonetics, syllable), Chandas (poetic metre), Vyakarana (grammar, linguistics), Nirukta (etymology, glossary), Jyotisha (timekeeping, astronomy), and Kalpa (ritual or proper procedures). The Kalpa Vedanga studies gave rise to the Dharma-sutras, which later expanded into Dharma-shastras.\n\nThe Dharmasutras were numerous, but only four texts have survived into the modern era. The most important of these texts are the sutras of Apastamba, Gautama, Baudhayana, and Vasistha. These extant texts cite writers and refer opinions of seventeen authorities, implying that a rich Dharmasutras tradition existed prior to when these texts were composed.\n\nThe extant Dharmasutras are written in concise sutra format, with a very terse incomplete sentence structure which are difficult to understand and leave much to the reader to interpret. The Dharmasastras are derivative works on the Dharmasutras, using a shloka (four 8-syllable verse style chandas poetry, Anushtubh meter), which are relatively clearer.\n\nThe Dharmasutras can be called the guidebooks of dharma as they contain guidelines for individual and social behavior, ethical norms, as well as personal, civil and criminal law. They discuss the duties and rights of people at different stages of life like studenthood, householdership, retirement and renunciation. These stages are also called ashramas. They also discuss the rites and duties of kings, judicial matters, and personal law such as matters relating to marriage and inheritance. However, Dharmasutras typically did not deal with rituals and ceremonies, a topic that was covered in the Shrautasutras and Grihyasutras texts of the Kalpa (Vedanga).\n\nThe hymns of Ṛgveda are one of the earliest texts composed in verse. The Brāhmaṇa which belongs to the middle vedic period followed by the vedāṇga are composed in prose. The basic texts are composed in an aphoristic style known as the \"sutra\" which literally means thread on which each aphorism is strung like a pearl.\n\nThe Dharmasūtras are composed in sutra style and were part of a larger compilation of texts, called the Kalpasūtras which give an aphoristic description of the rituals, ceremonies and proper procedures. The Kalpasutras contain three sections, namely the Śrautasūtras which deal with vedic ceremonies, Gṛhyasūtras which deal with rites of passage rituals and domestic matters, and Dharmasūtras which deal with proper procedures in one's life. The Dharmasūtras of Āpastamba and Baudhāyana form a part of larger Kalpasutra texts, all of which has survived into the modern era.\n\nThe \"sūtra\" tradition ended around the beginning of the common era and was followed by the poetic octosyllable verse style called the \"śloka\". The verse style was used to compose the Dharmaśāstras such as the Manusmriti, the Hindu epics, and the Puranas.\n\nThe age of Smṛtis that ended around the second half of the first millennium CE was followed by that of commentaries around the 9th century called \"nibandha\". This legal tradition consisted of commentaries on earlier Dharmasūtras and Smritis.\n\nAbout 20 Dharmasutras are known, some surviving into the modern era just as fragments of their original. Four Dharmasūtras have been translated into English, and most remain in manuscripts. All carry the names of their authors, but it is still difficult to determine who these real authors were.\n\nThe extant Dharmasūtra texts are listed below:\n\nThe Dharmasūtra of Āpastamba and Baudhayana form a part of the Kalpasūtra but it is not easy to establish whether they were historical authors of these texts or whether these texts were composed within certain institutions attributed to their names. Moreover, Gautama and Vasiṣṭha are ancient sages related to specific vedic schools and therefore it is hard to say whether they were historical authors of these texts. The issue of authorship is further complicated by the fact that apart from Āpastamba the other Dharmasūtras have various alterations made at later times.\nThere is uncertainty regarding the dates of these documents due to lack of evidence concerning these documents. Kane has posited the following dates for the texts, for example, though other scholars disagree: Gautama 600 BCE to 400 BCE, Āpastamba 450 BCE to 350 BCE, Baudhāyana 500 BCE to 200 BCE, and Vasiṣṭha 300 BCE to 100 BCE. Patrick Olivelle suggests that Apastamba Dharmasutra is the oldest of the extant texts in Dharmasutra genre and one by Gautama second oldest, while Robert Lingat suggests that Gautama Dharmasutra is the oldest.\n\nThere is confusion regarding the geographical provenance of these documents. According to Bühler and Kane, Āpastamba came from South India probably from a region corresponding to modern Andhra Pradesh. Baudhāyana also came from south although evidence regarding this is weaker than that of Āpastamba. Gautama likely came from western region, nearer to the northwestern region to which Pāṇini belonged, and one which corresponds to where Maratha people in modern India are found. Nothing can be said about Vasiṣṭha due to lack of any evidence.\n\nScholars have varied opinions about the chronology of these documents. Regarding the age of Āpastamba and Gautama there are opposite conclusions. According to Bühler and Lingat Āpastamba is younger than Baudhāyana. Vasiṣṭha is surely a later text.\n\nThe structure of these Dharmasūtras primarily addresses the Brahmins both in subject matter and the audience. The Brahmins are the creators and primary consumers of these texts. The subject matter of Dharmasūtras is \"dharma\". The central focus of these texts is how a Brahmin male should conduct himself during his lifetime. The text of Āpastamba which is best preserved has a total of 1,364 sūtras out of which 1,206 (88 per cent) are devoted to the Brahmin, whereas only 158 (12 per cent) deals with topics of general nature. The structure of the Dharmasūtras begin with the vedic initiation of a young boy followed by entry into adulthood, marriage and responsibilities of adult life that includes adoption, inheritance, death rituals and ancestral offerings. According to Olivelle, the reason Dharmasutras introduced vedic initiation was to make the individual subject to Dharma precepts at school, by making him a ‘twice born’ man, because children were considered exempt from Dharma precepts in the vedic tradition.\n\nThe structure of Dharmasūtra of Āpastamba begins with the duties of the student, then describes householder duties and rights such as inheritance, and ends with administration of the king. This forms the early structure of the Dharma texts. However, in the Dharmasūtras of Gautama, Baudhāyana and Vasiṣṭha some sections such as inheritance and penance are reorganized, and moved from householder section to king-related section. Ollivelle suggests that these changes may be because of chronological reasons where civil law increasingly became part of the king's administrative responsibilities.\n\n\"Dharma\" is a concept which is central not only in Hinduism (Brahmanical traditions) but also in Jainism and Buddhism. The term means a lot of things and has a wide scope of interpretation. The fundamental meaning of \"Dharma\" in Dharmasūtras, states Olivelle is diverse, and includes accepted norms of behavior, procedures within a ritual, moral actions, righteousness and ethical attitudes, civil and criminal law, legal procedures and penance or punishment, and guidelines for proper and productive living.\n\nThe term Dharma also includes social institutions such as marriage, inheritance, adoption, work contracts, judicial process in case of disputes, as well personal choices such as meat as food and sexual conduct.\n\nThe source of \"dharma\" was a question that loomed in the minds of Dharma text writers, and they tried to seek \"where guidelines for Dharma can be found?\" They sought to define and examine vedic injunctions as the source of Dharma, asserting that like the Vedas, \"Dharma\" is not of human origin. This worked for rituals-related rules, but in all other matters this created numerous interpretations and different derivations. This led to documents with various working definitions, such as dharma of different regions (\"deshadharma\"), of social groups (\"jatidharma\"), of different families (\"kuladharma\"). The authors of Dharmasutras and Dharmashastra admit that these \"dharmas\" are not found in the Vedic texts, nor can the behavioral rules included therein be found in any of the Vedas. This led to the incongruity between the search for legal codes and dharma rules in the theological versus the reality of epistemic origins of dharma rules and guidelines.\n\nThe Hindu scholar Āpastamba, in a Dharmasutra named after him (~400 BCE), made an attempt to resolve this issue of incongruity. He placed the importance of the Veda scriptures second and that of \"samayacarika\" or mutually agreed and accepted customs of practice first. Āpastamba thus proposed that scriptures alone cannot be source of Law (dharma), and dharma has an empirical nature. Āpastamba asserted that it is difficult to find absolute sources of law, in ancient books or current people, states Patrick Olivelle with, \"The Righteous (dharma) and the Unrighteous (adharma) do not go around saying, 'here we are!'; Nor do gods, Gandharvas or ancestors declare, 'This is righteous and that is unrighteous'.\" Most laws are based on agreement between the Aryas, stated Āpastamba, on what is right and what is wrong. Laws must also change with ages, stated Āpastamba, a theory that became known as \"Yuga dharma\" in Hindu traditions. Āpastamba also asserted in verses 2.29.11–15, states Olivelle, that \"aspects of dharma not taught in Dharmasastras can be learned from women and people of all classes\".\n\nĀpastamba used a hermeneutic strategy that asserted that the Vedas once contained all knowledge including that of ideal Dharma, but parts of Vedas have been lost. Human customs developed from the original complete Vedas, but given the lost text, one must use customs between good people as a source to infer what the original Vedas might have stated the Dharma to be. This theory, called the ‘lost Veda’ theory, made the study of customs of good people as a source of dharma and guide to proper living, states Olivelle.\nThe sources of \"dharma\" according to Gautama Dharmasutra are three: the Vedas, the Smriti (tradition), acāra (the practice) of those who know the Veda. These three sources are also found in later Dharmashastra literature. Baudhāyana Dharmasutra lists the same three, but calls the third as śiṣṭa (शिष्ट, literally polite cultured people) or the practice of cultured people as the third source of dharma. Both Baudhāyana Dharmasutra and Vāsiṣṭha Dharmasutra make the practices of śiṣṭa as a source of dharma, but both state that the geographical location of such polite cultured people does not limit the usefulness of universal precepts contained in their practices. In case of conflict between different sources of dharma, Gautama Dharmasutra states that the Vedas prevail over other sources, and if two Vedic texts are in conflict then the individual has a choice to follow either.\n\nThe nature of Dharmasūtras is normative, they tell what people ought to do, but they do not tell what people actually did. Some scholars state that these sources are unreliable and worthless for historical purposes instead to use archaeology, epigraphy and other historical evidence to establish the actual legal codes in Indian history. Olivelle states that the dismissal of normative texts is unwise, as is believing that the Dharmasutras and Dharmashastras texts present a uniform code of conduct and there were no divergent or dissenting views.\n\nWritten after the Dharmasūtras, these texts use a metered verse and are much more elaborate in their scope than Dharmasutras. The word \"Dharmaśāstras\" never appears in the Vedic texts, and the word \"śāstra\" itself appears for the first time in Yaska's \"Nirukta\" text. Katyayana's commentary on Panini's work (~3rd century BCE), has the oldest known single mention of the word \"Dharmaśāstras\".\n\nThe extant Dharmaśāstras texts are listed below:\n\nIn addition, numerous other Dharmaśāstras are known, partially or indirectly, with very different ideas, customs and conflicting versions. For example, the manuscripts of and the have not been found, but their verses have been cited in other texts, and scholars have made an effort to extract these cited verses, thus creating a modern reconstruction of these texts. Scholars such as Jolly and Aiyangar have gathered some 2,400 verses of the lost Bṛhaspatismṛti text in this manner. Brihaspati-smriti was likely a larger and more comprehensive text than Manusmriti, yet both Brihaspati-smriti and Katyayana-smriti seem to have been predominantly devoted to judicial process and jurisprudence. The writers of Dharmasastras acknowledged their mutual differences, and developed a \"doctrine of consensus\" reflecting regional customs and preferences.\n\nOf the four extant Dharmasastras, Manusmriti, Yajnavalkyasmriti and Naradasmriti are the most important surviving texts. But, states Robert Lingat, numerous other Dharmasastras whose manuscripts are now missing, have enjoyed equal authority. Between the three, the Manusmriti became famous during the colonial British India era, yet modern scholarship states that other Dharmasastras such as the Yajnavalkyasmriti appear to have played a greater role in guiding the actual Dharma. Further, the Dharmasastras were open texts, and they underwent alterations and rewriting through their history.\n\nAll Dharma, in Hindu traditions, has its foundation in the Vedas. The Dharmashastra texts enumerate four sources of Dharma – the precepts in the Vedas, the tradition, the virtuous conduct of those who know the Vedas, and approval of one's conscience (Atmanastushti, self satisfaction).\n\nThe Dharmashastra texts include conflicting claims on the sources of dharma. The theological claim therein asserts, without any elaboration, that Dharma just like the Vedas are eternal and timeless, the former is directly or indirectly related to the Vedas. Yet these texts also acknowledge the role of Smriti, customs of polite learned people, and one's conscience as source of dharma. The historical reality, states Patrick Olivelle, is very different than the theological reference to the Vedas, and the dharma taught in the Dharmaśāstra has little to do with the Vedas. These were customs, norms or pronouncements of the writers of these texts that were likely derived from evolving regional ethical, ideological, cultural and legal practices.\n\nThe Dharmasutra and Dharmaśāstra texts, as they have survived into the modern era, were not authored by a single author. They were viewed by the ancient and medieval era commentators, states Olivelle, to be the works of many authors. Robert Lingat adds that these texts suggest that \"a rich literature on dharma already existed\" before these were first composed. These texts were revised and interpolated through their history because the various text manuscripts discovered in India are inconsistent with each other, and within themselves, raising concerns of their authenticity.\n\nThe Dharmaśāstra texts present their ideas under various categories such as Acara, Vyavahara, Prayascitta and others, but they do so inconsistently. Some discuss Acara but do not discuss Vyavahara, as is the case with \"Parasara-Smriti\" for instance, while some solely discuss Vyavahara.\n\nĀcāra (आचार) literally means \"good behavior, custom\". It refers to the normative behavior and practices of a community, conventions and behaviors that enable a society and various individuals therein to function.\n\nVyavahāra (व्यवहार) literally means \"judicial procedure, process, practice, conduct\". The due process, honesty in testimony, considering various sides, was justified by Dharmashastra authors as a form of Vedic sacrifice, failure of the due process was declared to be a sin.\n\nThe Vyavahara sections of Dharma texts included chapters on duties of a king, court system, judges and witnesses, judicial process, crimes and penance or punishment. However, the discussions and procedures in different Dharmasutra and Dharmashastra texts diverge significantly.\n\nSome Dharmaśāstra texts such as that attributed to Brihaspati, are almost entirely Vyavahāra-related texts. These were probably composed in the common era, around or after 5th-century of 1st millennium.\n\nPrāyaścitta (प्रायश्चित्त) literally means \"atonement, expiation, penance\". Prāyaścittas are asserted by the Dharmasutra and Dharmashastra texts as an alternative to incarceration and punishment, and a means of expiating bad conduct or sin such as adultery by a married person. Thus, in the Apastambha text, a willing sexual act between a male and female is subject to penance, while rape is covered by harsher judicial punishments, with a few texts such as Manusmriti suggesting public punishments in extreme cases.\n\nThose texts that discuss Prāyaścitta, states Robert Lingat, debate the intent and thought behind the improper act, and consider penance appropriate when the \"effect\" had to be balanced, but \"cause\" was unclear. The roots of this theory are found in the Brahmana layer of text in the Samaveda.\n\nThe Dharmasutras and Dharmasastras attracted secondary works called commentaries (Bhashya) would typically interpret and explain the text of interest, accept or reject the ideas along with reasons why.\nAnother category of secondary literature derived from the Dharmasutras and Dharmasastras were the digests (\"nibandhas\", sometimes spelled \"nibhandas\"). These arose primarily because of the conflict and disagreements on a particular subject across the various Dharma texts. These digests attempted to reconcile, bridge or suggest a compromise guideline to the numerous disagreements in the primary texts, however the digests in themselves disagreed with each other even on basic principles. Geographically, the medieval era digest writers came from many different parts of India, such as Assam, Bengal, Bihar, Gujarat, Kashmir, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh. The oldest surviving digest on Dharma texts is \"Krityakalpataru\", from early 12th-century, by Lakshmidhara of Kannauj in north India, belonging to the Varanasi school.\n\nThe digests were generally arranged by topic, referred to many different Dharmasastras for their contents. They would identify an idea or rule, add their comments, then cite contents of different Dharma texts to support or explain their view.\n\nA few notable historic digests on Dharmasastras were written by women. These include Lakshmidevi's \"Vivadachandra\" and Mahadevi Dhiramati's \"Danavakyavali\". Lakshmidevi, state West and Bühler, gives a latitudinarian views and widest interpretation to \"Yajnavalkya Smriti\", but her views were not widely adopted by male legal scholars of her time. The scholarly works of Lakshmidevi were also published with the pen name \"Balambhatta\", and are now considered classics in legal theories on inheritance and property rights, particularly for women.\n\nThe Mimamsa school of Hindu philosophy developed textual hermeneutics, theories on language and interpretation of Dharma, ideas which contributed to the Dharmasutras and Dharmasastras. The Vedanga fields of grammar and linguistics – Vyakarana and Nirukta – were the other significant contributors to the Dharma-text genre.\n\nMimamsa literally means the \"desire to think\", states Donald Davis, and in colloquial historical context \"how to think, interpret things, and the meaning of texts\". In the early portions of the Vedas, the focus was largely on the rituals; in the later portions, largely on philosophical speculations and the spiritual liberation (moksha) of the individual. The Dharma-texts, over time and each in its own way, attempted to present their theories on rules and duties of individuals from the perspective of a society, using the insights of hermeneutics and on language developed by Mimamsa and Vedanga. The Nyaya school of Hindu philosophy, and its insights into the theories on logic and reason, contributed to the development of and disagreements between the Dharmasastra texts, and the term \"Nyaya\" came to mean \"justice\".\n\nDharmaśāstras played an influential role in modern era colonial India history, when they were used as the basis for the law of the land for all non-Muslims (Hindus, Jains, Buddhists, Sikhs).\n\nIn 18th century, the earliest British of the East India Company acted as agents of the Mughal emperor. As the British colonial rule took over the political and administrative powers in India, it was faced with various state responsibilities such as legislative and judiciary functions. The East India Company, and later the British Crown, sought profits for its British shareholders through trade as well as sought to maintain effective political control with minimal military engagement. The administration pursued a path of least resistance, relying upon co-opted local intermediaries that were mostly Muslims and some Hindus in various princely states. The British exercised power by avoiding interference and adapting to law practices as explained by the local intermediaries. The colonial policy on the system of personal laws for India, for example, was expressed by Governor-General Hastings in 1772 as follows,\n\nFor Muslims of India, the Sharia or the religious law for Muslims was readily available in al-Hidaya and Fatawa-i Alamgiri written under the sponsorship of Aurangzeb. For Hindus and other non-Muslims such as Buddhists, Sikhs, Jains, Parsis and Tribal people, this information was unavailable. The British colonial officials extracted from the Dharmaśāstra, the legal code to apply on non-Muslims for the purposes of colonial administration.\n\nThe Dharmashastra-derived laws for non-Muslim Indians were dissolved after India gained independence, but Indian Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act of 1937 continued to be the personal and family law for Indian Muslims. For non-Muslims, a non-religious uniform civil code was passed by Indian parliament in the 1950s, and amended by its elected governments thereafter, which has since then applied to all non-Muslim Indians.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25810795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25810795", "title": "Discovery Family", "text": "Discovery Family\n\nDiscovery Family is an American pay television channel owned by Discovery, Inc. with a minority ownership held by Hasbro.\n\nThe network was first launched on October 7, 1996 as Discovery Kids Channel, a spin-off of Discovery Channel that featured science, nature and adventure-themed programs aimed towards children ages 6-11. In April 2009, Hasbro announced a joint venture with Discovery, Inc. to relaunch Discovery Kids as The Hub (later Hub Network) on October 10, 2010; Hasbro handled programming while Discovery handled distribution and advertising sales. The Hub was intended to be a general, youth-oriented network with a \"diverse\" lineup, primarily featuring programming adapted from Hasbro franchises (such as \"Transformers\", its board games, \"My Little Pony\", \"Pound Puppies\" and \"Littlest Pet Shop\") along with other family-oriented programs such as sitcom reruns and films.\n\nOn September 25, 2014, following reports earlier in the year that Hub Network president Margaret Loesch would step down by the end of the year, Discovery acquired 10% of Hasbro's stake in the network, and replaced Loesch with Henry Schleiff, who leads sister networks such as Destination America and Investigation Discovery. On October 13, 2014, Hub Network was re-branded as Discovery Family to which Hasbro remains a minority partner and programs the network's daytime lineup with children's programs carried over from Hub Network, while its prime-time lineup was replaced with reruns of non-fiction programs from Discovery Channel's library, including science and nature programs.\n\nAs of February 2015, approximately 69,513,000 American households (59.7% of households with television) receive Discovery Family.\n\nDiscovery Communications launched Discovery Kids Channel on October 7, 1996, as part of a suite of four new digital cable channels that included Discovery Travel & Living, Discovery Civilization, and Science Channel. Upon its launch, the network primarily offered adventure, nature, and science-themed programs aimed towards a children's audience between ages 6 and 11. Marjorie Kaplan, the network's senior vice president, explained that the creation of Discovery Kids was influenced primarily by kids who were watching its parent network's programming together with their parents. From 1996 until 2000, Discovery Kids was carried by only a select few cable television providers. By late 2001, the channel was carried in at least 15 million homes. In September 2001, a Canadian version of Discovery Kids was launched in partnership with Corus Entertainment.\n\nIn December 2001, Discovery Kids announced a partnership with NBC, in which it would produce a new Saturday morning block for the network known as \"Discovery Kids on NBC\", beginning in September 2002. The block, which replaced a teen-oriented block consisting only of sitcoms, featured programming that met the U.S. Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) educational programming guidelines, including new original series (such as the reality television series \"Endurance\"), existing Discovery Kids programming, along with children's spin-offs of programs from sister networks, such as Animal Planet and Discovery Channel.\n\nWith the launch of the new block, Discovery Kids also branched out into animated programming with the premieres of \"Kenny the Shark\" and \"Tutenstein\". In March 2006, Discovery declined to renew its contract with NBC for its Saturday morning block, citing a desire to focus exclusively on the Discovery Kids cable channel. Since the launch of the NBC block, Discovery Kids had grown its cable carriage to over 43 million homes. NBC would replace the Discovery Kids block with Qubo in September 2006.\n\nOn April 30, 2009, toy manufacturer and multimedia company Hasbro announced that it would be forming a joint venture with Discovery Communications to relaunch Discovery Kids as a new family-oriented television channel. Under the arrangement, Discovery would be in charge of handling advertising sales and distribution for the new channel while Hasbro would be involved in acquiring and producing programming. While the network planned to maintain educational series (including those carried over from Discovery Kids), plans called for new original programs based off Hasbro-owned franchises such as \"G.I. Joe\", \"My Little Pony\", \"Transformers\" and game shows adapted from its board game brands.\n\nIn January 2010, Discovery and Hasbro announced that the new network would be known as The Hub; two months later, the companies announced that The Hub would be launched on October 10, 2010. The network planned to continue targeting Discovery Kids' main demographic of children aged 2-14 (a market which staff felt was being abandoned by its competitors such as Nickelodeon and Disney Channel in favor of tweens) but also planned to feature a prime-time block with family-oriented programming. Veteran television executive and the network's president and chief executive officer Margaret Loesch stated that The Hub's goal was to be \"vibrant\" and \"diverse\" in its programming and that the channel would not purely be a marketing vehicle for Hasbro products. The network's original imaging was developed by Troika Design Group and built around an emblem nicknamed the \"hubble\" – which was designed to embody a \"catalyst of action and imagination\". The final logo design was the result of a number of drafts by Troika designers, some of which had incorporated typography similar to Hasbro's logo.\n\nTo promote the launch of The Hub, sneak previews of shows slated to air on the channel such as \"Cosmic Quantum Ray\", \"The Twisted Whiskers Show\" and \"Family Game Night\" aired on Science Channel, Animal Planet and TLC respectively. The Hub was finally launched on its launching date October 10, 2010, with \"The Twisted Whiskers Show\" being the first program to air followed by an episode of \"Dennis and Gnasher\" and \"Cosmic Quantum Ray\". The Hub's launch programming would include the game show \"Family Game Night\", animated television series \"Pound Puppies\", \"\" – a new animated entry in the \"My Little Pony\" franchise developed by Lauren Faust and \"Deltora Quest\" alongside reruns of the Jim Henson series \"Fraggle Rock\" and the preschool-oriented programs \"Animal Mechanicals\" and \"The WotWots\".\n\nIn a June 2011 debt filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Discovery Communications indicated that the channel may be worth less than previously believed, based on low viewership figures. The management of The Hub subsequently underwent a fair value analysis of the channel. A Discovery Communications spokesperson considered the action to be \"a pro-forma accounting exercise\", and noted that Discovery felt \"very positive, and encouraged by The Hub's early days' performance, and ability to grow its audience in the future.\"\n\nIn March 2013, The Hub picked up its first work from POW! Entertainment, \"Stan Lee's Mighty 7\", an animated pilot film to be aired in early 2014. The network also began to phase in an amended branding as the Hub Network. In late 2013, Hub Network introduced an updated logo, and a new imaging campaign, \"Making Family Fun\", which was developed by the Los Angeles-based agency Oishii Creative.\n\nOn June 12, 2014, it was reported that Margaret Loesch would step down from her role as Hub Network president and CEO by the end of the year. On September 17, 2014, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that Discovery Communications was preparing to acquire a controlling stake in Hub Network from Hasbro and then retool it as Discovery Family. Along with Discovery's CFO Andrew Warren, Hasbro staff acknowledged that increasing competition in the children's media landscape – especially by subscription video-on-demand services such as Netflix – had an effect on the overall performance of the network and Hasbro's original content. As it was majority-owned by a competitor, other major toy companies such as Mattel refused to purchase advertising time on Hub Network, affecting its ability to air advertising that targeted its main audience; by 2014, the network had made only $9 million per year. Discovery staff was also unable to display a full commitment to Hub Network's operation, due to factors such as the troubled launch of the Oprah Winfrey Network. Believing that they had overvalued its stake in the venture, Hasbro decided to cede the operation of the network to Discovery so it could focus more on content and its core toy business.\n\nDiscovery and Hasbro publicly announced the planned re-branding on September 25, 2014, Hasbro's CEO Brian Goldner explained that Discovery Family would be the \"next chapter\" in its joint venture with Discovery, \"[combining] highly rated award-winning storytelling around Hasbro's brands and Discovery's most popular non-fiction shows that appeal to both children and families alike.\" Hub Network was re-launched as Discovery Family on October 13, 2014 – just over four years since the original launch of The Hub. With these changes, Discovery Communications now holds a 60% stake in the joint venture; Hasbro continues to hold a 40% stake in Discovery Family, and continues to program the network's daytime lineup with children's programming. Following the re-launch, the network's primetime lineup was replaced by reruns of family-oriented factual programming from Discovery Channel's library. Henry Schleiff, who leads sister networks such as Destination America and Investigation Discovery, leads the re-launched network, with Tom Cosgrove (who previously served as CEO of Discovery Channel and Science) as general manager.\n\nIn re-launching Hub Network, Discovery executives noted that there would be a larger emphasis on programming of interest to both children and their parents; Warren argued that since ABC Family had become, in his opinion, aimed towards teenage girls, there was a gap in the broadcasting industry for a new, family-oriented network. With these shifts in the network's operation, it was announced on October 7, 2014 that \"\" – a sequel to \"Transformers: Prime\" that had been scheduled to premiere on Hub Network, would instead air on Cartoon Network. Hasbro Studios president Stephen Davis felt that Cartoon Network was a more appropriate home for a \"Transformers\" series due to its male-oriented demographics, describing Hub Network's lineup as being \"traditionally skewed towards girls\". Other recent \"Transformers\" animated series preceding the original launch of The Hub also aired on Cartoon Network. Davis remarked that Hasbro was still \"100% committed\" to its joint venture with Discovery. Despite the move for \"Robots in Disguise\", fellow Hub Network \"Transformers\" series \"\" would remain on Discovery Family for its third season.\n\nThe majority of Discovery Family's daytime programs are animated and live-action series tied to media franchises owned by Hasbro itself, with newer series produced through the Hasbro Studios division, such as \"Pound Puppies\" and \"Transformers: Rescue Bots\". As the Hub Network, it also previously aired game shows tied to Hasbro's board games, such as \"Family Game Night\". Following the relaunch as Discovery Family, the remainder of its lineup was replaced with family-oriented science and nature-related programs from its sister network Discovery Channel such as \"Africa\", \"Extreme Engineering: Big Reveals\", \"Flying Wild Alaska\" and \"Time Warp\".\n\nOne of the network's most noteworthy series has been \"My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic\", an animated series developed and first produced by Lauren Faust which is associated with the recent reboot of Hasbro's \"My Little Pony\" franchise. The series not only became The Hub's highest-rated program within its target demographic of young girls, but attracted an unexpectedly significant cult following . \n\nThe network has also acquired new series unrelated to Hasbro properties, including \"The Aquabats! Super Show!\", \"Dan Vs.\", \"Majors & Minors\", \"\" and \"SheZow\", while four of its programs, \"Strawberry Shortcake's Berry Bitty Adventures\", \"The Twisted Whiskers Show\", \"Maryoku Yummy\" and \"\", came from properties of American Greetings.\n\nDuring its years as the Hub Network, the channel also aired reruns of other outside series, such as \"Fraggle Rock\" and \"\", a collection of various Warner Bros. Animation series, such as \"Batman Beyond\", \"\", \"\", \"Animaniacs\", and \"Tiny Toon Adventures\", a few former Fox Kids shows such as \"Goosebumps\" and \"\", and various off-network sitcoms (at the end of the Hub Network's run, these included \"Blossom\", \"Step by Step\" and \"Sister, Sister\"); \"Blossom\", the only sitcom on Discovery Family's schedule, returned for a time in 2016. A limited amount of original Discovery Kids programming, such as \"Adventure Camp\" and \"Flight 29 Down\", remained on the lineup upon its launch as The Hub.\n\nDiscovery Family operates one feed nationally, and does not operate a timeshift feed for the west coast. A 1080i high-definition simulcast of the network was introduced alongside its re-launch as The Hub, with Dish Network, Verizon FiOS, and AT&T U-verse as the first to carry the HD feed.\n\nOn March 31, 2016, the pan-EMEA version of Discovery World was re-launched, as a regional version of Discovery Family.\n\nOn September 14, 2017, a French version was launched in France.\n"}
{"id": "23155924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23155924", "title": "Ember (company)", "text": "Ember (company)\n\nEmber was an American company based in Boston, Massachusetts, USA, which is now owned by Silicon Labs. Ember had a radio development centre in Cambridge, England, and distributors worldwide. It developed ZigBee wireless networking technology that enabled companies involved in energy technologies to help make buildings and homes smarter, consume less energy, and operate more efficiently. The low-power wireless technology can be embedded into a wide variety of devices to be part of a self-organizing mesh network. All Ember products conform to IEEE 802.15.4-2003 standards.\n\nEmber was founded in 2001 by Andrew Wheeler and Robert Poor. Both were students at MIT when they founded Ember with $3 million in seed funding led by Polaris Venture Partners with DFJ New England, Stata Venture Partners, and Bob Metcalfe. The company began by making mesh networking software for other companies' microchips and has since evolved to manufacturing ZigBee compliant chips itself. In 2003 Ember released its first chip, the EM2420 which was fully compliant with IEEE 802.15.4-2003 standards. Since then, Ember has released the EM260 ZigBee network co-processor and the EM250, ZigBee system-on-chip (SoC), and EmberZNet ZigBee Software in 2005. In 2007, the EmberZNet PRO was launched to provide software that supports the ZigBee PRO Feature Set. The Smart Energy Suite and new versions of ZigBee Development Tools came out in 2008. In 2009 Ember released its third generation chips, the EM300 series.\n\nIn May, 2012, Ember was acquired by Silicon Labs.\n\nEmber produces Zigbee chips, software and development tools.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20847818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20847818", "title": "Erlanger v New Sombrero Phosphate Co", "text": "Erlanger v New Sombrero Phosphate Co\n\nErlanger v New Sombrero Phosphate Co (1878) 3 App Cas 1218 is a landmark English contract law, restitution and UK company law case. It concerned rescission for misrepresentation and how the impossibility of counter restitution may be a bar to rescission. It is also an important illustration of how promoters of a company stand in a fiduciary relationship to subscribers.\n\nFrédéric Émile d'Erlanger was a Parisian banker. He bought the lease of the Anguilla island of Sombrero for phosphate mining for £55,000. He then set up the New Sombrero Phosphate Co. Eight days after incorporation, he sold the island to the company for £110,000 through a nominee. One of the directors was the Lord Mayor of London, who himself was independent of the syndicate that formed the company. Two other directors were abroad, and the others were mere puppet directors of Erlanger. The board, which was effectively Erlanger, ratified the sale of the lease. Erlanger, through promotion and advertising, got many members of the public to invest in the company.\n\nAfter eight months, the public investors found out the fact that Erlanger (and his syndicate) had bought the island at half the price the company (now with their money) had paid for it. The New Sombrero Phosphate Co sued for rescission based on non-disclosure, if they gave back the mine and an account of profits, or for the difference.\n\nThe House of Lords unanimously held that promoters of a company stand in a fiduciary relationship to investors, meaning they have a duty of disclosure. Further, they held, by majority (Lord Cairns LC dissenting), that the contract could be rescinded, and that rescission was not barred by laches.\n\nLord Blackburn decided that delay did not bar rescission. As a general \"condition to a rescission there must be a \"restitutio in integrum\".\" There was a question over this, since phosphate had been mined, and it was not so easy to put the phosphate back. He observed it would \"be obviously unjust that a person who has been in possession of property under the contract which he seeks to repudiate should be allowed to throw that back on the other party’s hands without accounting for any benefit he may have derived from the use of the property… [or] making compensation for that deterioration.\" In this case, however, adequate compensate could be paid. So there was no impossibility in counter restitution. His judgment ran as follows.\n\nLord Penzance, Lord Hatherley, Lord O'Hagan, Lord Selborne and Lord Gordon concurred.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58132772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58132772", "title": "Ethics Matters", "text": "Ethics Matters\n\nThe Ethics Matters is a TV series on applied ethics and political philosophy, aired on ABC television in Australia. All episodes are also available online. The series was awarded the Media Prize of the Australasian Association of Philosophy in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40567064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40567064", "title": "European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters", "text": "European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters\n\nThe European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters is a 1959 Council of Europe mutual legal assistance treaty. It has been ratified by all 47 member states of the Council of Europe.\n\nThe parties to the Convention agree to offer each other \"the widest measure of mutual assistance\" in investigating crimes, procuring evidence, and in prosecuting criminal suspects. The Convention specifies the requirements that requests for legal assistance and letters rogatory from the \"requesting state\" to the \"requested state\" have to meet. The Convention also sets out rules for the enforcement of such letters rogatory by the authorities of the requested state.\n\nThe Convention was concluded in Strasbourg, France, on 20 April 1959 and entered into force on 12 June 1962. In 2009, San Marino became the 47th and final member state of the Council of Europe to ratify the Convention, making it one of the few universal Conventions amongst member states of the Council. The Convention has also been ratified by Chile, Israel, and South Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "14130428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14130428", "title": "Gerald Long", "text": "Gerald Long\n\nGerald Long (born July 9, 1944), is a rare Republican member of the traditionally Democratic Long political dynasty in the U.S. state of Louisiana. Specifically, he is a third cousin of the late Governors Huey Pierce Long, Jr., and Earl Kemp Long.\n\nLong was elected on October 20, 2007, to the Louisiana State Senate District 31, which includes Grant and Natchitoches parishes and parts of Rapides, Red River, Sabine, and Winn parishes in the north central portion and western portion of the state. Long and former State Representative Rick Nowlin are the first two Republicans since Reconstruction to represent Natchitoches Parish in the Louisiana legislature. Nowlin was subsequently defeated in a revised districting plan in 2011 but rebounded the next year as the first elected president of Natchitoches Parish.\n\nAfter he won his third Senate term in 2015 without opposition, Long's colleagues elected him as Louisiana State Senate President Pro Tempore.\n\nGerald Long is the only Republican Long family member holding high office in Louisiana. Most Longites remained in the Democratic Party over the years. Another exception was the late Secretary of State W. Fox McKeithen, who switched parties and won four statewide elections as a Republican. Fox McKeithen's father, the late Governor John McKeithen, was a leading Long figure in the 1960s and 1970s, but the McKeithens were not relatives of the Longs.\n\nLong and his twin brother, Carroll Long, were the last of eight sons born to Reuben Ray Long (1900–1966) and the former Ruby Smith (1906–1984). Ruby Smith's brother, P.K. Smith, later an automobile dealer in Winnfield, was a member of the Louisiana House from Winn Parish from 1960 to 1964. P.K. Smith's son, Mike Smith, served twelve years in the Louisiana State Senate as a Democrat from 1996 to 2008. Term-limited, Mike Smith preceded his cousin, Gerald Long, in the state Senate.\n\nReuben Long was originally a Winn Parish sharecropper. Long's paternal grandparents were Thomas Jefferson Long (1861–1948) and the former Mary Ella Wright (1864–1902). Gillis William Long, a former U.S. representative of Louisiana's 8th congressional district, since disbanded, was also a paternal grandson of Thomas Jefferson Long and hence Gerald Long's first cousin. An older brother of Gerald Long, Jimmy D. Long, served in the Louisiana House of Representatives from 1968 to 2000 as a Democrat from Natchitoches. In that capacity, Jimmy Long became known as a leading legislative authority on education, an area which would also become important in Gerald Long's career as an educator and a motivational speaker. Another brother is Dr. William Jackson \"Bill\" Long (born 1940), a former planning commission executive in Alexandria, the seat of Rapides Parish, who was the publisher of \"The Louisiana Business Journal\" and a former weekly newspaper in Pineville known as the \"Red River Journal\". Bill Long also owned Sunbelt Research Corporation. He ran unsuccessfully for lieutenant governor in 1983. Gerald Long was a distant cousin of former Pineville Mayor Floyd W. Smith, Jr. (1932–2010), whose mother was a Long. Floyd Smith spent his later years near his native Winnfield in Winn Parish.\n\nThough he is often cited as a resident of Winnfield, Gerald Long is listed to vote in Natchitoches Parish, according to the office of Louisiana Secretary of State Tom Schedler.\n\nIn the summer of 1966, Long married the former Rose Marie Landry (September 16, 1947 – April 30, 2017), a native of Gueydan in Vermilion Parish, the daughter of Andy and Leontine V. Landry, a French-speaking couple in Acadiana. After graduation in 1965 from Gueydan High School, Rose entered Northwestern State University, where she met Gerald, who is three years her senior. Wherever the couple lived, Rose was active in Bible studies. She was a founding member of the Crisis Pregnancy Center in Rogers, Arkansas, a founding board member and first director of Life Choices in Ruston, and a board member and president of Women’s Resource Center in Natchitoches. She was a member of the First Baptist Church of Natchitoches. Gerald and Rose mentored countless students and coaches for more than eighteen years through the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. A prayer warrior, she formerly chaired the Governor’s Prayer Breakfast Committee and sat on the Louisiana Baptist Moral and Social Concerns Committee. She chaired the \"Louisiana Legends\" selection committee for Louisiana Public Broadcasting. Mrs. Long died of an 11-month fight with brain cancer. Services were held on May 4, 2017, at Prather Coliseum on the NSU campus.\n\nThere are three Long children: Andrea Phillips, her husband, Gregg, of Ruston, and their sons, Josh, Sam, Jacob, and Caleb; a daughter, Pam Jordan, her husband, Wes, of Shreveport, and their sons Drew, Will, and John; and a son, Richard Gerald Long, his wife, Sheralyn of Baton Rouge, and their children, Nasby, Jude, and Ruby.\n\nLike his brothers, Long was educated in the Winn Parish public schools. In 1962, he graduated from Winnfield Senior High School and entered Northwestern State University in Natchitoches on a football scholarship. He obtained his Bachelor of Science degree in education in 1966, the year that his father died. For the next four years, Long (1) taught at Houma Junior High School at Houma in Terrebonne Parish in south Louisiana and (2) taught and coached at Leesville High School in Leesville in Vernon Parish in western Louisiana.\n\nLong left teaching to become an insurance agent, a representative of the State Farm Company. He is a lifetime member of the President’s Club, which is earned by fewer than 2 percent of insurance agents nationally. While in the insurance business, Long was for nine years a volunteer for the Fellowship of Christian Athletes at Northwestern State University, a national organization devoted to college, high school, and junior-high students. FCA attempts to instill moral and spiritual values in young people. In July 1999, Long retired from business to serve full-time as the FCA representative for Rapides, Grant, Winn, Natchitoches, Sabine, and five other parishes. \nLong has spoken before schools, civic organizations, churches, and senior citizens organizations. He has also been an interim Southern Baptist pastor for four churches in the Natchitoches area. He is considered both a fiscal and social conservative.\n\nIn April, 2018, Long was one of 10 senators who voted against criminalizing sexual abuse of animals. Despite Long's opposition, the bill passed with 25 votes in favor of the ban.\n\nIn the 2007 campaign, Long defeated the Democratic State Representative Thomas Taylor Townsend, a nephew and law partner of former State Senator Donald G. Kelly of Natchitoches. Townsend had unseated Jimmy Long in the 1999 nonpartisan blanket primary for the Louisiana House. He did not seek a third term in the House but instead ran for the Senate seat vacated by Long's cousin, Mike Smith, a Winnfield businessman. Long procured 20,609 votes (54 percent) to Townsend's 17,699 (46 percent). Long won five of the six parishes in the district, having lost only in Natchitoches, the home of both candidates. He even won in Red River Parish, one of only two North Louisiana parishes that did not support the successful Republican gubernatorial candidate, Bobby Jindal, in the October 20 primary.\n\nLong was elected without opposition in 2011 to a second term in the state Senate. In May 2012, he indicated in an interview with \"The Piney Woods Journal\" in Winnfield that he is considering a gubernatorial bid of his own in 2015, when Bobby Jindal was prohibited from seeking a third consecutive term. However, he never sought the governorship. In that interview Long criticized a bill submitted by then State Senator Elbert Guillory, an African-American Democrat from Opelousas who later switched parties. Gillory's proposed legislation would have frozen cost of living adjustments to state retirees until an overhaul of the pension system is established. Long, a member of the Senate Retirement Committee said that the Guillory plan is \"a really bad bill\" and if implemented could mean that retirees might never obtain a COLA.\n\nIn 2013, Long introduced legislation to provide tax incentives to encourage the younger generation of farm families and loggers to remain in business after their parents reach retirement age. Such family businesses, Long noted, are often passed down to the upcoming generation.\n"}
{"id": "54801052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54801052", "title": "Google's Ideological Echo Chamber", "text": "Google's Ideological Echo Chamber\n\n\"Google's Ideological Echo Chamber\", commonly referred to as the Google memo, is an internal memo, dated July 2017, by United States-based Google engineer James Damore () about Google's culture and diversity policies. The memo and Google's subsequent dismissal of Damore in August 2017 became a subject of interest for the media.\n\nThe company fired Damore for violation of the company's code of conduct. Damore filed a complaint with the National Labor Relations Board, but later withdrew this complaint. A lawyer with the NLRB found his firing to be proper; however such a decision is not legally binding. After withdrawing this complaint, Damore filed a class action lawsuit, retaining the services of attorney Harmeet Dhillon, alleging that Google was discriminating against conservatives, whites and Asians, and men.\n\nGoogle invited James Damore to apply for employment while in the Harvard systems biology PhD program. After employment he was spurred to write the memo by a Google diversity program he attended, whose rhetoric he described as largely \"shaming and 'no, you can't say that, that's sexist. The memo was written on a flight to China after organizers of internal meetings about Google's practices on diversity and inclusion solicited feedback.\n\nCalling the culture at Google an \"ideological echo chamber\", the memo states that while discrimination exists, it is extreme to ascribe all disparities to oppression, and it is authoritarian to try to correct disparities through reverse discrimination. Instead, it argues that male/female disparities can be partly explained by biological differences. Damore said that those differences include women generally having a stronger interest in people rather than things, and tending to be more social, artistic, and prone to neuroticism (a higher-order personality trait). Damore's memorandum also suggests ways to adapt the tech workplace to those differences to increase women's representation and comfort, without resorting to discrimination.\n\nThe memo is dated July 2017 and was originally shared on an internal mailing list. It was later updated with a preface affirming the author's opposition to workplace sexism and stereotyping. On August 5, a version of the memo (omitting sources and graphs) was published by Gizmodo. The memo's publication resulted in controversy across social media, and in public criticism of the memo and its author from some Google employees. According to \"Wired\", Google's internal forums showed some support for Damore, who said he received private thanks from employees who were afraid to come forward.\n\nDamore was fired remotely by Google on August 7, 2017. The same day, prior to being fired, Damore filed a complaint with the National Labor Relations Board (case no. 32-CA-203891). The complaint is marked as \"8(a)(1) Coercive Statements (Threats, Promises of Benefits, etc.)\". A subsequent statement from Google asserted that its executives were unaware of the complaint when they fired Damore; it is illegal to fire an employee in retaliation of an NLRB complaint. Following his firing, Damore announced he would pursue legal action against Google.\n\nGoogle's VP of Diversity, Danielle Brown, responded to the memo on August 8: \"Part of building an open, inclusive environment means fostering a culture in which those with alternative views, including different political views, feel safe sharing their opinions. But that discourse needs to work alongside the principles of equal employment found in our Code of Conduct, policies, and anti-discrimination laws\". Google's CEO Sundar Pichai wrote a note to Google employees, supporting Brown's formal response, and adding that much of the document was fair to debate. His explanation read \"to suggest a group of our colleagues have traits that make them less biologically suited to that work is offensive and not OK ... At the same time, there are co-workers who are questioning whether they can safely express their views in the workplace (especially those with a minority viewpoint). They too feel under threat, and that is also not OK.\" Unauthorized ads criticizing Pichai and Google for the firing were put up shortly after. Damore characterized the response by Google executives as having \"shamed\" him for his views. CNN described the fallout as \"perhaps the biggest setback to what has been a foundational premise for [Google] employees: the freedom to speak up about anything and everything\".\n\nDamore gave interviews to \"Bloomberg Technology\" and to the YouTube channels of Canadian professor Jordan Peterson and podcaster Stefan Molyneux. Damore stated that he wanted his first interviews to be with media who were not hostile. He wrote an op-ed in \"The Wall Street Journal\", detailing the history of the memo and Google's reaction, followed by interviews for \"Reason\" magazine, Reddit's \"IAmA\" section, CNN, CNBC, \"Business Insider\", Joe Rogan, Dave Rubin, and political commentator Ben Shapiro.\n\nIn response to the memo, Google's CEO planned an internal \"town hall\" meeting, fielding questions from employees on inclusivity. The meeting was cancelled a short time before it was due to start, over safety concerns as \"our Dory questions appeared externally this afternoon, and on some websites, Googlers are now being named personally\". Outlets found to be posting these names, with pictures, included 4chan, \"Breitbart News\", and Milo Yiannopoulos's blog. Danielle Brown, Google's VP for diversity, was harassed online, and temporarily disabled her Twitter account.\n\nDamore withdrew his complaint with the National Labor Relations Board before the board released any official findings. However, shortly before the withdrawal, an internal NLRB memo found that his firing was legal. The memo, which was not released publicly until February 2018, said that while the law shielded him from being fired solely for criticizing Google, it did not protect discriminatory statements, that his memo's \"statements regarding biological differences between the sexes were so harmful, discriminatory, and disruptive as to be unprotected\", and that these \"discriminatory statements\", not his criticisms of Google, were the reason for his firing.\n\nAfter withdrawing his complaint with the National Labor Relations Board, Damore and another ex-Google employee instead shifted focus to a class action lawsuit accusing Google of various forms of discrimination against conservatives, white people, and men. Another engineer, Tim Chevalier, later filed a lawsuit against Google claiming that he was terminated in part for criticizing Damore's memo on Google's internal message boards.\n\nResponses from scientists who study gender and psychology reflected the controversial nature of the science Damore cited.\n\nSome commentators in the academic community said Damore had understood the science correctly, such as Debra W. Soh, a sexual neuroscientist at York University in Toronto; Jordan Peterson, professor of Psychology at the University of Toronto; Lee Jussim, a professor of social psychology at Rutgers University; and Geoffrey Miller, an evolutionary psychology professor at University of New Mexico. David P. Schmitt, former professor of psychology at Bradley University, said that the memo was right about average group differences, but one could not use it to judge individuals.\n\nOthers said that he had got the science wrong and relied on data that was suspect, outdated, irrelevant, or otherwise flawed; these included Gina Rippon, chair of cognitive brain imaging at Aston University; evolutionary biologist Suzanne Sadedin; Rosalind Barnett, a psychologist at Brandeis University, and Caryl Rivers, a professor of journalism at Boston University.\n\nJournalistic coverage of the science behind the memo reflected these concerns; Angela Saini said that Damore failed to understand the research he cited, while John Horgan criticized the track record of evolutionary psychology and behavioral genetics. The socialist Owen Jones said that the memo was \"guff dressed up with pseudo-scientific jargon\" and cited a former Google employee saying that it failed to show the desired qualities of an engineer.\n\nPrior to his interview with Damore, Steve Kovach interviewed a female Google employee for \"Business Insider\" who said she objected to the memo, saying it lumped all women together, and that it came across as a personal attack. \"Business Insider\" also reported that several women were preparing to leave Google by interviewing for other jobs. Reporter Oliver Staley focused on the claim in the memo that \"men are more competitive than women\" for innate biological reasons. In an article for \"Quartz\", he pointed to a 2009 study by a team of economists which found evidence against this. Within Google, the memo sparked discussions among staff, some of whom believe they were disciplined or fired for their comments supporting diversity or for criticizing Damore's beliefs.\n\nIn addition to Sheryl Sandberg, who linked to scientific counterarguments, a number of other women in technology condemned the memorandum, including Megan Smith, a former Google vice president. Susan Wojcicki, CEO of YouTube, wrote an editorial in which she described feeling devastated about the potential effect of the memo on young women. Laurie Leshin, president of the Worcester Polytechnic Institute, said that she was heartened by the backlash against the memo, which gave her hope that things were changing. Kara Swisher of \"Recode\" criticized the memo as sexist; Cynthia B. Lee, a computer science lecturer at Stanford University stated that there is ample evidence for bias in tech and that correcting this was more important than whether biological differences might account for a proportion of the numerical imbalances in Google and in technology.\n\nCathy Young in \"USA Today\" said that while the memo had legitimate points, it probably overstates things, while Google's reaction to the memo was harmful since it fed into arguments that men are oppressed in modern workplaces. Libertarian author Megan McArdle, writing for \"Bloomberg View\", said that Damore's claims about differing levels of interest between the sexes reflected her own experiences.\n\nChristina Cauterucci of \"Slate\" magazine drew parallels between arguments from Damore's memo and those of men's rights activists.\n\nUC Hastings legal scholar Joan C. Williams expressed concerns about the prescriptive language used by some diversity training programs and recommended that diversity initiatives be phrased in problem-solving terms.\n\nYuki Noguchi, a reporter for NPR, said that Damore's firing has raised questions regarding the limits of free speech in the workplace. First Amendment free speech protections usually do not extend into the workplace, as the First Amendment restricts government action but not the actions of private employers, and employers have a duty to protect their employees against a hostile work environment.\n\nSeveral employment law experts noted that while Damore could challenge his firing in court, his potential case would be weak and Google would arguably have several defensible reasons for firing him; had Google not made a substantive response to his memo, that could have been cited as evidence of a \"hostile work environment\" in lawsuits against Google. Additionally, they argued that the memo could indicate that Damore would be unable to fairly assess or supervise the work of female colleagues. Jim Edwards of \"Business Insider\" argued that Damore did not have a free speech case for being fired.\n\nGoogle's reaction to the memo and its firing of Damore were criticized by several cultural commentators, including Margaret Wente of \"The Globe and Mail\", Erick Erickson, a conservative writer for RedState, David Brooks of \"The New York Times\", and Clive Crook of \"Bloomberg View\".\n\nOthers objected to the intensity of the broader response to the memo in the media and across the internet, such as CNN's Kirsten Powers., Conor Friedersdorf of \"The Atlantic\" and Jesse Singal, writing in \"The Boston Globe\".\n\nPeter Singer, a philosopher best known for utilitarianism, drew attention to the seriousness of Damore's citations but added, \"There are also grounds for questioning some of this research\". Regarding Google's firing of Damore, Singer stated \"it isn't necessary to decide which side is right, but only whether Damore's view is one that a Google employee should be permitted to express. I think it is.\"\n\nA Harvard-Harris Poll survey showed that 55% of those polled said Google was wrong to fire Damore, including 61% of Republicans, 56% of independents and 50% of Democrats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18523057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18523057", "title": "Indian Telegraph Act, 1885", "text": "Indian Telegraph Act, 1885\n\nThe Indian Telegraph Act, 1883 is the enabling legislation in India which governs the use of wired and wireless telegraphy, telephones, teletype, radio communications and digital data communications. It gives the Government of India exclusive jurisdiction and privileges for establishing, maintaining, operating, licensing and oversight of all forms of wired and wireless communications within Indian territory. It also authorizes government law enforcement agencies to monitor/intercept communications and tap phone lines under conditions defined within the Indian Constitution. The act came into force on October 1, 1885. Since that time, numerous amendments have been passed to update the act to respond to changes in technology.\n\nThe Indian Telegraph Act, passed in 1883, was intended to give the Central Government power to establish telegraph lines on private as well as public property. At the time the Act was conceived, India was still under the rule of the British Raj. Telegraph was first installed in 1851 and a trans-India telegraph was completed three years later in 1854. The telegraph had become, in the intervening thirty years, an important tool for British dominion over India by quelling rebellions and consolidating information. It thus was important for the British to control of telegraphy and infrastructure across the subcontinent.\n\nIndian laws do not allow disclosure of information pertaining to court authorised interception and communications data.\n\"“Section 5 (2) of the Indian Telegraph Act 1885 – read with rule 419 (A) of Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules 2007 obliges telecommunications service providers to maintain extreme secrecy in matters concerning lawful interception. Further, under Rule 25(4) of the IT (Procedure and Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring and Decryption of Information) Rules, 2009 (Interception Rules) and Rule 11 of the IT (Procedure and Safeguards for Monitoring and Collecting Traffic Data or Information) Rules, 2009 (the ‘Traffic Data Rules’), ‘strict confidentiality shall be maintained’ in respect of directions for lawful interception, monitoring, decryption or collection of data traffic,”\"\n\nThe ownership and operation of satellite communications systems and amateur radio equipment is strictly regulated in India.\n\nSatellite phones have to either be purchased in India from an authorized distributor or can be imported into India after receiving permission from the Department of Telecommunications (DoT).\nUse of Thuraya & Iridium satellite phones and infrastructure is illegal in India.\n\nPassengers importing satellite telephone as baggage shall be required to declare the same to the Customs on arrival at immigration and customs checkpoints. Circular No.37 / 2010-Customs states that \"satellite phone declared to Customs shall be allowed clearance subject to production of permission for use from DoT, Government of India.\" (...) \"Satellite phones imported for use in India without a valid permission of DoT may be detained and appropriate action in accordance with the law may be initiated. \"\n\nIndian media reports mention that National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) has capability to detect, intercept and record phone communications using land and satellite-based communications link monitoring systems. Scientists at Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) have cracked GEO-Mobile Radio Interface GMR-1 and GMR-2 encryption algorithms. NTRO and ISRO can access archived data from Technology Experiment Satellite(TES), Cartosat-2A and Cartosat-2B besides two Radar Imaging Satellites namely RISAT-1 & RISAT-2.\n\nAmateur radio equipment can only be imported and operated in India with approval from Wireless and Planning and Coordination Wing (WPC) of the DoT. Indian amateur radio licence and VU- call-sign is mandatory for operating any category of amateur radio equipment within Indian territory.\nIndian amateur radio exams can only be taken by Indian citizens. Foreign passport holders can apply for reciprocal Indian licences based upon a valid amateur radio call-sign from their country of residence.\nAmateur Station Operator's Certificate and licences always bear mention of location of transmitting equipment. Portable and mobile amateur radio stations require explicit permission from WPC.\nAmateur radio operators from United States of America do not have automatic reciprocity in India. Use of a FCC call-sign is prohibited by law. \nOwnership of amateur radio equipment and station operation on Indian territory of a US FCC call-sign obtained through ARRL Volunteer Examiner Coordinators (VEC) examination is illegal.\n\nUse of any category of radio equipment for plane-spotting requires permission from Wireless Planning & Coordination (WPC) wing of the DoT.\nSignal acquisition of any category within the radio spectrum outside of public licence-free broadcast frequencies needs approval from Wireless Planning & Coordination (WPC) wing of the DoT. Reception of radio traffic from Government or law-enforcement and defence organisations is strictly forbidden.\n\nImport and operation of radio scanners or radio communications receivers capable of listening to HF VHF UHF and satellite aircraft or maritime radio frequencies is tolerated if user has an appropriate amateur/maritime/aircraft radio licence.\n\nAmateur radio in India\n\nAmateur radio call-signs of India\n"}
{"id": "9426153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9426153", "title": "Insurance law", "text": "Insurance law\n\nInsurance law is the practice of law surrounding insurance, including insurance policies and claims. It can be broadly broken into three categories - regulation of the business of insurance; regulation of the content of insurance policies, especially with regard to consumer policies; and regulation of claim \nhandling.\n\nThe earliest form of insurance is probably marine insurance, although forms of mutuality (group self-insurance) existed before that. Marine insurance originated with the merchants of the Hanseatic league and the financiers of Lombardy in the 12th and 13th centuries, recorded in the name of Lombard Street in the City of London, the oldest trading insurance market. In those early days, insurance was intrinsically coupled with the expansion of mercantilism, and exploration (and exploitation) of new sources of gold, silver, spices, furs and other precious goods - including slaves - from the New World. For these merchant adventurers, insurance was the \"means whereof it comes to pass that upon the loss or perishing of any ship there followed not the undoing of any man, but the loss lighteth rather easily upon many than upon a few... whereby all merchants, especially those of the younger sort, are allured to venture more willingly and more freely.\"\n\nThe expansion of English maritime trade made London the centre of an insurance market that, by the 18th century, was the largest in the world. Underwriters sat in bars, or newly fashionable coffee-shops such as that run by Edward Lloyd on Lombard Street, considering the details of proposed mercantile \"adventures\" and indicating the extent to which they would share upon the risks entailed by writing their \"scratch\" or signature upon the documents shown to them.\n\nAt the same time, eighteenth-century judge William Murray, Lord Mansfield, was developing the substantive law of insurance to an extent where it has largely remained unchanged to the present day - at least insofar as concerns commercial, non-consumer business - in the common-law jurisdictions. Mansfield drew from \"foreign authorities\" and \"intelligent merchants\"\n\n\"Those leading principles which may be considered the common law of the sea, and the common law of merchants, which he found prevailing across the commercial world, and to which every question of insurance was easily referrable. Hence the great celebrity of his judgments, and hence the respect they command in foreign countries\".\n\nBy the 19th century membership of Lloyd's was regulated and in 1871, the Lloyd's Act was passed, establishing the corporation of Lloyd's to act as a market place for members, or \"Names\". And in the early part of the twentieth century, the collective body of general insurance law was codified in 1904 into the Marine Insurance Act 1906, with the result that, since that date, marine and non-marine insurance law have diverged, although fundamentally based on the same original principles.\n\nCommon law jurisdictions in former members of the British empire, including the United States, Canada, India, South Africa, and Australia ultimately originate with the law of England and Wales. What distinguishes common law jurisdictions from their civil law counterparts is the concept of judge-made law and the principle of stare decisis - the idea, at its simplest, that courts are bound by the previous decisions of courts of the same or higher status. In the insurance law context, this meant that the decisions of early commercial judges such as Mansfield, Lord Eldon and Buller bound, or, outside England and Wales, were at the least highly persuasive to, their successors considering similar questions of law.\n\nAt common law, the defining concept of a contract of commercial insurance is of a transfer of risk freely negotiated between counterparties of similar bargaining power, equally deserving (or not) of the courts' protection. The underwriter has the advantage, by dint of drafting the policy terms, of delineating the precise boundaries of cover. The prospective insured has the equal and opposite advantage of knowing the precise risk proposed to be insured in better detail than the underwriter can ever achieve. Central to English commercial insurance decisions, therefore, are the linked principles that the underwriter is bound to the terms of his policy; and that the risk is as it has been described to him, and that nothing material to his decision to insure it has been concealed or misrepresented to him.\n\nIn civil law countries insurance has typically been more closely linked to the protection of the vulnerable, rather than as a device to encourage entrepreneurialism by the spreading of risk. Civil law jurisdictions - in very general terms - tend to regulate the content of the insurance agreement more closely, and more in the favour of the insured, than in common law jurisdictions, where the insurer is rather better protected from the possibility that the risk for which it has accepted a premium may be greater than that for which it had bargained. As a result, most legal systems worldwide apply common-law principles to the adjudication of commercial insurance disputes, whereby it is accepted that the insurer and the insured are more-or-less equal partners in the division of the economic burden of risk.\n\nMost, and until 2005 all, common law jurisdictions require the insured to have an insurable interest in the subject matter of the insurance. An insurable interest is that legal or equitable relationship between the insured and the subject matter of the insurance, separate from the existence of the insurance relationship, by which the insured would be prejudiced by the occurrence of the event insured against, or conversely would take a benefit from its non-occurrence. Insurable interest was long held to be morally necessary in insurance contracts to distinguish them, as enforceable contracts, from unenforceable gambling agreements (binding \"in honour\" only) and to quell the practice, in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, of taking out life policies upon the lives of strangers. The requirement for insurable interest was removed in non-marine English law, possibly inadvertently, by the provisions of the Gambling Act 2005. It remains a requirement in marine insurance law and other common law systems, however; and few systems of law will allow an insured to recover in respect of an event that has not caused the insured a genuine loss, whether the insurable interest doctrine is relied upon, or whether, as in common law systems, the courts rely upon the principle of indemnity to hold that an insured may not recover more than his true loss.\n\nThe doctrine of uberrimae fides - utmost good faith - is present in the insurance law of all common law systems. An insurance contract is a contract of utmost good faith. The most important expression of that principle, under the doctrine as it has been interpreted in England, is that the prospective insured must accurately disclose to the insurer everything that he knows and that is or would be material to the reasonable insurer. Something is material if it would influence a prudent insurer in determining whether to write a risk, and if so upon what terms. If the insurer is not told everything material about the risk, or if a material misrepresentation is made, the insurer may avoid (or \"rescind\") the policy, i.e. the insurer may treat the policy as having been void from inception, returning the premium paid. Reinsurance contracts (between reinsurers and insurers/cedents) require the highest level of utmost good faith, and such utmost good faith is considered the foundation of reinsurance. In order to make reinsurance affordable, a reinsurer cannot duplicate costly insurer underwriting and claim handling costs, and must rely on an insurer’s absolute transparency and candor. In return, a reinsurer must appropriately investigate and reimburse an insurer’s good faith claim payments, following the fortunes of the cedent.\n\nIn commercial contracts generally, a warranty is a contractual term, breach of which gives right to damages alone; whereas a condition is a subjectivity of the contract, such that if the condition is not satisfied, the contract will not bind. By contrast, a warranty of a fact or state of affairs in an insurance contract, once breached, discharges the insurer from liability under the contract from the moment of breach; while breach of a mere condition gives rise to a claim in damages alone.\n\nInsurance regulation that governs the business of insurance is typically aimed at assuring the solvency of insurance companies. Thus, this type of regulation governs capitalization, reserve policies, rates and various other \"back office\" processes.\n\nMember States of the European Union each have their own insurance regulators. However, the E.U. regulation sets a harmonised prudential regime throughout the whole Union. As they are submitted to harmonised prudential regulation, and in consistency with the European Treaty (according to which any legal or natural person who is a citizen of a Union member State is free to establish him-, her- or itself, or to provide services, anywhere within the European Union), an insurer licensed in and regulated by e.g. the United Kingdom's financial services regulators, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority, may establish a branch in, and/ or provide cross-border insurance coverage (through a process known as \"free provision of services\") into, any other of the member States without being regulated by those States' regulators. Provision of cross-border services in this manner is known as \"passporting\".\n\nThe insurance sector went through a full circle of phases from being unregulated to completely regulated and then currently being partly deregulated. It is governed by a number of acts. The first statute in India to regulate the life insurance business was the Indian Life Assurance Companies Act, 1912. The Insurance Act of 1938 was the first legislation governing all forms of insurance to provide strict state control over insurance business. Life insurance in India was completely nationalized on January 19, 1956, through the Life Insurance Corporation Act. All 245 insurance companies operating then in the country were merged into one entity, the Life Insurance Corporation of India.\n\nThe General Insurance Business Act of 1972 was enacted to nationalise the about 100 general insurance companies then and subsequently merging them into four companies. All the companies were amalgamated into National Insurance, New India Assurance, Oriental Insurance and United India Insurance, which were headquartered in each of the four metropolitan cities.\n\nUntil 1999, there were no private insurance companies in India. The government then introduced the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act in 1999, thereby de-regulating the insurance sector and allowing private companies. Furthermore, foreign investment was also allowed and capped at 26% holding in the Indian insurance companies. In 2015 the limit of FDI in insurance sector has been raised to 49% subject to certain conditions.\n\nIn 2006, the Actuaries Act was passed by parliament to give the profession statutory status on par with Chartered Accountants, Notaries, Cost & Works Accountants, Advocates, Architects and Company Secretaries. A minimum capital of 80 million( 400 Crore) is required by legislation to set up an insurance business.\n\n\nAs a preliminary matter, insurance companies are generally required to follow all of the same laws and regulations as any other type of business. This would include zoning and land use, wage and hour laws, tax laws, and securities regulations. There are also other regulations that insurers must also follow. Regulation of insurance companies is generally applied at State level and the degree of regulation varies markedly between States.\n\nRegulation of the insurance industry began in the United States in the 1940s, through several United States Supreme Court rulings. The first ruling on insurance had taken place in 1868 (in the \"Paul v. Virginia\" ruling), with the Supreme Court ruling that insurance policy contracts were not in themselves commercial contracts and that insurance was not subject to federal regulation. This \"judicial accident\", as it has been called, influenced the development of state-level insurance regulation. This stance did not change until 1944 (in the \"United States v. South-Eastern Underwriters Association\" ruling ), when the Supreme Court upheld a ruling stating that policies were commercial, and thus were regulatable as other similar contracts were.\n\nIn the United States each state typically has a statute creating an administrative agency. These state agencies are typically called the Department of Insurance, or some similar name, and the head official is the Insurance Commissioner, or a similar titled officer. The agency then creates a group of administrative regulations to govern insurance companies that are domiciled in, or do business in the state. In the United States regulation of insurance companies is almost exclusively conducted by the several states and their insurance departments. The federal government has explicitly exempted insurance from federal regulation in most cases.\n\nIn the case that an insurer declares bankruptcy, many countries operate independent services and regulation to ensure as little financial hardship is incurred as possible (National Association of Insurance Commissioners operates such a service in the United States ).\n\nIn the United States and other relatively highly regulated jurisdictions, the scope of regulation extends beyond the prudential oversight of insurance companies and their capital adequacy, and include such matters as ensuring that the policy holder is protected against bad faith claims on the insurer's part, that premiums are not unduly high (or fixed), and that contracts and policies issued meet a minimum standard. A bad faith action may constitute several possibilities; the insurer denies a claim that seems valid in the contract or policy, the insurer refuses to pay out for an unreasonable amount of time, the insurer lays the burden of proof on the insured - often in the case where the claim is unprovable. Other issues of insurance law may arise when price fixing occurs between insurers, creating an unfair competitive environment for consumers. A notable example of this is where Zurich Financial Services - along with several other insurers - inflated policy prices in an anti-competitive fashion. If an insurer is found to be guilty of fraud or deception, they can be fined either by regulatory bodies, or in a lawsuit by the insured or surrounding party. In more severe cases, or if the party has had a series of complaints or rulings, the insurer's license may be revoked or suspended. It should be noted that bad faith actions are exceedingly rare outside the United States. Even within the U.S. the full rigor of the doctrine is limited to certain states such as California.\n\nEvery developed sovereign state regulates the provision of insurance in different ways. Some regulate all insurance activity taking place within the particular jurisdiction, but allow their citizens to purchase insurance \"offshore\". Others restrict the extent to which their citizens may contract with non-locally regulated insurers. In consequence, a complicated muddle has developed in which many international insurers provide insurance coverage on an unlicensed or \"non-admitted\" basis with little or no knowledge of whether the particular jurisdiction in or into which cover is provided is one that prohibits the provision of insurance cover or the doing of insurance business without a licence.\n\n"}
{"id": "8889088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8889088", "title": "International Accounting Standards Board", "text": "International Accounting Standards Board\n\nThe International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) is the independent, accounting standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation.\n\nThe IASB was founded on April 1, 2001, as the successor to\nthe International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC). It is responsible for developing International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), previously known as International Accounting Standards (IAS) and promoting the use and application of these standards.\n\nOn December 31, 1920, The International Accounting Standards Foundation (IASF) was incorporated as a tax-exempt organization in the U.S. state of Delaware. On February 6, 2001, the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation was also incorporated as a tax-exempt organization in Delaware. The IFRS Foundation is an independent, not-for-profit organisation. Its primary mission is to develop, in the public interest, a single set of high-quality, understandable, enforceable and globally accepted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) based upon clearly articulated principles.\n\nIFRS are developed by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the independent standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation. The IASB assumed accounting standard-setting responsibilities from its predecessor body, the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC), on March 1, 2001. This was the culmination of a restructuring based on the recommendations of the report \"Recommendations on Shaping IASC for the Future\".\n\nThe IASB forms part the three-tier structure employed by the IFRS Foundation and is responsible for setting the IFRS and related technical activities. The IASB is overseen by the Trustees of the IFRS Foundation, responsible for the organisation's governance, the appointment of IASB members and funding. The IFRS Foundation is publicly accountable to a Monitoring Board of capital market authorities.\n\nThe IASB originally had 13 full-time Board members, each with one vote. They are selected as a group of experts with a mix of experience of standard-setting, preparing and using accounts, and academic work. At their January 2009 meeting, the Trustees of the Foundation concluded the first part of the second Constitution Review, announcing the creation of a Monitoring Board and the expansion of the IASB to 16 members and giving more consideration to the geographical composition of the IASB.\n\nThe IFRS Interpretations Committee has 15 members. Its brief is to provide timely guidance on issues that arise in practice.\n\nA unanimous vote is not necessary in order for the publication of a Standard, exposure draft, or final \"IFRIC\" Interpretation. The Board's 2008 Due Process manual stated that approval by nine of the members is required.\n\nAs of July 2014, the members included:\n\n\nFormer IASB members include James J. Leisenring, Robert P. Garnett, Mary Barth, David Tweedie, Gilbert Gélard, Warren McGregor, and Tatsumi Yamada.\n\nOn July 1, 2011, Hans Hoogervorst succeeded David Tweedie as Chairman. David Tweedie had served as the Board's Chairman since its creation in 2001.\n\nThe IASB Handbook describes the consultative arrangements of the IASB. The Board also publishes a brief guide on how standards are developed.\n\nThe IFRS Foundation raises funds for the operation of the IASB. Most contributors are banks and other companies which use or have an interest in promoting international standards. In 2008, American companies gave £2.4 million, more than those of any other country. However, contributions fell in the wake of the financial crisis of 2007–2010, and a shortfall was reported in 2010. Academics such as Oxford professor Karthik Ramanna have criticized this arrangement as facilitating regulatory capture.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48315263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48315263", "title": "International Centre for Tax and Development", "text": "International Centre for Tax and Development\n\nThe International Centre for Tax and Development (ICTD) is a research centre based at the Institute of Development Studies, and funded by the UK's Department for International Development (DFID) and the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation. Founded in 2010 with close to £6 million in funding, its mission is to generate knowledge that will help developing countries to mobilise domestic resources efficiently, effectively, and equitably, and develop tax systems that promote good governance and pro-poor economic growth.\n\nTowards these ends, the ICTD fosters a network of social science researchers from developing countries to engage with taxation issues by funding research, building research capacity through courses and workshops, and collaborating with a range of partners including the African Tax Administration Forum, the Institute for Security Studies, and the Chr. Michelsen Institute. It also aims to disseminate its research evidence to policymakers through its publications and annual centre meetings in Africa. By sharing its research findings, the ICTD aims to widen the public debate on taxation and governance in developing countries.\n\nThe ICTD's research aims to generate knowledge to help develop better tax systems in the developing world, particularly sub-Saharan Africa. To this end, the ICTD conducts and provides grants for research along the following themes:\n\n\nIn order to facilitate better research on tax issues, the ICTD created the Government Revenue Dataset, the most complete and accurate cross-country dataset on government revenue, which importantly separates natural resource revenue from other revenue streams.\n\nICTD has published and supported the publication of many working papers, policy briefings, journal articles, and books. In January 2015, a report written by the ICTD's CEO Mick Moore and ATAF's Nara Monkam was published about how property tax would benefit Africa, which was subsequently discussed by The Africa Report.\n"}
{"id": "38384767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38384767", "title": "Investment Policy Framework for Sustainable Development", "text": "Investment Policy Framework for Sustainable Development\n\nThe Investment Policy Framework for Sustainable Development (IPFSD) is a dynamic document created to help governments formulate sound investment policy, especially international investment agreements (IIAs), that capitalize on foreign direct investment (FDI) for sustainable development. It was prepared by the Division on Investment and Enterprise (DIAE) of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). IPFSD is not a negotiated text or undertaking between States; but rather an initiative by the UNCTAD Secretariat that represents expert guidance while leaving domestic policy makers free to \"adapt and adopt.\" IPFSD is the result of numerous consultations with experts and is intended as a platform to provide for further consultation and discussion with all investment stakeholders. The main objective of the IPFSD is to create a balance between the rights and obligations of States and investors while maintaining attractive investment environments.\n\nIn the face of persistent global economic and social challenges, UNCTAD's IPFSD intends to:\n\n\nTo that end, IPFSD defines eleven critical Core Principles. Flowing from these Core Principles IPFSD provides States guidelines and advice on formulating good investment policy including clause-by-clause options for negotiators to enhance the sustainable development value of domestic investment policies.\n\nIPFSD has grown out of a long precedent of UN Member States calling for sustainable economic development, an understanding that investment is a critical aspect of sustainable development, and UNCTAD's three-and-a-half decades of experience in research and policy analysis.\n\nThe UN Charter promotes, \"inter alia\", the goal of economic and social progress. The UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) call for a Global Partnership for Development. In particular, Goal 8 encourages the further development of an open, rule-based, predictable, non-discriminatory trading and financial system, which includes a commitment to good governance, development, and poverty reduction, both nationally and internationally- concepts that apply equally to the investment system. The “Monterrey Consensus” of the UN Conference on Financing for Development 2002, acknowledges that countries need to continue their efforts to achieve a transparent, stable and predictable investment climate. The UN Johannesburg Plan of Implementation of September 2002, following up on the Rio Declaration, calls for the formulation and elaboration of national strategies for sustainable development, which integrate economic, social and environmental aspects. The 4th UN Conference on Least Developed Countries (LDCs) in May 2011 adopted the Istanbul Programme of Action with a strong focus on productive capacity building and structural transformation as core elements to achieve more robust, balanced, equitable, and inclusive sustainable development. Finally, the 2012 UNCTAD XIII Conference recognized the role of FDI in sustainable development and inclusive growth.\n\nSeveral other international instruments inspired the Core Principles that make up the IPFSD. They comprise, in particular, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Convention on the Establishment of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, the World Bank Guidelines, the UN Global Compact and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and social policy and several WTO-related agreements, including the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the TRIMs Agreement and the Agreement on Government Procurement.\n\nThe IPFSD consists of eleven core principles which aim to guide the investment policy underlying IIAs. Flowing from these core principles, the IPFSD provides States guidelines and advice on formulating good investment policies. The IPFSD proposes clause-by-clause options for negotiators to strengthen the sustainable development aspects of IIAs.\n\nIPFSD also offers an interactive online platform giving stakeholders the opportunity to critically assess policy guidelines and recommend any appropriate changes.\n\nThe eleven core principles of the IPFSD are:\n\nThe national investment policy guidelines translate the core principles for investment policy making into concrete guidelines at the national level, with a view to addressing specific policy changes. \nThese guidelines are designed to ensure that investment policy is coherent with the overarching development strategy of countries, enhance the sustainable development impact of investment and promote responsible investment. The guidelines further aim to balance maximizing sustainable development outcomes while maintaining an attractive investment climate. \nThe national investment policy guidelines targets policy action at three levels:\n\n\nThe IPFSD aims to translate the Core Principles into concrete options for policymakers with a view to addressing today’s investment challenges by providing examples of how to draft IIAs that address sustainable development by strengthening development dimensions of IIAs, balancing the rights and obligations of States and investors, and managing the systematic complexity of the IIA regime. International investment policy must be addressed at three levels.\n\n\nThe IPFSD suggests, clause-by-clause, how the IPFSD's Core Principles can be converted into concrete provisions in an IIA. Governments can choose from these explicit policy options those that best suit their countries’ levels of development and respective policy objectives. Among others these include: adjustments of existing IIA provisions(e.g. making them more sustainable development-friendly through formulations that safeguard policy space and limit State liability); new provisions in IIAs (e.g. to balance investor rights and responsibilities and to promote responsible investment); and the introduction of Special and Differential Treatment (SDT) (e.g. clauses for less-developed Parties to calibrate the level of obligations to the country’s level of development).\n\nSome specific clause-level recommendations include:\n\n\nThe IPFSD embodies the new generation of investment policies that seeks to create a more intricate development strategy that maintains a favorable investment climate. New generation investment policies seek to give investment policy a more prominent place in development strategies. The continuous need to respond to newly emerging challenges and trends make it necessary to review and modify these guidelines.\n\nIPFSD has been designed with the intention of providing immediate technical assistance for the negotiation of investment agreements, while maintaining a dialog between investment policy stakeholders including the international development community, investors, business associations, labor unions, relevant NGOs and interest groups. The result of these ongoing multi-stakeholder consultations will be a dynamic document.\n\nTo that end, in concert with IPFSD, UNCTAD has provided a platform for further consultation and discussion with all investment stakeholders—the Investment Policy Hub which allows investment stakeholders to post comments regarding the content of the IPFSD. The combination then, of IPFSD and the Investment Policy Hub will enable IPFSD to remain a valuable resource for investment policy makers into the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57481949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57481949", "title": "List of largest United States-based law firms", "text": "List of largest United States-based law firms\n\nThis article lists the largest law firms in the United States by total number of attorneys. The table is also sortable by total number of partners, associates, and total revenue. \n\n"}
{"id": "1662768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1662768", "title": "MGM Studios, Inc. v. Grokster, Ltd.", "text": "MGM Studios, Inc. v. Grokster, Ltd.\n\nMGM Studios, Inc. v. Grokster, Ltd., 545 U.S. 913 (2005), is a United States Supreme Court decision in which the Court unanimously held that defendant peer-to-peer file sharing companies Grokster and Streamcast (maker of Morpheus) could be sued for inducing copyright infringement for acts taken in the course of marketing file sharing software. The plaintiffs were a consortium of 28 of the largest entertainment companies (led by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studios).\n\nThe case is frequently characterized as a re-examination of the issues in \"Sony Corp. v. Universal City Studios\". — AKA the \"Betamax case\", a decision that protected VCR manufacturers from liability for contributory infringement. MGM wants makers of file sharing technology held liable for their users' copyright infringements. In \"Sony,\" the court held that technology could not be barred if it was \"capable of substantial noninfringing uses.\"\n\nGrokster came before the Supreme Court having already won in two previous courts. The United States District Court for the Central District of California originally dismissed the case in 2003, citing the Betamax decision. Then a higher court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, upheld the lower court's decision after acknowledging that peer-to-peer (\"P2P\") software has legitimate and legal uses. Sharman Networks' Kazaa file sharing program was originally amongst the defendants, but was dropped because the company is based in Vanuatu.\n\nComputer and Internet technology companies such as Intel, and trade associations including firms such as Yahoo! and Microsoft, filed \"amicus curiae\" briefs in support of the file sharing companies, while the RIAA and MPAA both sided with MGM. Napster filed a brief in support of the petitioner copyright holders. Billionaire Mark Cuban partially financed Grokster's fight before the Supreme Court.\n\nDuring oral argument, the Supreme Court justices appeared divided between the need to protect new technologies and the need to provide remedies against copyright infringement. Justice Antonin Scalia expressed concern that inventors would be chilled from entering the market by the threat of immediate lawsuits. Justice David Souter questioned how the interpretation of the law the plaintiffs argued for would affect devices like copy machines or the iPod.\n\nThe music industry suggested that iPods have a substantial and legitimate commercial use in contrast to Grokster, to which Souter replied, \"I know perfectly well that I can buy a CD and put it on my iPod. But I also know if I can get music without buying it, I'm going to do so.\" On the other hand, the justices seemed troubled at the prospect of ruling that Grokster's alleged business model of actively inducing infringement and then reaping the commercial benefits was shielded from liability. Grokster argued that affirming the Ninth Circuit would only prevent an injunction against future use of the P2P software, while the plaintiffs would still be free to pursue damages in the district court for alleged past wrongful acts. Much of the Court, however, expressed skepticism that Grokster's continuing enterprise could be severable from the consequences of those prior acts.\n\nThe opinion was authored by Justice Souter, who wrote:\nWe hold that one who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright, as shown by clear expression or other affirmative steps taken to foster infringement, is liable for the resulting acts of infringement by third parties.\nConcurring opinions were written by Justice Ginsburg, who was joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justice Kennedy; and by Justice Breyer, joined by Justice Stevens and Justice O'Connor.\n\nWhile the Court unanimously concurred that Grokster could be liable for inducing copyright infringement, there was considerable disagreement over whether the case is substantially different from the \"Sony\" case, and whether the precedent established by \"Sony\" should be modified. On the one hand, Justice Ginsburg, joined by Kennedy and Rehnquist, claim that \"[t]his case differs markedly from Sony\" as there was insufficient evidence of uses which were non-infringing. On the other hand, Justice Breyer, joined by Stevens and O'Connor, claims \"a strong demonstrated need for modifying Sony (or for interpreting Sony's standard more strictly) has not yet been shown,\" primarily because \"the nature of [...] lawfully swapped files is such that it is reasonable to infer quantities of current lawful use roughly approximate to those at issue in \"Sony\".\" These justices concur in the judgment on the narrow ground of Grokster's alleged inducement of its customers to use the product illegally.\n\nRoughly speaking, the Ginsburg concurrence suggests that Grokster would be liable (unprotected by \"Sony\") even absent evidence of inducement. The Breyer concurrence, on the other hand, suggests that Grokster would be protected by \"Sony\" without evidence of inducement. The Souter opinion does not address whether or not \"Sony\" protects Grokster. Thus, neither the view that Grokster is protected nor the view that Grokster is unprotected by \"Sony\" commanded a plurality of the Court.\n\nThe majority of the Justices would have either expanded or contracted the Sony Betamax doctrine; however, the Court as a whole has not chosen to reexamine the Betamax precedent in the decision, being split into three equal groups. Thus the Betamax ruling was reviewed only as necessary to properly detail the issues involved in this case. Instead, a new and—as several critics have contended—ambiguous test has been developed to determine whether the software in question is not protected by the Sony ruling. Briefly stated, it has to be shown that the distributors of the program have advertised and/or otherwise induced its use for copyright infringement; if this intent can be shown, additional contributory aspects may be relevant. For example, MGM et al. had asserted that the defendants' refusal to incorporate protocols that would filter copyrighted materials from the file-sharing network constitutes an intent to promote copyright infringement. In Footnote 12, however, Justice Souter notes that\n\n...in the absence of other evidence of intent, a court would be unable to find contributory infringement liability merely based on a failure to take affirmative steps to prevent infringement, if the device otherwise was capable of substantial noninfringing uses. Such a holding would tread too close to the \"Sony\" safe harbor.\n\nThe decision has been hailed by several SCOTUS correspondents as striking a fair balance between the need to respect the copyrights of artists, and the benefits of allowing and promoting technological innovation. Indeed, the decision does seem to leave sufficient leeway for developers in creating new products, as it establishes guidelines to compliance with existing copyright law, and holds liable the distributors rather than developers for copyright infringement. Conversely, others have criticized the new test for its apparent vagueness, contending that it permits financially powerful organizations such as the RIAA and MPAA to effectively hinder development of new technology by active pursuit of litigation against the developers and distributors.\n\nOn November 7, 2005 Grokster announced that it would no longer offer its peer-to-peer file sharing service. The notice on their website said, \"The United States Supreme Court unanimously confirmed that using this service to trade copyrighted material is illegal. Copying copyrighted motion picture and music files using unauthorized peer-to-peer services is illegal and is prosecuted by copyright owners.\" As part of a lawsuit permitted by the \"MGM Studios v. Grokster Supreme Court\" decision, Grokster was forced to pay $50 million to the music and recording industries.\nAs of December 1, 2016, visiting the Grokster website displays this message: \"Your IP address is (your ip) and has been logged. Don't think you can't get caught. You are not anonymous.\"\n\nStreamcast, however, continued to fight the suit on remand. On September 27, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California granted summary judgment in favor of the plaintiffs on Streamcast's liability for infringement, though Streamcast promised to appeal the decision.\n\nFearing lawsuits similar to \"MGM v. Grokster\", Mark Gorton, the chief executive officer of the firm that produces LimeWire, has said that he plans to stop distributing his file sharing program. He explained this by saying Some people are saying that as long as I don't actively induce infringement, I'm O.K. I don't think it will work out that way...[the Court] has handed a tool to judges that they can declare inducement whenever they want to.\n\nA lawsuit was brought against LimeWire in \"Arista Records LLC v. Lime Group LLC\", which held that Lime Group LLC induced copyright infringement with its P2P file sharing software LimeWire and issued a permanent injunction.\n\nDownloads of the free LimeWire client have now been barred from its official website, with a notice claiming that this is a result of the Arista Records LLC v. Lime Group LLC legal battle, which resulted in the official download of LimeWire now being unavailable, but as of July 21, 2013, the site remains open.\n\n"}
{"id": "870412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870412", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Japan)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Japan)\n\nThe is one of the cabinet level ministries of the Japanese government. It is responsible for the judicial system, correctional services, household, property and corporate registrations, and also serves as the government legal representatives. The ministry also houses the Immigration Bureau. \n\nThe Ministry of Justice was established under the Constitution of the Empire of Japan in 1871 as the .\n\nThe Ministry acquired its present name under the post-war Constitution of Japan in 1952. Its responsibilities include administration of Japan's judicial system and penal system. It represents the Japanese government in litigation, and is also responsible for maintenance of government registration of families, resident aliens, real estate and corporations.\n\nThe Ministry has jurisdiction over the National Bar Examination Commission, the Public Security Examination Commission, and the Public Security Intelligence Agency. Although the Public Prosecutor's Offices are administratively part of the Ministry of Justice, they are independent from the authority of the Minister of Justice.\n\nAt the top of the ministry is the Minister of Justice, a member of the Cabinet, and he or she is chosen by the Prime Minister typically from members of the National Diet.\n\n"}
{"id": "7039015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7039015", "title": "Muhammad Ali Boxing Reform Act", "text": "Muhammad Ali Boxing Reform Act\n\nThe Muhammad Ali Boxing Reform Act, commonly referred to as the Ali Act, is a federal law that was introduced in 1999 and enacted on May 26, 2000 by the 106th Congress to: (1) protect the rights and welfare of boxers; (2) aid state boxing commissions with the oversight of boxing; and (3) increase sportsmanship and integrity within the boxing industry (See 114 Stat. 321(3)(2000)). The Act amends the 1996 Professional Boxing Safety Act by expanding upon legislation against exploitation, conflict of interest, enforcement, as well as additional amendments. The Act was enacted in response to widespread abuse of boxers by means of exploitation, rigged rankings, and rigged matches. \n\nThe United States Congress noted through research that there were a number of problems with the sport of boxing which needed to be changed to ensure the safety and protection of professional boxers. Listed are a number of discoveries made by Congress (see 144 Stat. 322(3) (2000)):\n\n\nThe Act received several criticisms. One criticism was that the Act provides rules but leaves the enforcement of these rules to the state without defined guidelines. Other criticism stems from the belief that Congress has no purpose regulating the boxing industry, especially if it does not regulate any other sport. \n\nIn May 2016, a bill was introduced to Congress by Markwayne Mullin, a politician and former mixed martial artist, to extend the Ali Act to mixed martial arts.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3898531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3898531", "title": "Naked short selling", "text": "Naked short selling\n\nNaked short selling, or naked shorting, is the practice of short-selling a tradable asset of any kind without first borrowing the security or ensuring that the security can be borrowed, as is conventionally done in a short sale. When the seller does not obtain the shares within the required time frame, the result is known as a \"failure to deliver\". The transaction generally remains open until the shares are acquired by the seller, or the seller's broker settles the trade.\n\nShort selling is used to anticipate a price fall, but exposes the seller to the risk of a price rise.\n\nIn 2008, the SEC banned what it called \"abusive naked short selling\" in the United States, as well as some other jurisdictions, as a method of driving down share prices. Failing to deliver shares is legal under certain circumstances, and naked short selling is not \"per se\" illegal. In the United States, naked short selling is covered by various SEC regulations which prohibit the practice.\n\nCritics, including Overstock.com's Patrick M. Byrne, have advocated for stricter regulations against naked short selling. In 2005, \"Regulation SHO\" was enacted; requiring that broker-dealers have grounds to believe that shares will be available for a given stock transaction, and requiring that delivery take place within a limited time period.\n\nAccording to data compiled by the SEC and Bloomberg, naked short selling of the shares of Lehman Brothers may have played a role in the North American markets crisis of 2008.\n\nAs part of its response to the crisis, the SEC issued a temporary order restricting short-selling in the shares of 19 financial firms deemed systemically important, by reinforcing the penalties for failing to deliver the shares in time.\nEffective September 18, 2008, amid claims that aggressive short selling had played a role in the failure of financial giant Lehman Brothers, the SEC extended and expanded the rules to remove exceptions and to cover all companies, including market makers.\n\nA 2014 study by researchers at the University at Buffalo, published in the Journal of Financial Economics, found no evidence that failure to deliver stock \"caused price distortions or the failure of financial firms during the 2008 financial crisis\" and that \"greater FTDs lead to higher liquidity and pricing efficiency, and their impact is similar to our estimate of delivered short sales.\"\n\nSome commentators have contended that despite regulations, naked shorting is widespread and that the SEC regulations are poorly enforced. Its critics have contended that the practice is susceptible to abuse, can be damaging to targeted companies struggling to raise capital, and has led to numerous bankruptcies. However, other commentators have said that the naked shorting issue is a \"devil theory\", not a \"bona fide\" market issue and a waste of regulatory resources.\n\nShort selling is a form of speculation that allows a trader to take a \"negative position\" in a stock of a company. Such a trader first \"borrows\" shares of that stock from their owner (the lender), typically via a bank or a prime broker under the condition that he will return it on demand. Next, the trader sells the borrowed shares and delivers them to the buyer who becomes their new owner. The buyer is typically unaware that the shares have been sold short: his transaction with the trader proceeds just as if the trader owned rather than borrowed the shares. Some time later, the trader closes his short position by purchasing the same number of shares in the market and returning them to the lender.\n\nThe trader's profit is the difference between the sale price and the purchase price of the shares. In contrast to \"going long\" where sale succeeds the purchase, short sale precedes the purchase. Because the seller/borrower is generally required to make a cash deposit equivalent to the sale proceeds, it offers the lender some security.\n\nNaked short selling is a case of short selling without first arranging a borrow. If the stock is in short supply, finding shares to borrow can be difficult. The seller may also decide not to borrow the shares, in some cases because lenders are not available, or because the costs of lending are too high. When shares are not borrowed within the clearing time period and the short-seller does not tender shares to the buyer, the trade is considered to have \"failed to deliver.\" Nevertheless, the trade will continue to sit open or the buyer may be credited the shares by the DTCC until the short-seller either closes out the position or borrows the shares.\n\nIt is difficult to measure how often naked short selling occurs. Fails to deliver are not necessarily indicative of naked shorting, and can result from both \"long\" transactions (stock purchases) and short sales. Naked shorting can be invisible in a liquid market, as long as the short sale is eventually delivered to the buyer. However, if the covers are impossible to find, the trades fail. Fail reports are published regularly by the SEC, and a sudden rise in the number of fails-to-deliver will alert the SEC to the possibility of naked short selling. In some recent cases, it was claimed that the daily activity was larger than all of the available shares, which would normally be unlikely.\n\nThe reasons for naked shorting, and the extent of it, had been disputed for several years before the SEC's 2008 action to prohibit the practice. What is generally recognized is that naked shorting tends to happen when shares are difficult to borrow. Studies have shown that naked short selling also increases with the cost of borrowing .\n\nIn recent years, a number of companies have been accused of using naked shorts in aggressive efforts to drive down share prices, sometimes with no intention of ever delivering the shares. These claims argue that, at least in theory, the practice allows an unlimited number of shares to be sold short. A \"Los Angeles Times\" editorial in July 2008 said that naked short selling \"enables speculators to drive down a company's stock by offering an overwhelming number of shares for sale.\"\n\nThe SEC has stated that naked shorting is sometimes falsely asserted as a reason for a share price decline, when, often, \"the price decrease is a result of the company's poor financial situation rather than the reasons provided by the insiders or promoters.\"\n\nBefore 2008, regulators had generally downplayed the extent of naked shorting in the US. At a North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) conference on naked short selling in November 2005, an official of the New York Stock Exchange stated that NYSE had not found evidence of widespread naked short selling. In 2006, an official of the SEC said that \"While there may be instances of abusive short selling, 99% of all trades in dollar value settle on time without incident.\" Of all those that do not, 85% are resolved within 10 business days and 90% within 20. That means that about 1% of shares that change hands daily, or about $1 billion per day, are subject to delivery failures, although the SEC has stated that \"fails-to-deliver can occur for a number of reasons on both long and short sales,\" and accordingly that they do not necessarily indicate naked short selling.\n\nIn 2008, SEC chairman Christopher Cox said that the SEC \"has zero tolerance for abusive naked short-selling\" while implementing new regulations to prohibit the practice, culminating in the September 2008 action following the failures of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers amidst speculation that naked short selling had played a contributory role. Cox said that \"the rule would be designed to ensure transparency in short-selling in general, beyond the practice of naked short-selling.\"\n\nAs with the prevalence of naked shorting, the effects are contested. The SEC has stated that the practice can be beneficial in enhancing liquidity in difficult-to-borrow shares, while others have suggested that it adds efficiency to the securities lending market. Critics of the practice argue that it is often used for market manipulation, that it can damage companies and even that it threatens the broader markets.\n\nOne complaint about naked shorting from targeted companies is that the practice dilutes a company's shares for as long as unsettled short sales sit open on the books. This has been alleged to create \"phantom\" or \"counterfeit\" shares, sometimes going from trade to trade without connection to any physical shares, and artificially depressing the share price. However, the SEC has disclaimed the existence of counterfeit shares and stated that naked short selling would not increase a company's outstanding shares. Short seller David Rocker contended that failure to deliver securities \"can be done for manipulative purposes to create the impression that the stock is a tight borrow,\" although he said that this should be seen as a failure to deliver \"longs\" rather than \"shorts.\"\n\nRobert J. Shapiro, former undersecretary of commerce for economic affairs, and a consultant to a law firm suing over naked shorting, has claimed that naked short selling has cost investors $100 billion and driven 1,000 companies into the ground.\n\nRichard Fuld, the former CEO of the financial firm Lehman Brothers, during hearings on the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers and bailout of AIG before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform alleged that a host of factors including a crisis of confidence and naked short selling attacks followed by false rumors contributed to the collapse of both Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers. Fuld had been obsessed with short sellers and had even demoted those Lehman executives that dealt with them; he claimed that the short sellers and the rumour mongers had brought down Lehman, although he had no evidence of it. Upon the examination of the issue of whether \"naked short selling\" was in any way a cause of the collapse of Bear Stearns or Lehman, securities experts reached the conclusion that the alleged \"naked short sales\" occurred after the collapse and therefore played no role in it. House committee Chairman Henry Waxman said the committee received thousands of pages of internal documents from Lehman and these documents portray a company in which there was “no accountability for failure\". In July 2008, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission chairman Christopher Cox said there was no \"unbridled naked short selling in financial issues.\"\n\nThe Securities Exchange Act of 1934 stipulates a settlement period up to two business days before a stock needs to be delivered, generally referred to as \"T+2 delivery.\"\n\nThe SEC enacted Regulation SHO in January 2005 to target abusive naked short selling by reducing failure to deliver securities, and by limiting the time in which a broker can permit failures to deliver. In addressing the first, it stated that a broker or dealer may not accept a short sale order without having first borrowed or identified the stock being sold. The rule had the following exemptions:\n\nTo reduce the duration for which fails to deliver are permitted to sit open, the regulation requires broker-dealers to close out open fail-to-deliver positions in threshold securities that have persisted for 13 consecutive settlement days. The SEC, in describing Regulation SHO, stated that failures to deliver shares that persist for an extended period of time \"may result in large delivery obligations where stock settlement occurs.\"\n\nRegulation SHO also created the \"Threshold Security List\", which reported any stock where more than 0.5% of a company's total outstanding shares failed delivery for five consecutive days. A number of companies have appeared on the list, including Krispy Kreme, Martha Stewart Omnimedia and Delta Air Lines. The Motley Fool, an investment website, observes that \"when a stock appears on this list, it is like a red flag waving, stating 'something is wrong here!'\" However, the SEC clarified that appearance on the threshold list \"does not necessarily mean that there has been abusive naked short selling or any impermissible trading in the stock.\"\n\nIn July 2006, the SEC proposed to amend Regulation SHO, to further reduce failures to deliver securities. SEC Chairman Christopher Cox referred to \"the serious problem of abusive naked short sales, which can be used as a tool to drive down a company's stock price\" and that the SEC is \"concerned about the persistent failures to deliver in the market for some securities that may be due to loopholes in Regulation SHO\".\n\nIn June 2007, the SEC voted to remove the grandfather provision that allowed fails-to-deliver that existed before Reg SHO to be exempt from Reg SHO. SEC Chairman Christopher Cox called naked short selling \"a fraud that the commission is bound to prevent and to punish.\" The SEC also said it was considering removing an exemption from the rule for options market makers. Removal of the grandfather provision and naked shorting restrictions generally have been endorsed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.\n\nIn March 2008, SEC Chairman Christopher Cox gave a speech entitled the \"'Naked' Short Selling Anti-Fraud Rule,\" in which he announced new SEC efforts to combat naked short selling. Under the proposal, the SEC would create an antifraud rule targeting those who knowingly deceive brokers about having located securities before engaging in short sales, and who fail to deliver the securities by the delivery date. Cox said the proposal would address concerns about short-selling abuses, particularly in the market for small-cap stocks. Even with the regulation in place, the SEC received hundreds of complaints in 2007 about alleged abuses involving short sales. The SEC estimated that about 1% of shares that changed hands daily, about $1 billion, were subject to delivery failures. SEC Commissioners Paul Atkins and Kathleen Casey expressed support for the crackdown.\n\nIn mid-July 2008, the SEC announced emergency actions to limit the naked short selling of government sponsored enterprises (GSEs), such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, in an effort to limit market volatility of financial stocks. But even with respect to those stocks the SEC soon thereafter announced there would be an exception with regard to market makers. SEC Chairman Cox noted that the emergency order was \"not a response to unbridled naked short selling in financial issues\", saying that \"that has not occurred\". Cox said, \"rather it is intended as a preventative step to help restore market confidence at a time when it is sorely needed.\" Analysts warned of the potential for the creation of price bubbles.\n\nThe emergency actions rule expired August 12, 2008. However, on September 17, 2008, the SEC issued new, more extensive rules against naked shorting, making \"it crystal clear that the SEC has zero tolerance for abusive naked short selling\". Among the new rules is that market makers are no longer given an exception. As a result, options market makers will be treated in the same way as all other market participants, and effectively will be banned from naked short selling.\n\nOn November 4, 2008, voters in South Dakota considered a ballot initiative, \"The South Dakota Small Investor Protection Act\", to end naked short selling in that state. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association of Washington and New York said they would take legal action if the measure passed. The voters defeated the initiative.\n\nIn July 2009, the SEC, under what the Wall Street Journal described as \"intense political pressure,\" made permanent an interim rule that obliges brokerages to promptly buy or borrow securities when executing a short sale. The SEC said that since the fall of 2008, abusive naked short selling had been reduced by 50%, and the number of threshold list securities (equity securities with too many \"fails to deliver\") declined from 582 in July 2008 to 63 in March 2009.\n\nIn January 2010, Mary Schapiro, chairperson of the SEC, testified before the U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission that fails to deliver in equity securities had declined 63.4 percent, while persistent and large fails had declined 80.5 percent.\n\nSeveral international exchanges have either partially or fully restricted the practice of naked short selling of shares. They include Australia's Australian Securities Exchange, India's Securities and Exchange Board, the Netherlands's Euronext Amsterdam, Japan's Tokyo Stock Exchange, and Switzerland's SWX Swiss Exchange. Also Spain's securities regulator CNMV.\n\nIn March 2007, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), which disallowed short sales altogether in 2001 as a result of the Ketan Parekh affair, reintroduced short selling under regulations similar to those developed in the United States. In conjunction with this rule change, SEBI outlawed all naked short selling.\n\nJapan's naked shorting ban started on November 4, 2008, and was originally scheduled to run until July 2009, but was extended through October of that year. Japan's Finance Minister, Shōichi Nakagawa stated, \"We decided (to move up the short-selling ban) as we thought it could be dangerous for the Tokyo stock market if we do not take action immediately.\" Nakagawa added that Japan's Financial Services Agency would be teaming with the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission and Tokyo Stock Exchange to investigate past violations of Japanese regulations on stock short-selling. The ban was subsequently extended through October 2010.\n\nThe Singapore Exchange started to penalize naked short sales with an interim measure in September, 2008. These initial penalties started at $100 per day. In November, they announced plans to increase the fines for failing to complete trades. The new penalties would penalize traders who fail to cover their positions, starting at $1,000 per day. There would also be fines for brokerages who fail to use the exchange's buying-in market to cover their positions, starting at $5,000 per day. The Singapore exchange had stated that the failure to deliver shares inherent in naked short sales threatened market orderliness.\n\nOn May 18, 2010, the German Minister of Finance announced that naked short sales of euro-denominated government bonds, credit default swaps based on those bonds, and shares in Germany's ten leading financial institutions will be prohibited. This ban went into effect that night and was set to expire on March 31, 2011. On May 28, German financial market regulator BaFin announced that this ban would be permanent. The ban is effective July 27, 2010. The International Monetary Fund issued a report in August 2010 saying that the measure succeeded only in impeding the markets. It said the ban \"did relatively little to support the targeted institutions’ underlying stock prices, while liquidity dropped and volatility rose substantially.\" The IMF said there was no strong evidence that stock prices fell because of shorting.\n\nIn August 2011, France, Italy, Spain, Belgium and South Korea temporally banned all short selling in their financial stocks, while Germany pushed for an eurozone-wide ban on naked short selling.\n\nIn 2005, the SEC notified Refco of intent to file an enforcement action against the securities unit of Refco for securities trading violations concerning the shorting of Sedona stock. The SEC sought information related to two former Refco brokers who handled the account of a client, Amro International, which shorted Sedona's stock. No charges had been filed by 2007.\n\nIn December 2006, the SEC sued Gryphon Partners, a hedge fund, for insider trading and naked short-selling involving PIPEs in the unregistered stock of 35 companies. PIPEs are \"private investments in public equities,\" used by companies to raise cash. The naked shorting took place in Canada, where it was legal at the time. Gryphon denied the charges.\n\nIn March 2007, Goldman Sachs was fined $2 million by the SEC for allowing customers to illegally sell shares short prior to secondary public offerings. Naked short-selling was allegedly used by the Goldman clients. The SEC charged Goldman with failing to ensure those clients had ownership of the shares. SEC Chairman Cox said \"That is an important case and it reflects our interest in this area.\"\n\nIn July 2007, Piper Jaffray was fined $150,000 by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Piper violated securities trading rules from January through May 2005, selling shares without borrowing them, and also failing to \"cover short sales in a timely manner\", according to the NYSE. At the time of this fine, the NYSE had levied over $1.9 million in fines for naked short sales over seven regulatory actions.\n\nAlso in July 2007, the American Stock Exchange fined two options market makers for violations of Regulation SHO. SBA Trading was sanctioned for $5 million, and ALA Trading was fined $3 million, which included disgorgement of profits. Both firms and their principals were suspended from association with the exchange for five years. The exchange said the firms used an exemption to Reg. SHO for options market makers to \"impermissibly engage in naked short selling.\"\n\nIn October 2007, the SEC settled charges against New York hedge fund adviser Sandell Asset Management Corp. and three executives of the firm for, among other things, shorting stock without locating shares to borrow. Fines totalling $8 million were imposed, and the firm neither admitted nor denied the charges.\n\nIn October 2008 Lehman Brothers Inc. was fined $250,000 by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) for failing to properly document the ownership of short sales as they occurred, and for failing to annotate an affirmative declaration that shares would be available by the settlement date.\n\nIn April 2010 Goldman Sachs paid $450,000 to settle the SEC's allegations that it had failed to deliver \"approximatedly\" (sic) 86 short sells between early December 2008 and mid-January 2009, and that it had failed to institute adequate controls to prevent the failures. The company neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing.\n\nIn May 2013, lawyers acting for Goldman accidentally released an unredacted document revealing compromising internal discussions regarding naked short selling. e.g. \"Fuck the compliance area – procedures, schmecedures,\"\n\nThe Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (DTCC) has been criticized by the Wall Street Journal for its approach to naked short selling. \nDTCC has been sued with regard to its alleged participation in naked short selling, and the issue of DTCC's possible involvement has been taken up by Senator Robert Bennett and discussed by the NASAA and in articles in the Wall Street Journal and Euromoney. \nThere is no dispute that illegal naked shorting happens; what is in dispute is how much it happens, and to what extent is DTCC to blame. Some companies with falling stocks blame DTCC as the keeper of the system where it happens, and say DTCC turns a blind eye to the problem. Referring to trades that remain unsettled, DTCC's chief spokesman Stuart Goldstein said, \"We're not saying there is no problem, but to suggest the sky is falling might be a bit overdone.\" In July 2007, Senator Bennett suggested on the U.S. Senate floor that the allegations involving DTCC and naked short selling are \"serious enough\" that there should be a hearing on them with DTCC officials by the Senate Banking Committee, and that banking committee chairman Christopher Dodd has expressed a willingness to hold such a hearing.\n\nCritics also contend DTCC has been too secretive with information about where naked shorting is taking place. Ten suits concerning naked short-selling filed against the DTCC were withdrawn or dismissed by May 2005.\n\nA suit by Electronic Trading Group, naming major Wall Street brokerages, was filed in April 2006 and dismissed in December 2007.\n\nTwo separate lawsuits, filed in 2006 and 2007 by NovaStar Financial, Inc. shareholders and Overstock.com, named as defendants ten Wall Street prime brokers. They claimed a scheme to manipulate the companies' stock by allowing naked short selling. A motion to dismiss the Overstock suit was denied in July 2007.\n\nA suit against DTCC by Pet Quarters Inc. was dismissed by a federal court in Arkansas, and upheld by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals in March 2009. Pet Quarters alleged the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.'s stock-borrow program resulted in the creation of nonexistent or phantom stock and contributed to the illegal short selling of the company's shares. The court ruled: \"In short, all the damages that Pet Quarters claims to have suffered stem from activities performed or statements made by the defendants in conformity with the program's Commission approved rules. We conclude that the district court did not err in dismissing the complaint on the basis of preemption.\" Pet Quarters' complaint was almost identical to suits against DTCC brought by Whistler Investments Inc. and Nanopierce Technologies Inc. The suits also challenged DTCC's stock-borrow program, and were dismissed.\n\nA study of trading in initial public offerings by two SEC staff economists, published in April 2007, found that excessive numbers of fails to deliver were not correlated with naked short selling. The authors of the study said that while the findings in the paper specifically concern IPO trading, \"The results presented in this paper also inform a public debate surrounding the role of short selling and fails to deliver in price formation.\"\n\nIn contrast, a study by Leslie Boni in 2004 found correlation between \"strategic delivery failures\" and the cost of borrowing shares. The paper, which looked at a \"unique dataset of the\nentire cross-section of U.S. equities,\" credited the initial recognition of strategic delivery fails to Richard Evans, Chris Geczy, David Musto and Adam Reed, and found its review to provide evidence consistent with their hypothesis that \"market makers strategically fail to deliver shares when borrowing costs are high.\" A recent study by Autore, Boulton, and Braga-Alves examines stock returns around delivery failures between 2005 and 2008 and finds evidence consistent with a positive link between delivery failures and borrowing costs.\n\nAn April 2007 study conducted for Canadian market regulators by Market Regulation Services Inc. found that fails to deliver securities were not a significant problem on the Canadian market, that \"less than 6% of fails resulting from the sale of a security involved short sales\" and that \"fails involving short sales are projected to account for only 0.07% of total short sales.\n\nA Government Accountability Office study, released in June 2009, found that recent SEC rules had apparently reduced abusive short selling, but that the SEC needed to give clearer guidance to the brokerage industry.\n\nThe Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, appointed by Congress to investigate the 2008 financial crisis, makes no reference to naked shorting, or short-selling of financial stocks, in its conclusions.\n\nA study of fails to deliver, published in the Journal of Financial Economics in 2014, found no evidence that FTDs \"caused price distortions or the failure of financial firms during the 2008 financial crisis.\" Researchers studied 1,492 New York Stock Exchange stocks over a 42-month period from 2005 to 2008, and found that \"greater FTDs lead to higher liquidity and pricing efficiency, and their impact is similar to our estimate of delivered short sales.\"\n\nSome journalists have expressed concern about naked short selling, while others contend that naked short selling is not harmful and that its prevalence has been exaggerated by corporate officials seeking to blame external forces for internal problems with their companies. Others have discussed naked short selling as a confusing or bizarre form of trading.\n\nIn June 2007, executives of Universal Express, which had claimed naked shorting of its stock, were sanctioned by a federal court judge for violation of securities laws. Referring to a court ruling against CEO Richard Altomare, New York Times columnist Floyd Norris said: \"In Altomare's view, the issues that bothered the judge are irrelevant. Long and short of it, this is a naked short hallmark case in the making. Or it is proof that it can take a long time for the SEC to stop a fraud.\" Universal Express claimed that 6,000 small companies had been put out of business by naked shorting, which the company said \"the SEC has ignored and condoned.\"\n\nReviewing the SEC's July 2008 emergency order, \"Barron's\" said in an editorial: \"Rather than fixing any of the real problems with the agency and its mission, Cox and his fellow commissioners waved a newspaper and swatted the imaginary fly of naked short-selling. It made a big noise, but there's no dead bug.\" Holman Jenkins of the \"Wall Street Journal\" said the order was \"an exercise in symbolic confidence-building\" and that naked shorting involved technical concerns except for subscribers to a \"devil theory\". \"The Economist\" said the SEC had \"picked the wrong target\", mentioning a study by Arturo Bris of the Swiss International Institute for Management Development who found that trading in the 19 financial stocks became less efficient. The Washington Post expressed approval of the SEC's decision to address a \"frenetic shadow world of postponed promises, borrowed time, obscured paperwork and nail-biting price-watching, usually compressed into a few high-tension days swirling around the decline of a company.\" The Los Angeles Times called the practice of naked short selling \"hard to defend,\" and stated that it was past time the SEC became active in addressing market manipulation.\n\nThe Wall Street Journal said in an editorial in July 2008 that \"the Beltway is shooting the messenger by questioning the price-setting mechanisms for barrels of oil and shares of stock.\" But it said the emergency order to bar naked short selling \"won't do much harm,\" and said \"Critics might say it's a solution to a nonproblem, but the SEC doesn't claim to be solving a problem. The Commission's move is intended to prevent even the possibility that an unscrupulous short seller could drive down the shares of a financial firm with a flood of sell orders that aren't backed by an actual ability to deliver the shares to buyers.\"\n\nIn an article in March 2009 Bloomberg News Service said that the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy may have been prevented by curbs on naked shorting. \"..as many as 32.8 million shares in the company were sold and not delivered to buyers on time as of Sept. 11, according to data compiled by the Securities and Exchange Commission..\"\n\nIn May 2009, the New York Times's chief financial correspondent Floyd Norris reported that naked shorting is \"almost gone.\" He said that delivery failures, where they occur, are quickly corrected.\n\nIn an article published in October 2009, Rolling Stone writer Matt Taibbi contended that Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers were flooded with \"counterfeit stock\" that helped kill both companies. Taibbi said that the two firms got a \"push\" into extinction from \"a flat-out counterfeiting scheme called naked short-selling\". During a May 2010 discussion on the inclusion of 'counterfeiting' in the charges filed against Icelandic bankers, the host Max Keiser speculated that the charge might refer to naked short selling because \"naked short-selling is the same as counterfeiting, in that it is selling something that doesn't exist.\" A 2014 study of fails to deliver, published in the Journal of Financial Economics, which found no evidence that fails contributed to \"price distortions or the failure of financial firms during the 2008 financial crisis.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4700157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4700157", "title": "Passive fire protection", "text": "Passive fire protection\n\nPassive fire protection (PFP) is an integral component of the components of structural fire protection and fire safety in a building. PFP attempts to contain fires or slow the spread, through use of fire-resistant walls, floors, and doors (amongst other examples). PFP systems must comply with the associated listing and approval use and compliance in order to provide the effectiveness expected by building codes.\n\nFire protection in a building, offshore facility or a ship is a system that includes:\n\nThe aim for fire protection systems is typically demonstrated in fire testing the ability to maintain the item or the side to be protected at or below either 140 °C (for walls, floors and electrical circuits required to have a fire-resistance rating) or ca. 550 °C, which is considered the critical temperature for structural steel, above which it is in jeopardy of losing its strength, leading to collapse. This is based, in most countries, on the basic test standards for walls and floors, such as BS 476: Part 22: 1987, BS EN 1364-1: 1999 & BS EN 1364-2: 1999 or ASTM E119. Smaller components, such as fire dampers, fire doors, etc., follow suit in the main intentions of the basic standard for walls and floors. Fire testing involves live fire exposures upwards of 1100 °C, depending on the fire-resistance rating and duration one is after. More items than just fire exposures are typically required to be tested to ensure the survivability of the system under realistic conditions.\n\nTo accomplish these aims, many different types of materials are employed in the design and construction of systems. For instance, common endothermic building materials include calcium silicate board, concrete and gypsum wallboard. During fire testing of concrete floor slabs, water can be seen to boil out of a slab. Gypsum wall board typically loses all its strength during a fire. The use of endothermic materials is established and proven to be sound engineering practice. The chemically bound water inside these materials sublimes. During this process, the unexposed side cannot exceed the boiling point of water. Once the hydrates are spent, the temperature on the unexposed side of an endothermic fire barrier tends to rise rapidly. Too much water can be a problem, however. Concrete slabs that are too wet, will literally explode in a fire, which is why test laboratories insist on measuring water content of concrete and mortar in fire test specimens, before running any fire tests. PFP measures can also include intumescents and ablative materials. The point is, however, that whatever the nature of the materials, they on their own bear no rating. They must be organised into systems, which bear a rating when installed in accordance with certification listings or established catalogues, such as DIN 4102 Part 4 or the Canadian National Building Code.\n\nPassive fire protection measures are intended to contain a fire in the fire compartment of origin, thus limiting the spread of fire and smoke for a limited period of time, as determined the local building code and fire code. Passive fire protection measures, such as firestops, fire walls, and fire doors, are tested to determine the fire-resistance rating of the final assembly, usually expressed in terms of hours of fire resistance (e.g., ⅓, ¾, 1, 1½, 2, 3, 4 hour). A certification listing provides the limitations of the rating.\n\nContrary to active fire protection measures, \"passive\" fire protection means do not typically require electric or electronic activation or a degree of motion. Exceptions to that particular rule of thumb are fire dampers (fire-resistive closures within air ducts, excluding grease ducts) and fire door closers, which \"must\" move, open and shut in order to work, as well as all intumescent products, which swell, thus move, in order to function.\n\nAs the name suggests, passive fire protection remains inactive in the coating system until a fire occurs. There are mainly two types of PFP: intumescent fire protection and vermiculite fire protection. In vermiculite fire protection, the structural steel members are covered with vermiculite materials, mostly a very thick layer. This is a cheaper option as compared to an intumescent one, but is very crude and aesthetically unpleasant. Moreover, if the environment is corrosive in nature, then the vermiculite option is not advisable, as there is the possibility of water seeping into it (because of the porous nature of vermiculite), and there it is difficult to monitor for corrosion. Intumescent fireproofing is a layer of paint which is applied along with the coating system on the structural steel members. The thickness of this intumescent coating is dependent on the steel section used. For calculation of DFT (dry film thickness) a factor called \"Hp\"/\"A\" (heated perimeter divided by cross sectional area), referred to as \"section factor\" and expressed in m, is used. Intumescent coatings are applied as an intermediate coat in a coating system (primer, intermediate, and top/finish coat). Because of the relatively low thickness of this intumescent coating (usually in the 350- to 700-micrometer range), nice finish, and anti-corrosive nature, intumescent coatings are preferred on the basis of aesthetics and performance.\n\nIt should be noted that in the eventuality of a fire, the steel structure will eventually collapse once the steel attains the critical core temperature (around 550 degrees Celsius or 850 degrees Fahrenheit). The PFP system will only delay this by creating a layer of char between the steel and fire. Depending upon the requirement, PFP systems can provide fire ratings in excess of 120 minutes. PFP systems are highly recommended in infrastructure projects as they can save lives and property.\n\nPFP in a building can be described as a group of systems within systems. An installed firestop, for instance, is a system that is based upon a product certification listing. It forms part of a fire-resistance rated wall or floor, and this wall or floor forms part of a fire compartment which forms an integral part of the overall fire safety plan of the building. The building itself, as a whole, can also be seen as a system.\n\n\nThe most important goal of PFP is identical to that of all fire protection: life safety. This is mainly accomplished by maintaining structural integrity for a time during the fire, and limiting the spread of fire and the effects thereof (e.g., heat and smoke). Property protection and continuity of operations are usually secondary objectives in codes. Exceptions include nuclear facilities and marine applications, as evacuation may be more complex or impossible. Nuclear facilities, both buildings and ships, must also ensure the nuclear reactor does not experience a nuclear meltdown. In this case, fixing the reactor may be more important than evacuation for key safety personnel.\n\nExamples of testing that underlies certification listing:\n\nEach of these test procedures have very similar fire endurance regimes and heat transfer limitations. Differences include the hose-stream tests, which are unique to Canada and the United States, whereas Germany includes a very rigorous impact test during the fire for firewalls. Germany is unique in including heat induced expansion and collapse of ferrous cable trays into account for firestops, resulting in the favouring of firestop mortars, which tend to hold the penetrating cable tray in place, whereas \"softseals\", typically made of rockwool and elastomeric toppings, have been demonstrated in testing by Otto Graf institute to be torn open and rendered inoperable when the cable tray expands, pushes in and then collapses. Spin-offs from these basic tests cover closures, firestops and more. Furnace operations, thermocoupling and reporting requirements remain uniform within each country.\n\nIn exterior applications for the offshore and the petroleum sectors, the fire endurance testing uses a , whereas in interior applications, such as office buildings, factories and residential, the fire endurance is based upon experiences gained from burning wood. The interior fire time/temperature curve is referred to as \"ETK\" (Einheitstemperaturzeitkurve = standard time/temperature curve) or the \"building elements\" curve, whereas the high temperature variety is called the hydrocarbon curve as it is based on burning oil and gas products, which burn hotter and faster. The most severe, and most rarely used, of all fire exposure tests is the British \"jetfire\" test, which has been used to some extent in the UK and Norway but is not typically found in common regulations.\n\nTypically, during the construction of buildings, fire protective systems must conform to the requirements of building code that was in effect on the day that the building permit was applied for. Enforcement for compliance with building codes is typically the responsibility of municipal building departments. Once construction is complete, the building must maintain its design basis by remaining in compliance with the current fire code, which is enforced by the fire prevention officers of the municipal fire department. An up-to-date fire protection plan, containing a complete inventory and maintenance details of all fire protection components, including firestops, fireproofing, fire sprinklers, fire detectors, fire alarm systems, fire extinguishers, etc. are typical requirements for demonstration of compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In order to know whether or not one's building is in compliance with fire safety regulations, it is helpful to know what systems one has in place and what their installation and maintenance are based upon.\n\nChanges to fire protection systems or items affecting the structural or fire-integrity or use (occupancy) of a building is subject to regulatory scrutiny. A contemplated change to a facility requires a building permit, or, if the change is very minor, a review by the local fire prevention officer. Such reviews by the Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) also help to prevent potential problems that may not be apparent to a building owner or contractors. Large and very common deficiencies in existing buildings include the disabling of fire door closers through propping the doors open and running rugs through them and perforating fire-resistance rated walls and floors without proper firestopping.\n\nGenerally, one differentiates between \"old\" and \"new\" barrier systems. \"Old\" systems have been tested and verified by governmental authorities including DIBt, the British Standards Institute (BSI) and the National Research Council's Institute for Research in Construction. These organisations each publish in codes and standards, wall and floor assembly details that can be used with generic, standardised components, to achieve quantified fire-resistance ratings. Architects routinely refer to these details in drawings to enable contractors to build passive fire protection barriers of certain ratings. The \"old\" systems are sometimes added to, through testing performed in governmental laboratories such as those maintained by Canada's Institute for Research in Construction, which then publishes the results in Canada's National Building Code (NBC). Germany and the UK, by comparison, publish their \"old\" systems in respective standards, DIN4102 Part 4 (Germany) and BS476 (United Kingdom). \"New\" systems are typically based on certification listings, whereby the installed configuration must comply with the tolerances set out in the certification listing. The United Kingdom is an exception to this, whereby certification, although not testing, is optional.\n\nFire tests in the UK are reported in the form of test results, but contrary to North America and Germany, building authorities do not require written proof that the materials that have been installed on site are actually identical to the materials and products that were used in the test. The test report is also often interpreted by engineers, as the test results are not communicated in the form of uniformly structured listings. In the UK, and other countries which do not require certification, the proof that the manufacturer has not substituted other materials apart from those used in the original testing is based on trust in the ethics or the culpability of the manufacturer. While in North America and in Germany, product certification is the key to the success and legal defensibility of passive fire protection barriers, alternate quality control certifications of specific installation companies and their work is \"available\", though not a legislative or regulatory requirement. Still, the question of how one can be sure, apart from faith in the vendor, that what was tested is identical to that which has been bought and installed is a matter of personal judgment. The most highly publicised example of PFP systems which were not subject of certification and were declared \"inoperable\" by the Authority Having Jurisdiction is the \"Thermo-Lag scandal\", which was brought to light by whistleblower Gerald W. Brown, who notified the Nuclear Regulatory Commission of the inadequacy of fire testing for circuit integrity measures in use in licensed nuclear power plants. This led to a congressional enquiry, significant press coverage and a large amount of remedial work on the part of the industry to mitigate the problem. There is no known case a similar instance for PFP systems which were under the follow-up regime of organisations holding national accreditation for product certification, such as DIBt or Underwriters Laboratories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10423390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10423390", "title": "Philippine Constitutional Commission of 1986", "text": "Philippine Constitutional Commission of 1986\n\nThe Philippine Constitutional Commission of 1986 was the Constitutional convention tasked with drafting the present iteration of the Constitution of the Philippines in 1986.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Resigned\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33185739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33185739", "title": "Political finance", "text": "Political finance\n\nPolitical finance covers all funds that are raised and spent for political purposes. Such purposes include all political contests for voting by citizens, especially the election campaigns for various public offices that are run by parties and candidates. Moreover, all modern democracies operate a variety of permanent party organizations, e.g. the Democratic National Committee and the Republican National Committee in the U.S. or the Conservative Central Office and the Labour headquarters (\"John Smith House\", \"Millbank Tower\") in the U.K. The annual budgets of such organizations will have to be considered as costs of political competition as well. In Europe the allied term \"party finance\" is frequently used. It refers only to funds that are raised and spent in order to influence the outcome of some sort of party competition. Whether to include other political purposes, e.g. public relation campaigns by lobby groups, is still an unresolved issue. Even a limited range of political purposes (campaign and party activity) indicates that the term \"campaign funds\" (used as subject heading in Library of Congress cataloguing) is too narrow to cover all funds that are deployed in the political process.\n\nPolitical expenses can be caused by\n\nMost frequently and in most countries the organizations that raise and spend money for political purposes are parties (headquarters, branches and chapters). Party headquarters spend on public relations, mass media (including billboards), the expertise of consultants and offices. Local party chapters (e.g. constituency or riding associations), which rely on volunteers (party activists), cover telecommunication and mail charges as well as rent and heating for storefront offices, which they use as their centers of political activity.\n\nPolitical revenue may be collected from small donors or individual citizens (\"grassroots fundraising\"), who make small contributions or pay party membership dues; wealthy individuals; organizations including businesses, interest groups, professional organizations and trade unions; assessments of officeholders (called the \"party tax\"); government subsidies; or generally illegal activities including graft, buying access to politicians, offices, honors or titles, extortion of wealthy people and influence peddling). G. M. Gidlund has classified the available options of fund-raising by three categories: Membership, plutocratic and public funding. As the relevance of signed-up party members and their dues can vary among the democracies the terms grassroots fundraising, plutocratic finance and public funding may offer a more adequate general framework.\n\nMany believe that as a normative concept popular government (vulgo democracy) should require that the people at large cover the costs of their democracy. However, this can only be done on a voluntary basis, because all forms of political participation in a democracy are voluntary in principle. At election times many people abstain from voting. Likewise at all times the majority of citizens also abstains from donating to political coffers. Nonetheless, many believe that broad fundraising from small donors is the ideal form of funding. Political fundraisers should try \"to exploit the latent giving power in the general population\" and make every reasonable effort to raise \"significant sums ... collected in small change.\" This is especially true for all democracies with a high standard of living for the majority of their citizens.\n\nPopular financing of politics can be an important source of political revenue (as it is in the U.S. and Canada, the Netherlands and Switzerland). However, it is not a constant and reliable source. The numbers of signed-up party members who pay their dues regularly fluctuates over time wherever democratic parties care to recruit them. Today even the traditional mass-membership parties of the democratic left (Social Democrats or workers' parties) raise less than a quarter of their funds from the grassroots. Collection of small donations depends very much on the current mood of people's emotions towards politics, policies and politicians. A variety of ways are available (nationwide lottteries, direct mail drives, peer, neighborhood or internet solitication, social events at the local level, even yard sales) for grassroots fundraising. Personal (door-to-door or peer group) solicitation was quite frequent in the fifties. Since the 1960s it has been superseded by telethons and computerized mass mailings. In more recent years internet solicitation has played a major role.\n\nIn the old days landed aristocrats and successful entrepreneurs of the ruling classes supplied the funds necessary for democratic politics. Later on, interest groups and others provided money. Although trade unions that funded left-of-center parties were among the suppliers of money, money for campaigns came from a relatively small number of large donors.\n\nIn some cases governing parties have abused their powers by rent-seeking. Some have demanded graft for a license or a favor, others \"ristournes\" (in Quebec) or \"tangenti\" (in Italy) for public procurement. In some times and places, officeholders (including MPs, legislators and councillors) have been expected to pay an 'assessment' on their salaries for political jobs.\n\nAfter World War II, politicians including Luis Muñoz Marín in Puerto Rico, Gerhard Stoltenberg in Germany, Jean Lesage in Quebec and Tage Erlander in Sweden found a way to put \"the costs of democracy\" directly upon the taxpayer.\n\nMost modern democracies (in one way or the other) provide government subsidies for party activity, typically in cash and/or free access to public or private media. India and Switzerland are the most notable exceptions. Public subsidies can be relatively small (as in the UK and USA) or quite generous (as in Sweden, Germany, Israel and Japan), and usually exist side-by-side with private fundraising. Party organizations, parliamentary groups (party caucusses) and candidates are typically the recipients of public support (in cash or kind).\n\nAlthough government subsidies are now common in western democracies, such subsidies remain controversial. Because matching funds and tax credits depend on financial contributions by individual citizens such support is more compatible with participatory democracy than flat grants that do not require specific efforts by the fundraising organizations.\n\nTaxpayers in continental Europe and non-western democracies (like Israel and Japan) provide higher amounts towards party activity than their Anglo-Saxon counterparts. Many party headquarters in the high-subsidy countries cover between 40 and 60 per cent of their annual budget via public grants. Such heavy involvement of the taxpayer calls for a maximum of transparency for political funds.\n\nMany countries have regulated the flow of political funds. Such regulation, the political finance regime, may include bans and limits on certain kinds of income and expenditure, level and distribution of as well as access to direct and indirect public subsidies, transparency of political funds by disclosure and reporting as well as enforcement of rules and sanctions for infringements.Financing of political campaigns have become very controversial, particularly since the era of party reform in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Arguments for restricting the amount of, or banning certain sources for, campaign contributions are usually couched in terms of the public interest in clean politics, but the effects of such restrictions or bans almost invariably are to protect incumbent office holders from serious challenges from aspirants who lack their name recognition or official status. Also, Democrats in the U.S. typically inveigh against the financial advantages of the so-called \"fat cats,\" while Republicans are wary of the war chests possessed by public and private labor unions, especially the former. The Hatch Act was passed in 1940 to forbid political activity by federal government employees, but the rise of the public sector union since 1961 has cemented a tight financial tie between government employees and their primary benefactors, usually Democrats.\n\nBans on political expenditure concern either campaign expenses by non-candidates (\"independent expenditures\", \"third party advertising\") or media time paid for by political contestants. Both types of bans have to strike an adequate balance between two constitutional principles, the equality of opportunities (fairness) and the freedom of expression. Britain applies a spending limit for constituency candidates since 1883. Canada was the first democracy to add campaign limits for national party organizations in 1974 and spending limits for constituency nomination contestants in 2004. The U.S. Supreme Court (in \"Buckley v. Valeo\" 424 U.S. 1 (1976) has struck down spending limits because they interfere with free speech rights under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. In order to be effective all limits require careful monitoring and serious enforcement backed up by adequate sanctions.\n\nAmong the rules, which either restrict or favor specific types of political revenue, incentives to stimulate specific fundraising activities (like tax benefits or matching grants) are still rare. More frequent are contribution limits or outright bans. Many countries ban anonymous donations or contributions from foreign sources. In some democracies even corporate donations for political purposes are illegal. Quite frequently political finance regimes include contribution limits. The maximum donation allowed may differ either by type of donor (individual citizens, legal entities), by recipient (candidate or party) or by purpose to be funded (nomination contest, election campaign, routine operation). In some countries (e.g. Germany) there is no statutory limit on the amount of political contributions, which a person or corporation may give to a party or candidate.\n\nIf rules for transparency of political funds stipulate the disclosure of donors' identity, the public's right to know about financial backers may interfere with the need to protect the privacy of political preferences, the principle of the secret ballot. The practical solution will distinguish between categories of donors and/ or define cut-off points for privacy, e.g. $100 or €10,000. Both ways serve to separate financial contributions as a means of participation from donations as means of buying access or peddling influence. Any disclosure regulation has to identify a person or an institution that is responsible for the transparent flow of funds to and from party coffers and the kind of information, which has to be disclosed timely and accessibly.\n\nThe reporting' of political funds (to be submitted annually and/ or after elections) usually includes various sources of income and specified items of expenditure, e.g. staff and offices, advertisements in print media, radio and TV, campaign material, direct mailing, opinion polling. Effective reporting by parties and candidates depends on the definition of useful categories for the funds raised and spent, the inclusion of data for all spending units as well as the procedure for examination and publication of financial reports. Currently no democracy provides for full transparency of all political funds.\n\nAll political finance regimes require authorities and agencies that are responsible for monitoring, control and enforcement. Legislation has to strike a balance between practical independence of the agency in charge, effective enforcement of the rules for the funding of political competition and adequate implementation of legal stipulations. Global research shows that highly sophisticated rules, over-regulation of some issues and lax implementation of such rules do not lead to best practice.\n\nThe study of political finance was pioneered by James K. Pollock and Loise Overacker. Alexander Heard contributed a groundbreaking analysis for the U.S. International comparison started with Arnold J. Heidenheimer, who also introduced the term 'political finance' to comprise campaign and party funding. Thus he was bridgeing the gap of perception between North America and Western Europe.\n\nHerbert E. Alexander studied the U.S. situation for many decades and edited a couple of comparative volumes. Arthur B. Gunlicks concluded this cycle of comparative studies. Daniel Lowenstein authored publications on legal aspects of campaign finance. The most important early studies on non-US countries were written by Khayyam Z. Paltiel (Canada) and Michael Pinto-Duschinsky (Britain). Between 1963 and 2001 Colin Hughes and Ernest Chaples produced the early articles that covered campaign finance in Australia. More recent contributions to the literature include Marcin Walecki's monograph on Poland, the book by Daniel Smilov and Jurij Toplak on Eastern Europe, as well as Kevin Casas Zamora's comparative analysis of public funding with two case studies from Latin America.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24740", "title": "Political question", "text": "Political question\n\nIn American Constitutional law, the political question doctrine is closely linked to the concept of justiciability, as it comes down to a question of whether or not the court system is an appropriate forum in which to hear the case. This is because the court system only has authority to hear and decide a legal question, not a political question. Legal questions are deemed to be justiciable, while political questions are nonjusticiable. One scholar explained:\n\nA ruling of nonjusticiability will ultimately prohibit the issue that is bringing the case before the court from being able to be heard in a court of law. In the typical case where there is a finding of nonjusticiability due to the political question doctrine, the issue presented before the court is usually so specific that the Constitution gives all power to one of the coordinate political branches, or at the opposite end of the spectrum, the issue presented is so vague that the United States Constitution does not even consider it. A court can only decide issues based on law. The Constitution dictates the different legal responsibilities of each respective branch of government. If there is an issue where the court does not have the Constitution as a guide, there are no legal criteria to use. When there are no specific constitutional duties involved, the issue is to be decided through the democratic process. The court will not engage in political disputes.\n\nA constitutional dispute that requires knowledge of a non-legal character or the use of techniques not suitable for a court or explicitly assigned by the Constitution to the U.S. Congress, or the President of the United States, is a political question, which judges customarily refuse to address.\n\nThe doctrine has its roots in the historic Supreme Court case of \"Marbury v. Madison\" (1803). In that case, Chief Justice John Marshall drew a distinction between two different functions of the U.S. Secretary of State. Marshall stated that when the Secretary of State was performing a purely discretionary matter, such as advising the President on matters of policy, he was not held to any legally identifiable standards. Therefore, some of the Secretary's actions are unable to be reviewed by a court of law.\n\nThe doctrine is grounded in the federal judiciary's desire to avoid inserting itself into conflicts between branches of the federal government. It is justified by the notion that there exist some questions best resolved through the political process, voters approving or correcting the challenged action by voting for or against those involved in the decision.\n\nThe leading Supreme Court case in the area of political question doctrine is \"Baker v. Carr\" (1962). In the opinion written for Baker, the Court outlined six characteristics of a political question. These include:\n\nWhile this is a still rather unsettled doctrine, its application has been settled in a few decided areas. These areas are:\n\nThe Guarantee Clause, Article IV, section 4, requires the federal government to \"guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government\". The Supreme Court has declared that this Clause does not imply any set of \"judicially manageable standards which a court could utilize independently in order to identify a State's lawful government\".\n\nArticle I, section 2 of the Constitution states that the House \"shall have the sole power of Impeachment\", and Article I, section 3 provides that the \"Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments\". Since the Constitution placed the sole power of impeachment in two political bodies, it is qualified as a political question. As a result, neither the decision of the House to impeach nor a vote of the Senate to remove a President or any other official can be appealed to any court. \n\n\n\n\nImportant cases discussing the political question doctrine:\n\nThe political question doctrine has also had significance beyond American constitutional law. \n\nBefore international courts, the International Court of Justice has dealt with the doctrine in its advisory function, and the European Court of Human Rights has engaged with the doctrine through the margin of appreciation. \n\nWithin European Union law, the Court of Justice of the European Union has never addressed the political question doctrine in its jurisprudence explicitly, yet it has been argued that there are traces of the doctrine present in its rulings. \n\n"}
{"id": "23178004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23178004", "title": "Public Services of Sri Lanka", "text": "Public Services of Sri Lanka\n\nThe Public Services of Sri Lanka are a series of services groups that provide specialized professional services to the Government of Sri Lanka. These are government employees who carry out public duties, however they are not elected officials. The most senior of these is the Sri Lanka Administrative Service which is the country's permanent bureaucracy. The Sri Lankan Government is the largest employer in the country and the public services are often criticized as overstaffed and inefficient.\n\nTheir members are selected by competitive examination and promotions are made by the Public Service Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218062", "title": "Royal Academy of Turku", "text": "Royal Academy of Turku\n\nThe Royal Academy of Åbo ( or \"Åbo Kungliga Akademi\", , ) was the first university in Finland, and the only Finnish university that was founded when the country still was a part of Sweden. In 1809, after Finland became a Grand Duchy under the suzerainty of the Russian Tzar, it was renamed the \"Imperial Academy of Turku\". In 1828, after the Great Fire of Turku, the institution was moved to Helsinki, in line with the relocation of the Grand Duchy's capital. It was finally renamed the University of Helsinki when Finland became a sovereign nation-state in 1917.\n\nThe academy was founded in 1640 by Queen Christina of Sweden at the proposal of Count Per Brahe, on base of Åbo Cathedral School (founded 1276). It was the third university in the Swedish Empire, following Uppsala University (founded 1477) and the Academia Gustaviana (now the University of Tartu in Estonia) (1632).\n\nThe first printing shop in Finland was established at the academy in 1642. The printer was Peder Walde.\n\nTurku (or Åbo in Swedish) was the largest city in Finland and among the three largest in Sweden, while under Swedish sovereignty. In 1809 Finland was ceded to Russia and the capital of the new Grand Duchy of Finland was relocated to Helsinki in 1812, as Turku was regarded as being too remote from Saint Petersburg — and too near to Stockholm. As a result of the Great Fire of Turku of 1827, which devastated most of the city, the government offices that had remained were finally moved to the new capital, and so also was the university. It continued in Helsinki, first as the \"Imperial Alexander University in Finland\", and, following Finland's independence in 1917, as the University of Helsinki.\n\nThere are two universities in Turku today: the Swedish-speaking Åbo Akademi University (founded in 1918) and the Finnish speaking University of Turku (1920), which both sometimes may claim an academic tradition at the location since the 17th century, in spite of a break for almost a century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45476425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45476425", "title": "Salt Tax Revolt", "text": "Salt Tax Revolt\n\nThe Salt Tax Revolt took place in the Spanish province of Biscay (Vizcaya) between 1631 and 1634, and was rooted in an economic conflict concerning the price and ownership of salt. It consisted of a series of violent incidents in opposition to Philip IV's taxation policy, and the rebellion quickly evolved into a broader social protest against economic inequalities.\n\nThe origin of the rebellion was the Royal Decree of 3 January 1631, in which Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of Olivares raised the price of salt by 44%, while also ordering the requisition of all of the salt stored in Biscay, which could, from that point on, only be sold by the royal treasury. The motive of this measure, which contravened the chartered privileges of the domain and its tax exemption, was the need by the Habsburg monarchy to maintain its costly army in the wars in northern Europe.\n\nThe tax was preceded by other measures to raise money, such as the application of fees to trade in wool or woolen cloth. The population of Biscay reacted angrily against the representatives of royal authority, even going so far as to assassinate the procurator of the Court of Corregidor in October 1632. The revolt also blocked the meeting of the General Assemblies of Guernica in 1633, demanding that all of the abusive taxes be revoked and the restoration of the tax exemption recognized in the privileges.\n\nThe rebellion, which lasted on-and-off for more than three years, was definitively crushed in the spring of 1634, when the main ringleaders were arrested and executed. Philip opted to pardon the rest of the rebels and to suspend the original order concerning the price of salt as a concession.\n"}
{"id": "4566410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4566410", "title": "Sarpanch", "text": "Sarpanch\n\nA sarpanch is an elected by the village-level constitutional body of local self-government called the panchayat (village government) in India (gram panchayat). The sarpanch, together with other elected panchas (members), constitute the gram panchayat. The sarpanch is the focal point of contact between government officers and the village community. Recently, there have been proposals to give sarpanches small judicial powers under Gram Panchayat. In some states of India such as Bihar, sarpanch has been empowered to look into various civil and criminal cases, and given judicial power to punish and impose fine on those violating rules.\n\n\"Sar\", meaning head, and \"panch\" meaning five, gives the meaning \"head of the five decision makers of the gram panchyat\" of the village. He/She is elected by all the people of the village.\n\nAlthough panchayats have been in existence in India since antiquity, in post-Independence India, most of the rural development and community development projects have been sought to be executed through panchayats. In the federal Indian policy, different states had different laws governing the powers of the gram panchayats and sarpanches.\n\nIn many states, elections were not held for decades and instead of the elected sarpanches, the gram panchayats were run by bureaucratically appointed administrators. However, with the passage of 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments in 1992, a number of safeguards have been built in, including those pertaining to regular elections. However, even the constitutionally mandated devolution of the functions of 29 core subjects remains a distant dream in most states of India. \"Power to the people\" remains more of a rhetorical slogan than an actual practice. In Punjabi communities abroad the title of Sarpanch is bestowed upon people who solve the general population's situations and problems. Almost like an informal judiciary. One example is Sarpanch of County Court Brampton, Jagdeep Singh Dhamrait.\n\nNowadays, there are instances of women also being elected to post of sarpanch and they are called sarpanchni. This follows legislative reform in which \"reservations\" or minimum quotas are set for sarpanch positions to be held by females. 1/3rd of the seats are reserved for the female contestants as per the constitutional requirement under Article 243D.\n\n"}
{"id": "20809374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20809374", "title": "Section 213 of the Norwegian Penal Code", "text": "Section 213 of the Norwegian Penal Code\n\nSection 213 of the Norwegian Penal Code was the section defining sexual intercourse between men as well as between people and animals as a crime. The section was repealed on April 21, 1972. It was, among other things, a sodomy law in Norway. \n\nThe law text of the section was, until it was repealed (roughly translated):\n\n\"If indecent intercourse occurs between male persons, those, who have committed or have been accessory to such intercourse, are liable to a term of imprisonment up to 1 year.\"\n\n\"Any person, who conducts indecent intercourse with animals, or is accessory to such intercourse, is liable to the same sentence as defined above.\"\n\n\"Indictment will only be conducted when necessary by public consideration.»\"\n\nCurrently, the section in regard to zoophilia is affected by the Act on Protection of Animals, but only for \"abuse of animals\". There is no section in effect who itself defines zoophilia as a criminal act. On November 28, 2008, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, Lars Peder Brekk presented a new proposed Act on Protection of Animals, where zoophilia is restricted under Section 13 c (indecent intercourse with animals).\n\nFrom 1989 to 2000, Section 213 was one of several sections defining specific sexual actions, 213 specifically defined sexual intercourse.\n\n"}
{"id": "53963028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53963028", "title": "Sicaricon (Jewish law)", "text": "Sicaricon (Jewish law)\n\nSicaricon (), literally \"usurping occupant\"; \"the possessor of confiscated property\"; the \"law concerning the purchase of confiscated property\" (now obsolete), refers in Jewish law to a former act and counter-measure meant to deal effectively with religious persecution against Jews in which the Roman government had permitted its own citizens to seize the property of Jewish landowners who were either absent or killed in war, or taken captive, or else where Roman citizens had received property (real estate) that had been confiscated by the state in the laws prescribed under \"ager publicus\", and to which the original Jewish owners of such property had not incurred any legal debt or fine, but had simply been the victims of war and the illegal, governmental expropriation of such lands from their rightful owners or heirs. The original Jewish law, made at some time after the First Jewish-Roman War with Vespasian and his son Titus, saw additional amendments by later rabbinic courts, all of which were meant to safe-guard against depriving the original landowners and their heirs of any land that belonged to them, and to ensure their ability to redeem such property in the future.\n\nThe origin of the word \"sicaricon\" (or \"saqrīqūn\") is now obscure. The word is believed by some to be a corruption of the Greek word χαισαρίχιον, or what is called in Latin \"caesaricium\". Others, namely, Heinrich Graetz and M.S. Zuckermandel, think the word to be derived from \"Sicarii\", a group associated with murders, brigandage and robbery during the Second Temple period. Largely mentioned in regard to assassinations, there is no historical evidence, however, to connect the \"Sicarii\" with the expropriation of land. The author of \"Sefer Arukh\" brings down a different interpretation, saying that the word is merely an acronym for: שא קרקעי והניחני (= \"Take my land, but leave me alone\"), a view supported by Talmudic exegetes, Rashi and Solomon Sirilio. In any case, the word unanimously refers to a Roman or foreign molester who expropriates land from its Jewish owner, usually by a decree made by a tyrant king (Caesar).\n\nDuring the height of the Jewish war with Rome, and especially after Caesar (Vespasian) had given order that all Judea should be exposed to sale , the law of \"the usurping occupant\" did not apply to cases where the Jewish landowner in Judea was compelled to relinquish his property to a Roman tenant (usually a farmer) or to face death. Several reasons are given for this, one of which being that the Roman authority had given license to kill Jewish property owners during the war, and therefore, to avoid death, the Jewish landowner was seen as willingly disposing of such property in order to save his own life. Such transactions in Jewish law were deemed as valid, since one's intent under such pressure is real and without pretense. In yet other instances, some Jewish landowners never despaired of retrieving their stolen property, so that whenever the \"sicaricon\" took away their field and sold it to another, the original landowners would come along and forcibly take it away from those to whom it had been sold, until at length no one dared buy from the \"sicaricon\" for fear of being confronted by the original property owners, leaving the entire country of Judea in the hands of the \"sicaricon\" and seemingly irredeemable.\n\nAfter the war, and in those cases where the Israelite owners were slain in battle, the rabbinic court in Israel began to apply the laws of \"usurping occupant,\" since no longer did the Roman authority give licence to kill Jewish property owners, while the heirs of such property were, in turn, no longer fearful of being killed and could seek legal redress for the restoration of such property. This enactment was also made to ensure the continued Jewish settlement in the towns and cities across Judea, a country then largely occupied by the \"sicaricon\". Any prospective buyer of such expropriated land was first required, by rabbinic edict, to gain the willful consent of the land's original owner, or of his heirs, before he could legally purchase the field held by a \"sicaricon\". The original Jewish owner, or his heirs, retained the right of first refusal. In so doing, the buyer did not appear to give a semblance of legitimacy to the Roman law. However, had he bypassed the original landowner and broached the issue of buying the property first with the \"usurping occupant,\" even if the original landowner should later give to him his consent, the transaction is considered null and void and can be challenged by the original owner in a court of law, who can claim that he only gave his consent to satisfy the usurping occupant, but in reality he was never pleased with the sale. Primacy is given to the original landowner to reclaim such property, or at least to give his consent to the sale of property held by the \"sicaricon\" before it is reclaimed by another.\n\nIf, however, the original owner or heirs were never consulted about selling their property and the buyer made the transaction between himself and the \"sicaricon\" alone, yet the usurping occupant gave to the original owner the payment which he received from the buyer, and the original owner accepted it, the transaction is deemed as valid. Likewise, if the field in question was seized in consequence of a debt or fine by its original owner (insolvency), or as payment for damages, the current holder of the field cannot be divested of his property. It is to be noted, moreover, that the laws concerning \"sicaricon\" did not apply to chattels (movable property).\n\nThe first enactment was later amended to better ensure compensation to the original owners or heirs of the field. The new enactment required that any prospective buyer of a field known to have been confiscated and held by a \"usurping occupant\" after the first Jewish-Roman war must, upon purchasing the field, give to the original owner of the property (or to his heirs) either a quarter of the land that is reclaimed, or else one-third of the purchasing price. This enactment was made in consideration of the fact that the \"sicaricon\" (usurping occupant) had presumably depreciated the value of the real-estate to the value of three-fourths of its original cost, since he had obtained the field without cost and would incur no loss had he sold the field at a bargain price. This rule applies when the original owner or heirs are in no position to buy the field for themselves, which if they were, they would have the right of preemption. For example, if a field was sold by the \"sicaricon\" at thirty \"denarii\", the purchaser must give ten \"denarii\" in remittance to the original owner or heirs of the field, since it is generally assumed that the value of the field was originally appraised at forty \"denarii\".\n\nIn the days of Rabbi Judah HaNasi (others say, in the days of Rabbi Yehoshua), the rabbis convened a court where it was decided by vote that any man could secure the title to a field held by a \"sicaricon\" (usurping occupant) after the field had been in the possession of the \"usurping occupant\" for at least twelve months without it being redeemed by its original owner, provided that he gives a quarter of the purchased field or the monetary equivalent of one-third the cost of purchase unto its original owner or heirs. This enactment is believed to have been the result of certain decrees made by Pertinax and which affected all territories falling under Roman suzerainty, including Judea. The novelty of Rabbi Judah HaNasi's enactment is that after twelve months, no longer would it require the consent of the original land owner to buy a field held by a \"sicaricon\". If the \"sicaricon\" agrees to sell the field, a quarter of the field or else one-third of its purchasing cost must be given by its buyer to the original owner.\n\n"}
{"id": "293052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293052", "title": "Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada", "text": "Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada\n\nThe Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada (SOCAN) is a Canadian performance rights organisation that represents the performing rights of more than 135,000 songwriters, composers and music publishers. The organization collects licence fees through a music licensing program approved by the Copyright Board of Canada.\n\nSOCAN is a result of a merger that took place in 1990 between the Composers, Authors and Publishers Association of Canada (CAPAC) and the Performing Rights Organization of Canada (PROCAN).\n\nIn May 2016, SOCAN acquired the Seattle-based company Medianet Digital for an undisclosed amount; the organization planned to leverage the company's software and database of rights metadata to assist in the calculation and distribution of royalties for works on digital music streaming services. In July 2016, SOCAN acquired Audiam, a U.S. startup created by TuneCore founder Jeff Price that specializes in managing the distribution of royalties for songs used on digital services such as YouTube, using a database of song recordings and metadata for identification.\n\n"}
{"id": "5893565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5893565", "title": "Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992", "text": "Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992\n\nThe Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992 (c 52) is a UK Act of Parliament which regulates British labour law. The Act applies in full in England and Wales and in Scotland, and partially in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe law contained in the Act (TULRCA 1992) has existed in more or less the same form since the Trade Disputes Act 1906. Underneath a mass of detail, four main principles can be found in the main parts of the Act. The Act's effect is to\n\n\nChapter I, sections 1 to 9, outlines the meaning of independent trade unions. Chapter II, sections 10 to 23, elaborates on the legal status of trade unions and their rights and duties in possessing property and being sued in court. Chapter III, sections 24 to 45, concern internal administration requirements of a union, such as the duty to make accounts and get audits, and the duty to supply a copy of the rule book to any person for a reasonable price. Chapter IV, sections 46 to 56A, involves the procedures for union representatives to be elected. Chapter V, sections 62 to 70, sets out the rights of trade union members to a ballot before any strikes, access to courts, disciplinary procedures, subscriptions and leaving the union. Chapters VI to VIIA, sections 71 to 108C, involve rules restricting the donation of union funds for political purposes and the payment of contributions to a union. Chapter IX, sections 117 to 121, is a number of miscellaneous provisions and definitions.\n\nPart II consists of a single section 122, which defines the term \"employer association\".\n\nSections 137 to 177 detail the rights that a person has when participating in union activities.\n\nIt bans agreements or terms in employment contracts which require, prohibit, or discriminate on the basis of union membership (i.e. requiring open shops).\n\nChapter I, sections 178 to 187, involves the ground rules for collective bargaining. Section 179 provides that a collective agreement is deemed to be not legally enforceable unless it is in writing and contains an explicit provision asserting that it should be legally enforceable. This reflects the tradition in British industrial relations policy of legal abstentionism from workplace disputes.\n\nSection 186 states that a trade union recognition requirement in a contract for the supply of goods or services is void. This clause was added to the bill in the House of Lords in response to local authority practices, specifically in East Kilbride District Council, obliging their contractors to recognise and negotiate with trade unions.\n\nSection Chapter II, sections 188 to 196 sets out the procedures that an employer must follow if there are known to be a possibility of many redundancies in the workplace. The duty of an employer is to inform and consult with the union (or if there is no union, elected representatives of the employees) with a view to minimising potential redundancies and ameliorating the effects on the workforce. The duty to consult arises at a minimum of 90 days before the redundancies are contemplated, if there would be over 100 employees dismissed. If the number is under 100, but over 20, then the employer must begin consultations 30 days before. There is no duty for collective consultation if the number of redundancies would be under 20 people, though an employer will still be bound by provisions in the employees' individual contracts, and the duty to give reasonable notice in ERA 1996 section 86. If redundancies are unforeseeable, when consultation could not be reasonably done in time, then section 188(7) absolves the employer of the need to pay compensation. Otherwise, failure to properly consult means the employer must pay one week's wages to each employee for each week missed.\n\nChapters III and IV, sections 199 to 218, set out the functions of the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS) and its power to issue codes of practice.\n\nPart V, sections 219 to 246, contain the central rules regarding the ability of trade unions to organise and take part in industrial action, including strike action. These rules are interpreted in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights article 11 which protects the freedom of association, which is itself inspired by the predecessors to TULRCA 1992 in the United Kingdom.\n\nSection 219 contains out the historical immunity of trade unions to support their ability to be involved in collective bargaining, that have existed since the Trade Disputes Act 1906. Section 219 states that a trade union is not liable to an employer or other party for economic loss which may be caused \"in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute\".\n\nSection 224 places a prohibition on secondary strike action.\n\nSections 226 to 235 contain the requirements of a union to conduct a ballot and give notice to the employer of any industrial action that is agreed upon. Section 226 requires that there is a ballot, unless, according to section 226C there are under 50 workers entitled to vote. Under section 226A, a sample ballot paper must be given to the employer 3 days before the vote takes place and 7 days notice must be given, with information on which employees are taking part in the vote. Section 226B requires that the vote may be scrutinised, and any costs for this must be to be paid for by union (cf ERA 1999 s 228A). The vote must be equal, there must be separate ballots for each workplace establishment and the question put to members about industrial action must be framed in a simple \"yes\" or \"no\" fashion. Moreover, section 229(4) requires the union to tell the workforce that any industrial action potentially infringes their contracts of employment, but also that they will be protected by unfair dismissal law. Employers do not pay for the costs, so unions themselves must pay for the cost of the ballot and any outcome must be immediately publicised.\n\nA potential, and dangerous pitfall, is that if a vote involves procedural defect, it is at risk of being invalidated. This is so if any member is denied the vote, though small accidental failures may be disregarded. A person must be specified in advance to announce the ballot results, and unions may not endorse any result of the vote until that has happened. The ballot only gives four weeks' to the union to take action, though this period may be extended with the employers' consent, which is common if collective negotiations are ongoing. If all else has failed, then for industrial action to commence the union must under section 234A(4) give at least seven days notice, accompanied with details of the workers to take part.\n\nPart VI, sections 247 to 272, contain administrative provisions relating to ACAS and the Central Arbitration Committee.\n\nSection 220 protects workers taking part in industrial action, including picketers who are acting in connection with an industrial dispute at or near their workplace who are using their picketing to peacefully obtain or communicate information or peacefully persuading any person to work or abstain from working.\n\nPart VII, sections 273 to 299 contains miscellaneous provisions and definitions. Some types of employment which are exempted from all or part of the Acts, including the Armed forces, Police, sailors, and those employed abroad.\n\nSection 295 contains the meaning of \"employee\" as a person with a \"contract of service\" and section 296 states a \"worker\" is someone with a contract to personally perform work who is not a professional client.\n\nSchedule A1 sets out a complicated and detailed procedure for statutory recognition of a trade union by an employer. This was introduced by the Employment Relations Act 1999 section 1 and Schedule 1. The recognition procedure is triggered where unions represent over half of employees or particular groups of employees in a workplace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70134", "title": "Twenty-fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution", "text": "Twenty-fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution\n\nThe Twenty-fourth Amendment (Amendment XXIV) of the United States Constitution prohibits both Congress and the states from conditioning the right to vote in federal elections on payment of a poll tax or other types of tax. The amendment was proposed by Congress to the states on August 27, 1962, and was ratified by the states on January 23, 1964.\n\nSouthern states of the former Confederate States of America adopted poll taxes in laws of the late 19th century and new constitutions from 1890 to 1908, after the Democratic Party had generally regained control of state legislatures decades after the end of Reconstruction, as a measure to prevent African Americans and often poor whites from voting. Use of the poll taxes by states was held to be constitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States in the 1937 decision \"Breedlove v. Suttles\".\n\nWhen the 24th Amendment was ratified in 1964, five states still retained a poll tax: Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas and Virginia. The amendment prohibited requiring a poll tax for voters in federal elections. But it was not until 1966 that the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 6–3 in \"Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections\" that poll taxes for any level of elections were unconstitutional. It said these violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Subsequent litigation related to potential discriminatory effects of voter registration requirements has generally been based on application of this clause.\n\nSouthern states had adopted the poll tax as a requirement for voting as part of a series of laws in the late 19th century intended to exclude black Americans from politics so far as practicable without violating the Fifteenth Amendment. This required that voting not be limited by \"race, color, or previous condition of servitude.\" All voters were required to pay the poll tax, but in practice it most affected the poor. Notably this affected both African Americans and poor white voters, some of whom had voted with Populist and Fusionist candidates in the late 19th century, temporarily disturbing Democratic rule. Proponents of the poll tax downplayed this aspect and assured white voters they would not be affected. Passage of poll taxes began in earnest in the 1890s, as Democrats wanted to prevent another Populist-Republican coalition. Despite election violence and fraud, African Americans were still winning numerous local seats. By 1902, all eleven states of the former Confederacy had enacted a poll tax, many within new constitutions that contained other provisions as barriers to voter registration, such as literacy or comprehension tests administered subjectively by white workers. The poll tax was used together with other devices such as grandfather clauses and the \"white primary\" designed to exclude blacks, as well as threats and acts of violence. For example, potential voters had to be \"assessed\" in Arkansas, and blacks were utterly ignored in the assessment.\n\nFrom 1900 to 1937, such use of the poll tax was nearly ignored by the federal government. Several state-level initiatives repealed poll taxes during this period for two reasons: firstly that they encouraged corruption since wealthy persons could and would pay other people's poll taxes; secondly, because they discouraged white voting more than many populist Southern politicians desired. The poll tax survived a legal challenge in the 1937 Supreme Court case \"Breedlove v. Suttles\", which unanimously ruled that \n\nThe issue remained prominent, as most African Americans in the South were disenfranchised. President Franklin D. Roosevelt spoke out against the tax. He publicly called it \"a remnant of the Revolutionary period\" that the country had moved past. However, Roosevelt's favored liberal Democrats in the South lost in the 1938 primaries to the reigning conservative Southern Democrats, and he backed off the issue. He felt that he needed Southern Democratic votes to pass New Deal programs and did not want to further antagonize them. Still, efforts at the Congressional level to abolish the poll tax continued. A 1939 bill to abolish the poll tax in federal elections was tied up by the Southern Block, lawmakers whose long tenure in office from a one-party region gave them seniority and command of numerous important committee chairmanships. A discharge petition was able to force the bill to be considered, and the House passed the bill 254–84. However, the bill was unable to defeat a filibuster in the Senate by Southern senators and a few Northern allies who valued the support of the powerful and senior Southern seats. This bill would be re-proposed in the next several Congresses. It came closest to passage during World War II, when opponents framed abolition as a means to help overseas soldiers vote. However, after learning that the US Supreme Court decision \"Smith v. Allwright\" (1944) banned use of the \"white primary,\" the Southern block refused to approve abolition of the poll tax.\n\nIn 1946, the Senate came close to passing the bill. 24 Democrats and 15 Republicans approved an end to debate, while 7 non-southern Democrats and 7 Republicans joined with the 19 Southern Democrats in opposition. The result was a 39–33 vote in favor of the bill, but the filibuster required a two-thirds supermajority to break at the time; a 48–24 vote was required to pass the bill. Those in favor of abolition of the poll tax considered a constitutional amendment after the 1946 defeat, but that idea did not advance either.\n\nThe tenor of the debate changed in the 1940s. Southern politicians tried to shift the debate to Constitutional issue, but private correspondence indicates that black disenfranchisement was still the true concern. For instance, Mississippi Senator Theodore Bilbo declared, \"If the poll tax bill passes, the next step will be an effort to remove the registration qualification, the educational qualification of Negroes. If that is done we will have no way of preventing the Negroes from voting.\" This fear explains why even Southern Senators from states that had abolished the poll tax still opposed the bill; they did not want to set a precedent that the federal government could interfere in state elections.\n\nPresident Harry S. Truman established the President's Committee on Civil Rights, which among other issues investigated the poll tax. Considering that opposition to federal poll tax regulation in 1948 was claimed as based on the Constitution, the Committee noted that a constitutional amendment might be the best way to proceed. Still, little occurred during the 1950s. Members of the anti-poll tax movement laid low during the anti-Communist frenzy of the period; some of the main proponents of poll tax abolition, such as Joseph Gelders and Vito Marcantonio, had been committed Marxists.\n\nPresident John F. Kennedy returned to this issue. His administration urged Congress to adopt and send such an amendment to the states for ratification. He considered the constitutional amendment the best way to avoid a filibuster, as the claim that federal abolition of the poll tax was unconstitutional would be moot. Still, some liberals opposed Kennedy's action, feeling that an amendment would be too slow compared to legislation. Spessard Holland, a conservative Democrat from Florida, introduced the amendment to the Senate. Holland had opposed most civil rights legislation during his career, and Kennedy's gaining his support helped splinter the monolithic Southern opposition to the amendment. Ratification of the amendment was relatively quick, taking slightly more than a year; it was rapidly ratified by state legislatures across the country from August 1962 to January 1964.\n\nPresident Lyndon B. Johnson called the amendment a \"triumph of liberty over restriction\" and \"a verification of people's rights.\" States that had maintained the poll tax were more reserved. Mississippi's Attorney General, Joe Patterson, complained about the complexity of two sets of voters – those who paid their poll tax and could vote in all elections, and those who had not and could only vote only in federal elections. Additionally, non-payers of the poll tax could still be deterred by such requirements as having to register far in advance of the election and retain records of such registration. States such as Alabama also continued to exercise discrimination in the application of literacy tests.\n\nCongress proposed the Twenty-fourth Amendment on August 27, 1962. The amendment was submitted to the states on September 24, 1962, after it passed with the requisite two-thirds majorities in the House and Senate. The following states ratified the amendment:\n\n\nRatification was completed on January 23, 1964. The Georgia legislature did make a last-second attempt to be the 38th state to ratify. This was a surprise as \"no Southern help could be expected\" for the amendment. The Georgia Senate quickly and unanimously passed it, but the House did not act in time. Georgia's ratification was apparently dropped after South Dakota's ratification.\n\nThe amendment was subsequently ratified by the following states:\n\nThe following states have not ratified the amendment:\n\nArkansas effectively repealed its poll tax for all elections with Amendment 51 to the Arkansas Constitution at the November 1964 general election, several months after this amendment was ratified. The poll-tax language was not completely stricken from its Constitution until Amendment 85 in 2008. Of the five states originally affected by this amendment, Arkansas was the only one to repeal its poll tax; the other four retained their taxes. These were struck down in 1966 by the US Supreme Court decision in \"Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections\" (1966), which ruled poll taxes unconstitutional even for state elections. Federal district courts in Alabama and Texas, respectively, struck down these states' poll taxes less than two months before the \"Harper\" ruling was issued.\n\nThe state of Virginia accommodated the amendment by providing an \"escape clause\" to the poll tax. In lieu of paying the poll tax, a prospective voter could file paperwork to gain a certificate establishing a place of residence in Virginia. The papers would have to be filed six months in advance of voting, and the voter had to provide a copy of that certificate at the time of voting. This measure was expected to decrease the number of legal voters. In the 1965 Supreme Court decision \"Harman v. Forssenius\", the Court unanimously found such measures unconstitutional. It declared that for federal elections, \"the poll tax is abolished absolutely as a prerequisite to voting, and no equivalent or milder substitute may be imposed.\"\n\nWhile not directly related to the Twenty-fourth Amendment, the Supreme Court case \"Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections\" (1966) ruled that the poll tax was unconstitutional at every level, not just for federal elections. The \"Harper\" decision relied upon the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, rather than the Twenty-Fourth Amendment. As such, issues related to whether burdens on voting are equivalent to poll taxes in discriminatory effect have usually been litigated on Equal Protection grounds since.\n\n\n"}
