{"id": "4171614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4171614", "title": "A. H. Armstrong", "text": "A. H. Armstrong\n\nArthur Hilary Armstrong, (13 August 1909 – 16 October 1997) was an English educator and author. Armstrong is recognized as one of the foremost authorities on the philosophical teachings of Plotinus ca. 205–270 CE. His multi-volume translation of the philosopher's teachings is regarded as an essential tool of classical studies.\n\nHilary Armstrong was born in Hove, England. He was the son of W. A. (clergy) and E. Cripps Armstrong. He married Deborah Wilson in 1933. He has two sons and three daughters. He received a B.A. from Jesus College, Cambridge in 1932 and his M.A. in 1935. His hobbies and other interests included travel and gardening. He was made a fellow of the British Academy in 1970 and a fellow in the American Catholic Philosophical Association.\n\nArmstrong began his teaching career in 1936 at University College, Swansea, Wales. His tenure at this university lasted until 1939. He then began teaching at the Royal University of Malta in Valletta as a professor of classics. In 1943, he became a classical sixth form master at Beaumont College, Old Windsor, Berkshire, England. Three years later, in 1946, he relocated to Cardiff University with the position of lecturer in Latin. From 1950-1972 he served as the Gladstone Professor of Greek at University of Liverpool in Liverpool, England, being appointed professor emeritus upon retirement 1972.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1971, Armstrong was named a Killam Senior Fellow at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. He also achieved a visiting professorship of classics and philosophy there beginning in 1972. He was also named a visiting professor at Manhattanville College in 1966. He was a founding Editor of Dionysius, together with J. A. Doull and R. D. Crouse.\n\nIn 1973, he won the \"Aquinas Medal\" from the American Catholic Philosophical Association.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1253591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1253591", "title": "Abu'l-Barakāt al-Baghdādī", "text": "Abu'l-Barakāt al-Baghdādī\n\nAbu'l-Barakāt Hibat Allah ibn Malkā al-Baghdādī (; c. 1080 – 1164 or 1165 CE) was an Islamic philosopher and physician of Jewish descent from Baghdad, Iraq. Abu'l-Barakāt, an older contemporary of Maimonides, was originally known by his Hebrew birth name Baruch ben Malka and was given the name of Nathanel by his pupil Isaac ben Ezra before his conversion from Judaism to Islam towards the end of his life.\n\nHis writings include the anti-Aristotelian philosophical work \"Kitāb al-Muʿtabar\" (\"The Book of What Has Been Established by Personal Reflection\"); a philosophical commentary on the Kohelet; and the treatise \"On the Reason Why the Stars Are Visible at Night and Hidden in Daytime\". Abu'l-Barakāt was an Aristotelian philosopher who in many respects followed Ibn Sina, but also developed his own ideas. He proposed an explanation of the acceleration of falling bodies by the accumulation of successive increments of power with successive increments of velocity.\n\nHis thought influenced the Illuminationist school of classical Islamic philosophy, the medieval Jewish philosopher Ibn Kammuna, and the medieval Christian philosophers Jean Buridan and Albert of Saxony.\n\nAbu'l-Barakāt, famed as \"Awḥad al-Zamān\" (Unique One of his Time), was born in Balad, a town on the Tigris above Mosul in modern-day Iraq. As a renowned physician, he served at the courts of the caliphs of Baghdad and the Seljuk sultans.\n\nHe converted to Islam in old age. Abu'l Barakat does not refer to his conversion in his writings, and the historical sources give contradictory episodes of his conversion. According to the various reports, he converted either out of \"wounded pride\", fear of the personal consequences of the death of Sultan Mahmud's wife while under his care as a physician or fear of execution when he was taken prisoner in a battle between the armies of the caliph and that of the sultan. Ayala Eliyahu argues that the conversion was \"probably motivated by convenience reasons\".\n\nIsaac, the son of the Abraham Ibn Ezra and the son-in-law of Judah Halevi, was one of his pupils, to whom Abu'l-Barakāt, Jewish at the time, dictated a long philosophical commentary on Ecclesiastes, written in Arabic using Hebrew aleph bet. Isaac wrote a poem in his honour as introduction to this work.\n\nAl-Baghdaadi described an early scientific method emphasizing repeated experimentation, influenced by Ibn Sina, as follows:\n\nAccording to Alistair Cameron Crombie, al-Baghdaadi was a follower of the scientific and philosophical teachings of Ibn Sina.\n\nproposed an explanation of the acceleration of falling bodies by the accumulation of successive increments of power with successive increments of velocity.\n\nAccording to Shlomo Pines, al-Baghdaadi's theory of motion was thus\n\nthe oldest negation of Aristotle's fundamental dynamic law [namely, that a constant force produces a uniform motion], [and is thus an] anticipation in a vague fashion of the fundamental law of classical mechanics [namely, that a force applied continuously produces acceleration].\n\nAl-Baghdaadi's theory of motion distinguished between velocity and acceleration and showed that force is proportional to acceleration rather than velocity. The 14th-century philosophers Jean Buridan and Albert of Saxony later refer to Abu'l-Barakat in explaining that the acceleration of a falling body is a result of its increasing impetus. Abu'l-Barakat also modified Ibn Sina's theory of projectile motion, and stated that the mover imparts a violent inclination (\"mayl qasri\") on the moved and that this diminishes as the moving object distances itself from the mover.\n\nAl-Baghdaadi also suggested that motion is relative, writing that \"there is motion only if the relative positions of the bodies in question change.\" He also stated that \"each type of body has a characteristic velocity that reaches its maximum when its motion encounters no resistance.\"\n\nAl-Baghdaadi criticized Aristotle's concept of time as \"the measure of motion\" and instead redefines the concept with his own definition of time as \"the measure of being\", thus distinguishing between space and time, and reclassifying time as a metaphysical concept rather than a physical one. The scholar Y. Tzvi Langermann writes:\n\nIn his view, there is just one time which is similar for all beings, including God. Abu'l-Barakāt also regarded space as three-dimensional and infinite.\n\nHe upheld the unity of the soul, denying that there is a distinction between it and the intellect. For him, the soul's awareness of itself is the definitive proof that the soul is independent of the body and will not perish with it. On his contributions to Islamic psychology, Langermann writes:\n\nHe wrote a critique of Aristotelian philosophy and Aristotelian physics entitled \"Kitab al-Mu'tabar\" (the title may be translated as \"The Book of What Has Been Established by Personal Reflection\"). According to Abu'l-Barakāt, Kitāb al-Muʿtabar consists in the main of critical remarks jotted down by him over the years while reading philosophical text, and published at the insistence of his friends, in the form of a philosophical work. The work \"presented a serious philosophical alternative to, and criticism of, Ibn Sina\". He also developed concepts which resemble several modern theories in physics.\n\nAbu'l-Barakāt also wrote a short treatise on the intellect, \"Kitāb Ṣaḥiḥ adillat al-naql fī māhiyyat al-ʻaql\" (\"صحيح أدلة النقل في ماهية العقل\"), which has been edited by Ahmad El-Tayeb.\n\nAll that we possess in the way of medical writing by Abu'l-Barakāt are a few prescriptions for remedies. These remain in manuscript and are as yet unstudied.\n\nAbu'l-Barakāt's thought had a deep influence on Islamic philosophy but none on Jewish thought. His works were not translated into Hebrew, and he is seldom cited in Jewish philosophy, probably because of his conversion to Islam.\n\nThe famous theologian and philosopher Fakhr al-Din al-Razi was one of Abu'l-Barakāt's eminent disciples. The influence of Al-Baghdadi's views appears especially in Al-Razi's chief work \"Al-Mabāḥith al-Mashriqiyyah\" (\"Oriental Discourses\"). Abu'l-Barakāt influenced certain conceptions of Suhrawardi.\n\n\n\n\nArabic sources\n\n"}
{"id": "20113632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20113632", "title": "Ancestor veneration in China", "text": "Ancestor veneration in China\n\nChinese ancestor worship, or Chinese ancestor veneration, also called the Chinese patriarchal religion, is an aspect of the Chinese traditional religion which revolves around the ritual celebration of the deified ancestors and tutelary deities of people with the same surname organised into lineage societies in ancestral shrines. Ancestors, their ghosts, or spirits, and gods are considered part of \"this world\", that is, they are neither supernatural (in the sense of being outside nature) nor transcendent in the sense of being beyond nature. The ancestors are humans who have become godly beings, beings who keep their individual identities. For this reason, Chinese religion is founded on veneration of ancestors. Ancestors are believed to be a means of connection to the supreme power of Tian as they are considered embodiments or reproducers of the creative order of Heaven.\n\nConfucian philosophy calls for paying respect to one's ancestors, an aspect of filial piety; Zhuo Xinping (2011) views traditional patriarchal religion as the religious organisation complementing the ideology of Confucianism. As the \"bedrock faith of the Chinese\", traditional patriarchal religion influences the religious psychology of all Chinese and has influenced the other religions of China, as it is evident in the worship of founders of temples and schools of thought in Taoism and Chinese Buddhism.\n\nAncestor veneration practices prevail in south China, where lineage bonds are stronger and the patrilineal hierarchy is not based upon seniority, and access to corporate resources held by a lineage is based upon the equality of all the lines of descent; whereas in north China worship of communal deities is prevalent.\n\nSome contemporary scholars in China have adopted the names \"Chinese traditional patriarchal religion\" (中國傳統宗法性宗教 \"Zhōngguó chuántǒng zōngfǎ xìng zōngjiào\") or \"Chinese traditional primordial religion\" (中國傳統原生性宗教 \"Zhōngguó chuántǒng yuánshēng xìng zōngjiào\") to define the traditional religious system organised around the worship of ancestor-gods.\n\nZhang Jin and Yang Chunpeng, based at the Folk Religion Institute and Party School Theory Research Section of Xuanen County, in an article on the China Ethnic and Religious Network define Chinese traditional primordial religion as faith in God (Shangdi)'s original form.\n\nMou Zhongjian defines \"clan-based traditional patriarchal religion\" as \"an orthodox religion that was widely accepted by all classes, and had been practiced for thousands of years in ancient China\". Mou also says that this religion was subordinate to the state, it was \"diverse and inclusive\" and had \"a humanistic spirit that emphasises the social, moral function of religion\", and is closely related to politics. It refers to:\n\nAccording to Zhuo Xinping (2011), Chinese patriarchal religion and Confucianism complemented each other in ancient China, as the Confucian religion traditionally lacked a social religious organisation while traditional patriarchal religion lacked an ideological doctrine.\n\nIn Chinese folk religion, a person is thought to have multiple souls, categorized as \"hun\" and \"po\", commonly associated with yang and yin, respectively. Upon death, \"hun\" and \"po\" separate. Generally, the former ascends into heaven and latter descends into the earth and/or resides within a spirit tablet; however, beliefs concerning the number and nature of souls vary. In accordance with these traditional beliefs, various practices have arisen to address the perceived needs of the deceased.\n\nThe mourning of a loved one usually involves elaborate rituals, which vary according to region and sect. The intensity of the mourning is thought to reflect the quality of relationship one had with the deceased. From the time of Confucius until the 20th century, a three-year mourning period was often prescribed, mirroring the first three years in a child's life when they are utterly dependent upon and loved unconditionally by their parents. These mourning practices would often include wearing sackcloth or simple garb, leaving hair unkempt, eating a restricted diet of congee two times a day, living in a mourning shack placed beside the house, and moaning in pain at certain intervals of the day. It is said that after the death of Confucius his followers engaged in this three-year mourning period to symbolize their commitment to his teachings.\n\nFunerals are considered to be a part of the normal process of family life, serving as a cornerstone in inter-generational traditions. The primary goals, regardless of religious beliefs, are to demonstrate obeisance and provide comfort for the deceased. Other goals include: to protect the descents of the deceased from malevolent spirits and to ensure the proper separation and direction of the deceased's soul into the afterlife.\n\nSome common elements of Chinese funerals include the expression of grief through prolonged, often exaggerated wailing; the wearing of white mortuary clothes by the family of the deceased; a ritual washing of the corpse, followed by its attiring in grave clothes; the transfer of symbolic goods such as money and food from the living to the dead; the preparation and installation of a spirit tablet or the use of a personator, often symbolic. Sometimes, ritual specialists such as Taoist priests or Buddhist monks would be hired to perform specific rites, often accompanied by the playing of music or chanting of scripture to drive away evil spirits.\n\nBurial is often delayed according to wealth; the coffin would remain in the main room of the family home until it has been properly prepared for burial. More traditionally, this delay is pre-determined according to social status: the corpse of a king or emperor would be held in abeyance for seven months; magnates, five; other officers, three; commoners, one.\n\nIn some instances, a \"lucky burial\" can take place several years after the burial. The bones are dug up, washed, dried, and stored in an earthenware jar. After a period of storage, the contents are then interred in their final resting place in a location selected by an augur to optimize the flow of \"qi\". A bad \"qi\" flow could result in a disgruntled spirit who could possibly haunt their descendants.\n\nThe deceased would often be buried with sacrifices, typically things one was thought to be in need of in the afterlife. This was done as a symbolic demonstration of filial piety or grandeur. For the wealthy and powerful, bronze vessels, oracle bones, and human or animal sacrifices often accompanied the deceased into the grave. More common sacrifices included candles and incense, as well as offerings of wine and food.\n\nAfter the funeral, families often install an ancestral tablet at a household altar alongside other deceased ancestors. This act symbolically unifies the ancestors and honors the family lineage. Incense is lit before the altar daily, significant announcements are made before them, and offerings such as favorite foods, beverages, and spirit money are given bi-monthly and on special occasions, such as Qingming Festival and Ghost Festival.\n\nPrayer was usually performed at the household altar in a separate room containing the \"po\" of their ancestors. The eldest male would speak to the altar on a regular basis. In some belief systems where special powers are ascribed to the deceased, he may supplicate the spirit to bless the family.\n\n"}
{"id": "38129495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38129495", "title": "Antoine Blanc de Saint-Bonnet", "text": "Antoine Blanc de Saint-Bonnet\n\nAntoine Blanc de Saint-Bonnet (28 January 1815 – 2 June 1880) was a French philosopher, whose ideas were a precursor to modern sociology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22526288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22526288", "title": "Author function", "text": "Author function\n\nIn the writing of Michel Foucault, the author function is the author as a function of discourse. The term was developed by Michel Foucault in his 1969 essay \"What Is an Author?\" where he discusses whether a text requires or is assigned an author.\n\nFoucault posits that the legal system was central in the rise of the author, as an author was needed (in order to be punished) for making transgressive statements. This is made evident through the rise of the printing press during the time of the Reformation, when religious texts that circulated challenged the authority of the Catholic Church.\n\nThe author function does not affect all texts in the same way. For example, the author of a science text book is not as clear or definable as the author of a well known novel. It is not a spontaneous creation or entity, but a carefully constructed social position.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12704711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12704711", "title": "Bernard Mayo", "text": "Bernard Mayo\n\nBernard Mayo (1921 – 14 February 2000) was an English philosopher. \nHe worked at University of Birmingham until 1968, when he joined University of St. Andrews as professor of moral philosophy, from which he retired in 1983.\nHe was editor of Analysis (1956–65) and The Philosophical Quarterly (1973–80).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27065310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27065310", "title": "Bogdan Suchodolski", "text": "Bogdan Suchodolski\n\nBogdan Suchodolski (27 December 1903 – 2 October 1992) was a Polish philosopher, historian of science and culture and teacher. He served as a senior marshal of the Sejm from 1985 to 1989.\n\nBogdan Suchodolski was born in Sosnowiec, Poland, on 27 December 1903. He was a professor at the University of Lviv in 1938 and at the University of Warsaw from 1946 to 1970. He was also university director of the Institute of Pedagogical Sciences 1958–68.\n\nHe was a member of the Polish Academy of Learning (PAU) since 1946, and later the Polish Academy of Sciences (PAN). From 1965 to 1970, he worked as deputy secretary of PAN, and from 1958 to 1974, he was chairman of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences.\n\nOn 20 December 1982 Suchodolski was appointed chairman of the National Council of Culture, and from 1985 to 1989 he served as senior marshall in Sejm.\n\nHe received an honorary degree from the University of Berlin, Lomonosov Moscow State University, University of Padova, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences in E Pedagogical University of Opole and Silesian University.\n\nSuchodolski authored papers dealing with education, history of Polish science and philosophy. He died in Konstancin-Jeziorna on 2 October 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "4182792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4182792", "title": "Chuluaqui-Quodoushka", "text": "Chuluaqui-Quodoushka\n\nChuluaqui Quodoushka (\"CHOO-la-kway Kwuh-DOE-shka\") is a collection of sexual techniques and theories developed and promoted by the Deer Tribe Medicine Society, a New Age new religious movement and business co-founded by Harley Reagan and Diane Reagan in 1986. Reagan cites a variety of ancient and contemporary cultures as the inspiration for these practices including the Olmec, the Mayan and the Toltec, though previously he claimed that these practices were Cherokee. Reagan has come under heavy criticism and his teachings have been denounced by the tribes whose ways he has claimed to teach.\n\nAccording to Reagan and his followers, the \"Quodoushka teachings\" (also known as \"the \"Q\" to adherents), guided exercises and rituals are credited by believers with allowing a person to improve relationships and reach \"higher levels\" of orgasm and sexual ecstasy. Demonstrations at Chuluaqui Quodoushka retreats include male and female self-pleasuring techniques, close up examinations to show variations in the shapes of genitalia, and participants having sexual intercourse while Reagan and other trainers watch and \"coach\" them.\nThe sexual rites of passage which Reagan references as being drawn from spiritual practices of the Olmec, Mayan and Toltec cultures, and what he claims are secret societies within the Cherokee Nation, have been denounced as fraudulent by the traditional teachers of these cultures.\n\nMany cultures contain rites of passage - usually social and spiritual ceremonies held as a child moves into adulthood. Reagan claims to take inspiration from these ceremonies. However, Reagan's many critics agree that Reagan's claims of what these ceremonies consist of stands in stark contrast to the actual teachings and beliefs of the cultures he claims to represent. The Cherokee Nation disavows Reagan's claims entirely, noting that Reagan is not an enrolled member of the Cherokee Nation, nor is he a member of any Cherokee community. After being denounced by the Cherokee Nation, Reagan abruptly changed his back story and now claims the teachings are inspired by a variety of cultures.\n\nIn the workshops a woman's genitalia are called \"Tupuli\", which Reagan claims is a Cherokee term for \"sacred black hole of creation,\" and a man's genitalia are referred to as \"Tipilli\" also claimed by Reagan to be a Cherokee term meaning \"like a tipi pole.\" However, according to Durbin Feeling, who is a linguistic specialist for the Cherokee Nation, there are no such words in the Cherokee language, and Cherokee do not and never have lived in tipis. In fact, the word \"tipili\" applied to genitals is likely taken from Gary Jennings' novel, \"Aztec\". Feeling said \"Chu-Lua-Qui\" refers to Cherokee people; he said the closest translation he could find for \"Quodoushka\" is \"(a)qwv-tol u- ska\" a graphic term for a male sexual organ that has nothing to do with Cherokee spirituality. \"It's pretty ugly. I don't know if he (Harley Reagan) realizes what it means.\" Feeling added as an afterthought, \"He probably does know what it means.\"\n\nDespite the claims that the Chuluaqui Quodoushka is based on ancient traditions there is no corroborating evidence for this.\n\nMuch of the ancient Maya religious tradition is still not understood by scholars and there is no surviving information about Mayan sex rituals.\n\nThe Olmecs were a people in Mexico who predated the Aztecs. Their culture disappeared and the only clues left about them are some stone statues and hieroglyphic carvings. Olmec mythology has left no documents and therefore cannot have anything to do with modern-day sex rituals.\n\nReagan claims that the teachings are also Toltec in origin, also unsubstantiated.\n\nThe Cherokee Nation firmly denies any involvement in the Chuluaqui-Quodoushka. Harley Reagan appeared on the Home Box Office program \"Real Sex in America\" in 1992, promoting his sex therapy \"Quodoushka\" as a Cherokee ritual. The chief of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma at the time, Wilma Mankiller, threatened to sue HBO for misrepresentation, and a resolution was passed by the Cherokee condemning Reagan and other \"plastic shamans\". It is believed by some that in order to avoid a lawsuit, Reagan changed his story to the claim that Quodoushka is a blend of many ancient sexual traditions.\n\nDr. Richard Allen, a research and policy analyst of the Cherokee Nation, says of the Chuluaqui Quodoushka, \"Reagan's made it up. We learn about sex like everyone else does, behind the barn.\"\n\nOne of the fans of the \"Q\" is porn star Porsche Lynn who studied with Harley Reagan and has praised the \"Q\" workshops.\n\nA movie called \"Quodoushka, Native American Love Techniques\" (or \"Quodoushka\") came out in 1991, distributed by Vivid Video and starring such hard-core porn actresses as Ashley Nicole, Heather Hart, Hyapatia Lee and Madison. Porn star Hyapatia Lee was a student of Harley Reagan, and claims to be of Cherokee descent. The film itself is a pornographic film made to look as though it is a documentary. The film depicts various women of supposed Cherokee ancestry copulating in various ways with mostly white men.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44526218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44526218", "title": "Circulus (theory)", "text": "Circulus (theory)\n\nCirculus was a socioeconomics doctrine devised by nineteenth-century French utopian socialist Pierre Leroux (1797-1871), who proposed that human excrement be collected by the state in the form of a tax and used as fertiliser, thereby increasing agricultural production sufficiently to prevent Malthusian catastrophe.\n\nAccording to Leroux, human excrement has remarkable fertilising properties, which society fails to harness. The human waste that is otherwise discarded would fertilise agricultural production sufficient to cover society's progressively increasing food consumption. Leroux posits the existence of a natural law dependent on the circulation of human excrement back through the agricultural process and which maintains a necessary balance between soil fertility and inexorable population growth. In the \"Revue de l'ordre social\" (No. 1, 1850, p. 6), Leroux responded to his critics, summing up his theory as follows: \"Si les hommes étaient croyants, savants, religieux, ajoute-t-il, au lieu de rire, comme ils le font, du socialisme, ils professeraient avec respect et vénération la doctrine du circulus. Chacun recueillerait \"religieusement\" son fumier pour le donner à l’état, c’est-à-dire au percepteur, en guise d’impôt ou de contribution personelle. La production agricole serait immédiatement doublée, et la misère disparaîtrait du globe\" (If men were believers, learned, religious, then, rather than laughing at socialism, as they do, they would profess the doctrine of circulus with respect and veneration. Each would religiously collect his dung to give it to the state, that is, to the tax-collector, by way of an impost or personal contribution. Agricultural production would instantly be doubled, and poverty would vanish from the globe).\n\nLeroux first put forward his theory of circulus in 1834, as part of an attempt to explain the failure of a Fourierist phalanstery. In response to Madame Baudet-Dulary, astonished at the failure of the utopian community established on her land, Fourier himself is supposed to have said: \"Madame, donnez-moi fumier\" (Madame, give me dung). Despite public ridicule, Leroux held firm to his theory in the decades that followed and, while living in exile in Jersey after the fall of the Second Republic, he carried out experiments using his own excrement as fertiliser in an attempt to persuade the local authorities to adopt the doctrine of circulus. However, Leroux's theory did gain the sympathetic ear of fellow exile Victor Hugo. In the digression on the sewers of Paris in \"Les Misérables\", Hugo would seem to have been influenced by Leroux's diagnosis of socio-economic ills when he declares that the present sewerage system is \"a misunderstanding\" (\"Un égout est un malentendu\"), a negligent waste (\"coulage\") of public wealth (\"la richesse publique\"), and that were the \"givens of a new social economy\" (\"les données d'une économie sociale nouvelle\") applied to human waste, then the problem of poverty would be attenuated. But in practical terms, rather than by Leroux's vision of individual members of society willingly paying a tax in their own excrement for the sake of the common weal, Hugo's collector sewers were sooner inspired by the ideas of English social reformer Edwin Chadwick, who proposed that human waste be pumped from cities to the countryside to provide fertiliser for crops to feed those very cities, thereby completing \"the circle and [realising] the Egyptian type of eternity by bringing as it were the serpent's tail into the serpent's mouth\".\n"}
{"id": "52282320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52282320", "title": "Constructional system", "text": "Constructional system\n\nA constructional system or a constitution system is a system of objects or concepts of a certain domain in which all objects or concepts of that domain can be logically constructed from a proper subset of those objects or concepts, called the \"basis\" of the system. \n\nThe notion of constructional systems can be traced back to Bertrand Russell, who wrote in 1914 that \nGerman philosopher Rudolf Carnap in his \"Der logische Aufbau der Welt\" (1928) (referring to them as \"Konstitutionssystems\") and American philosopher Nelson Goodman in his \"The Structure of Appearance\" (1951) studied the structure of constructional systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "309641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309641", "title": "Continental philosophy", "text": "Continental philosophy\n\nContinental philosophy is a set of 19th- and 20th-century philosophical traditions from mainland Europe. This sense of the term originated among English-speaking philosophers in the second half of the 20th century, who used it to refer to a range of thinkers and traditions outside the analytic movement. Continental philosophy includes the following movements: German idealism, phenomenology, existentialism (and its antecedents, such as the thought of Kierkegaard and Nietzsche), hermeneutics, structuralism, post-structuralism, deconstruction, French feminism, psychoanalytic theory, and the critical theory of the Frankfurt School and related branches of Western Marxism.\n\nIt is difficult to identify non-trivial claims that would be common to all the preceding philosophical movements. The term \"continental philosophy\", like \"analytic philosophy\", lacks clear definition and may mark merely a family resemblance across disparate philosophical views. Simon Glendinning has suggested that the term was originally more pejorative than descriptive, functioning as a label for types of western philosophy rejected or disliked by analytic philosophers. Nonetheless, Michael E. Rosen has ventured to identify common themes that typically characterize continental philosophy.\n\n\nUltimately, the foregoing themes derive from a broadly Kantian thesis that knowledge, experience, and reality are bound and shaped by conditions best understood through philosophical reflection rather than exclusively empirical inquiry.\n\nThe term \"continental philosophy\", in the above sense, was first widely used by English-speaking philosophers to describe university courses in the 1970s, emerging as a collective name for the philosophies then widespread in France and Germany, such as phenomenology, existentialism, structuralism, and post-structuralism.\n\nHowever, the term (and its approximate sense) can be found at least as early as 1840, in John Stuart Mill's 1840 essay on Coleridge, where Mill contrasts the Kantian-influenced thought of \"Continental philosophy\" and \"Continental philosophers\" with the English empiricism of Bentham and the 18th century generally. This notion gained prominence in the early 20th century as figures such as Bertrand Russell and G. E. Moore advanced a vision of philosophy closely allied with natural science, progressing through logical analysis. This tradition, which has come to be known broadly as \"analytic philosophy\", became dominant in Britain and the United States from roughly 1930 onward. Russell and Moore made a dismissal of Hegelianism and its philosophical relatives a distinctive part of their new movement. Commenting on the history of the distinction in 1945, Russell distinguished \"two schools of philosophy, which may be broadly distinguished as the Continental and the British respectively\", a division he saw as operative \"from the time of Locke\".\n\nSince the 1970s, however, many philosophers in the United States and Britain have taken interest in continental philosophers since Kant, and the philosophical traditions in many European countries have similarly incorporated many aspects of the \"analytic\" movement. Self-described analytic philosophy flourishes in France, including philosophers such as Jules Vuillemin, Vincent Descombes, Gilles Gaston Granger, François Recanati, and Pascal Engel. Likewise, self-described \"continental philosophers\" can be found in philosophy departments in the United Kingdom, North America, and Australia, and some well-known analytic philosophers claim to conduct better scholarship on continental philosophy than self-identified programs in continental philosophy, particularly at the level of graduate education. \"Continental philosophy\" is thus defined in terms of a family of philosophical traditions and influences rather than a geographic distinction.\n\nThe history of continental philosophy (taken in its narrower sense) is usually thought to begin with German idealism. Led by figures like Fichte, Schelling, and later Hegel, German idealism developed out of the work of Immanuel Kant in the 1780s and 1790s and was closely linked with romanticism and the revolutionary politics of the Enlightenment. Besides the central figures listed above, important contributors to German idealism also included Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi, Gottlob Ernst Schulze, Karl Leonhard Reinhold, and Friedrich Schleiermacher.\n\nAs the institutional roots of \"continental philosophy\" in many cases directly descend from those of phenomenology, Edmund Husserl has always been a canonical figure in continental philosophy. Nonetheless, Husserl is also a respected subject of study in the analytic tradition. Husserl's notion of a noema, the non-psychological content of thought, his correspondence with Gottlob Frege, and his investigations into the nature of logic continue to generate interest among analytic philosophers.\n\nJ. G. Merquior argued that a distinction between analytic and continental philosophies can be first clearly identified with Henri Bergson (1859–1941), whose wariness of science and elevation of intuition paved the way for existentialism. Merquior wrote: \"the most prestigious philosophizing in France took a very dissimilar path [from the Anglo-Germanic analytic schools]. One might say it all began with Henri Bergson.\"\n\nAn illustration of some important differences between \"analytic\" and \"continental\" styles of philosophy can be found in Rudolf Carnap's \"Elimination of Metaphysics through Logical Analysis of Language\" (originally published in 1932 as \"Überwindung der Metaphysik durch Logische Analyse der Sprache\"), a paper some observers have described as particularly polemical. Carnap's paper argues that Heidegger's lecture \"What Is Metaphysics?\" violates logical syntax to create nonsensical pseudo-statements. Moreover, Carnap claimed that many German metaphysicians of the era were similar to Heidegger in writing statements that were syntactically meaningless.\n\nWith the rise of Nazism, many of Germany's philosophers, especially those of Jewish descent or leftist or liberal political sympathies (such as many in the Vienna Circle and the Frankfurt School), fled to the English-speaking world. Those philosophers who remained—if they remained in academia at all—had to reconcile themselves to Nazi control of the universities. Others, such as Martin Heidegger, among the most prominent German philosophers to stay in Germany, developed a diplomatic relationship with Nazism when it came to power.\n\nBoth before and after World War II there was a growth of interest in German philosophy in France. A new interest in communism translated into an interest in Marx and Hegel, who became for the first time studied extensively in the politically conservative French university system of the Third Republic. At the same time the phenomenological philosophy of Husserl and Heidegger became increasingly influential, perhaps owing to its resonances with French philosophies which placed great stock in the first-person perspective (an idea found in divergent forms such as Cartesianism, spiritualism, and Bergsonism). Most important in this popularization of phenomenology was the author and philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, who called his philosophy existentialism. (See 20th-century French philosophy.) Another major strain of continental thought is structuralism/post-structuralism. Influenced by the structural linguistics of Ferdinand de Saussure, French anthropologists such as Claude Lévi-Strauss began to apply the structural paradigm to the humanities. In the 1960s and '70s, post-structuralists developed various critiques of structuralism. Post-structuralist thinkers include Jacques Lacan, Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze.\n\nFrom the early 20th century until the 1960s, continental philosophers were only intermittently discussed in British and American universities, despite an influx of continental philosophers, particularly German Jewish students of Nietzsche and Heidegger, to the United States on account of the persecution of the Jews and later World War II; Hannah Arendt, Leo Strauss, Theodor W. Adorno, and Walter Kaufmann are probably the most notable of this wave, arriving in the late 1930s and early 1940s. However, philosophy departments began offering courses in continental philosophy in the late 1960s and 1970s. \n\nAmerican university departments in literature, the fine arts, film, sociology, and political theory have increasingly incorporated ideas and arguments from continental philosophers into their curricula and research. Continental Philosophy features prominently in a number of British and Irish Philosophy departments, for instance at the University of Essex, Warwick, Sussex and Dundee, Manchester Metropolitan, Kingston University, Staffordshire University and University College Dublin, and in North American Philosophy departments, including the University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, Boston College, Stony Brook University (SUNY), Vanderbilt University, DePaul University, Villanova University, the University of Guelph, The New School, Pennsylvania State University, University of Oregon, Emory University, Duquesne University, the University of Memphis, University of King's College, and Loyola University Chicago. The most prominent organization for continental philosophy in the United States is the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy (known as SPEP).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33741859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33741859", "title": "Cryptocat", "text": "Cryptocat\n\nCryptocat is an open-source desktop application intended to allow encrypted online chatting available for Windows, OS X, and Linux. It uses end-to-end encryption to secure all communications to other Cryptocat users. Users are given the option of independently verifying their buddies' device lists and are notified when a buddy's device list is modified and all updates are verified through the built-in update downloader.\n\nCryptocat is developed by Nadim Kobeissi and a community of open source contributors and is published under the terms of the GPLv3 license.\n\nCryptocat was first launched on 19 May 2011 as a web application.\n\nIn June 2012, Kobeissi said he was detained at the U.S. border by the DHS and questioned about Cryptocat's censorship resistance. He tweeted about the incident afterwards, resulting in media coverage and a spike in the popularity of the software.\n\nIn June 2013, security researcher Steve Thomas pointed out a security bug that could be used to decrypt any group chat message that had taken place using Cryptocat between September 2012 and April 19, 2013. Private messages were not affected, and the bug had been resolved a month prior. In response, Cryptocat issued a security advisory, requested that all users ensure that they had upgraded, and informed users that past group conversations may have been compromised.\n\nIn February 2014, an audit by iSec Partners criticized Cryptocat's authentication model as insufficient. In response, Cryptocat made improvements to user authentication, making it easier for users to authenticate and detect man-in-the-middle attacks.\n\nIn February 2016, citing dissatisfaction with the project's current state after 19 months of non-maintenance, Kobeissi announced that he would be taking Cryptocat temporarily offline and discontinuing the development of its mobile application, pending a complete rewrite and relaunch of the software. In March 2016 Kobeissi announced the re-release of Cryptocat, rewritten completely as desktop software instead of the original web application software, as a public beta and the resumption of the service. The new desktop-centric approach allowed Cryptocat to benefit from stronger desktop integration, in a style similar to Pidgin.\n\nCryptocat allows its users to set up end-to-end encrypted chat conversations. Users can exchange one-to-one messages, encrypted files, photos as well as create and share audio/video recordings. All devices linked to Cryptocat accounts will receive forward secure messages, even when offline.\n\nAll messages, files and audio/video recordings sent over Cryptocat are end-to-end encrypted. Cryptocat users link their devices to their Cryptocat account upon connection, and can identify each other's devices via the client's device manager in order to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks. Cryptocat also employs a Trust on first use mechanism in order to help detect device identity key changes.\n\nCryptocat also includes a built-in auto-update mechanism that automatically performs a signature check on downloaded updates in order to verify authenticity, and employs TLS certificate pinning in order to prevent network impersonation attacks.\n\nOriginally in 2013, Cryptocat offered the ability to connect to Facebook Messenger to initiate encrypted chatting with other Cryptocat users. According to the developers, the feature was meant to help offer an alternative to the regular Cryptocat chat model which did not offer long-term contact lists. This feature was disconnected in November 2015.\n\nIn June 2013, Cryptocat was used by journalist Glenn Greenwald while in Hong Kong to meet NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden for the first time, after other encryption software failed to work.\n\nIn November 2013, Cryptocat was banned in Iran, shortly after the election of Iran's new president Hassan Rouhani who had promised more open Internet laws.\n\nCryptocat was listed on the Electronic Frontier Foundation's \"Secure Messaging Scorecard\" from 4 November 2014 until 13 March 2016. During that time, Cryptocat had a score of 7 out of 7 points on the scorecard. It had received points for having communications encrypted in transit, having communications encrypted with keys the provider did not have access to (end-to-end encryption), making it possible for users to independently verify their correspondent's identities, having past communications secure if the keys were stolen (forward secrecy), having its code open to independent review (open-source), having its security designs well-documented, and having completed an independent security audit.\n\nCryptocat uses a Double Ratchet Algorithm in order to obtain forward and future secrecy across messages, after a session is established using a four-way Elliptic curve Diffie-Hellman handshake. The handshake mixes in long-term identity keys, an intermediate-term signed pre-key, and a one-time use prekey. The approach is similar to the encryption protocol adopted for encrypted messaging by the Signal mobile application. Cryptocat's goal is for its messages to obtain confidentiality, integrity, source authenticity, forward and future secrecy and indistinguishability even over a network controlled by an active attacker. The forward secrecy features of the protocol that Cryptocat uses are similar to those first introduced by Off-the-Record Messaging.\n\nCryptocat uses the Advanced Encryption Standard in Galois/Counter Mode for authenticated encryption, Curve25519 for Elliptic curve Diffie-Hellman shared secret agreement, HMAC-SHA256 for key derivation and Ed25519 for signing. In order to limit the effect of a long-term identity key compromise, long-term keys are used exclusively once for the initial Authenticated Key Exchange, and once for signing a newly generated intermediate-term signed prekey.\n\nFor the transport layer, Cryptocat adopts the OMEMO Multi-End Message and Object Encryption standard, which also gives Cryptocat multi-device support and allows for offline messaging.\n\nCryptocat's network relies on a XMPP configuration served over WebSockets. According to the project's mission statement, Cryptocat's network only relays encrypted messages and does not store any data. In addition to the Cryptocat client's end-to-end encryption protocol, client-server communication is protected by TLS.\n\nFrom March 2011 until March 2016, Cryptocat was officially distributed through the Google Chrome Web Store, the Apple App Store and other official channels controlled by targeted platforms. After Cryptocat's re-write into desktop software in March 2016, the software became distributed exclusively through Cryptocat's own servers, which also handle signed update delivery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4326466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4326466", "title": "Dalibor Vesely", "text": "Dalibor Vesely\n\nDalibor Vesely (19 June 1934 – 31 March 2015) was a Czech-born architectural historian and theorist who was influential through his teaching and writing in promoting the role of hermeneutics and phenomenology as part of the discourse of architecture and of architectural design.\n\nVesely was one of the most outstanding architectural teachers of the late twentieth century. As well as inspiring generations of students, he taught some of the current leading architects and architectural historians, such as Daniel Libeskind, Eric Parry, Alberto Pérez-Gómez, Mohsen Mostafavi and David Leatherbarrow. He began teaching at the University of Essex, before moving to the Architectural Association in London and in 1978 to the University of Cambridge Department of Architecture, where he also started an M.Phil. programme in History and Philosophy of Architecture with Peter Carl. Together with Peter Carl, his teaching and theoretical approach became associated and dominated the Cambridge Architecture School in the 1980s and early 1990s. After retiring from his full-time post in Cambridge, Vesely continued to teach there, remaining Director of Studies at Emmanuel College, Cambridge and he also taught Architectural History and Philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania, and was an Honorary Professorial Fellow at the Manchester School of Architecture. In 2005 he was recipient of the CICA Bruno Zevi Book Award granted by the International Committee of Architectural Critics for his book \"Architecture in the Age of Divided Representation\". In 2006 the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) honoured Dalibor Vesely with the Annie Spink Award for Excellence in Architectural Education and in 2015 he was made an Honorary Fellow of the RIBA in recognition of both his lifetime contributions to architectural theory and to teaching. \n\nVesely was Born in Prague, Czechoslovakia,in 1934. He studied engineering, architecture, art history and philosophy in Prague, Munich, Paris and Heidelberg and obtained his PhD from Charles University in Prague. This was supervised by Josef Havlicek, Karel Honzik, and Jaroslav Fragner. He studied with Hans-Georg Gadamer, with whom he kept a correspondence until Gadamer's death. He stated it was the philosopher of phenomenology Jan Patočka who, in his own words, “contributed more than anyone else to [his] overall intellectual orientation and to the articulation of some of the critical topics” it was under the influence of Gadamer and Patočka that he developed the lifelong interest in the poetics and hermeneutics of architecture that defined his teaching and research .\nVesely was in England with his brother in 1968 when the Soviet tanks rolled into Czechoslovakia. He stayed in London, first teaching at the Architectural Association, taking charge of the 'Unit 1' studio and then moving to the University of Essex where he and Joseph Rykwert established a Masters Degree in architectural history. He was invited to Cambridge by Colin St John Wilson in 1978. There he, Rykwert and Peter Carl initiated MPhil and PhD courses in the history and philosophy of architecture, thereby bringing the emerging studio culture which had been cultivated at the AA which came to define the school in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nVesely's work may be understood primarily as a contribution to cultural hermeneutics, and his exploration of the historical background of modern science in the sixteenth- and seventeenth centuries is particularly rich in detail and insight onto the changing nature of representation. Vesely polemises on concepts such as perspective and anamorphosis, which are traditionally understood to have taken departure from Renaissance culture. Vesely contributes to the current debate with the depth of the problem of representation; a question which has divided Western philosophy with regard to the epistemological possibility of representation and understanding of natural phenomena. The 'birth' of modern science and its increasing challenge on traditional views has also marked the divide within the possibilities of representation. In the context of the seventeenth century, this was especially clear as a polemics surrounding the nature of scientific work and philosophical understanding.\n\nAccording to Vesely, the inevitable partiality of such views is at the very core of the problem that affects the cultural understanding of representation. Its contingent nature was not always understood as a divide originating all kinds of dualisms. Before modern science, representation was naturally contingent and the universal aspirations of science (metaphysics) were bound to the nature of the epistemological ground (\"arché\"). Vesely's work traces back the ontological foundations of the problem to the Greek context, helping to clarify its original meaning. In \"Architecture in the Age of Divided Representation\" (2004), Vesely presents the notion of \"ground\" as having a provisional nature, that can only be seized as a continuity of reference through different levels of representation, ranging from the more explicit, visible world down to a \"latent world\" of potential articulation. Precisely this continuity is what may allow us to address the modern, fragmented notion of representation as a task of rehabilitation, which would trace the fragment back to its original whole.\n\nVesely's written work was mostly in articles in journals and many of the arguments developed over the years in lectures and seminars. There is thus no comprehensive overview of his thought or his range of interests. However \"Architecture in the Age of Divided Representation\" (2004), provides a summary of his thinking and this work remains the main source for understanding his approach. Many of his other ideas which were expressed in lectures and seminars remain unpublished. \n\nIn \"Architecture in the Age of Divided Representation\" (2004), Vesely sets the argument from the experience of architecture, as it constantly works through different modes of representation, including \"built reality\". In it, Vesely defines the present cultural situation as divided and ambiguous, especially when it comes to architecture (pp. 4–12, 36, 44 ss). Twentieth-century architecture, he argues, places its trust in the epistemological model of modern science and technology that is today largely reflected in instrumental concepts of city and suburban landscape. Today, he states, the attempt to rehabilitate the primary tradition of architecture faces the problem of bridging the gap between different modes of representation and concepts of knowledge that in some cases precede modern science, i.e., precede the historical notion of scientific knowledge as it takes course from the seventeenth- and sixteenth centuries.\n\nVesely's research delved into these historical settings that are understood to be the birthplace of modern science, in the general hope of exposing the origin of our modern notion of knowledge and how it came about to emancipate from traditional representations of the world. Vesely's research was accordingly a working out the historical notion of representation, as it constituted a central issue in this historical affair; and how the construction of a modern notion of knowledge had much to do with a changing nature in the concept of representation (pp. 13–19). The concept as it is generally understood today largely surpasses the history of epistemology. According to Vesely, this is because representation is generally understood on the basis of a certain \"continuity between a particular mode of representation and what is represented\" (p. 14), a notion which has been current throughout the whole of European architectural history.\n\nWhen looking at the modern situation, Vesely finds that the problem is generally structured on the basis of an ontological difference that is intrinsic to representation itself. This is precisely the difference that allows modes of representation to emancipate from that which is represented, and from particular, given circumstances (pp. 4–5). The discussion of \"ontological difference\" therefore constitutes an \"epistemological difference\" affecting the conditions and possibilities of knowledge. And speculative thought, which we so associate with modern science, is built on this difference. Charles Taylor (1995) points out how the question for modern science is to fit a particular mode of representation to another, extrinsic representation: what we commonly call the \"outer reality\". The difference between the two constantly jeopardizes their epistemological value; and affects not only the way in which representation relates to \"what it means to represent\", but also between different modes of representing it.\n\nIn response, Vesely's work explores how architecture constantly works between different modes of representation, through the difference between project and what is built, for instance, when it translates a whole city into a diagram, a plan or a map. The simple act of reading a map involves more than just the imagination to relate the map with the buildings and the surrounding space; it involves the reciprocity between different levels of representation, that may intake discrepancy and lack of information. According to Vesely, this kind of discrepancy might be useful to understand the nature of the question; and may in fact become a means to understand what impairs the communication between different levels of representation, and conversely, what happens when such communication takes place.\n\nVesely also takes up the example of an experiment that, paradoxically perhaps, was carried out in the hey-day of logical empiricism. The experiment was carried out by Schilder, and involved a temporary inversion of the visual field (pp. 46ss), leaving other perceptual fields untouched. Schilder's experiment addressed the discontinuity between the visual and other fields of perception, and exposed the situated human body as a basic structure of spatial reference (pp. 48–49). Vesely investigates how the subjects of the experiment found that their bodies were the first instance they could rely on when trying to situate in a visual world that was not only upside down, but also turned from left to right; and when trying to perform simple gestures like picking up a book, or reading. Although the experience was difficult to endure, the inverted vision could be partially reconciled with the original body structure (p. 47).\n\nAccording to Vesely, the ability to reconcile the acquired inverted vision with the situational structure of the human body, points out to a deeper problem when dealing with situation, which is related to our ability to become situated on provisional grounds, even when lacking a fundamental 'ground' of spatial or temporal reference. The example from inverted vision also means to show that such a basis is far from being immediate; it is constituted in the process of a search within the actual space and comes about in the reciprocity between different levels and forms of representation such as visual, tactile, and so forth. Vesely elaborates on situation and the phenomenon of being situated as an example of how we contextualize spatial knowledge and on which basis; and on how a particular point of reference allows us to situate spatial knowledge. In the course of the argument, Vesely demonstrates that what constitutes the fabric of situation is a continuity of reference and experience through different forms of articulating spatiality down to an implicit structure that itself is neither visual nor tactile, and is only potentially articulated in the objective realm (pp. 48, 82–87, 378ss).\n\nVesely's argument on the epistemological process of being situated develops in terms of an analogy to the formation of the visual field. And takes the organic ability of sight only as a point of departure to the phenomenon of vision, i.e. what one is able to recognize and know out of visual perception. Accordingly, the natural process of seeing is shown to be a result from learning. Vesely presents the example of inborn conditions of blindness treated through surgery, where sight itself only emerges after a painful stage of learning, and without which, the recently acquired sense of sight would be unable to detach or recognize individual objects out of a 'visual field' (pp. 50–51). Vesely describes how the integration of the newly acquired sense relies on the fact that the world of the blind is already structured, not only in terms of temporal sequences, but spatially; and that the reconciliation of the new ability of sight takes place on an already structured ground of existing objects and spatiality. Perception such as visual or tactile is reconciled upon an implicitly structured ground.\n\nVesely shows how the task of bridging different plateaux of representation can only be fulfilled by covering the distance to a common 'ground' (pp. 61–63). 'Ground' is like a point of departure from which it would become possible to uncover the basic structure of spatiality; but it is hardly the case that such an epistemological ground can provide us with an absolute source of spatial reference. The notion of epistemological ground is not established a priori, as a given point of reference. It comes about in the process of searching, taking place as a continuum of references between different levels of spatial understanding. In which case, what constitutes the structural source of situation is this \"stream of references\" (p. 60).\n\nVesely's notion of ground consists of a primary source of reference that in many ways coincides with the traditional Greek understanding of \"arché\". \"Arché\" is not an absolute source of reference, but only a primary one that works as a point of departure towards our notion of \"earth\" and our understanding of \"world\" (pp. 50–52). This is an \"insecure ground\" that in a sense, speaks more of its own topography, than of clearly defined rules and references. Although this is an unfamiliar ground for modern science, Vesely accurately describes how much of the understanding of what it means to be situated derives from the knowledge of daily situations on Earth, where horizon and gravity play a common role. Accordingly, architecture's task of raising and 'building' situations does not address the mere existence of conditions such as floor or gravity, but concerns the fundamental condition of 'ground' allowing the phenomenon of situation to take place.\n\nOn the epistemological level, this means that for Vesely, the nature of 'ground' allows an understanding of ‘spatial structure’; like a \"hermeneutical key\" granting access to phenomena of spatiality. Contemporary architecture has been particularly keen on challenging the average views on \"ground\" viz. gravity. Although most architecture cannot escape the 'predicament' of gravity, there are numerous examples of play with gravity and the 'visual weight' of architectural mass against gravity, starting from the early twentieth-century constructivism. Such architectural play shows an impulse towards the emancipation from gravity as a natural source of situation, and looks forward to expose a more fundamental ground of reference and its problematic nature. Architecture is thus setting a clear challenge on everyday experience as they are structured characteristically in terms of up and down, and according to a horizontal ground. The experiment of the 'inverted vision' seems to show exactly that: the touch of ground helps to define the vertical and the relative distances of objects, orientation, and to recognize the physiognomy of the space. Outside these conditions it seems more or less obvious that the 'grounds' for situation escape our grasp. At the same time, architects are conscious that it is precisely the implicit nature of ground as a structure of references that makes the task of its architectural exploration so difficult.\n\nMoreover, according to Vesely, the notion of 'ground' can never provide us with an absolute knowledge of the whole, but only with a mediated understanding of spatial structure. This means that the task of uncovering the hidden nature of ground becomes, a fortiori, one of looking for a provisional ground that is beyond gravity as a natural source of spatial reference. The first long-term programme dealing with the consequences of the absence of gravity was developed already in 1973 by the NASA Skylab. Vesely reports how one of the greatest difficulties encountered by the astronauts is the constant loss of orientation that becomes a general difficulty in recognizing previously known situations. Without gravity, an otherwise familiar compartment would be unrecognizable if not seen from a particular angle. The Sky Lab experience seems to illustrate quite well how the phenomenon of spatial structure and situation comes to be known through a sequence of approximations. Without the right orientation, simple recognition such as finding objects in their right places would become an almost impossible task. Once found the right orientation towards objects, however, the entire spatial frame of the compartment was recognized and so would all objects in their right places and relative positions. In a situation without light or gravity, one of the Sky Lab astronauts also described how a single touch on one of the walls of the space compartment would be sufficient to enact the knowledge of the relative position of the body with respect to all objects (pp. 52–54). This seems to be particularly relevant to show how a particular point of visual or tactile reference can provide with orientation; a physiognomic recognition of the space; and be related to the spatial disposition of the whole. These are instances that, according to Vesely, constitute a continuity of spatial reference and an epistemological, provisional ground. As it arises in the continuity of understanding the potential structure of the space, the notion of ground seems to be of a projective nature (p. 103).\n\nVesely seems to confer a projective ability on spatiality that is thus knowable from its own potential to generate a situation. According to Vesely, the continuity of reference to ground exists within a permanent tension with the actual space, a continuity which under certain conditions may be disrupted and even destroyed (pp. 55–56). The fact that there are discrepancies between different levels of representation should perhaps be no surprise as it is the case of the above-mentioned examples of reading a map, or orienting oneself in a space under zero gravity. That there is discrepancy between the given representation of a space and the actual space is in fact a common datum of everyday experience. The question is not to be solved, although it may constitute one important point of departure to understand the phenomenon of representation. This is particularly the case of extreme conditions where the phenomenon of 'continuity' is no longer recognizable. In the cases of aphasia and apraxia, which rank among others of what is generally known as mental blindness, there is a blatant discontinuity between the possibilities of notional understanding and the actual performance of a purposive act or standard articulation of speech. The work and research that has been carried out on mental blindness tends to show that the ability to articulate both speech and purposive actions and gestures is nonetheless affected by the surrounding environment, and is not based upon mental impairment alone. On the contrary, it has become increasingly clear that such conditions do not take place solely as a result of mental functions; neither can they be enacted by the situational structure, as both contribute to the failure and success of treatment (p. 57).\nVesely brings the argument about these conditions back to the experiments regarding orientation, such as the inverted vision experiment and orientation under zero gravity conditions, and correlates it with the problems experienced with mental blindness. This is because of the fundamental knowledge of spatiality that is at stake that enables a possible representation to be actually effected. As regards spatiality, Vesely presupposes an existing continuity between the possible and the actual spatial configuration, as a mediated structure (p. 58). This understanding of representation seems to reverberate Husserl's phenomenological treatment of representation, as moving from the horizon of vague, informal representation (\"Vorstellung\"), through a number of possibilities (\"Vergegenwärtigungen\"), until it finally reaches actuality (\"Repräsentation\"). The fact that Husserl only used the word \"Repräsentation\" to deal with explicit forms of representation, may serve us as an example of how a whole representational process was being kept in the background. Husserl's process of representation shows that our knowledge of spatiality intakes different levels of articulation, which are not always as clearly defined as we would wish. This means that the ground and point of departure of explicit references is not a point of departure towards a growing, cumulative knowledge of situation, but is rather a 'coming back' into a prereflective world of experience. In this sense, representation takes place as a spectrum ranging out of explicit forms of articulation into an implicit background, a concept that seems to be confirmed by later phenomenology of perception. It seems obvious that, because of the nature of this prereflective ground, verbal or visual articulation of it cannot take place in an explicit sense. On the contrary, the phenomenological gaze at this background takes place indirectly (p. 69) as a preunderstanding of the world. If this is so, then not only our epistemological ground is constituted as an identity of interpretation of different levels of perception, but also the concept of representation as such is constituted as a movement out of a prereflective background. This is precisely the background against which it becomes possible for an articulated structure to take place and be identified as such (pp. 75–77). This also means that the difference between different levels of articulation, namely between a preunderstanding background and a given object is precisely what allows us to see the object and situate it within our world of experience. If we accept Vesely's argument, then the difference that formerly stood as an epistemological barrier now becomes a necessary condition for representation to take place.\n\nVesely addresses the preunderstanding of world as a \"latent world\" (p. 83), that is potentially articulated and structured, and whose relationship to its visible manifestation is not immediate. The reciprocity between this prearticulated level and its visible articulation dwells within the very ontological difference that has been discussed previously. Such reciprocity is a schematic constituent of phenomena of continuity and metaphoricity, that have been constantly described throughout the primary tradition of Christian humanism in the nature of being and becoming. Vesely thus enters the core of the question of representation in terms of its coming into the level of visibility. In the sequence of Vesely's argument, the subject of visibility becomes then, of itself, problematic in nature as it intakes a background of potential articulation.\n\nAccording to Vesely, \"the horizon of visibility displays a synthesis of the prereflective experience and of the achievements of reflection insofar as they preserve ontological continuity with the visible\" (p. 85). On the other hand, the rise onto the explicit level of visibility primarily seems to express the problem of representation in terms of what is kept from the prereflective world. This could perhaps be seen as a consequence of the traditional concept of inner representation as relating to an external reality. Vesely challenges this concept of representation, and widens it as a spectrum that ranges from the explicitness of our world down to implicit levels of articulation. Consequently, the term reality is restricted mostly to certain types of representation (e.g. virtual reality) that view reality as something extrinsic (pp. 308–315).\nVesely's concept of representation, however, takes place in terms of a communication between a wide range of levels; whereby the question that concerns representation also concerns the truth of representation, a question that has been amply developed by modern hermeneutics. In this domain, the visible world conveys a kind of knowledge of the prereflective levels of articulation that also jeopardizes the epistemological status of the visible. As we have seen, contrary to empiricist belief, the visible world by itself does not constitute an epistemological ground (pp. 84–86). Instead, our epistemological ground is constituted by features such as orientation, physiognomy, and the relative position of things with regard to one another; and it is from these features that a provisional ground comes to be constituted as regards spatiality. This ground is not a still point of reference. On the contrary, by ground is here meant a source and stream of references. This means that the explicit horizon of the visible, tangible world is the most explicit form of embodiment we have, but such a narrow horizon we can only take as a point of departure if we want to understand the rest of our world that is largely beyond visibility. This also means that the visible holds a very important part as a symbolic representation of our world, enabling us to see and imagine beyond the visible.\n\nFinally, this means that we construe our knowledge of 'world' largely on the basis of invisible, implicit references which are only symbolically re-enacted by the visible realm. The level of visual representation may perhaps be compared to the level of more explicit verbal articulation as regards the implicit, preverbal domain of knowledge. Just as visual representation, verbal articulation has the power to emancipate from the given world, and the freedom to convey any meaning. This is a power bestowed upon representation, allowing it to withdraw from its original symbolic domain, thus establishing a tension between the instrumental nature of representation and its larger symbolic field.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15776681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15776681", "title": "Developmental noise", "text": "Developmental noise\n\nDevelopmental noise is a concept within developmental biology in which the phenotype varies between individuals even though both the genotypes and the environmental factors are the same for all of them. Contributing factors include stochastic gene expression and other sources of cellular noise.\n\nAlthough organisms within a species share very similar genes, similar environments and similar developmental history, each individual organism can develop differences due to noise in signaling and signal interpretation. This developmental noise may help individuals gain the ability to adapt to the environment and contribute to their unique patterns of development. Human fingerprints provide a well-known example; the fingerprints differ even between genetically identical human twins.\n\nDevelopmental noise may help individuals gain the ability to adapt to the environment. Biological systems display both variation and robustness. Natural variation within a population is in large part genetically determined, but variation due to noise may contribute to a rapid response by an individual to changes in the environment. This variation can have an evolutionary tuning effect that contributes to the optimal fitness of a population. In support of this idea, it has been shown that bacteria can switch stochastically into a \"persistent\" state which has slow growth coupled with an ability to survive antibiotic treatment. In another study, it has been shown that most of the noisy proteins were associated with the stress response. When proteins are expressed in small quantities, the expression of more noisy proteins will be more influenced by noises which come from the environmental context. Types of noises include extrinsic noise which is the variation in cell-to-cell expression level of protein, and intrinsic noise which is the variation of the inherent stochastic nature of protein expression. Moreover, noisy genes are associated with a distinct promoter architecture, including the prevalence of TATA boxes, consistent with the theoretical predictions that noise is greatly inﬂuenced by the logic of the transcriptional process itself and, in particular, the transition from closed to open chromatin.\n\nThe developmental noise can contribute to unique patterns of development in each individual as well. During development of a complex organ, variability in gene expression may be required to contribute to differentiation of multiple cell types from cells that have equivalent potential. For example, the patterning of the adult fly eye relies on multiple alternative choices of differentiation pathways within an apparently homogeneous field of cells. The facets (ommatidia) in fly eyes occur as two types, designated pale and yellow, as defined by the particular types of rhodopsin photopigments expressed in the two inner photoreceptor cells. In flies carrying mutations in the gene spineless, all ommatidia show the pale fate, while over expression of spineless induces the yellow fate. The final pattern of ommatidia is determined by stochastic variation in expression of this single transcription factor Spineless.\n\nThe majority of study on developmental noise has focused on animals, but there are also examples from plants. In one early study, Roy made thousands of observations on petal numbers as well as on leaf tooth numbers. He observed a high degree of variability in both traits. After analyzing his data, he could not conclude that the variability was caused by environmental effect. Another example of noise in plants is lateral root behavior. People found that the growth of lateral roots is unpredictable in genetically identical plants which grow in the same environment. One more example of seed germination may illustrate the benefit of developmental noise in plants. Stochasticity in the timing of germination ensures that at least a fraction of the progeny will survive to reproduce.\n\nThough stochastic variations in cell behaviors may be beneficial, most biological systems need to maintain a reliable output without unpredictable variations. This ability to buffer variations generated by molecular noise, genetic polymorphism, or environmental\nﬂuctuations is termed robustness.\n\nFor example, in the development of the repeating blocks of somites in the mesoderm of vertebrate animals, even though the biological system may be subject to a noisy environment, the segmentation clock maintains periodic gene expression through coupled oscillators, in which synchronous oscillation of neighbors is maintained through mutual coupling. This mechanism enables embryos to maintain a constant segregation of somites, despite the noise imposed by the high level mitosis required for continued growth.\n\nThe sources, consequences, and control of noise are major questions in study of developmental noise. Recent studies suggest that this noise has multiple sources, including the stochastic or inherently random nature of the biochemical reactions of gene expression. But the detailed mechanisms are still unclear and the contributions of factors such as microRNAs, whose existence was first discovered in the 1990s, remain unclear. For example, one recent study showed that microRNAs can serve different roles, from using noise to throw a developmental switch to buffering the consequences of noise in order to confer robustness to environmental perturbation. Thus, much work remains to be done in understanding the significance, control and mechanisms of developmental noise.\n\n"}
{"id": "34424139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34424139", "title": "Dumitru Remenco", "text": "Dumitru Remenco\n\nDumitru I. Remenco (1895 - July 13, 1940) was a Romanian journalist and philosopher from Chişinău, Bessarabia. He was a contributor at major newspapers of Bessarabia, such as Cuvânt moldovenesc, Viaţa Basarabiei, Glasul Basarabiei, Timpul.\n\nDumitru I. Remenco was born in 1895, in Hagi-Abdul, Ismail. He studied at Bolgrad and Odessa and, from 1919, at Alexandru Ioan Cuza University. During 1916-1917, while was on the Romanian front, Remenco became a friend of Alexei Mateevici. In the fall of 1917, Dumitru I. Remenco married to Alexandra Remenco (1897–1959) from Peresecina and they had two children, Gheorghe Remenco (November 19, 1918, Chişinău - October 29, 1977, Chişinău) and Sergiu (b. Chişinău).\n\nIn 1921, Remenco he was a founder member of \"Societatea de Belle - Arte din Basarabia\". Dumitru I. Remenco worked as a journalist at \"La Răspântie\" (1921), \"Cuvânt moldovenesc\", \"Raza\", \"Viaţa Basarabiei\", \"Glasul Basarabiei\" in Chişinău. He was a correspondent for the newspapers \"Timpul\" and \"Argus\" in Bucharest. Remenco was a friend of Nichifor Crainic, Vasile Ţepordei.\n\nAfter the Soviet occupation of Bessarabia, he stayed in 1940, but was arrested and killed himself on July 13, 1940. He was buried at the Central cemetery on Armenească Street, Chişinău.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2838466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2838466", "title": "Edward Spencer Beesly", "text": "Edward Spencer Beesly\n\nEdward Spencer Beesly (; 1831–1915) was an English positivist and historian.\n\nHe was born on 23 January 1831 in Feckenham, Worcestershire, the eldest son of the Rev. James Beesly and his wife, Mary Fitzgerald, of Queen's county, Ireland. After reading Latin and Greek with his father, in the autumn of 1846 he was sent to King William's College on the Isle of Man, an evangelical establishment whose inadequate instruction and low moral tone were later depicted in \"Eric, or, Little by Little\", by his school friend F. W. Farrar.\n\nIn 1849 Beesly entered Wadham College, Oxford, another evangelical stronghold. He held two exhibitions and a Bible clerkship. His flair for quoting scripture yielded to radical rhetoric under the influence of his tutor Richard Congreve, a covert disciple of Auguste Comte's positivism. Along with his Wadham friends Frederic Harrison and John Henry Bridges, Beesly actively engaged in the debates of the Oxford Union and became recognised as a Comtist, though his adhesion to the French philosophy was still tenuous.\n\nBeesly received his BA in 1854 and proceeded MA in 1857. After failing to secure a first class (he obtained seconds in classical moderations and literae humaniores) or a fellowship, he became an assistant master at Marlborough College. His brother Augustus Henry, a historian and classical scholar, also taught at the school. Beesly left for London in 1859 to serve as principal of University Hall, a student residence in Gordon Square serving University College. The next year he was appointed professor of history there and professor of Latin at Bedford College for women, with a combined salary of £300. He also had a private income. His tall, willowy figure became a familiar sight in the Reform Club and London drawing-rooms, including that of George Eliot and George Henry Lewes, whose Fortnightly Review welcomed Beesly's articles.\n\nBeesly joined Congreve and Harrison, both now in London, in supporting the struggle of the workers in the building trades for shorter hours. He also attacked the economic theories used by critics of the 'new model' trade unions of the 1860s. The notoriety he gained culminated in 1867, when he declared in the aftermath of the 'Sheffield outrages' that a trade union murder was no worse than any other: he almost lost his post at University Hall and Punch dubbed him Dr Beastly. His radical agenda included promoting international solidarity among working-class leaders. He helped organise the most important pro-Union demonstration in England during the American Civil War, and he chaired the historic meeting (28 September 1864) advocating co-operation between English and French workers in support of Polish nationalism, which led to the formation of the International Working Men's Association (the First International), soon dominated by his friend Karl Marx.\n\nForeign affairs were always a passion of Beesly's. For International Policy, a positivist volume published in 1866, he wrote on British sea power, asserting a connection between Protestantism and commercial immorality. A critic of imperialism, he was a member of the committee founded in 1866 to prosecute Edward Eyre, governor of Jamaica [see Jamaica committee]. Beesly and other positivists incurred hostility for advocating intervention on the side of France in the Franco-Prussian War, and for defending the Paris commune. Their republican views found expression not only in the press but also at the positivist centre in Chapel Street (now Rugby Street) that they opened in 1870 under Congreve's direction. There they introduced sacraments of the Religion of Humanity and published a co-operative translation of Comte's Positive Polity. When Congreve repudiated their Paris co-religionists in 1878, Beesly, Harrison, Bridges, and others formed their own positivist society, with Beesly as president, and opened a rival centre, Newton Hall, in a courtyard off Fleet Street. Beesly headed its political discussion group, which produced occasional papers. Retirement from University College in 1893 (he had left Bedford College in 1889) enabled him to found and edit the Positivist Review.\n\nIn 1881, Beesly attended the early meetings of the Democratic Federation, but he was soon marginalised, and returned to the Liberal Party by the middle of the decade.\n\nIn 1869 Beesly married Emily, youngest daughter of Sir Charles John Crompton, justice of the queen's bench, and his wife, Caroline. The Beeslys lived in University Hall until 1882, when they moved to Finsbury Park. Mrs Beesly was not a positivist—as were her brothers Albert and Henry Crompton—but she shared some of her husband's political and historical interests. He unsuccessfully stood for parliament as a Liberal at Westminster in November 1885 and at Marylebone in July 1886. Emily Beesly became president of the women's liberal association of Paddington after their move to Warrington Crescent in 1886. Both advocated Irish home rule, he in hard-hitting articles, she in new lyrics for 'The Wearing of the Green'. In 1878 he published Catiline, Clodius, and Tiberius, and she brought out her Stories from the History of Rome, written for their four sons. She died in 1889, aged forty-nine.\n\nBeesly's later publications included seventy-four biographical entries on military and political figures for the positivists' New Calendar of Great Men, and Queen Elizabeth, both of which appeared in 1892. In 1901 he retired to 21 West Hill, St Leonards, Sussex, where he published translations of Comte and continued to write for the Positivist Review. He died at home on 7 July 1915 and was buried in Paddington cemetery. He left a name still honoured by labour historians.\n\nBeesly was not only friendly with Marx, but was well acquainted with his circle. He knew Lafargue, he got to know Engels, and there were mutual acquaintances, such as Eugene Oswald. Among workmen, he was not only the friend of George Odger, Robert Applegarth and Lucraft, but was on close terms with such working-class confidants of Marx as Jung and Eccarius, and to a lesser extent with Dupont. In the sixties he was a familiar figure, not only in the offices of the Carpenters and Joiners, the London Trades Council or \"The Bee-Hive\", but was also at home in the \"Golden Ball\" where the most radical of London's workmen talked with continental revolutionaries over a clay pipe and a pot of beer. Here one could get the flavour of European proletarian politics: that other “World of Labour” in whose ideals Beesly was as deeply interested as he was in those of English trades unionism. Indeed, for many years he expressed his desire for the amalgamation of trade unionism – with its implicit recognition of the priority of social questions—, and proletarian republicanism – with its generous enthusiasm and its larger view.\n\nAuction lot description of Beesly's copy of Das Kapital: This is an excellent association copy, inscribed to Karl Marx’s friend Professor Edward Spencer Beesly (1831–1915), positivist of the Auguste Comte school of thought, historian, and one of the founding editors of the Fortnightly Review.\nIn 1868, when Marx & Engels were trying to develop international momentum for the economic philosophy contained in this work, they contacted the Fortnightly Review via Beesly to see if it would be interested in publishing a critique of Das Kapital; at the time Marx wrote to Engels: “Prof. Beesly, who is one of the triumvirate which secretly runs this rag, has… declared, he is ‘morally certain’ (it depends on him!) a criticism would be accepted” [8 January 1868].\nAn eventual review was passed on to the then chief editor John Morley by Beesly, but Morley apparently found the piece unreadable and would not allow publication, even after Beesly had suggested Marx could try to make the article less dry and more popularist in tone. Beesly subsequently suggested Marx & Engels contact The Westminster Review, but nothing seems to have come of this either.\nThe further inscription, possibly by Beesly, reads \"Died 14 March 1883\", the date of Marx's death. Sold for £115,000, 27 May 2010\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32831223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32831223", "title": "Francis Dominic Bencini", "text": "Francis Dominic Bencini\n\nFrancis Dominic Bencini (1664–1744) was a minor Maltese philosopher who specialised in apologetics.\n\nBenici began his studies in Malta, and went on to become a diocesan priest. He then studied theology in Rome, from where he obtained his graduate colours.\n\nThereafter, he immediately began teaching dogmatic theology at the \"Collegio Urbano\", in Rome, Italy. While there, he was also installed as librarian of \"Propaganda Fide\", and chosen as secretary to the pontifical councils. He dedicated much of his intellectual energies to the anti-reformist polemic which was in full swing during his times.\n\nAfter many years working hard in Rome, Bencini expected to be awarded for his efforts. However, no official recognition was forthcoming, and this left him quite embittered. Sick of waiting, he thus left Rome and went to Turin, in northern Italy. There, at least, he was made professor at the University of Turin. He mainly taught theology and Holy Scripture. He seems to have been glad at his new place of adoption. For, from his personal financial resources, he paid for the establishment of a Chair of Apologetics, and also established a Catholic school of catechism.\n\nBencini may have died in Turin. No portrait of him is known to exist.\n\nAll of Bencini’s manuscripts remain in the holdings of the University of Turin. Bencini himself published some of his works during his lifetime, otherwise no other manuscripts have ever been published. Most of these works concern themes related to Christian, particularly Catholic apologetics.\n\nOf those published, his Philosophia Tabulis Exposita (1703), from a philosophical point of view, is of special interest. This is a work in Latin, and published in Rome. It carries the sub-title: \"Varia antiquorum, recentiorumque Philosophorum Placita exhibens, ac perpetius commentarijs illustrata\" (Illustrations of various known philosophies of ancient and recent times, with each illustration commented).\n\nThe book is dedicated to an adolescent boy called Alessandro Albani, the nephew of Pope Clement XI Albani. What follows is a textual format explanation of the work, some general information about the illustrations, the commemorative reason for publishing the work, and the method used for the order of the illustrations.\n\nThe predominate book contents are the illustrations, divided into three sections. The first deals with philosophy in general; the second with dialectics; the third with logic. Six illustrations are presented in the first section, seven in the second, and nine in the third. In a systematic order, each illustration is described by an extensive description. The parts dealing with dialectics and logic are basically based on Aristotle. The first section is predominantly concerns classical Greek philosophy.\n\nOther published works by Bencini, though not of a philosophical theme, are \"Præfatio dicta ante disputationem thesium\" (Preface as an Afterword of a Disputation of Theses; 1687) and \"Il Concilio di Calcedonia\" (The Council of Chalcedon; 1715). Both deal with apologetical themes, particularly in reference to reformation.\n\nPhilosophy in Malta\n"}
{"id": "40041053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40041053", "title": "Genetic purging", "text": "Genetic purging\n\nGenetic purging is the reduction of the frequency of a deleterious allele, caused by an increased efficiency of natural selection prompted by inbreeding.\n\nPurging occurs because many deleterious alleles only express all their harmful effect when homozygous, present in two copies. During inbreeding, as related individuals mate, they produce offspring that are more likely to be homozygous. Deleterious alleles appear more often, making individuals less fit genetically, i.e. they pass fewer copies of their genes to future generations. Put another way, natural selection purges the deleterious alleles.\n\nPurging reduces both the overall number of recessive deleterious alleles and the decline of mean fitness caused by inbreeding (the inbreeding depression for fitness).\n\nThe term \"purge\" is sometimes used for selection against deleterious alleles in a general way. It would avoid ambiguity to use \"purifying selection\" in that general context, and to reserve purging to its more strict meaning defined above.\n\nDeleterious alleles segregating in populations of diploid organisms have a remarkable trend to be, at least, partially recessive. This means that, when they occur in homozygosis (double copies), they reduce fitness by more than twice than when they occur in heterozygosis (single copy). In other words, part of their potential deleterious effect is hidden in heterozygosis but expressed in homozygosis, so that selection is more efficient against them when they occur in homozygosis. Since inbreeding increases the probability of being homozygous, it increases the fraction of the potential deleterious effect that is expressed and, therefore, exposed to selection. This causes some increase in the selective pressure against (partially) recessive deleterious alleles, which is known as purging. Of course, it also causes some reduction in fitness, which is known as inbreeding depression.\n\nPurging can reduce the average frequency of deleterious alleles across the genome below the value expected in a non-inbred population. Although this reduction usually does not compensate for all the negative effects of inbreeding, it has several beneficial consequences for fitness. A consequence is the reduction of the so-called inbreeding load. This means that, after purging, further inbreeding is expected to be less harmful. But the most immediate consequence is the reduction of the actual inbreeding depression of fitness: due to purging, mean fitness declines less than would be expected just from inbreeding and, after some initial decline, it can even rebound up to almost its value before inbreeding.\n\nAccounting for purging when predicting inbreeding depression is important in evolutionary genetics, because the fitness decline caused by inbreeding can be determinant in the evolution of diploidy, sexual reproduction and other main biological features. It is also important in animal breeding and, of course, in conservation genetics, because inbreeding depression may be a relevant factor determining the extinction risk of endangered populations, and because conservation programs can allow some breeding handling in order to control inbreeding.\n\nIn brief, Due to purging, inbreeding depression is not proportional to the standard measure of inbreeding (Wright's inbreeding coefficient ), since this measure only applies to neutral alleles. Instead, fitness decline is proportional to \"purged inbreeding\" , which gives the probability of being homozygous for deleterious alleles due to inbreeding, taking into account how they are being purged.\n\nPurging reduces inbreeding depression in two ways: first, it slows its progress; second, it reduces the overall inbreeding depression expected in the long term. The slower the progress of inbreeding, the more efficient is purging.\n\nIn the absence of natural selection, mean fitness would be expected to decline exponentially as inbreeding increases, where inbreeding is measured using Wright's inbreeding coefficient (the reason why decline is exponential on instead of linear is just that fitness is usually considered a multiplicative trait). The rate at which fitness declines as increases (the inbreeding depression rate \"δ\") depends on the frequencies and deleterious effects of the alleles present in the population before inbreeding.\n\nThe above coefficient is the standard measure of inbreeding, and gives the probability that, at any given neutral locus, an individual has inherited two copies of a same gene of a common ancestor (i.e. the probability of being homozygous \"by descent\"). In simple conditions, can be easily computed in terms of population size or of genealogical information. is often denoted using lowercase (), but should not be confused with the coancestry coefficient.\n\nHowever, the above prediction for the fitness decline rarely applies, since it was derived assuming no selection, and fitness is precisely the target trait of natural selection. Thus, Wright's inbreeding coefficient for neutral loci does not apply to deleterious alleles, unless inbreeding increases so fast that the change in gene frequency is governed just by random sampling (i.e., by genetic drift).\n\nTherefore, the decline of fitness should be predicted using, instead of the standard inbreeding coefficient , a \"purged inbreeding coefficient\" () that gives the probability of being homozygous by descent for (partially) recessive deleterious alleles, taking into account how their frequency is reduced by purging. Due to purging, fitness declines at the same rate than in the absence of selection, but as a function of instead of .\nThis purged inbreeding coefficient can also be computed, to a good approximation, using simple expressions in terms of the population size or of the genealogy of individuals (see BOX 1). However this requires some information on the magnitude of the deleterious effects that are hidden in the heterozygous condition but become expressed in homozygosis. The larger this magnitude, denoted purging coefficient \"d\", the more efficient is purging.\n\nAn interesting property of purging is that, during inbreeding, while increases approaching a final value , can approach a much smaller final value. Hence, it is not just that purging slows the fitness decline, but also that it reduces the overall fitness loss produced by inbreeding in the long term. This is illustrated in BOX 2 for the extreme case of inbreeding depression caused by recessive lethals, which are alleles that cause death before reproduction but only when they occur in homozygosis. Purging is less effective against mildly deleterious alleles than against lethal ones but, in general, the slower is the increase of inbreeding , the smaller becomes the final value of the purged inbreeding coefficient and, therefore, the final reduction in fitness. This implies that, if inbreeding progresses slowly enough, no relevant inbreeding depression is expected in the long term. This results in the fitness of a small population, that has been a small population for a long time, can be the same as a large population with more genetic diversity. In conservation genetics, it would be very useful to ascertain the maximum rate of increase of inbreeding that allows for such efficient purging.\n\nConsider a large non-inbred population with mean fitness . Then, the size of the population reduces to a new smaller value (in fact, the effective population size should be used here), leading to a progressive increase of inbreeding.\n\nThen inbreeding depression occurs at a rate , due to (partially) recessive deleterious alleles that were present at low frequencies at different loci. This means that, in the absence of selection, the expected value for mean fitness after generations of inbreeding, would be:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the population mean for Wright's inbreeding coefficient after generations of inbreeding.\n\nHowever, since selection operates upon fitness, mean fitness should be predicted taking into acco naveenraj unt both inbreeding and purging, as\n\nformula_3\n\nIn the above equation, formula_4 is the average \"purged inbreeding coefficient\" after generations of inbreeding. It depends upon the \"purging coefficient\" , which represents the deleterious effects that are hidden in heterozygosis but exposed in homozygosis.\n\nThe average \"purged inbreeding coefficient\" can be approximated using the recurrent expression\n\nformula_5\n\nThere are also predictive equations to be used with genealogical information.\n\nAs an example of genetic purging, consider a large population where there are recessive lethal alleles segregating at very low frequency in many loci, so that each individual carries on the average one of these alleles. Although about 63% of the individuals carry at least one of these lethal alleles, almost none carry two copies of the same lethal. Therefore, since lethals are considered completely recessive (i.e., they are harmless in heterozygosis), they cause almost no deaths. Now assume that population size reduces to a small value (say \"N\"=10), and remains that small for many generations. As inbreeding increases, the probability of being homozygous for one (or more) of these lethal alleles also increases, causing fitness to decline. However, as those lethals begin to occur in homozygosis, natural selection begins purging them. The figure to the right gives the expected decline of fitness against the number of generations, taking into account just the increase in inbreeding (red line), or both inbreeding and purging (blue line, computed using the purged inbreeding coefficient ). This example shows that purging can be very efficient preventing inbreeding depression. However, for non-lethal deleterious alleles, the efficiency of purging would be smaller, and it can require larger populations to overcome genetic drift.\n\nThe yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Saccharomyces paradoxus have a life cycle that alternates between long periods of asexual reproduction as a diploid, ending in meiosis that is usually immediately followed selfing, with only rare outcrossing. Recessive deleterious mutations accumulate during the diploid expansion phase, and are purged during selfing: this purging has been termed \"genome renewal\".\n\nWhen a previously stable population undergoes inbreeding, if nothing else changes, natural selection should consist mainly of purging. The joint consequences of inbreeding and purging on fitness vary depending on many factors: the previous history of the population, the rate of increase of inbreeding, the harshness of the environment or of the competitive conditions, etc. The effects of purging were first noted by Darwin in plants, and have been detected in laboratory experiments and in vertebrate populations undergoing inbreeding in zoos or in the wild, as well as in humans. The detection of purging is often obscured by many factors, but there is consistent evidence that, in agreement with the predictions explained above, slow inbreeding results in more efficient purging, so that a given inbreeding F leads to less threat to population viability if it has been produced more slowly.\n\nNevertheless, in practical situations, the genetic change in fitness also depends on many other factors, besides inbreeding and purging. For example, adaptation to changing environmental conditions often causes relevant genetic changes during inbreeding. Furthermore, if inbreeding is due to a reduction in population size, selection against new deleterious mutations can become less efficient, and this can induce additional fitness decline in the medium-long term.\n\nIn addition, part of the inbreeding depression could not be due to deleterious alleles, but to an intrinsic advantage of being heterozygous compared to being homozygous for any available allele, which is known as overdominance. Inbreeding depression caused by overdominance cannot be purged, but seems to be a minor cause of overall inbreeding depression, although its actual importance is still a matter of debate.\n\nTherefore, predicting the actual evolution of fitness during inbreeding is highly elusive. However, the component of fitness decline expected from inbreeding and purging on deleterious alleles could be predicted using .\n"}
{"id": "34113634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34113634", "title": "Goran Švob", "text": "Goran Švob\n\nGoran Švob (; 29 May 1947 – 18 April 2013) was a Croatian philosopher, logician, and author. He was an associate professor at the Department of Philosophy of Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Zagreb where he taught logic and the philosophy of language, being employed there since 1975.\n\nŠvob has written two books and published numerous scientific papers in the academic field of logic. He was greatly influenced by the analytic philosophy and particularly by the philosophers Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, and Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\nŠvob was born on 29 May 1947 in Zagreb, then part of Yugoslavia. There he finished his primary school education and graduated from gymnasium. He then enrolled at the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences of the University of Zagreb where he got his Master of Arts in philosophy and English language in 1971. The same year he managed to get employed at the Department of Philosophy of the same faculty.\n\nDuring the academic year 1973–1974 Švob spent six months as a research fellow at the University of Oxford. He also had shorter visits at the universities in Austria, West Germany, Great Britain, Japan, and China. In 1988 he got his Doctor of Philosophy in philosophy at the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, and the following year he was selected to the position of an assistant professor, and was further promoted to the position of associate professor in 2001. He has been teaching logic and philosophy of language there since 1975. He was also a guest lecturer at the University of Vienna, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Peking University, Hokkaido University, University of Tokyo, and Kyoto University.\n\nŠvob was the leader of scientific research project \"Logic, Universal Language and the Philosophy of Language\" (Croatian: \"Logika, univerzalni jezik i filozofija jezika\") of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of the Republic of Croatia.\n\nŠvob published scientific papers in leading philosophical journals, in particular the journal of Praxis School, \"Filozofska istraživanja\", \"SOL\", and, most notably, \"Acta Analytica\". His first book, titled \"Frege: Pojmovno pismo\" (English: \"Frege: Conceptual Notation\"), was published in 1992.\n\n\"Od slike do igre\" (English: \"From Image to Game\") was a second book written by Švob, published in 2009. The book is consolidated of articles which differ by subject and time when they were written, though they all mainly focus on the work of three philosophers: Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, and Ludwig Wittgenstein. The focal point of the book, however, is the shift in Wittgenstein's philosophy of language, or the transition from the early to late Wittgenstein.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292208", "title": "Homosexuality and the Anglican Communion", "text": "Homosexuality and the Anglican Communion\n\nSince the 1990s, the Anglican Communion has struggled with controversy regarding homosexuality in the church. In 1998, the 13th Lambeth Conference of Anglican bishops passed a resolution stating that \"homosexual acts\" are \"incompatible with Scripture\". However, this is not legally binding. \"Like all Lambeth Conference resolutions, it is not legally binding on all provinces of the Communion, including the Church of England, though it commends an essential and persuasive view of the attitude of the Communion.\" \"Anglican national churches in Brazil, South Africa, South India, New Zealand and Canada have taken steps toward approving and celebrating same-sex relationships amid strong resistance among other national churches within the 80 million-member global body. The Episcopal Church in the U.S. has allowed gay marriage since 2015.\" \"Church of England clergy have appeared to signal support for gay marriage after they rejected a bishops’ report which said that only a man and woman could marry in church.\" The Church of England's General Synod is set to discuss a diocesan motion \"to create a set of formal services and prayers to bless those who have had a same-sex marriage or civil partnership.\"\n\nIn 2002, the Diocese of New Westminster, in the Anglican Church of Canada, permitted the blessing of same-sex unions. In 2003, two openly gay men in England and the United States became candidates for bishop. In the Church of England, Jeffrey John eventually succumbed to pressure to withdraw his name from consideration to be the Bishop of Reading. In the Episcopal Church in the United States, Gene Robinson was elected and consecrated Bishop of New Hampshire, becoming the first openly gay bishop in the Anglican Communion and in apostolic Christianity. This was highly controversial and led several hundred bishops to boycott the 2008 Lambeth Conference. As an alternative to Lambeth, many of these bishops attended the Global Anglican Futures Conference in Jerusalem.<ref name=\"Brittain/McKinnon1-3\">Christopher Craig Brittain and Andrew McKinnon, \"Homosexuality and the Construction of 'Anglican Orthodoxy': The Symbolic Politics of the Anglican Communion,\" \"Sociology of Religion\" (2011), pp. 1–3.</ref>\n\nAs of 2004, other Anglican provinces, including the Anglican Church of Southern Africa and the Scottish Episcopal Church, permitted the ordination of gay clergy and others, such as the Episcopal Church in the USA, permitted blessing of same-sex unions as well. The BBC, in 2009, reported that many clergy in the Church of England \"already bless same-sex couples on an unofficial basis\".\n\nMany provinces, primarily from the Global South and representing about half of the 80 million active Anglicans worldwide, have responded to these theological disputes by declaring a state of impaired communion with their Western counterparts. Minority groups in Western provinces have stated their opposition to what they consider un-scriptural actions by the churches in England, Canada, Australia, and the United States. Since 2000, some conservative Global South provinces have appointed missionary bishops to the United States and Canada to provide pastoral oversight to disaffected Anglicans. This process, known as Anglican realignment, is considered by the Episcopal Church USA and the Anglican Church of Canada to be an illegitimate incursion into their territories; however, conservative Anglicans argued that the incursions were necessary because of the failure of these churches to uphold orthodox teaching with regard to human sexuality.\n\nTo date, as aforementioned,\"the more liberal provinces that are open to changing Church doctrine on marriage in order to allow same-sex unions include Brazil, Canada, New Zealand, Scotland, South India, South Africa, the US and Wales\". In England and Wales, civil partnerships are permitted for clergy. \"Neither the Church in Wales nor the Church of England are opposed to clergy being in civil partnerships. The Church of England requests that clergy in civil partnerships vow to remain sexually chaste, but the Church in Wales has no such restriction.\" The Church of England has allowed priests to enter into same-sex civil partnerships since 2005. The Church of Ireland recognises the pensions for clergy in same-sex civil partnerships.\n\nThere is a wide range of beliefs within the Anglican Communion regarding homosexuality. The majority of followers believe that heterosexuality or celibacy is required of Christians, but believe in tolerance towards others. This differs from secular society in most western democracies, which considers homosexuality to be a normal human variation, and affirms this in law. Some of the more specific issues under study within member churches and dioceses are:\nAnglican churches are diverse in their views, from churches which do not accept any LGBT members, to churches which are happy to have openly same-sex, partnered or married, non-celibate bishops. The nature of the Anglican Communion is such that not all churches or dioceses must agree on all issues in order to share a common faith and baptism. Part of the controversy concerns how much and what sort of disagreement over these issues may exist while still calling it a \"common faith.\"\n\n\nWhile serving as Archbishop of York, Donald Coggan declared on BBC radio in 1973 that many Anglican clergymen were homosexuals. \"We must treat them,\" he proclaimed, \"with great sympathy and understanding.\"\n\nRegarding \"human sexuality\", the conference said that it upholds \"faithfulness in marriage between a man and a woman in lifelong union, and believes that abstinence is right for those who are not called to marriage.\" Furthermore, it refused to \"advise the legitimising or blessing of same sex unions nor ordaining those involved in same gender unions.\" The vote was 526-70.\n\nIn response to the division following the Lambeth Conference of the previous year, most Church of England bishops (although not including the then Archibishop of Canterbury George Carey), and many others elsewhere in the Anglican Communion, agreed on a document that upheld the human rights of homosexual people, while recognising and not seeking to resolve division over the morality of homosexual acts.\n\nIn August 2003 the Episcopal Diocese of New Hampshire elected an openly gay and partnered priest, Gene Robinson, as bishop. This came shortly after a similar controversy in England when an openly gay priest, Canon Jeffrey John, was appointed to become the Suffragan Bishop of Reading. Eventually, however, John agreed to withdraw in order to avoid division. In 2004, in the aftermath of Robinson's election as bishop, John was installed as Dean of St Albans, the cathedral there being the site of England's first Christian martyr.\n\nAs a result of the controversy over the ordination of gay bishops and the blessing of same-sex unions, on 15 October 2003, Anglican leaders from around the world met in Lambeth Palace in an attempt to avoid a schism on the issue. The day after, they released a lengthy statement:We must make clear that recent actions in New Westminster and in the Episcopal Church (USA) do not express the mind of our Communion as a whole, and these decisions jeopardise our sacramental fellowship with each other. ...If his \"[Gene Robinson's]\" consecration proceeds, we recognise that we have reached a crucial and critical point in the life of the Anglican Communion and we have had to conclude that the future of the Communion itself will be put in jeopardy. ...In this case, the ministry of this one bishop will not be recognised by most of the Anglican world, and many provinces are likely to consider themselves to be out of Communion with the Episcopal Church (USA). This will tear the fabric of our Communion at its deepest level, and may lead to further division on this and further issues as provinces have to decide in consequence whether they can remain in communion with provinces that choose not to break communion with the Episcopal Church (USA). ...Similar considerations apply to the situation pertaining in the Diocese of New Westminster. We commend the report of that Conference in its entirety to all members of the Anglican Communion, valuing especially its emphasis on the need to listen to the experience of homosexual persons, and [...] to assure them that they are loved by God and that all baptised, believing and faithful persons, regardless of sexual orientation, are full members of the Body of Christ\"; and its acknowledgement of the need for ongoing study on questions of human sexuality. ...\nAs Primates, it is not for us to pass judgement on the constitutional processes of another province. We recognise the sensitive balance between provincial autonomy and the expression of critical opinion by others on the internal actions of a province.\n\nIn 2004 the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, wrote a letter to Anglican churches worldwide in which he condemned comments by bishops outside the Western world for inciting violence against gay men and women.\n\nAny words that could make it easier for someone to attack or abuse a homosexual person are words of which we must repent. Do not think repentance is always something others are called to, but acknowledge the failings we all share, sinful and struggling disciples as we are.\n\nIn a 2007 speech to theology students in Toronto, Williams argued that conservatives have failed to consider the wider context of Romans 1:27, which states, \"and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in their own persons the due penalty for error.\" Williams pointed out that although St Paul (the author of this epistle) and his contemporaries viewed sex between two people of the same sex \"as obviously immoral as idol worship or disobedience to parents\", the main point of this passage is that humans must not judge one another for being sinful: Romans 2:1 says \"Therefore you have no excuse, O man, whoever you are, when you judge another: for in passing judgment upon him you condemn yourself, because you, the judge, are doing the very same things.\" Williams admitted that his analysis \"does nothing to settle the exegetical questions fiercely debated at the moment\", but called upon conservatives to avoid self-righteousness rather than \"happily identifying with Paul's castigation of someone else\".\n\nBishops from two Anglican provinces, the Province of Rwanda and the Province of South East Asia, consecrated missionary bishops for the United States in January 2000 and formally established the Anglican Mission in America (now called the Anglican Mission in the Americas) later that year. In 2010, a similar jurisdiction created by the Reformed Episcopal Church and former members and congregations of the Episcopal Church in the USA was officially launched. Four dioceses which withdrew from the Episcopal Church account for the majority of the nearly 700 congregations affiliated with this church, the Anglican Church in North America. These two bodies—AMiA and ACNA—reject the creation of rites for same-sex unions as well as the ordination of openly gay people. Neither is a member of the Anglican Communion at present (see Anglican realignment).\n\nBishops in Uganda cut relations with the Diocese of New Hampshire following Robinson's consecration on 2 November 2003. The Church of Nigeria declared itself in \"impaired communion\" with the Episcopal Church on 2 November 2003, and nine days later announced it was planning to establish a United States branch of its province to support Nigerian Anglicans living in the U.S., the Convocation of Anglicans in North America. The Province of South East Asia broke communion with the Episcopal Church on 20 November 2003, citing Robinson's consecration as the reason for its action.\n\nIn 2004, the Lambeth Commission on Communion issued a report on homosexuality in the Anglican Communion, which became known as the Windsor Report. This report took a strong stand against same-sex attracted people, recommended a moratorium on further consecrations of openly gay bishops and blessings of same-sex unions and marriages, and called for all involved in Robinson's consecration \"to consider in all conscience whether they should withdraw themselves from representative functions in the Anglican Communion\". However, it stopped short of recommending discipline against the Episcopal Church or Anglican Church of Canada.\n\n\"Apology by 184 bishops.\" A “Pastoral Statement to Lesbian and Gay Anglicans from Some Member Bishops of the Lambeth Conference,” dated August 5, 1998, was sponsored by the Rt. Rev. Ronald H. Haines, Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Washington. The statement apologised to Lesbian and Gay Anglicans for the Windsor Report and for the fact that their voices were not heard by the Conference. By October 30, 1998, the statement had been co-signed by 183 bishops representing every continent except Antarctica.\n\n2005 Primates' Meeting. In February 2005, the Primates of the Anglican Communion held a regular meeting at Dromantine in Northern Ireland at which sexual orientation was heavily discussed. Of the 38 Primates, 35 attended. The Primates issued a communiqué that reiterated most of the Windsor Report's statements, but added a new twist. Both the Episcopal Church and the Anglican Church of Canada were asked to voluntarily withdraw from the Anglican Consultative Council, the main formal international entity within the Anglican Communion until the next Lambeth Conference in 2008.\n\nThe “Communiqué of the Primates’ Meeting, February 2007\" (Sec 17, 4) asserted its \"belief that The Episcopal Church has departed from the standard of teaching on human sexuality accepted by the Communion in the 1998 Lambeth Resolution 1.10 by consenting to the episcopal election of a candidate living in a committed same-sex relationship, and by permitting Rites of Blessing for same-sex unions. The episcopal ministry of a person living in a same-sex relationship is not acceptable to the majority of the Communion.\"\n\nIn December 2009, the Diocese of Los Angeles elected Mary Douglas Glasspool, a lesbian priest with a female partner as a suffragan bishop. She was consecrated on 15 May 2010. Leaders from 20 Anglican provinces meeting in Singapore in April 2010 declared that the election and intended consecration of Glasspool “demonstrated, yet again, a total disregard for the mind of the Communion”.\n\nA majority of the primates voted to punish the Episcopal Church for revising its canons and marriage rites allowing same-sex marriage.\n\nThe primates' communiqué included these words:It is our unanimous desire to walk together. However given the seriousness of these matters we formally acknowledge this distance by requiring that for a period of three years The Episcopal Church no longer represent us on ecumenical and interfaith bodies, should not be appointed or elected to an internal standing committee and that while participating in the internal bodies of the Anglican Communion, they will not take part in decision making on any issues pertaining to doctrine or polity.\n\nThe communiqué condemned \"homophobic prejudice and violence and resolved to work together to offer pastoral care and loving service irrespective of sexual orientation\", adding that \"this conviction arises out of our discipleship of Jesus Christ.\"\n\nShortly after the meeting of the Anglican primates, Archbishop Justin Welby held a press conference in which he apologised “to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people for the hurt and pain they have experienced by the Anglican Communion over the years.” Welby said, “it is for me a constant source of deep sadness that people are persecuted for their sexuality … I want to take this opportunity personally to say how sorry I am for the hurt and pain in the past and present that the church has caused.”\n\nWithin the Anglican Communion there is diverse opinion over sexual orientation.\n\nThe Church of England has been discussing human sexuality, same-sex unions, and marriage. The current position of the Church of England is that marriage is between a man and a woman. The Church of England has also maintained the position that it supports celibate same-sex relationships including civil partnership. \"We believe that Civil Partnerships still have a place, including for some Christian LGBTI couples who see them as a way of gaining legal recognition of their relationship.\" The House of Bishops and Archbishop's Council communicated that \"The Church of England recognises that same-sex relationships often embody fidelity and mutuality. Civil partnerships enable these Christian virtues to be recognised socially and legally in a proper framework.\" A spokesperson for the Anglican Church has reiterated that \"the church has no truck with homophobia and even supports clergy who are in civil partnerships...(But) the Church of England's doctrine on marriage is [that it is between a man and a woman].\"\n\nIn December 1991, the House of Bishops issued \"Issues in Human Sexuality\". In the preface, Archbishop George Carey described it as a document for \"careful study and reflection\". The conclusion of the document listed questions for reflection. On the tenth anniversary of the publication of \"Issues in Human Sexuality\", the Bishop of Wolverhampton, Michael Bourke, wrote that \"\"Issues\" aspired to help forward a debate on the subject\", but rather than serving its stated purpose, \"\"Issues\" has been presented as a consensus to which all bishops are expected to subscribe. Instead of enabling open and charitable discussion, it has served as an instrument of management and control.\"\n\nThe issue of human sexuality erupted when Jeffrey John, an openly gay priest, was elected Bishop of Reading in May 2003. Before he could take up his post there was strong opposition from a minority of bishops and he was persuaded to not proceed with the appointment. However, many senior bishops have voiced disappointment at his decision to resign. Later in 2004 he was installed as Dean of St. Albans. Further controversy erupted when churches in the Diocese of St Albans decided that they would withhold contributions until further notice to protest this appointment. St. Peter and Paul's Church in Cranfield, near Bedford, and Holy Trinity Church in New Barnet, north of Greater London, pledged to withhold money from diocesan funds in protest. St Andrew's Church in the Hertfordshire town of Chorleywood also announced that it would withhold funds until further notice. Yet, in 2002, reporters confirmed that hundreds of same-sex blessings occur, although unofficially, every year.\n\nIn 2004, \"the majority of Bishops who voted during the whole passage of the Civil Partnerships Act through [the] Lordships' House were in favour of civil partnerships.\" Eight bishops voted in favour of civil unions and two voted against the passage of the Act.\n\nOn 25 July 2005, the House of Bishops issued a pastoral statement on the “implications of the Civil Partnerships” which came into force on 5 December 2005. The statement reaffirmed “the Church’s teaching on both marriage and sexual intercourse”. It also noted that “the new legislation makes no change to the law in relation to marriage”. The statement went on to say that “clergy of the Church of England should not provide services of blessing for those who register a civil partnership”. However, it said that if clergy are “approached by people asking for prayer in relation to entering into a civil partnership,” they should “respond pastorally and sensitively”. Regarding clergy themselves, “entering into a civil partnership” was not considered “intrinsically incompatible with holy orders, provided the person concerned is willing to give assurances to his or her bishop that the relationship is consistent with the standards for the clergy set out in \"Issues in Human Sexuality\" (House of Bishops, December 1991).”. \"The House of Bishops considers it would be a matter of social injustice to exclude from ministry those who are faithful to the teaching of the Church, and who decide to register a civil partnership.\" However, the statement said that “lay people who have registered civil partnerships ought not to be asked to give assurances about the nature of their relationship before being admitted to baptism, confirmation and communion.’\n\nOn 21 December 2005, in another controversial act which was contrary to the House of Bishops’ pastoral statement, the Rt. Rev. David Jenkins, the former Bishop of Durham, offered a blessing for a vicar who had entered into a same-sex partnership.\n\nIn February 2007, the General Synod of the Church of England adopted a motion. In part it read that nothing should be done “that could be perceived as the Church of England qualifying its commitment to the entirety of the relevant Lambeth Conference Resolutions”. At Lambeth Conference 1998, homosexuality was that the most hotly debated issue. Its Resolution 1.10 stated in an amendment passed by a vote of 389–190 that \"homosexual practice\" is \"incompatible with Scripture\".\n\nIn 2008, in spite of the action by the General Synod, St Bartholomew's Church in London offered a rite of blessing for two priests entering into a same-sex civil partnership. Nevertheless, other dioceses and parishes supported the inclusion of gay and lesbian priests. In 2008, the Diocese of London provided guidelines saying \"clergy ... may use a form of service they consider suitable in respect of a civil partnership.\" In London, some churches \"[offer] dedication services to civil partners\" as allowed within those guidelines. In 2011, the General Synod voted to extend pensions and employee benefits to gay and lesbian priests living with their partners in civil unions. In 2013, the House of Bishops ruled that priests in same-sex civil partnerships could be consecrated as bishops.\n\nIn January 2012, the House of Bishops of the Church of England commissioned a Working Group on Human Sexuality. The working group included Sir Joseph Pilling chairman, four bishops and three advisers. Also in 2012, Archbishop John Sentamu said he sees marriage as heterosexual, but that \"[civil partnerships] are in every respect in ethical terms an honourable contract of a committed relationship.\"\n\n In 2012, the Dean of St Paul's Cathedral, London, the Very Revd David Ison, announced his support for same-sex marriage and said that he had officiated at blessings or prayer services for same-sex couples. Changing Attitude UK, an affirming group of clergy, laity, and churches within the Church of England, provides a list of prayer services allowed including a \"Service of Celebration following a Civil Partnership\". A bishop of the Diocese of Oxford has given permission for at least one same-sex celebration to be officiated by a Church of England priest who presided for the high-profile ceremony for the Rev. Mpho Tutu and her partner. The Diocese of Southwark is another example of offering inclusive services as its cathedral says that \"Same sex couples are welcome to approach the clergy with regard to preparation and prayers when entering a Civil Partnership and for continuing support and counsel within their relationship ... Couples approaching the clergy should receive a warm welcome and affirmation\". In 2017, the Southwark Cathedral hosted a celebration for a same-sex civil partnership. York Minster Cathedral also welcomes same-sex couples in civil partnerships for prayer.\n\nIn April 2013, the Church of England's Faith and Order Commission, in a missive to clergy, also communicated that \"there was a need for committed same-sex couples to be given recognition and 'compassionate attention' from the Church, including special prayers.\" A spokesperson for the church also stated that \"The church has no truck with homophobia and even supports clergy who are in civil partnerships ...\" In November 2013, the Report of the Working Group on Human Sexuality (nicknamed the Pilling Report) was published. It said that the Church should \"stand firmly\" against \"homophobic attitudes\" and should repent \"for the lack of welcome and acceptance extended to homosexual people in the past, and to demonstrate the unconditional acceptance and love of God in Christ for all people\". The report's key recommendation was \"that the church's internal dialogue on the subject of human sexuality might best be addressed through a process of conversations across the church and involving others in the Anglican Communion\". This recommendation was endorsed and acted on by the church as recounted later in this section. Also, in 2013, some in the Church of England planned a liturgical blessing of gay couples.\n\nIn January 2014, the College of Bishops endorsed the Pilling Report recommendation about process of conversations on the issue of homosexuality.\n\nAfter the legalisation of same-sex marriages, the Church of England communicated that \"the option of civil partnership should remain open for same-sex couples.\"\n\nIn February 2014, the House of Bishops decreed the following:\n\nStill, \"gay couples who get married will be able to ask for special prayers in the Church of England after their wedding, the bishops have agreed\". As such, some congregations have offered \"Prayers for a Same Sex Commitment\". Moreover, \"Bishops have little power to prevent gay clergy from marrying nor to sack them if they do. A panel of three senior bishops has been set up to advise other bishops on how to apply the guidance when clergy dissent. The usual format is an informal letter of rebuke and no further action, meaning more and more clergy are choosing to marry their same-sex partners.\"\n\nIn April 2014, the Archbishop's Council and House of Bishops asked that the government to continue to offer civil partnerships saying that \"The Church of England recognises that same-sex relationships often embody fidelity and mutuality ... Civil partnerships enable these Christian virtues to be recognised socially and legally in a proper framework.\"\n\nIn September 2014, the College of Bishops met for three days. “Two of the days were devoted to the first of a series of shared conversations in the Church of England on Sexuality, Scripture and Mission. As part of the conversations the college shared the different responses being expressed in the life of the church and the deeply held convictions and experiences that inform them.” Also in September 2014, the Bishop of Leicester confirmed that a service of thanksgiving for a same-sex civil partnership \"does not contravene any Church of England rules.”\n\nThe Revd Andrew Cain, of St Mary's Church, Kilburn and St James' Church West, in North London planned to defy the House of Bishops' ban and bless same-sex marriages, as did a few others. Weighing in on the issue, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, avoided taking a position on blessing same-sex marriages but did endorse civil gay marriages and prayer ceremonies to mark the important occasion for same-sex couples. Some congregations and clergy, as allowed by the permission for \"informal kinds of prayer\", such as St John's Church in Waterloo in South London, have begun to invite same-sex couples to receive \"services of thanksgiving following a civil marriage ceremony\".\nSame-sex attracted people who are ordained deacons, priests and bishops are forbidden to marry someone of the same sex and same-sex attracted people who are married to someone of the same sex are forbidden to be ordained. Ben Bradshaw MP wanted the position of the Church of England clarified. Specifically, he demanded to know if Church of England clergy who married a same-sex partner would be disciplined or defrocked. Gay people, including those in same-sex civil partnerships or marriages, are allowed to become clerics but are expected to remain celibate. \"The Huffington Post\" wrote in a 2014 article that gay clergy who enter into same-sex marriage or bless same-sex marriages risk being defrocked and losing their jobs. Seven clerics planned to marry regardless, defying their bishops.<ref name=\"Brown27/03/2014\">Archbishop of Canterbury signals end of C of E's resistance to gay marriage</ref> Some Church of England bishops, however, fully accept and embrace gay clergy with partners or spouses in their diocese while other bishops remove the licences of such clergy, making it extremely difficult for them to find a position in another diocese. In 2014, Canon Jeremy Pemberton married Laurence Cunnington, thus becoming the first priest in the Church of England to defy the church's ban on the marriage of gay clergy. Also in 2014, an openly lesbian and trans priest was appointed as a minor canon in Manchester Cathedral.\n\nIn 2015, the Most Reverend John Sentamu, Archbishop of York, told a lay preacher, Jeremy Timm, that if he persisted with plans to marry his long-time partner, his licence to preach in Anglican churches would be revoked. As of August 2015, an agreement was reached: Timm would complete existing preaching commitments before revocation. Timm announced his plans to be married in September 2015 and to leave the Church of England and join \"Contemplative Fire\", a dispersed, diverse and inclusive group that is primarily Anglican.\n\nOther bishops and dioceses have supported same-gender marriage and have advocated for the right of gay priests to marry. For example, the Rt Revd Nick Holtam, the Bishop of Salisbury, endorsed same-sex marriage following its passage. In December 2015, the bishop of Buckingham announced his support for same-gender marriage within the church. In 2016, another priest, in the Diocese of Southwark, converted his civil partnership into marriage and \"has kept his position\". The \"Church Times\" also reported that St. Agnes in North Riddish held a \"service of blessing\" and \"ceremony of commitment\" for a priest who had resigned to marry his partner. The Diocese in Europe also reported the marriage of a same-gender couple that took place in a Lutheran church in Denmark calling a \"truly joyful occasion\". The Diocese of Chichester featured Gay Pride in Brighton and encouraged participation. Also, the Diocese of Litchfield launched a congregation especially to reach out to LGBTI people. The bishop of the Diocese of Liverpool has called for the church to be more inclusive of same-gender relationships. In 2018, the Diocese of St. Edmundsbury and Ipswich appointed the Revd Joe Hawes, who is in a civil partnership, as dean of the cathedral. Later, the Anglican Diocese of Lichfield communicated support for \"radical Christian inclusion\" and that churches should welcome and honour LGBTI people.\n\nIn 2016, the General Synod announced that, in response to the growing support for gay marriage, it will reconsider allowing blessing rites for same-gender couples entering into marriage. Additionally, an openly married gay priest was elected to the 2016 General Synod representing a historic moment for gay rights in the church.\n\nFrom 10 to 12 July 2016, following the prorogation of the meeting of the General Synod, most \"members met in an informal setting in which they listened and were heard as they reflected together on scripture and a changing culture in relation to their understanding of human sexuality\".\n\nThe Church of England’s official Statement after the synod's members completed their informal reflections said that \"the Shared Conversations over the last two years now come to a conclusion with over 1300 members of the church directly involved. It is our hope that what has been learned through the relationships developed will inform the way the church conducts whatever further formal discussions may be necessary in the future. It is our prayer that the manner in which we express our different views and deep disagreements will bear witness to Jesus who calls us to love as he has loved us.\"\n\nIn September 2016, the Bishop of Grantham, the Rt Rev Nicholas Chamberlain, announced that he is gay and in a celibate relationship with his male partner becoming the first bishop to do so in the Anglican church. Following, Bishop Nicholas' 'coming out', he \"received high-level support from the most senior official in the Anglican communion\" as the Secretary General, Dr Josiah Idowu-Fearon, said that \"the Anglican Communion has never made sexual orientation a condition of eligibility to hold office within the church and I reject the suggestion that it has\".\n\nIn November, 2016, William Nye, the Secretary General of the Archbishop's Council, confirmed the following:\nOn January 15, 2017, Bishop Rachel Treweek, the bishop for the Diocese of Gloucester and first diocesan woman bishop, presided over an \"LGBT Eucharist\" sponsored by Inclusive Church. During the General Synod of 2017, the House of Clergy voted against the motion to 'take note' of a conservative position on marriage. As a result of needing a majority in all three houses, the General Synod rejected the motion. Following the rejection of the 'take note' motion, the Archbishops of Canterbury and York called for the need of a \"radical new Christian inclusion\" that is \"founded in Scripture, in reason, in tradition, in theology and the Christian faith as the Church of England has received it; it must be based on good, healthy, flourishing relationships, and in a proper 21st century understanding of being human and of being sexual.\" In October 2017, the Diocese of Hereford voted in favour of a motion supporting liturgies for same-sex couples to dedicate a civil partnership or civil marriage in church; the General Synod is set to discuss the motion.\n\nOn February 12, 2018, the Church of England's Education Office published a policy supporting sex education which includes, among other things, education concerning one's sexual desire. The policy stated that \"Sex education should include an understanding that all humans are sexual beings and that sexual desire is\nnatural. Pupils should be taught that humans express their sexuality differently and that there is diversity in sexual desire.\"\n\nWithin the Church of Ireland there is a wide spectrum of opinion. In general, the church recognises four viewpoints ranging from opposition to acceptance of same-gender relationships. Conservatives expressed great concern about the blessing of the relationship of a lesbian couple in St. Nicolas' Collegiate Church, Galway in September 2002. The rector of the parish, the Reverend Patrick Towers, told the press, \"I refuse to do weddings of same gender couples as they simply don't exist. But I am always very happy to look favourably on anyone seeking a blessing, be it for divorced couples, animals or friendships. It was a standard blessing, one I wrote myself, based on the Claddagh ring theme.\"\nThere was also widespread concern within the Church of Ireland at the Bishop of Limerick's attendance at Gene Robinson's consecration. Views at parish level reflect this, with many evangelical parishes as well as those in the more populous (in terms of Church of Ireland membership) north being generally opposed to LGBT identities, while middle and high church parishes, especially in the south, have openly gay parishioners as a matter of routine. For example, at General Synod 2005, Dean Michael Burrows (now a bishop) stated that he regularly gives Holy Communion to same-sex attracted parishioners in long-standing relationships. Moreover, many of the church's congregations, including seven cathedrals, are publicly and officially affirming of same-sex couples.\n\nThe bishops have announced a process of listening and reflection within the church. A preliminary response to the Windsor Report was produced by the church's standing committee in January 2005. Most of the northern dioceses passed motions favouring the Lambeth Conference's Resolution I.10, although a similar motion failed to receive overall endorsement in the Diocese of Connor, covering most of County Antrim and the diocese with the most members in the Church of Ireland. Then, in 2010, the denomination recognised that a congregation within the church had received the 'Straight-up' Rebel award, an LGBT award, for its special services for LGBTI people.\n\nCivil Partnerships have been allowed since 2005. \"The Church of Ireland has not taken a formal stance on the issue\" of civil unions. In 2008, \"the Church of Ireland Pensions Board has confirmed that it will treat civil partners the same as spouses.\" In 2011, a senior priest in the Church of Ireland entered into a same-sex civil partnership and the relationship was celebrated by his community. Unlike the Church of England, clergy entered into a civil union \"without being asked for any assurances regarding lifestyle.\" Since then, other priests have been taking the time and opportunity to come out about their experiences. In 2012, the church's Clergy Pension Fund recognised that \"the pension entitlement of a member’s registered civil partner will be the same as that of a surviving spouse.\"\n\nIn 2015, the Bishop of Cork, Paul Colton, announced his support of same-sex marriage, becoming the first Church of Ireland bishop to do so, saying that \"The events in society are moving very rapidly and the church is not at all up to pace with the debate.\" Following Bishop Colton, two retired archbishops of Dublin also voiced their 'yes' vote in favour of same-sex marriages. The Bishop of Cashel and Ossory, Michael Burrows, also endorsed same-sex marriage. While opposing gay marriage, Bishop Pat Storey, Ireland's first woman bishop, did endorse and express support for same-sex civil unions. On May 23, 2015, the people of Republic of Ireland voted in favour of the legalisation of same-sex marriage, the first country to do such by popular vote. In 2016, the Church of Ireland released a pastoral letter offering guidelines on same-gender marriage. Although the Church of Ireland does not currently offer marriage or blessing rites, the guidelines allow priests to offer pastoral prayers on behalf of the newly married couples. Services of Thanksgiving for same-sex marriage have been hosted by congregations; for example, St. Audoen's Church hosted \"a service of thanksgiving\" for same-sex marriage. REFORM Ireland, a conservative lobby within the Church of Ireland, has rejected the contents of the letter saying it is “a dangerous departure from confessing Anglicanism.”\n\nMost recently, in 2016, many clergy in the Church of Ireland signed a letter supporting the U.S Episcopal Church and its open stance toward blessing same-sex couples. In January 2016, the \"Church of Ireland Gazette\", which is \"editorially independent of the denomination\", endorsed and supported a blessing rite for same-sex marriages in the church. A church report has also said \"the moral logic underpinning the negative portrayal of same-sex eroticism in Scripture does not directly address committed, loving, consecrated same-sex relationships today.\" In 2017, the General Synod considered a motion to request public services of thanksgiving for same-sex relationships; the vote was 176 against the motion, 146 in favour, and 24 abstained. The General Synod also unanimously accepted a report from the church's select committee on human sexuality recommending \"that the Bishops further examine the unresolved theological differences as represented in the select committee, with a view to making proposals to facilitate a way forward.\" The Bishop of Cork, Paul Colton, announced his support for the introduction of same-sex marriage in the Church of Ireland.\n\nIn 2018, the Irish bishops released a statement on the continuing conversations surrounding human sexuality. The Bishops stated that the church's teaching is that marriage is between a man and a woman, but acknowledged that they are divided on the subject themselves. The letter says that clergy cannot perform or bless a same-sex marriage, but that clergy can offer prayers for a couple who have married in a civil ceremony. The liberal wing wanting change noted that \"the statement allows for autonomy at a diocesan and parish level, for prayer and pastoral celebration with LGBT+ couples who have married, although this is not by means of solemnization, formal blessing or specifically sanctioned liturgy.\"\n\nThe Church in Wales currently has clergy and lay members with differing views regarding the subject of human sexuality. However, the trend has been for the church to move in a more liberal direction. The Church in Wales has taken steps toward allowing same-sex marriages and blessing rites for same-sex unions. After the Welsh bishops released a statement declaring it \"unjust\" to not provide formal provisions for same-sex marriages and civil partnerships, the General Synod voted in favour of requesting such formal rites for same-sex relationships.\n\nIn 2011, the Church in Wales allowed priests in civil partnerships to receive full employee benefits. In 2012, the Archbishop of Wales, Barry Morgan, endorsed civil marriage for same-sex couples and encouraged other Anglicans to support the legislation. After the archbishop offered his support for the civil policy, some bishops and dioceses developed legislation to alter the official position of the Church in Wales. The church has also endorsed an LGBT film meant to encourage support and affirmation for LGBT people.\n\nSince 2005, the Church in Wales has permitted priests to enter into same-sex civil partnerships. “The Church in Wales has no formal view on whether people in civil partnerships who are in a sexual relationship can serve as clergy. If the issue arises, it is up to the relevant Bishop to decide.”\n\nIn 2015, the governing body voted in favour of same-sex marriages, but a policy change requires further action. During the consultation and discussion, a majority of respondents voted in favour of same-gender marriage. Among the dioceses, the Diocese of St Asaph and the Diocese of Llandaff overwhelmingly supported same-sex marriage. Overall, 52% of the Governing Body voted in favour of allowing same-sex marriages in church. In April 2016, the Bench of Bishops decided to fully affirm same-sex couples and offer prayers of celebration for same-sex marriages. Of the prayers provided for same-sex couples, Form One gives God thanks \"for [the two people], who have found such love and companionship in each other, that it has led them to dedicate their lives in support of one another\".\n\nThe Scottish Episcopal Church (SEC) does not have a policy against ordaining non-celibate gay clergy, thus such ordinations are theoretically allowed. They announced this on 23 March 2005:\n\n\"[We] had never regarded the fact that someone was in a close relationship with a member of the same sex as in itself constituting a bar to the exercise of an ordained ministry ... We do not have a synodical decision like the Church of England has, which it made a number of years ago, and therefore if someone who was of a homosexual orientation felt a sense of call to the ordained ministry then we would begin the process of testing that vocation. We wouldn't bar him or her simply because they were homosexual.\"\n\nHeadlines in North America announced that the Scottish Episcopal Church had agreed to ordain gay and lesbian people in committed relationships. The Church thus released a statement pointing out that the policy was not news. Regarding the media release, the Church said: \"Press interest has focused on one small part of the overall statement\". It continued to say that:\n\n\"In referring to the fact that there is no current bar to ordination for someone who might be in a close relationship with a member of the same sex, the Bishops were simply stating the present position as it applies in Scotland where, unlike some other provinces, no motion discouraging such ordinations has ever been passed by our General Synod. Consequently, the statement earlier this month does not represent any change in policy on the part of the Bishops.\"In 2005, clergy were able to enter into same-sex civil partnerships, and sexual abstinence is not a requirement in the Scottish Episcopal Church for such civil unions. Since 2008, St. Mary Cathedral in Glasgow has offered blessings for civil partnerships.\n\nIn 2015, the Scottish Episcopal Church voted in favour of same-sex marriage ceremonies. Following that vote, the Dundee cathedral hosted its first same-sex wedding. In 2016, the General Synod voted in favour of amending the marriage canon to include same gender couples; the change required a second reading in 2017. The motion was approved by 97 votes to 33 with 3 abstensions.\n\nAfter the Synod, Bishop David Chillingworth, the Primus of the Scottish Episcopal Church, gave his assessment of the situation regarding the change in the marriage canon. In 2017, the General Synod approved the amendment to the marriage canon to include same-sex couples in the second reading.\n\nThe Church of South India, although divided in opinion like many Anglican provinces, has many outspoken clergy in favour of rights for same-sex couples. \"The Church of South India (CSI) [is] a relatively liberal Protestant church which has, since 1984, allowed women to become pastors. 'CSI has been liberal on these issues. It has taken up issues of gender, dalits and landlessness. It has to address the issue of sexual minorities too'.\" In 2009, the Rev. Christopher Rajkumar, a presbyter in the Church of South India, stated that opposition to the rights of same-sex couples is a violation of human rights. Also in 2009, Bishop V. Devashayam supported legal rights for gay people saying \"it is wrong to condemn people for their sexual orientation\". Bishop Devashayam also argued that sexual orientation is genetic and that Scripture should be re-read from a contemporary context.\n\nIn 2015, St Mark's Cathedral in Bangalore, a congregation of the CSI, hosted a forum on preventing homophobia, and the Rev. Vincent Rajkumar advocated for the support of gay rights. CSI clergy, under the National Council of Churches in India, co-held a conference working against homophobia in Jakarta, Indonesia in 2014 featuring a rainbow flag and with speakers in favour of same-sex couples. Moreover, during the week of the Primates' meeting in Canterbury, the CSI was listed by the BBC as being among the Anglican provinces open to blessing same-sex couples.\n\nIn 2016, a seminary affiliated with the CSI has begun offering a seminary on LGBT issues. \"The Tamil Nadu Theological Seminary in Madurai held a two-hour seminar on gender and sexuality...\"\n\nThe Province of South East Asia criticised the confirmation of Gene Robinson as a bishop by the Episcopal Church (USA), stating:\n\n\"The said confirmation therefore seriously raises the question of ECUSA's genuine commitment to our corporate responsibility as members of the church catholic to uphold and promote only the Apostolic Faith and Order inherited. A natural, holistic and consistent reading of the Scriptures clearly show that it is against the practise of homosexuality. In the context of orthodox and classical Christianity, the canonical authority of the Scriptures is taken to be recognized and received by the community of faith and not subject to majority, culturally relevant or even theological voting.\"\n\nOn 24 November 2003, the province declared that it had entered into a state of impaired communion with the Episcopal Church by releasing the following statement:\n\n\"The Synod of the Province of the Anglican Church of South East Asia unanimously rejects the purported consecration of Dr Gene Robinson on 2 November 2003 by the Episcopal Church in the United States of America, in New Hampshire, as a bishop in the Anglican Church. The Province views the purported consecration as a flagrant disregard of the fundamental teachings of the Bible and the long-established doctrines of the Church.\n\nAs the Rev. Gene Robinson is a practising homosexual who had divorced his wife and has, for the last 13 years, been living with a male partner, the Province cannot and does not recognize his consecration and ministry in the Anglican church.\n\nIn view of the ECUSA's action in proceeding with the consecration despite the warnings and pleas of a large majority of Anglican churches worldwide, the Province regrets that communion with the ECUSA as well as those who voted for the consecration and those who participated in the consecration service is now broken.\n\nThis means that the Province no longer treats those in ECUSA who carried out and supported the act of consecration as brothers and sisters in Christ unless and until they repent of their action and return to embrace Biblical truths. At the same time, the Province remains in fellowship with the faithful believers within ECUSA who rightly oppose and reject the erroneous actions of their house.\n\nThis decision was made unanimously at an extraordinary meeting of the Synod held in Kudat, Sabah, Malaysia, on 20 November 2003.\"\n\nThe fourth General Synod of the Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui, at its meeting on 15 October 2007, resolved that the Anglican Church in Hong Kong and Macau supports the recommendations contained in the Windsor Report so as to safeguard the unity of the Anglican Communion. However, Archbishop Peter Kwong, a former primate, stated that he supported diversity in the Communion saying \"Anglicanism is inclusive ... so why shouldn't we find a common ground on homosexuality?\". In 2013, some leaders in the Hong Kong Anglican Church endorsed civil rights legislation that provided legal protection for the LGBT community from discrimination. Additionally, in 2015, the Rev. Peter Douglas Koon, the Anglican province's secretary general, objected to discrimination occurring in conservative schools and emphatically assured the LGBT community that Anglican schools would be accepting of LGBT faculty and students.\n\nThere is no officially stated policy regarding homosexuality. Members are also divided regarding agreement with the Windsor Report and Lambeth Conference. There is no single national approach toward the ordination of openly gay or lesbian clergy, although individual dioceses have supported or opposed the inclusion of LGBT clergy. However, in 2016, it has been announced that the church will go forward in provincially proposing the option of same-gender blessing rites. In 2018, the Synod voted in favour of allowing blessing rites for same-sex marriages and civil unions. Prior to official blessings, the church said that \"clergy should be permitted 'to recognise in public worship' a same-gender civil union or state marriage of members of their faith community.\"\n\nSome Pākehā parishes are more open to gay and lesbian issues, including ordination and blessing of unions. The Dunedin and Auckland dioceses are notable for other such examples, including the ordination of a non-celibate gay clergy and the blessings of same-sex relationships performed by priests in an official capacity. In the Dunedin Diocese, \"Blessings of same-sex relationships are offered in line with Diocesan Policy and with the bishop's permission.\" In 2006, an openly gay and partnered deacon was ordained in the Dunedin Diocese. Subsequently, the same deacon was ordained as a priest. The Diocese of Auckland has also established policies in favour of ordaining partnered gay and lesbian priests. One priest, in a same-sex relationship, is an assistant priest in Auckland after being denied a licence in the Waikato Diocese. Congregations may offer a 'relationship blessing' for two partners in the Auckland Diocese. In 2005, a same-sex couple was joined in a civil union at St. Matthew in the City in the Auckland Diocese. In 2011, the Waiapu Diocese adopted a resolution affirming the ordination of gay and lesbian clergy and asking for an authorised liturgy for blessing same-sex relationships. The Bishop's chaplain in the Waiapu Diocese has also performed a blessing for a same-sex couple. In 2017, the Bishop of Waiapu installed an openly gay priest, who is married to his partner, as the Dean of Waiapu Cathedral.\n\nNew Zealand writer Liz Lightfoot has documented the experiences of individuals coming out in the Anglican Church as a contribution to the 'listening process' in the Anglican Church.\n\nIn 2014, General Synod passes a resolution that would create a pathway towards the blessing of same-sex relationships, while upholding the traditional doctrine of marriage. The synod in 2016 voted to receive the report on blessings but left the proposal to \"[lie] on the table\" and the report will be reviewed again in 2018. \"However, Synod did pass a constitutional change allowing bishops the right to authorize a service for use in his or her diocese.\" In 2018, General Synod/Te Hinota voted in favour of the process to approve Motion 29 and the blessing of same-sex relationships.\n\nIn the Seventeenth Session of the General Synod of the Anglican Church of Australia in 2017, the synod passed a motion recognising \"that the doctrine of our church, in line with traditional Christian teaching, is that marriage is an exclusive\nand lifelong union of a man and a woman, and further, recognises that this has been the subject of several General Synod resolutions over the past fifteen years\". In 2018, the Primate of Australia and Archbishop of Melbourne, Philip Freier, released an \"ad clerum\" reiterating the current position that clergy cannot perform a same-sex marriage. At the same time, the church has \"no official stance on homosexuality\" itself.\n\nAt its 2004 general synod held in Perth, the church passed four resolutions on human sexuality. The key resolutions stated that, \"Recognising that this is a matter of ongoing debate and conversation in this church and that we all have an obligation to listen to each other with respect, this General Synod does not condone the liturgical blessing of same sex relationships\" and \"this General Synod does not condone the ordination of people in open committed same sex relationships.\" Nevertheless, the Diocese of Perth has \"a number of people in same-sex relationships amongst the clergy.\" A former primate, Phillip Aspinall, has stated that the topic is not worth splitting the church over. Archbishop Aspinall has also stated that he does not take an official position on the ordination of gay clergy, preferring instead to encourage respectful conversation. Another former primate, Archbishop Peter Carnley, stated that he believed \"life-long gay relationships and commitments ... could receive church blessings.\" Archbishop Roger Herft, as a diocesan bishop, \"support[ed] blessing gay unions\". Peter Jensen, the former archbishop of the strongly conservative Evangelical Diocese of Sydney, has vigorously opposed homosexuality, stating that accepting non-heterosexual people would be \"calling holy what God called sin\". Archbishop Peter Carnley criticised \"Sydney Anglicans\" for \"empty moralizing\" and questioned if the Bible condemns homosexuality in a statement:\n\nThe exact meaning to be read from these texts and whether they can rightly be made to provide a neat pre-packaged answer to our contemporary questions is what is at issue. Anybody brave enough to claim to know the inner mind of God on the basis of a personal claim to be privy to the only conceivable interpretation of some biblical texts is guilty of self-delusion.\nSt. Andrew's Church in Subiaco, Perth, Western Australia, was the first Anglican church in Australia to publicly welcome gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people. Its Sunday evening services are affirming of LGBT people. Since then, other dioceses have taken affirming stances toward same-sex couples and LGBT clergy. In 2013, the Diocese of Perth voted in favor of recognising same-sex unions. While Archbishop Roger Herft vetoed the measure, he did say that \"there are gay and lesbian clergy serving in the priesthood. They are licensed by me and are honoured and respected as priests ...\" In 2011, the Diocese of Adelaide elected a new bishop, the Rt. Rev. Tim Harris, and he supported allowing LGBT clergy if they agreed to be celibate, but, at the same time, he expressed that he is open to conversation about change. Moreover, in 2012, the Diocese of Gippsland appointed an openly gay priest, and, in 2015, the Bishop of Wangaratta endorsed same-sex marriage joining an archdeacon who had already offered to perform gay marriages when allowed to do so. Additionally, the bishop of the Diocese of Grafton, the Rt. Rev. Sarah Macneil, has been affirming and supportive of LGBT clergy and relationships. So far, two cathedrals, the cathedral of the Diocese of Grafton and St. John's Cathedral in the Diocese of Brisbane have officially become supportive and affirming of LGBT people. Towards the end of 2015, Bishop Greg Thompson of the Diocese of Newcastle has called for conversation and has said that he opposes discrimination against LGBT people. Also in 2015, the Social Responsibilities Committee of the Anglican Church in Southern Queensland endorsed civil unions for same-sex couples.\n\nIn 2015, Bishop Kay Goldsworthy of the Diocese of Gippsland appointed an openly gay and partnered priest to another post. Also, in 2016, the Bishop of Ballarat announced his support for same-sex marriage. In April 2016, St Andrew's Church in the Diocese of Perth publicly blessed a same-sex union. In 2018, Archdeacon Peter MacLeod-Miller \"conducted an unofficial hand-clasping ceremony\" for a same-sex couple. In Melbourne, several Anglican priests participated in and blessed a same-sex marriage. In 2018, the Diocese of Gippsland elected Bishop Richard Treloar who has been a vocal supporter of same-sex marriage. The Wangaratta and Ballarat dioceses have voted to bless same-sex civil unions. The dean of St John's Cathedral in Brisbane, the Very Revd Peter Catt, wrote that he had been blessing same-sex unions.\n\nArchbishop Gregory Venables has also been strongly critical of homosexuality. Bishops in his province criticised the Windsor Report for failing to call liberal churches to repentance. The province has declared itself in \"impaired communion\" with ECUSA, but continues to maintain full communion with opponents of the Robinson consecration. Venables has authorised dioceses within his province to provide episcopal oversight to United States churches that have left ECUSA.\n\nIn December 2007, the convention of the Episcopal Diocese of San Joaquin, an Episcopal Church diocese in central California, voted to leave the ECUSA and joined the Province of the Southern Cone as the Anglican Diocese of San Joaquin. A minority of the Episcopal Diocese remained in the ECUSA. In October 2008, a majority of the convention of the Episcopal Diocese of Pittsburgh voted to leave ECUSA and affiliate with the Southern Cone, resulting in one body affiliated with the Southern Cone and a second body remaining within ECUSA. The following month, the conventions of two more US dioceses—the Diocese of Quincy in Illinois and the Diocese of Fort Worth in Texas—voted to leave ECUSA and affiliate with the Southern Cone. All were subsequently absorbed into the new Anglican Church in North America.\n\nHowever, some Anglican representatives from the Diocese of Uruguay expressed their support for the inclusion of same-sex couples.\n\nThe Anglican Episcopal Church of Brazil is characterised by its progressive theological views on homosexuality. After the 1998 Lambeth Conference, the Anglican Church in Brazil decided to promote two national forums on human sexuality, both held in Rio de Janeiro. Its decisions guided the policy. According to the final document, the consensus of the Brazilian Church is that human sexuality is a gift from God, and it should be experienced in peace, freedom, love and respect. The Church has approved of the ordination of openly gay priests and has offered blessing services for same-sex marriages. It is understood that the Church should respect the privacy of its members and clergy. Any kind of public exposure of someone's sexual orientation (as a pre-requisite to be a member or take part of any ministry) violates this privacy. Because of that progressive position, the Bishop of the Diocese of Recife, still strongly Evangelical, Robinson Cavalcanti, declared Recife to be independent of the Church of Brazil, an action that resulted in his being deposed as a bishop by the Ecclesiastical Tribunal. Among his main reasons, he pointed out that the Brazilian Church was sympathetic to the ordination of Gene Robinson, as well as the ordination of all LGBT people. This split the Diocese of Recife in two: one part loyal to Bishop Orlando Santos de Oliveira, primate of the Anglican Episcopal Church of Brazil, and currently coordinated by Bishop Sebastião Gameleira, and the other, under Cavalcanti's leadership, tied to the Anglican Church of the Southern Cone.\n\nIn 2016, the presiding bishop convened an Extraordinary Synod to discuss adding same-sex marriage to the marriage canon; the proposal was not approved, but it was considered during General Synod in 2017. On June 1, 2018, the General Synod voted to change the marriage canon to include same-sex couples.\n\nSexual orientation and the Anglican Church of Canada exist within a strictly Canadian context. In the secular context, Canadian law underwent a profound change in regards to homosexuality. The last same-sex attracted person to be sent to prison indefinitely as a \"dangerous sex offender\" was in 1967. In 1969, the Canadian parliament passed amendments of the Criminal Code, decriminalising homosexuality in Canada. On 20 July 1971, the last gay man criminally convicted because of his sexual orientation was released from prison. A series of judicial rulings beginning in 2003 legalised same-sex marriage in the majority of Canada's provinces, and on 20 July 2005, the Canadian government extended the new definition nationwide by statute.\n\nCurrently ten Anglican dioceses (Edmonton, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, Rupert’s Land, Ottawa, Vancouver-based New Westminster, Toronto, London-based Huron, Hamilton-based Niagara, Montreal, and Victoria-based British Columbia) allow the blessing and marriage of same-sex couples. The Anglican Parishes of the Central Interior (formerly the Diocese of Cariboo) also permit such rites.\n\nOn 30 September 2012, the Bishop of Saskatoon ordained as deacon a person civilly married to a person of the same sex.\n\nAt the General Synod on July 6, 2013, the Anglican Church Of Canada made the decision to vote on the issue of same-sex marriage at the following synod in 2016. At the General Synod in 2016, a motion to change the marriage canon to include same-sex marriage received the necessary 2/3 majority and was approved; it will receive a second reading in 2019. Following the General Synod, the Dioceses of Niagara and Ottawa decided to allow legal same-sex marriages as a local option. Also in 2016, the Diocese of Toronto elected with Kevin Robertson, for the first time, an openly gay and partnered person to be a bishop.\n\nIn 2003, ECUSA became the first Anglican province to ordain an openly gay priest in a same-sex relationship as a bishop; however, the Episcopal Church's stance on LGBT matters had been debated for decades. In 1976, the Church's General Convention passed a resolution stating: \"It is the sense of this General Convention that homosexual persons are children of God who have a full and equal claim with all other persons upon the love acceptance, and pastoral concern and care of the Church.\" In 1977, the first openly gay and lesbian priest was ordained by Bishop Paul Moore Jr. in New York.\n\nVarious interpretations were held within the Episcopal Church on this resolution, ranging from the majority of dioceses that now ordain non-celibate gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender clergy to the minority group who founded the Anglican Communion Network which currently opposes such ordinations. On 23 June 2005, The Episcopal Church defined its meaning in a 130-page document entitled \"To Set Our Hope on Christ\":\nWe believe that God has been opening our eyes to acts of God that we had not known how to see before ... the eligibility for ordination of those in covenanted same-sex unions ... a person living in a same-gendered union may be eligible to lead the flock of Christ ... members of the Episcopal Church have discerned holiness in same-sex relationships and have come to support the blessing of such unions and the ordination or consecration of persons in those unions ... Their holiness stands in stark contrast with many sinful patterns of sexuality in the world ... The idea that there is only one correct way to read or interpret scripture is a rather modern idea.\n\nIn July 2009, the General Convention voted to allow bishops to bless same-sex unions, and also called for bishops to \"collect and develop theological and liturgical resources\" for possibly creating an official rite for such ceremonies at the 2012 General Convention.\n\nIn January 2010, the Reverend Mally Lloyd and the Reverend Katherine Hancock Ragsdale, two prominent Episcopal priests, married in a ceremony at the Cathedral Church of St. Paul in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 2012, the General Convention approved an official liturgy for blessing same-sex unions, called “The Witnessing and Blessing of a Lifelong Covenant,” while making it clear that it was not marriage. The action enabled priests to bestow the church’s blessing on gay couples even in states where same-sex marriage is illegal, subject to the approval of the bishops.\n\nIn 2015, the General Convention approved “canonical and liturgical changes to provide marriage equality for Episcopalians.” The canonical change eliminated “language defining marriage as between a man and a woman.” The liturgical change provided two marriage rites for use by same-sex or opposite-sex couples with consent of the priest and permission of the bishop.\n\nAt least one bishop of the extraprovincial diocese, Bishop Nerva Cot, stated that she supported the ordination of openly gay and lesbian priests.\n\nArchbishop Gomez has said Gene Robinson's ordination is incompatible with Scripture. In 2017, Archbishop John Holder stated that there is no biblical support for anti-sodomy laws and urged Jamaica to repeal its laws against gay and lesbian relationships.\n\nArchbishop Malango was quoted as stating Gene Robinson's election \"brought darkness, disappointment, sadness and grief\" to his Church.\n\nArchbishop Nzimbi has strongly spoken against admitting non-celibate same-sex attracted people into the Church.\n\nIn 2013, Archbishop Eliud Wabukala, then the Primate of the church, \"denounced a decision by the Church of England's House of Bishops to allow gay priests to become bishops.\" He also opposed priests being allowed to enter into same-sex civil partnerships saying the Church of England \"'seems to be advancing along the same path' as the US Episcopal Church and the Anglican Church of Canada which he accused of promoting 'a false gospel'.\"\n\nThe Anglican Church of Korea is among the more liberal provinces in the Anglican Communion. In 2015, a cleric, members, and congregations of the province participated in an LGBT Pride event and have been affirming of equal rights for gays and lesbians. The Anglican Church in Korea has openly had discussions about human sexuality.\n\nThe Church remains sharply opposed to homosexuality, calling it \"a perversion of human dignity.\" In 2005, Archbishop Peter Akinola spoke out against the Church of England's decision to allow priests to enter into same-sex civil partnerships.\n\nIn March 2009, the Church declared itself in full communion with the Anglican Church in North America, a denomination formed by American and Canadian Anglicans who opposed their national churches' actions with regard to homosexuality and equality.\n\nIn 2013, Archbishop Nicholas Okoh opposed the Church of England's decision to allow gay bishops, even if celibate, to enter into civil unions.\n\nThe Anglican Church in Central America consists of five churches representing different Central American countries. Each member church makes many of its own decisions. In 2013, priests and ministries in the Diocese of El Salvador began to advocate for the full inclusion of LGBT members. In 2014, the Episcopal Church of Costa Rica, a diocese of the province, took steps toward welcoming the LGBTQ community. The Diocese of Guatemala elected the Rev Silvestre Enrique Romero as bishop coadjutor in 2017. Prior to being elected bishop, the Rev Romero served in The Episcopal Church (US), and offered to bless same-sex unions as priest-in-charge.\n\nThe Anglican Church of Mexico, like the other North American provinces, has expressed in some particular instances more liberal views regarding gender and sexuality. However, Presiding Bishop Francisco Moreno has opposed same-sex unions and the current canons do not provide for them. In 2007, then Presiding Bishop Carlos Touché-Porter became a patron of Inclusive Church advocating for '\"a liberal, open church which is inclusive of all,' regardless of race, gender or sexuality\". Former Presiding Bishop Carlos Touché-Porter also affirmed that Bishop Gene Robinson was not the first gay cleric, but that he was simply being honest. He also supported the ordination of openly gay clergy. Bishop Touché-Porter's diocese, the Diocese of Mexico, \"permits clergy in same-sex relationships to serve in the ministry.\" Furthermore, in 2008, when Pope Benedict XVI approached the Anglican Church with the possibility of joining the Catholic Church over issues of sexuality, then Presiding Bishop Carlos reassured his province that he supported remaining within the Anglican Communion.\n\nAlso in 2008, Bishop Sergio Carranza supported the ordination of gay clergy. Among the affirming churches, St. Mark's Anglican Church in Guadalajara, Jalisco is publicly supportive of gay, lesbian, and transgender members. Nevertheless, on the other side, Presiding Bishop Francisco Moreno, the current primate of the province, has indicated that he supports marriage as defined \"between a man and a woman\".\n\nIn 2015, at least one congregation \"opened its doors\" to bless same-gender couples. The church will be discussing same-gender unions at its General Synod.\n\nThe canon law of the Anglican Church of Southern Africa states that \"marriage by divine institution is a lifelong and exclusive union partnership between one man and one woman\" and makes no provision for same-sex weddings or for blessing same-sex civil unions. The Diocese of Saldanha Bay has approved the blessing of same-sex civil unions as a provison on the diocesan level. At the same time, the church does not have an official stance on homosexuality itself. However, it has been reported of current Archbishop Thabo Makgoba that \"The Anglican Primate, [is] one among few church leaders in Africa to support same-sex marriage.\" Archbishop Makgoba and his working group on human sexuality have proposed a motion “… to amend Canon 34 which will enable ministry to those in Same Sex Unions and the LGBTI Community in the context in which ACSA operates in Southern Africa.\"\n\nA previous archbishop, Desmond Tutu, said that: \"The Jesus I worship is not likely to collaborate with those who vilify and persecute an already oppressed minority [...]. I could not myself keep quiet whilst people were being penalised for something about which they could do nothing, their sexuality. For it is so improbable that any sane, normal person would deliberately choose a lifestyle exposing him or her to so much vilification, opprobrium and physical abuse, even death. To discriminate against our sisters and brothers who are lesbian or gay on grounds of their sexual orientation for me is as totally unacceptable and unjust as Apartheid ever was.\"\n\nAnother former archbishop, Njongonkulu Ndungane, has criticised other African churches regarding homosexuality and said that the church's attention should be focused on other concerns such as AIDS and poverty. Nevertheless, Ndungane expressed publicly his disapproval of same-sex marriage when it was legalised in South Africa: \"As far as we are concerned as a church, our understanding of marriage is between a man and a woman. And as a church, and the Anglican Church in particular, we have said no to same-sex unions.\" However, in 2016, the bishops of the Anglican Church of Southern Africa voted to affirm members in same-gender marriages as fully equal members of the Church. Bishop Raphael Hess, in Saldanha Bay, has backed same-sex marriage and is proposing a way to allow gay priests to marry. Archbishop Tutu also gave his daughter and her partner a blessing.\n\nAdditionally, the Anglican Church of Southern Africa does not have an official policy regarding the ordination of openly gay or lesbian clergy and, thus, some may identify as LGBT depending on their diocese. In 2003, for example, the Rev. Rowan Smith, the dean of St. George's Cathedral in Cape Town, was warmly celebrated by his congregation after coming out as gay. The Rev. Douglas Torr also came out to his congregation in Johannesburg. Moreover, the Rt. Rev. Mervyn Castle, who is openly gay and celibate, was consecrated suffragan bishop in Cape Town. Still, while gay and lesbian clergy may be locally ordained, the national church has not yet developed liturgies to bless same-gender unions.\n\nNevertheless, the Diocese of Cape Town, in 2009, did vote in favour of recognising same-gender unions pastorally and the diocese committed itself to studying the issue further. The vote in 2009 \"[had] taken a small step towards accepting gay people in 'faithful, committed relationships.'\" The resolution also said that it is \"Affirming a pastoral response to same-sex partnerships of faithful commitment in our parish families;\" Also in 2009, Archbishop Thabo Makgoba said that \"[g]ays and lesbians can be leaders within the Anglican Church of Southern Africa as long as they remain celibate, its synod of bishops has declared.\"\n\nIn 2013, the Provincial Synod adopted a resolution that \"urged its bishops to provide guidelines for giving pastoral care to same-sex couples who have entered civil unions under South African law.\" The resolution also:\nIn 2016, Bishop Raphael Hess of Sadanha Bay gave permission for an Anglican priest to officiate at a service of celebration for the Rev. Mpho Tutu and her partner. When Tutu surrendered her licence to avoid controversy, Bishop Hess stated that he \"hoped it would be short-lived\" and that he is proposing to change policy to welcome her back. Her father, Desmond Tutu, gave \"a father's blessing\".\n\nCurrently, priests may not enter into a same-sex marriage, but the church does allow \"same-sex relationships if they are celibate.\" Also in 2016, Archbishop Makgoba said \"we also tried at the Synod of Bishops to draw up guidelines for clergy wanting to bless couples in same-sex unions, or who want to enter same-sex unions themselves ... On this issue, I had to report back to the Synod, the only agreement we reached is that we were not of one mind\". Yet, the bishops did agree that LGBT people, including members in same-sex marriages, are affirmed as \"full members\" of the church.\n\nThe Diocese of Saldanha Bay proposed the blessing of same-gender unions and the licensing of LGBTI priests in civil marriages. During the provincial synod, the proposal did not receive enough votes and was not passed. Archbishop Thabo Makgoba, however, declared that \"all is not lost\". He said the issue might hopefully be taken up again at the next provincial synod in 2019. He also said the issue could be discussed at the local level in parishes and dioceses. Makgoba further noted how relatively liberal the province is saying \"As it was, the degree of support for the motion was quite substantial if you compare us to other African provinces of the Anglican Church, most of which are vigorously opposed to same-sex unions in any form.\" He also voiced his support for same-sex marriage.\n\nThe Diocese of False Bay has also been supportive of LGBTI clergy and members having celebrated the ministry of one of its openly gay priests. The Diocese of Pretoria joined the list of dioceses that support same-sex marriage in the Anglican Church. At least one priest, who is in a same-sex relationship with his partner, has spoken to the press acknowledging that the church ordained him knowing of his relationship.\n\nIn a pastoral letter published on March 2, 2017, the Bench of Bishops said that they continue to discuss \"the Pastoral Guidelines for ministry to those in same-sex relationships, which are still incomplete. We asked Archbishop Thabo to set up a small group of Bishops to work on completing them, together with others who could help the process.\" Archbishop Thabo is proposing a change to the canons following that process.\n\nThe Primate of the Episcopal Church of the Sudan, Archbishop Daniel Deng Bul, on 22 July at a public press conference during the 2008 Lambeth Conference called for Bishop Gene Robinson to resign, and for all those who had participated in his consecration to confess their sins to the conference.\n\nIn November 2003, responding to the consecration of Bishop Gene Robinson, Archbishop Donald Mtetemela stated his belief that homosexuality is against biblical teaching: \"The Anglican Church of Tanzania believes that homosexuality is contrary to the teaching of the Word of God. It is a sin.\" Mtetemela declared that the Church of Tanzania was no longer in communion with Episcopal Church bishops who participated in the consecration of Robinson, and those who permit the blessing of same-sex unions.\n\nThe Ugandan church cut ties with its North American counterparts over homosexuality. It declared itself in full communion with the Anglican Church in North America, a denomination not recognised by the Anglican Communion that was formed by lay and clergy members who had left The Episcopal Church and the Anglican Church of Canada over matters of LGBT inclusion.\n\nIn 2005, Archbishop Orombi, then the leader of the Church of Uganda, criticised the Church of England for permitting priests to enter into same-sex civil partnerships. In 2013, Archbishop Stanley Ntagali maintained opposition to clergy in civil unions opposing the Church of England's decision to allow bishops to register a civil partnership. Archbishop Ntagali stated that “to allow clergy in civil partnerships to be eligible to become Bishops is really no different from allowing gay Bishops. This decision violates our Biblical faith and agreements within the Anglican Communion.” Ntagali compared England's decision to those made in other western Anglican provinces. “Sadly we must also declare that if the Church of England continues in this contrary direction we must further separate ourselves from it and we are prepared to take the same actions as those prompted by the decisions of The Episcopal Church (USA) and the Anglican Church of Canada ten years ago.”\n\nIn 1998, the Council of Bishops requested that the Rt Rev Terry Brown \"draft a study paper on homosexuality for the Church of Melanesia ...\". In 2007, Bishop Terry Brown, a former Bishop of Malaita reflected on his experience \"as an 'out' gay man serving as bishop\".\n\nOn March 22, 2017, the Synod of the Spanish Reformed Episcopal Church released a statement of support expressing its solidarity with the Spanish Evangelical Church after the latter had accepted same-sex relationships. In supporting the Spanish Evangelical Church, the Episcopal Synod joined LGBT advocacy groups by protesting its removal from the Evangelical Council of Madrid.\n\n\nOntario Consultants on Religious Tolerance\n"}
{"id": "16001132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16001132", "title": "John Punch (theologian)", "text": "John Punch (theologian)\n\nJohn Punch, O.F.M. (or John Ponce or, in the Latinate form, Johannes Poncius) (1603–1661) was an Irish Franciscan scholastic philosopher and theologian.\n\nPunch was ultimately responsible for the now classic formulation of Ockham's Razor, in the shape of the Latin phrase \"entia non-sunt multiplicanda praeter necessitatem\", \"entities are not to be multiplied unnecessarily.\" His formulation was slightly different: \"Non sunt multiplicanda entia sine necessitate.\" Punch did not attribute this wording to William of Ockham, but instead referred to the principle as a \"common axiom\" (\"axioma vulgare\") used by the Scholastics.\n\nHis name was John Punch, but he is often known as \"Ponce\", which was a derivation of the Latin form of his surname: Poncius. At an early age, he went to Belgium and entered the novitiate of the Irish Franciscans in St. Antony's College, Louvain. He studied philosophy at Cologne, began the study of theology in Louvain, under Hugh Ward, O.F.M. and John Colgan, O.F.M., was called by Luke Wadding to Rome, and admitted 7 September 1625 into the College of St. Isidore, which had just been founded for the education of Irish Franciscan friars. After receiving his degrees he was appointed to teach philosophy and later, theology in St. Isidore's. He lectured afterwards at Lyons and Paris, where he was held in great repute for his learning.\n\nPunch succeeded Father Martin Walsh in governing Ludovisi College at Rome for the education of Irish secular priests; and for some time he filled the position of superior of St. Isidore. He had a passionate love of his country and was an active agent in Rome of the Irish Confederate Catholics. When dissensions arose among the Confederates, and when Richard Bellings, secretary to the Supreme Council, published his \"Vindiciæ\" (Paris, 1652), attacking the Irish Catholics who remained faithful to the nuncio, Father Punch promptly answered with his \"Vindiciae Eversae\" (Paris, 1652). He had already warned the Confederates not to trust the Royalists. In a letter (2 July 1644) to the agent of the Catholics, Hugo de Burgo, he says: \n\nIn 1643 he published in Rome his \"Cursus philosophiæ\". Some of his opinions were opposed by Mastrius, and Punch replied in \"Appendix apologeticus\" (Rome, 1645), in which he says that although he accepts all the conclusions of Duns Scotus, he does not feel called upon to adopt all Scotus's proofs. Mastrius acknowledged the force of Punch's reasoning and admitted that he had shed light on many philosophical problems. In 1652, Punch published \"Integer cursus theologiæ\" (Paris). These two works explain with great clearness and precision the teaching of the Scotistic school. In 1661, he published at Paris his great work, \"Commentarii theologici in quatuor libros sententiarum\", called by Hurter opus rarissimum.\n\nPunch also assisted Luke Wadding in editing the works of Scotus. Wadding says that he was endowed with a powerful and subtle intellect, a great facility of communicating knowledge, a graceful style, and that though immersed in the severer studies of philosophy and theology he was an ardent student of the classics.\n\nHis other works are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13595266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13595266", "title": "Judah Messer Leon", "text": "Judah Messer Leon\n\nJudah ben Jehiel, (, 1420 to 1425 – c. 1498), more usually called Judah Messer Leon (), was an Italian rabbi, teacher, physician, and philosopher. Through his works, assimilating and embodying the intellectual approach of the best Italian universities of the time, yet setting it inside the intellectual culture of Jewish tradition, he is seen as a quintessential example of a \"hakham kolel\" (\"comprehensive scholar\"), a scholar who excelled in both secular and rabbinic studies, the Hebrew equivalent of a Renaissance man. This was the ideal he tried to instil in his students.\n\nJudah is thought to have been born in around 1420 at Montecchio Maggiore, now in the Italian province of Vicenza. The son of a doctor, he was ordained as a rabbi and received a diploma in medicine while in his early 20s. According to tradition the honorific title \"Messer\" (a title of knighthood) was bestowed on him by the Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor, during the emperor's first visit to Italy in 1452, perhaps for work for him as a physician. The name \"Leon\" is the usual equivalent of \"Judah\", through the traditional identification of the lion of Judah.\n\nMesser Leon settled as a rabbi at Ancona at about this time, and established a \"yeshiva\", or academy, where he combined the traditional study of the Jewish texts with lectures on the non-Jewish program of the medieval secular curriculum. This academy was to follow him wherever he stayed around Italy over the next four decades. He was also licensed to practice medicine, and his successful activities in this field brought him much acclaim. Between 1456 and 1472 he lived in Padua and Bologna, where he may have studied further at the famous Universities. He is said to have been awarded the title Doctor in Padua in 1469. After a short stay in Venice, where his son David was born, in 1473 he became rabbi in Mantua. There he fell into a conflict with his colleague Joseph Colon Trabotto, in consequence of which both were expelled from the city in 1475.\n\nIn 1480 he settled in Naples, then under the accommodating rule of Ferdinand I. He remained there, with his academy, for virtually the whole of the rest of his life, until he and his son David were forced to flee in 1495, the year after the death of King Ferdinand, to escape the violent pogroms that ensued following the capture of the city by the French under Charles VIII. An ordination document issued by David in September 1499 refers to his father as by then already dead. Rabinowitz conjectures that Messer Leon had been with David, and died at Monastir (present-day Bitola in the Republic of Macedonia) in that year. However, Tirosh-Rothschild (p. 253, n. 104) believes he was still in Naples, and died there in 1497.\n\nMesser Leon wrote extensively, including commentaries on the \"Organon\", the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", and the \"Physics\" of Aristotle, and their analysis by Averroes, in which he followed the Scholastic style and methods, composing for his students \"summaries (\"sefeqot\") on the Scholastic \"quaestiones\" (i.e. points of apparent textual contradiction) debated by the Italian academic community\", drawing closely on the style and substance of expositions then current at Padua.\n\nThese commentaries were written primarily for his close followers. More generally circulated were three textbooks addressing the three foundation subjects of a Renaissance secular education, the \"trivium\" (\"three ways\") of grammar, logic and rhetoric, seen as the essential prerequisite disciplines necessary for higher studies in the humanities, philosophy, and medicine. These subjects he covered with a Hebrew grammar under the title \"Libnat ha-Sappir\" (\"The Pavement of Sapphire\") in 1454, a textbook on logic entitled \"Miklal Yofi\" (\"Perfection of Beauty\") in 1455, and, most celebrated, a textbook of rhetoric called \"Nofet Zufim\" (\"The Honeycomb's Flow\"), which was printed by Abraham Conat of Mantua in 1475-6, the only work by a living author printed in Hebrew in the fifteenth century.\n\nLike non-Jewish contemporary texts, the \"Nofet Zufim\" drew heavily on the classical theoretical writings of Cicero and Quintilian. But unlike its contemporaries, it took as its exemplars for such theories not the foremost orators of Greek and Roman antiquity, but Moses and the leading figures of the Hebrew Bible. In the opinion of Deutsch, the object of the work was both apologetic and propagandic. The author desired to demonstrate to the non-Jewish world that the Jews were not devoid of the literary sense, and he wished to prove to his co-religionists that Judaism is not hostile to secular studies, which contribute to a better appreciation of Jewish literature. Although in later centuries the book was largely forgotten, and was not reprinted until the nineteenth century, in the intellectual circle of its own time it was highly appreciated. Azariah dei Rossi quoted Leon as a witness to the value of secular studies, and Joseph Solomon Delmedigo recommended the book to the Karaite Zeraḥ bar Natan of Trakai. In recent times interest has been renewed, with a new scholarly edition with translation and commentary published in 1983.\n\nFollowing on from his father, Messer Leon's son also became a noted rabbi, physician and author, and defender of the value of the secular disciplines of the Renaissance to Jewish philosophy culture and study. David became best known for his \"Ein ha-Kore\" (\"Eye of the Reader\"), a sympathetic commentary on Maimonides' \"The Guide for the Perplexed\"; and posthumously for his \"Tehillah le-Dawid\" (\"Glory to David\"), an encyclopedic summary of Jewish philosophy, edited by his grandson Aaron ben Judah (Constantinople, 1577).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12331297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12331297", "title": "Latitudinarianism (philosophy)", "text": "Latitudinarianism (philosophy)\n\nLatitudinarianism, in at least one area of contemporary philosophy, is a position concerning \"de dicto\" and \"de re\" (propositional) attitudes. Latitudinarians think that \"de re\" attitudes are not a category distinct from \"de dicto\" attitudes; the former are just a special case of the latter.\n\nThe term was introduced into discussions of \"de dicto\" and \"de re\" attitudes by Roderick Chisholm in his \"Knowledge and Belief: 'De Dicto' and 'De Re'\" (1976). Latitudinarianism has since also sometimes been called an \"unrestricted exportation\" view.\n\n"}
{"id": "9332507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9332507", "title": "Leibniz–Clarke correspondence", "text": "Leibniz–Clarke correspondence\n\nThe Leibniz–Clarke correspondence was a scientific, theological and philosophical debate conducted in an exchange of letters between the German thinker Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and Samuel Clarke, an English supporter of Isaac Newton during the years 1715 and 1716. The exchange began because of a letter Leibniz wrote to Caroline of Ansbach, in which he remarked that Newtonian physics was detrimental to natural theology. Eager to defend the Newtonian view, Clarke responded, and the correspondence continued until the death of Leibniz in 1716.\n\nAlthough a variety of subjects is touched on in the letters, the main interest for modern readers is in the dispute between the absolute theory of space favoured by Newton and Clarke, and Leibniz's relational approach. Also important is the conflict between Clarke's and Leibniz's opinions on free will and whether God must create the best of all possible worlds.\n\nLeibniz had published only a book on moral matters, the \"Theodicée\" (1710), and his more metaphysical views had never been exposed to a sufficient extent, so the collected letters were met with interest by their contemporaries. The priority dispute between Leibniz and Newton about the calculus was still fresh in the public's mind and it was taken as a matter of course that it was Newton himself who stood behind Clarke's replies.\n\nThe Leibniz-Clarke letters were first published under Clarke's name in the year following Leibniz' death. He wrote a preface, took care of the translation from French, added notes and some of his own writing. In 1720 Pierre Desmaizeaux published a similar volume in a French translation, including quotes from Newton's work. It is quite certain that for both editions the opinion of Newton himself has been sought and Leibniz left at a disadvantage. However the German translation of the correspondence published by Kohler, also in 1720, contained a reply to Clarke's last letter which Leibniz had not been able to answer. The letters have been reprinted in most collections of Leibniz' works and regularly published in stand alone editions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "164629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164629", "title": "Linji Yixuan", "text": "Linji Yixuan\n\nLinji Yixuan (; \"Rinzai Gigen\"; died 866 CE) was the founder of the Linji school of Chan Buddhism during Tang Dynasty China.\n\nInformation on Linji is based on the \"Línjì yǔlù\" (臨濟語錄; Japanese: \"Rinzai-goroku\"), the Record of Linji. The standard form of these sayings was not completed until 250 years after Linji's death and likely reflect the teaching of Chán in the Linji school at the beginning of the Song Dynasty rather than those of Linji's in particular.\n\nThis contains stories of his interactions with teachers, contemporaries, and students. The recorded lectures are a mixture of the conventional and the iconoclastic. Despite the iconoclasm, the \"Línjì yǔlù\" reflects a thorough knowledge of the sutras. Linji's teaching-style, as recorded in the \"Línjì yǔlù\", was exemplary of the development Chán took in the Hongzhou school (洪州宗) of Mazu and his successors, such as Huangbo, Linji's master.\n\nAccording to the \"Línjì yǔlù\", Linji was born into a family named Xing (邢) in Caozhou (modern Heze in Shandong), which he left at a young age to study Buddhism in many places.\n\nAlso according to the \"Línjì yǔlù\", Linji was trained by the Chan master Huángbò Xīyùn (黃蘗希運), but attained kensho while discussing Huángbò's teaching during a conversation with the reclusive monk Dàyú (大愚). Linji then returned to Huángbò to continue his training after awakening. In 851 CE, Linji moved to the Linji temple in Hebei, where he took his name, which also became the name for the lineage of his form of Chán Buddhism.\n\nLinji is reputed for being iconoclastic, leading students to awakening by hitting and shouting.\n\nChán faced the challenge of expressing its teachings of \"suchness\" without getting stuck into words or concepts. The alleged use of shouting and beating was instrumental in this non-conceptual expression - after the students were well-educated in the Buddhist tradition.\n\nLinji is described as using \"The Three Mysterious Gates\" to maintain the Chán emphasis on the nonconceptual nature of reality, while employing sutras and teachings to instruct his students:\n\nThe titular story of Volume 2 of Kazuo Koike & Goseki Kojima's manga comic Lone Wolf and Cub revolves around Linji's saying \"if you meet a buddha, kill the buddha,\" in which the protagonist must overcome his self to assassinate a living buddha.\n\nIn the manga Gensōmaden Saiyūki by Kazuya Minekura, Genjō Sanzō purports to live by the concept of \"無一物 (\"muichimotsu\"),\" as taught by his teacher Sanzō Kōmyō, who is quoted as saying:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5241651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5241651", "title": "List of Canadian philosophers", "text": "List of Canadian philosophers\n\nThis page lists philosophers from Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57584791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57584791", "title": "List of bioethics journals", "text": "List of bioethics journals\n\nThis is a list of peer-reviewed academic journals covering the field of bioethics. Developed with reference to the 2015 list of \"Top 100 Bioethics Journals in the World\", and \"Where to publish and not to publish in bioethics\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46845103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46845103", "title": "Margarita Carrera", "text": "Margarita Carrera\n\nMargarita Carrera Molina (16 September 1929 – 31 March 2018) was a Guatemalan philosopher, professor and writer. She was a member of the Academia Guatemalteca de la Lengua and the 1996 laureate of the Miguel Ángel Asturias National Prize in Literature.\n\nMargarita Carrera Molina was born 16 September 1929 in Guatemala City to Frenchman Antonio Carrera Martello and Josefina Molina Llardén. Her father committed suicide when she was a child and she had to work to help support her family, going to night school to learn. She was the first female graduate in Literature from Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala in 1957.\n\nFrom 1957 she was employed as a university professor at her alma mater, as well as Rafael Landívar University and Universidad del Valle de Guatemala. She was a lecturer at the Autonomous University of Madrid and served as guest writer on numerous international congresses held in Costa Rica, France, Germany, France, Germany, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, Spain, Sweden, the US and Venezuela. She was the first woman to ever become a member of the Academia Guatemalteca de la Lengua in 1967.\n\nCarrera joined the International Writing Program at the University of Iowa, in Iowa City, IA in 1982. From 1993 she worked as a columnist for \"Prensa Libre\" of Guatemala and published in many other newspapers, including \"Diario de Centro America\", \"La Hora\", and \"El Imparcial\". She wrote two columns at \"Prensa Libre\" weekly, in addition to having published twenty books. In 1996, she was awarded the Miguel Ángel Asturias National Prize in Literature.\n\nIn an interview in her 70s, Carrera said that she often wrote about men she found interesting and whom she studied to help her understand the man she never knew, her father. Among those she studied and wrote about were Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges, Austrian psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud, Spanish poet Juan Ramón Jiménez, German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche and Spanish philosopher Miguel de Unamuno. After his death, she read about Juan José Gerardi Conedera and ended up writing a novel about his life: \"En la mirilla del jaguar: biografía novelada de Monseñor Gerardi\", published in 2002. She was awarded the Monseñor Gerardi Conedera Order in 2004.\n\nCarrera was married for seven years and divorced. She had two children. Carrera died in Guatemala on 31 March 2018 at the age of 88.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2172780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2172780", "title": "Max Adler (Marxist)", "text": "Max Adler (Marxist)\n\nMax Adler (; ; 15 January 1873 – 28 June 1937) was an Austrian jurist, politician and social philosopher; his theories were of central importance to Austromarxism. He was a brother of Oskar Adler.\n\nMax Adler obtained his doctorate in law in 1896, and became a professional lawyer. He began to teach in the “Schönbrunn Circle” in the early summer of 1919. Max Winter, the deputy mayor of Vienna, was able to make rooms available in the main building of Schönbrunn Castle for the \"Kinderfreunde Österreich\" (an Austrian association for children and families). In the \"Schönbrunner Erzieherschule\", where young people were trained to be teachers, Max Adler and his colleagues Wilhelm Jerusalem, Alfred Adler, Marianne Pollak, Josef Luitpold Stern and Otto Felix Kanitz were able to realize practical educational reforms. In 1920 he qualified at Vienna University, where he became Extraordinary Professor of Sociology and Social philosophy. From 1919 to 1921 he was a Social-Democratic member of the regional parliament of Niederösterreich. Adler was active in Adult Education, and from 1904 to 1925, with Rudolf Hilferding, editor of \"Marx-Studien\".\n\nMax Adler’s first theoretical work of note was a study \"Max Stirner. Ein Beitrag zur Feststellung des Verhältnisses von Socialismus und Individualismus\" (1894). The title sets the agenda for Adler’s later theoretical activities. Although this study of Marx’s scorned opponent seriously antagonized Marxist Party theorists, and so remained unpublished, Stirner remained an influence on Adler’s thinking throughout his life. Adler’s biographer Alfred Pfabigan, upon sight of his unpublished papers, was surprised by his “intellectual relationship with Stirner owing to its high degree of continuity”.\n\nBecause Adler wanted to operate within the framework of the rising Social Democratic movement, he was highly circumspect in his subsequent references to Stirner, and, while continuing to accord him great significance as Marx’s “psychological counterpart”, initially adopted most aspects of the doctrine of Historical Materialism: the essence of history is class struggle, and its realization entails a union of theory with revolutionary practice. He envisaged “ever greater harmony and perfection” arising from the contradictions inherent in the then state of society, until the proletariat, in the course of its revolution, would finally see “the pursuit of its own class interests” coincide with “the solidarity of society”. In a departure from orthodox Marxism, Adler’s conception reduces the dialectic to a mere sociological methodology, not expressive of any specific dialectic intrinsic to the historical process. In common with other theorists of the Second International, such as Karl Kautsky and Karl Liebknecht, Adler also rejects the association between Scientific Socialism and Materialism: true Marxism was “in reality social idealism“. For Adler, Historical Materialism essentially becomes subjective idealism. In all consistency, his particular interest then turned to producing an epistemological critique of Sociology, combining Marxist themes with Kantian transcendentalism. According to Adler, “the individual consciousness is a priori socialized”, insofar as every logical judgement already and necessarily includes reference to a multitude of assenting subjects; Adler’s ‘social a priori’ transcendentally implies the possibility of social reality.\n\nAdler’s contributions to a Marxist general theory of the state emerged in the course of disputes with Hans Kelsen and Hermann Heller. Criticizing the formal concept of democracy, Adler distinguished between political democracy, as a manifestation of the hegemony of the bourgeoisie, and a social democracy, in which oppression was to be removed along with social differences, the whole to be replaced by “solidarity-based administrative reform” of society. For Adler, the establishment of a socialist society remained linked to the ‘dismantling of the machinery of the state’ along Marxist lines. Adler the politician permitted no compromises with the so-called \"social chauvinism\", or majority-Socialist “reformism”. Not the least important aspect of the Austromarxism espoused by Adler, Otto Bauer and Rudolf Hilferding was its relevance to the discussions on the left wing of German Social Democracy before 1933.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25782137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25782137", "title": "Mircea Florian", "text": "Mircea Florian\n\nMircea Florian (; April 1, 1888 – October 31, 1960) was a Romanian philosopher and translator. Active mainly during the interwar period, he was noted as one of the leading proponents of rationalism, opposing it to the \"Trăirist\" philosophy of Nae Ionescu. His work, comprising some 20 books, shows Florian as a disciple of centrists and rationalists such as Constantin Rădulescu-Motru and Titu Maiorescu.\n\nActive in independent social democratic politics, the philosopher became a political prisoner under the communist regime. It was during his time in jail that Florian conceived his philosophical system, published after his death in the treatise \"Recesivitatea ca structură a lumii\" (\"Recessivity as World Structure\"). In 1990, he was made a posthumous member of the Romanian Academy.\n\nBorn in Bucharest, Florian graduated from the Faculty of Letters and Philosophy at the local university, where he became a disciple of Rădulescu-Motru and P. P. Negulescu. He afterward took his Ph.D. at the University of Greifswald, in the German Empire, with a thesis on Henri Bergson's notion of time. In later years, he found employment as a Bucharest University assistant and substitute professor, lecturing in the History of Philosophy. He was a Docent from 1916.\n\nDuring World War I, Florian served in the Romanian Land Forces and was taken prisoner by the Germans. He was transported to an internment camp at Krefeld, alongside figures such as Alexandru D. Strurdza and Ilie Moscovici. Eventually, Florian was freed by his captors and allowed to lecture at King Carol Foundation in Bucharest, under a German occupation government. As Florian later indicated, this was made possible by the intercession of a Germanophile scholar, Alexandru Tzigara-Samurcaș, who vouched for him, and by the protection of Constantin Giurescu. Following the November Armistice, which reinstated the pro-Allied government, Florian, Tzigara-Samurcaș and Rădulescu-Motru were all subject to an official inquiry, and accused of being collaborators. The University Commissions created for this task were largely ineffective, and, among the incriminated, Florian was one of few who presented himself for questioning.\n\nIn the wake of the war, Florian was in contact with \"Ideea Europeană\", Rădulescu-Motru's magazine, and went on its conference tour, alongside in various cities by, among others, Nae Ionescu, Cora Irineu, Octav Onicescu, Virgil Bărbat, and Emanoil Bucuța. However, in later years, he remained largely cut off from his public: said to have been shy in delivering his lectures, he led a private life, and dedicated himself, almost entirely, to research.\n\nHe wrote a large body of works over a short time, including such titles as: \"Îndrumare în filosofie\" (\"Philosophical Companion\"), \"Rostul și utilitatea filosofiei\" (\"The Purpose and Use of Philosophy\"), \"Știință și raționalism\" (\"Science and Rationalism\"), \"Cosmologia elenă\" (\"Hellenic Cosmology\"), \"Antinomiile credinței\" (\"The Antinomies of Faith\"), \"Kant și criticismul până la Fichte\" (\"Kant and the Critical Method before Fichte\"), \"Cunoaștere și existență\" (\"Knowledge and Being\"), \"Reconstrucție filosofică\" (\"Philosophical Reconstruction\"), \"Metafizică și artă\" (\"Metaphysics and Art\"), \"Misticism și credință\" (\"Mysticism and Faith\"). Although absorbed by his academic work, Florian affiliated with social democracy, and was a member of the Social Democratic Party, the Constantin Titel Petrescu wing.\n\nFlorian's philosophy developed from ideas common to both Rădulescu-Motru and the 19th-century thinker Titu Maiorescu, herald of Romania's moderate and critical approach to philosophy. Florian is therefore ranked among the third-generation \"Maiorescans\", and seen as reactivating the spirit of Maiorescu's literary club \"Junimea\". After World War I, the \"Junimist\" legacy came in direct contradiction with Nae Ionescu's critique of rationalism, which was growing in popularity and lending its support to the far right's causes. Florian's steady opposition to Ionescu, in both concept and method, has been described as the \"dualism\" of interwar Romanian philosophy.\n\nBy the time of World War II, Mircea Florian was still pursuing a debate with the two schools of irrationalism, promoted by Lucian Blaga and Constantin Noica. Granted a full professorship in 1940, he was presented for Romanian Academy membership by his mentor Rădulescu-Motru, but the proposal failed to gather support. Blaga gave poor reviews to his work in \"Saeculum\" magazine, and, in one (disputed) interpretation, may have portrayed him as the unknown adversary in the virulent lampoon \"Săpunul filozofic\" (\"Philosophic Soap\", 1943). According to literary historian Z. Ornea, Florian's relative lack of exposure is unfair, since his works may rank better than those of either Noica or Blaga. Florian was also an adversary of official fascism, before and during the Ion Antonescu dictatorship. Like Grigore T. Popa, Constantin I. Parhon, Alexandru Rosetti, Mihai Ralea, and several other academics, he was in contact with the underground Romanian Communist Party and the Union of Patriots, and, as such, kept under close surveillance by the \"Siguranța Statului\" agents.\n\nFlorian's stance, and especially his commitment to independent social democracy, made him a suspect upon the establishment of Romania's communist regime. As noted by researcher Victor Frunză, Florian and Alexandru Claudian made a \"high sacrifice\" when they refused to give in to \"blackmail\" and would not join the \"Workers' Party\" (as the Communist Party styled itself upon its absorption of Social Democratic sympathizers). In 1948, he was stripped of his university chair. Placed under constant surveillance by the Securitate, Romania's new secret police, he was soon after arrested. During his eight-month-long imprisonment without trial, he had the revelation on \"recessivity as world structure\". The new system evidenced that Florian had come to criticize some of the basic assumptions in Western philosophy, and conceiving of the world through the teachings of genetics. His system divided existence alongside its two, equal but alternating, attributes: the dominant trait tempered by the recessive (albeit not degraded) one; violence to love, rational to irrational, nationalism to supranationalism.\n\nThe imprisonment is said to have been a grueling experience: allegedly, his wife Angela no longer recognized him upon his return to the family home. A while after, Florian was partly reintegrated into academia, and assigned a researcher's position at the Institute of Philosophy. There, he dedicated himself to translating Aristotle's \"Organon\", while in committing his \"Recesivitatea\" to paper in his spare time.\n\n\"Recesivitatea\" was only published 23 years after Florian's death, with Editura Eminescu. Reportedly, the text had suffered cuts and interventions by communist censors. Florian's role was reconsidered mainly after the Romanian Revolution of 1989, when he was made a posthumous member of the Academy. His full work was recovered for the public and reviewed by philosopher Mircea Flonta, in a 1998 volume of essays.\n\n"}
{"id": "465872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465872", "title": "Neo-Hasidism", "text": "Neo-Hasidism\n\nNeo-Hasidism is a name given to contemporary Jewish trends of a significant fusing or revival of interest in the teachings of Kabbalah and Hasidism by members of other existing Jewish movements. Among non-Orthodox Jews, this trend stems from the writings of non-Orthodox teachers of Hasidic Judaism like Martin Buber, Abraham Joshua Heschel, Lawrence Kushner, Zalman Schachter-Shalomi and Arthur Green. This is usually associated with the members of the Jewish Renewal movement. A second form of this trend is found within the Modern Orthodox Jewish community, and is referred to as Neo-Chassidus, involving those who are Modern Orthodox but have taken interest in the works of Hasidic masters.\n\nMartin Buber helped initiate interest in Hasidism among modernized Jews through a series of books he wrote in the first decades of the 20th century, such as \"Tales of the Hasidic Masters\" and the \"Legend of the Baal Shem Tov\". In these books, Buber focused on the role of story telling and the charisma of early Hasidic masters as a vehicle for personal spirituality. As such, these books represent one aspect of Buber's larger project of creating a new form of personalistic, existential religiosity. Buber came under considerable criticism, especially from younger contemporary Gershom Scholem, for having interpreted Hasidism in an eccentric way that misrepresented Hasidic belief and literature. Nevertheless, Buber's sympathetic treatment of Hasidism proved attractive to many and started the 20th century romance between (idealized) Hasidism and non-Orthodox Jews.\n\nFollowing World War II, when the Hasidic centers of Central and Eastern Europe were decimated, some of the surviving communities relocated to America, creating new opportunities for American Jews to have direct experience with them, their practices and their beliefs. Most of these communities remained determinedly insular, but a few, primarily the Chabad and Bratslav (or Breslov) Hasidim, adopted an attitude of outreach to the larger Jewish community, seeking to win more Jews to the Hasidic way of life. In the 1960s the Lubavitcher Rebbe (Menachem Mendel Shneerson) started commissioning young Chabadniks to seek out and teach young secular and religiously liberal Jews. Two of the early \"shluchim\" were Zalman Schachter-Shalomi and Shlomo Carlebach. While Carlebach, a charismatic singer who used music as his tool, stayed (largely) within the circle of the Orthodox community from which he arose, Schachter-Shalomi charted an increasingly independent course, leaving Chabad to eventually study at Hebrew Union College (HUC), the leading academic institution of Reform Judaism, and to found what became Jewish Renewal. \n\nEqually important was Abraham Joshua Heschel, a Holocaust refugee and scion of Hasidic royalty, who began his academic career in America with a life-saving but difficult wartime stint at HUC. In 1946, he moved to the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, the intellectual center for Conservative Judaism. There he still found himself marginalized for his Hasidic interests and customs, yet he surrounded himself with a small circle of devoted students (and eventual congregational rabbis) drawn to his mystically flavored phenomenology. As the 1960s began, Heschel was achieving increasing recognition as a theologian of stature with the publication of his books \"God in Search of Man\" and \"The Prophets.\" With that fame came an interest in his Hasidic roots and their role in his teachings. His social activism in the 60s and 70s further endeared him to many young Jews.\n\nSeveral of Heschel's students at JTS during the turbulent 60's and early 70's eventually became involved in the embryonic Havurah movement, a loosely defined project of creating an alternative, informal type of Jewish community first proposed by Reform theologian Jakob Petuchowski in the 1960s. While the movement spanned a broad spectrum of spiritual proclivities, some Jews in the founding circles, like Arthur Waskow, Arthur Green, and Michael Lerner, under the combined influence of Heschel and Schachter-Shalomi, took up the project of further exploring Hasidism and recasting it in an American idiom. Havurat Shalom, the flagship of this experimental quasi-communal movement which was started jointly by Green and Schachter-Shalomi in Boston, produced the greatest artifact of Havurah Judaism, the \"Jewish Catalog\" series, a set of three books devoted to \"do-it-yourself\" Judaism, written with a healthy dose of information and enthusiasm for things Hasidic. In general, the Havurah communities most influenced by Hasidism were also influenced by Kabbalah, and it remains the case that these interests overlap in most of what can be labeled neo-Hasidic.\n\nThese future \"Neo-Hasids\" focused on selected attractive aspects of traditional Hasidism while rejecting those Hasidic teachings they found incompatible with their modern egalitarian commitments, such as Hasidism's attitudes toward women, sexuality, and non-Jews. A few of these devotees, like Waskow and Lerner, became writers of note and \"public square\" intellectuals in the Jewish community and in the Jewish Renewal movement. Others, such as Green and Lawrence Fine, became leading scholars in the Jewish academic world, bringing an appreciation of Hasidism and an interest in adapting its ideas and customs to contemporary mores and life. Through books like \"Tormented Master,\" \"The Language of Truth\" and \"Your Word Is Fire,\" Green (and others) made Hasidism both more accessible and compelling for Jews seeking personal spirituality amidst the outwardly focused and sometimes spiritually dry world of the formal American Jewish community. Among the liberal movements, the Reform community remained resistant to this trend for a longer period, but a few rabbis, such as Herbert Weiner and Lawrence Kushner, also started \"translating\" Hasidism into a Reform idiom, expanding its influence. \n\nThis overlapping of amorphous interest in Hasidism among academics, seekers, religious functionaries, intellectuals, \"alternative\" rabbis and teachers, has led to the coining of the term \"Neo-Hasidism (NH).\" \n\nA few formalized groups and institutions, such as P'nai Or congregation in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Elat Chayyim Retreat Center in Falls Village, CT, are heavily influenced by NH. NH also enjoyed a period of pre-eminence at the Reconstructionist Rabbinical Seminary (RRC) during Arthur Green's tenure there as dean.\n\nIn 2004 a conference on Neo-Hasidism was held in NYC, organized by Rabbi Natan Margalit, under the aegis of the Institute for Jewish Spirituality. At that conference there was a call by Arthur Green and others to \"solidify\" and in some way institutionalize the movement and its teachings so that it may survive the eventual passing of its first generation of luminaries. To some degree this has been achieved through the establishment of Green's post-denominational rabbinical school at Boston's Hebrew College. Neo-Hasidism continues to develop in projects like NeoHasid.org on the internet and in egalitarian minyanim (prayer groups) that define themselves in terms of Hasidism like the Shtibl minyan in Los Angeles.\n\nIn the past several years, some men and women brought up in the modern-Orthodox world began exploring the texts and way of life of Chasidic masters. Most notable are the Chabad works and the writings of Rabbi Nachman of Breslov. Current Neo-Hasidic outposts include The Stollel with locations in New Jersey and New York and The University of Purim (UofPurim) located in New York (main Campus), Los Angeles (UofPurimWest), and Tucson (UofPurimSouthwest). Rabbi Moshe Weinberger, founding rabbi of Congregation Aish Kodesh in Woodmere, New York, is widely considered the \"senior spokesman\" of the Neo-Hasidic movement in Modern Orthodoxy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47705153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47705153", "title": "New Philosopher", "text": "New Philosopher\n\nNew Philosopher is an ad-free newsstand philosophy magazine distributed throughout the United States, Canada, the UK, Australia, Europe, Asia, and New Zealand, and produced by the team behind the magazine \"Womankind\".\n\n\"New Philosopher\" launched in Australia in 2013 at the Byron Bay Writers Festival, where it was the bestselling item at the festival and number 6 at the festival the following year. According to the University of Sydney, it launched with distribution \"across 2,000 news agencies in Australia and New Zealand and circulation in book shops, airports, cafes, delis, art galleries, boutiques and museums.\" According to posts on Facebook, as of 2015 \"New Philosopher\" was the most widely distributed philosophy magazine in the world, with more than 10,000 stockists globally. Each edition is set around a philosophical theme and features an interview with a leading intellectual - previous subjects have included Noam Chomsky, Daniel Dennett, Thomas Piketty, Jane Goodall, John Searle, Peter Singer, Anita L. Allen, Leo Braudy, Luciano Floridi, David Wood, and David Chalmers.\n\nThe magazine includes writing from prominent intellectuals such as philosophers Peter Singer, Clive Hamilton, Angie Hobbs, Robert W. McChesney, Massimo Pigliucci, Nigel Warburton, and Howard Gardner; Booker Prize winners DBC Pierre and Peter Carey; award-winning British novelist and essayist Will Self and Pullitzer Prize finalist Nicholas G. Carr; Australian cartoonist and Australian Living Treasure Michael Leunig; and five winners of the Australasian Association of Philosophy Media Prize: philosophers Damon Young, Patrick Stokes, Matthew Beard, Russell Blackford, and Paul Biegler. The magazine's literary editor Antonia Case, who is also the editor of \"Womankind\", won the Australasian Association of Philosophy Media Professionals' Award in 2014; New Philosopher's editor-on-chief Zan Boag won the same award in 2017.\n\nDescribed by the editor Zan Boag in an interview with MagCulture as being a magazine \"as much about art and design as it is about philosophy\", the magazine has received attention for its design and editorial content. It was shortlisted for Best Use of Illustration in The Stack Awards 2016 and in 2017; shortlisted for Editor of the Year and Best Original Non-Fiction in The Stack Awards in 2017; it was shortlisted in the World Illustration Awards 2016; and the cover of the \"happiness\" edition was voted one of the coolest covers of February 2014 by Complex. Design website Abuzeedo commented that \"the design is super cool and out of the box\" and the American Institute of Graphic Arts (AIGA) featured the magazine, referring to it as a \"very popular... ad-free publication that has become a favorite amongst readers in its home country...\", a publication that takes \"an approachable yet still thoughtful and intelligent tone\". The director of magazine website Magpile says \"the design is calm, intelligent and very neat\" and \"if I needed to use just one word to sum up new Aussie magazine, New Philosopher, it would be 'smart'.” It was named one of top magazines launched for 2014 (in the US) by the \"Library Journal\" and New York Post listed it as one of six \"magazines that will get you thinking\", writing that it \"feels like a coffee table book with beautiful pictures and large, double-spaced font\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21660772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21660772", "title": "Nikolaos Loudovikos", "text": "Nikolaos Loudovikos\n\nProtopresbyter (Very Rev.) Fr. Nikolaos Loudovikos () is a Greek theologian, priest, psychologist, author and professor.\n\nFr. Nikolaos Loudovikos was born in Volos, Greece in 1959. He studied Psychology and Education at the University of Athens, Theology at the University of Thessaloniki, Philosophy at the University of Sorbonne in Paris, Philosophy and Roman Catholic Theology at the Catholic Institute of Paris, Philosophy and Protestant Theology at the University of Cambridge (England). He received a Ph.D in 1989 from the Theological faculty of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. The title of his dissertation was: \"The Eucharistic Ontology in the Theological Thought of St. Maximus the Confessor\". \n\nHe has worked as a researcher at the Tyndale House (Cambridge) and has taught and lectured at the Centre for Advanced Religious and Theological Studies (CARTS) of the Department of Theology at the University of Cambridge, at Durham University, as well as at other Universities and Research Centres. Today he is the Chair of the Department of Theology and Pastoral Studies and a Professor of Dogmatics and Philosophy at the University Ecclesiastical Academy of Thessaloniki, a Visiting Professor at the Institute for Orthodox Christian Studies in Cambridge, and an Honorary Research Fellow at the University of Winchester, U.K. \n\nFr. Nikolaos Loudovikos is member and co-secretary (Orthodox) of the \"Saint Irenaeus Joint Orthodox-Catholic Working Group\".\n\n\"Fortunately, Christianity is neither Platonism nor Stoicism. Everything in our body and soul is created by God, and as such, absolutely sacred. It is up to my own freedom to get angry, fall in love, play, create, eat, rejoice, be sorrowful, in such a manner that will bring me continuously closer to the Divine Source of my being: this is the meaning of the Incarnation. God does not call me to escape from this world, but to transform it into a place of His manifestation\"\n\n\"Anselm says: why did the Incarnation happen? So that the Son of God could be punished in the place of man. Gregory the Theologian says: the Incarnation happened, 'because humanity must be sanctified by the Humanity of God'. Quite the opposite, in other words. And the Theologian continues: the only thing God wants, is to stop decay. Now try and build legalism on a position such as that of the Greek Fathers! It is impossible. That's why many of my fellow students in France marvelled at us Greeks, saying: «vous êtes anarchistes» (you are anarchists)!\"\n\nFr. Loudovikos has published the following books in Greek (titles translated).\n\n\nFr. Loudovikos has published the following books in English.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21856831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21856831", "title": "Olivia Robertson", "text": "Olivia Robertson\n\nOlivia Melian Durdin-Robertson, known as Olivia Robertson (13 April 1917 – 14 November 2013) was an author, artist, co-founder and high priestess of the Fellowship of Isis.\n\nBorn at St Mary's Hospital in London, Olivia Robertson was descended from the theologian Richard Graves, a cousin of the author Robert Graves, and was a grandchild of Thomas Herbert Robertson. She was the second of four children born to Nora and Manning Durdin-Robertson, an architect and town planner and a friend of the poet W. B. Yeats. Her family lived in Reigate in Surrey before moving back to their ancestral home Huntington Castle in Ireland, which had been inherited in 1925 on the death of her grandmother. From 1938 Robertson was educated at Heathfield School, Ascot and the Grosvenor School of Modern Art.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of World War II, although a pacifist she served as a V.A.D. nurse in Bedfordshire in 1940. She studied at University College Dublin in 1942, and then worked at Dublin Corporation until 1946. In 1946 she published her first book, \"St. Malachy's Court\". Further books followed, including \"Field of the Stranger\" (1948), which was awarded the London Book Society's Choice award; \"The Golden Eye\" (1949), \"Miranda Speaks\" (1950), and \"It's an Old Irish Custom\" (1954). Her book \"The Dublin Phoenix\" (1956) sold out on its first day.\n\nIn 1960 Robertson moved back to Huntington Castle, the family home, with her brother, Lawrence Durdin-Robertson, and his wife Pamela. In 1963 she formed the Huntington Castle Centre for Meditation and Study with them. In 1976 the Fellowship of Isis (FOI) was founded.\n\nShe wrote her spiritual autobiography \"The Call of Isis\" in 1975, and also \"Isis of Fellowship\", concerned with how the Fellowship of Isis was founded. On 30 April 1988 she appeared as a guest on \"After Dark\", a British late night live discussion programme broadcast on Channel 4.\n\nIn August 1993 Robertson was invited to attend the World Parliament of Religions in Chicago. The FOI was chosen to represent the Goddess movement. Breakfasting there with the Dalai Lama remained one of the high points of her life. A film of her life, \"Olivia: Priestess of Isis\", was released on DVD in 2011.\n\nRobertson died in Wexford on 14 November 2013. Her funeral was a private ceremony held in the temple, organised by the Fellowship of Isis, followed by a public Church of Ireland service at St Fiacc’s in Clonegal. An obituary was written in \"The Telegraph\".\n\n"}
{"id": "335706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=335706", "title": "Omnibenevolence", "text": "Omnibenevolence\n\nOmnibenevolence (from Latin \"omni-\" meaning \"all\", \"bene-\" meaning \"good\" and \"volens\" meaning \"willing\") is defined by the Oxford English Dictionary as \"unlimited or infinite benevolence\". Some philosophers have argued that it is impossible, or at least improbable, for a deity to exhibit such a property alongside omniscience and omnipotence, as a result of the problem of evil. However, some philosophers, such as Alvin Plantinga, argue the plausibility of co-existence. The word is primarily used as a technical term within academic literature on the philosophy of religion, mainly in context of the problem of evil and theodical responses to such. Although even in said contexts the phrases \"perfect goodness\" or \"moral perfection\" are often preferred because of the difficulties in defining what exactly constitutes \"infinite benevolence\".\n\n\"Omnibenevolence\" appears to have a very casual usage among some Protestant Christian commentators. The earliest record for its use in English, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, is in 1679. The Catholic Church does not appear to use the term \"omnibenevolent\" in the liturgy or Catechism.\n\nModern users of the term include George H. Smith in his book \"Atheism: The Case Against God\" (1980), where he argued that divine qualities are inconsistent. However, the term is also used by authors who defend the coherence of divine attributes, including but not limited to, Jonathan Kvanvig in \"The Problem of Hell\" (1993), and Joshua Hoffman and Gary Rosenkrantz in \"The Divine Attributes\" (2002).\n\nThe terminology has been used by some prominent Roman Catholic figures, examples being Father Robert Barron, Doctor of Sacred Theology in his 2011 book \"Catholicism: A Journey to the Heart of the Faith\".\n\nThe term is patterned on, and often accompanied by, the terms \"omniscience\" and \"omnipotence\", typically to refer to conceptions of an \"all-good, all-knowing, all-powerful\" deity. Philosophers and theologians more commonly use phrases like \"perfectly good\", or simply the term \"benevolence\". The word \"omnibenevolence\" may be interpreted to mean perfectly just, all-loving, fully merciful, or any number of other qualities, depending on precisely how \"good\" is understood. As such, there is little agreement over how an \"omnibenevolent\" being would behave.\n\nThe notion of an omnibenevolent, infinitely compassionate deity, has raised certain atheistic objections, such as the problem of evil and the problem of hell. Responses to such problems are called theodicies and can be general, arguing for the coherence of the divine, such as Swinburne's \"Providence and the Problem of Evil\", or they can address a specific problem, such as Charles Seymour's \"A Theodicy of Hell\".\n\nProponents of Pandeism contend that benevolence (much less omnibenevolence) is simply not required to account for any property of our Universe, as a morally neutral deity which was powerful enough to have created our Universe as we experience it would be, by definition, able to have created our Universe as we experience it. William C. Lane contended that Pandeism thereby offered an escape from the evidential argument from evil: In 2010, author William C. Lane contended that:\n\nBelief in God's omnibenevolence is an essential foundation in traditional Christianity; this can be seen in Scriptures such as Psalms 18:30: \"As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the Lord is tried: he is a buckler to all those that trust in him,\" and Ps.19:7: \"The law of the Lord is good, converting the soul: the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple.\" This understanding is evident in the following statement by the First Vatican Council:\n\nThe Holy, Catholic, Apostolic and Roman Church believes and acknowledges that there is one true and living God, Creator and Lord of Heaven and earth, almighty, eternal, immeasurable, incomprehensible, infinite in will, understanding and every perfection. Since He is one, singular, completely simple and unchangeable spiritual substance, He must be declared to be in reality and in essence, distinct from the world, supremely happy in Himself and from Himself, and inexpressibly loftier than anything besides Himself which either exists or can be imagined.\nThe philosophical justification stems from God's aseity: the non-contingent, independent and self-sustained mode of existence that theologians ascribe to God. For if he was not morally perfect, that is, if God was merely a great being but nevertheless of finite benevolence, then his existence would involve an element of contingency, because one could always conceive of a being of greater benevolence. Hence, omnibenevolence is a requisite of perfect being theology.\n\nTheologians in the Wesleyan Christian tradition (see Thomas Jay Oord) argue that omnibenevolence is God's primary attribute. As such, God's other attributes should be understood in light of omnibenevolence. Christians believe in the idea of unconditional love.\n\nSome Hyper-Calvinist interpretations reject omnibenevolence. For example, the Westboro Baptist Church is infamous for its expression of this stance.\n\nChristian apologist William Lane Craig argues that Islam does not hold to the idea of omnibenevolence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "550558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550558", "title": "Paschal Triduum", "text": "Paschal Triduum\n\nEaster Triduum (Latin: \"Triduum Paschale\"), Holy Triduum (Latin: \"Triduum Sacrum\"), or Paschal Triduum, or The Three Days, is the period of three days that begins with the liturgy on the evening of Maundy Thursday, reaches its high point in the Easter Vigil, and closes with evening prayer on Easter Sunday. It recalls the passion, death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus, as portrayed in the canonical Gospels.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "23806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23806", "title": "Patanjali", "text": "Patanjali\n\nAmongst the more important authors called Patañjali are:\nHe is said to have attainted Samadhi through yogic meditation at the Brahmapureeswarar Temple located at Tirupattur,Tamil Nadu,India\n\nAccording to Monier Monier-Williams, the word \"Patañjali\" is a compound name from \"patta\" (Sanskrit: पत, \"falling, flying\") and \"añj\" (अञ्ज्, \"honor, celebrate, beautiful\") or \"añjali\" (अञ्जलि, \"reverence, joining palms of the hand\").\n\nLouis Renou was among the many scholars who have suggested that the Patañjali who wrote on Yoga was a different person than the Patanjali who wrote a commentary on Panini's grammar. In 1914, James Wood proposed that they were the same person. In 1922, Surendranath Dasgupta presented a series of arguments to tentatively propose that the famed Grammar text and the Yoga text author may be identical.\n\nThe view that these were likely two different authors is generally accepted, but some Western scholars consider them as a single entity.\n\nSome in the Indian tradition have held that one Patañjali wrote treatises on grammar, medicine and yoga. This has been memorialised in a verse by Bhoja at the start of his commentary on the Yogasutras called \"Rājamārttanda\" (11th century), and the following verse found in Shivarama's 18th-century text:\n\nThis tradition is discussed by Meulenbeld who traces this \"relatively late\" idea back to Bhoja (11th century), who was perhaps influenced by a verse by Bhartṛhari (ca. 5th century) that speaks of an expert in yoga, medicine and grammar who, however, is not named. No known Sanskrit text prior to the 10th century states that the one and the same Patanjali was behind all the three treatises.\n\nIn the grammatical tradition, Patañjali is believed to have lived in the second century BCE. He wrote a \"Mahabhasya\" on Panini's sutras, in a form that quoted the commentary of Kātyāyana's \"vārttikas\". This is a major influential work on Sanskrit grammar and linguistics. The dating of Patanjali and his \"Mahabhasya\" is established by a combination of evidence, those from the Maurya Empire period, the historical events mentioned in the examples he used to explain his ideas, the chronology of ancient classical Sanskrit texts that respect his teachings, and the mention of his text or his name in ancient Indian literature. Of the three ancient grammarians, the chronological dating of Patanjali to mid 2nd century BCE is considered as \"reasonably accurate\" by mainstream scholarship.\n\nThe text influenced Buddhist grammatical literature, as well as memoirs of travellers to India. For example, the Chinese pilgrim I-tsing mentions that the \"Mahabhasya\" is studied in India and advanced scholars learn it in three years.\n\nIn the Yoga tradition, Patañjali is a revered name. This Patañjali's oeuvre comprises the sutras about Yoga (\"Yogasūtra\") and the commentary integral to the sutras, called the \"Bhāṣya\". Some consider the sutras and the Bhaṣya to have had different authors, the commentary being ascribed to \"an editor\" (Skt. \"vyāsa\"). According to Phillipp Maas, the same person named Patanjali composed the sutras and the \"Bhāṣya\" commentary.\n\nRadhakrishnan and Moore attribute the text to the grammarian Patañjali, dating it as 2nd century BCE, during the Maurya Empire (322–185 BCE). Maas estimates Patañjali's Yogasutra's date to be about 400 CE, based on tracing the commentaries on it published in the first millennium CE. Edwin Bryant, on the other hand, surveys the major commentators in his translation of the \"Yoga Sūtras\". He states that \"most scholars date the text shortly after the turn of the Common Era (circa first to second century), but that it has been placed as early as several centuries before that.\" Bryant concludes that \"A number of scholars have dated the \"Yoga Sūtras\" as late as the fourth or fifth century C.E., but these arguments have all been challenged\", and late chronology for this Patanjali and his text are problematic.\n\nRegarding his early years, a Tamil Saiva Siddhanta tradition from around 10th century AD holds that Patañjali learned Yoga along with seven other disciples from the great Yogic Guru Nandhi Deva, as stated in Tirumular's \"Tirumandiram\" (Tantra 1). \n\n\"Nandhi arulPetra Nadharai Naadinom<br>\n\"Nandhigal Nalvar Siva Yoga MaaMuni<br>\n\"Mandru thozhuda Patañjali Vyakramar<br>\n\"Endrivar Ennodu (Thirumoolar) Enmarumaame\n\nTranslation\n\nWe sought the feet of the God who graced Nandikesvara<br>\nThe Four Nandhis, <br>\nSivayoga Muni, Patañjali, Vyaghrapada and I (Thirumoolar)<br>\nWe were these eight.\n\nWhether the two works, the Yoga Sutras and the Mahābhāṣya, are by the same author has been the subject of considerable debate. The authorship of the two is first attributed to the same person in Bhojadeva's \"Rajamartanda\", a relatively late (10th century) commentary on the Yoga Sutras, as well as several subsequent texts. As for the texts themselves, the Yoga Sutra iii.44 cites a sutra as that from Patanjali by name, but this line itself is not from the Mahābhāṣya. This 10th-century legend of single-authorship is doubtful. The literary styles and contents of the Yogasūtras and the Mahābhāṣya are entirely different, and the only work on medicine attributed to Patañjali is lost. Sources of doubt include the lack of cross-references between the texts, and no mutual awareness of each other, unlike other cases of multiple works by (later) Sanskrit authors. Also, some elements in the Yoga Sutras may date from as late as the 4th century AD, but such changes may be due to divergent authorship, or due to later additions which are not atypical in the oral tradition. Most scholars refer to both works as \"by Patanjali\", without meaning that they are by the same author.\n\nIn addition to the Mahābhāṣya and Yoga Sūtras, the 11th-century commentary on Charaka by the Bengali scholar Cakrapāṇidatta, and the 16th-century text \"Patanjalicarita\" ascribes to Patañjali a medical text called the \"Carakapratisaṃskṛtaḥ\" (now lost) which is apparently a revision (\"pratisaṃskṛtaḥ\") of the medical treatise by Caraka. While there is a short treatise on yoga in the medical work called the Carakasaṃhitā (by Caraka), towards the end of the chapter called śārīrasthāna, it is notable for not bearing much resemblance to the Yoga Sūtras, and in fact presents a form of eightfold yoga that is completely different from that laid out by Patañjali in the Yoga Sūtras and the commentary Yogasūtrabhāṣya.\n\nThe \"Yoga Sūtras of Patañjali\" are 196 Indian sutras (aphorisms) on Yoga. It was the most translated ancient Indian text in the medieval era, having been translated into about forty Indian languages and two non-Indian languages: Old Javanese and Arabic. The text fell into obscurity for nearly 700 years from the 12th to 19th century, and made a comeback in late 19th century due to the efforts of Swami Vivekananda and others. It gained prominence again as a comeback classic in the 20th century.\n\nBefore the 20th century, history indicates the Indian yoga scene was dominated by other Yoga texts such as the \"Bhagavad Gita\", \"Yoga Vasistha\" and \"Yoga Yajnavalkya\". Scholars consider the \"Yoga Sūtras of Patañjali\" formulations as one of the foundations of classical Yoga philosophy of Hinduism.\n\nThe (\"great commentary\") of Patañjali on the of is a major early exposition on Pāṇini, along with the somewhat earlier \"Varttika\" by Katyayana. Patanjali relates to how words and meanings are associated – Patanjali claims \"shabdapramâNaH\" – that the evidentiary value of words is inherent in them, and not derived externally – the word-meaning association is natural. These issues in the word-meaning relation (symbol) would be elaborated in the Sanskrit linguistic tradition, in debates between the Mimamsa, Nyaya and Buddhist schools over the next fifteen centuries.\n\nPatanjali also defines an early notion of sphota, which would be elaborated considerably by later Sanskrit linguists like Bhartrihari. In Patanjali, a \"sphoTa\" (from \"sphuT\", spurt/burst) is the invariant quality of speech. The noisy element (\"dhvani\", audible part) can be long or short, but the sphoTa remains unaffected by individual speaker differences. Thus, a single letter or 'sound' (\"varNa\") such as \"k\", \"p\" or \"a\" is an abstraction, distinct from variants produced in actual enunciation. This concept has been linked to the modern notion of phoneme, the minimum distinction that defines semantically distinct sounds. Thus a phoneme is an abstraction for a range of sounds. However, in later writings, especially in Bhartrihari (6th century CE), the notion of \"sphoTa\" changes to become more of a mental state, preceding the actual utterance, akin to the lemma.\n\nPatañjali's writings also elaborate some principles of morphology (\"prakriyā\"). In the context of elaborating on Pāṇini's aphorisms, he also discusses Kātyāyana's commentary, which are also aphoristic and \"sūtra\"-like; in the later tradition, these were transmitted as embedded in Patañjali's discussion. In general, he defends many positions of Pāṇini which were interpreted somewhat differently in Katyayana.\n\nUnlike Pāṇini's objectives in the Ashtyadhyayi, which is to distinguish correct forms and meanings from incorrect ones (\"shabdaunushasana\"), Patanjali's objectives are more metaphysical. These include the correct recitations of the scriptures (\"Agama\"), maintaining the purity of texts (\"raksha\"), clarifying ambiguity (\"asamdeha\"), and also the pedagogic goal of providing an easier learning mechanism (\"laghu\"). This stronger metaphysical bent has also been indicated by some as one of the unifying themes between the Yoga Sutras and the Mahābhāṣya, although a close examination\nof actual Sanskrit usage by Woods showed no similarities in language or terminology.\n\nThe text of the \"\" was first critically edited by the 19th-century orientalist Franz Kielhorn, who also developed philological criteria for distinguishing Kātyāyana's \"voice\" from Patañjali's. Subsequently, a number of other editions have come out, the 1968 text and translation by S.D. Joshi and J.H.F. Roodbergen often being considered definitive. Regrettably, the latter work is incomplete.\n\nPatanjali also writes with a light touch. For example, his comment on the conflicts between the orthodox Brahminic (\"Astika\") groups, versus the heterodox, \"nAstika\" groups (Buddhism, Jainism, and atheists) seems relevant for religious conflict even today: the hostility between these groups was like that between a mongoose and a snake. He also sheds light on contemporary events, commenting on the recent Greek incursion, and also on several tribes that lived in the Northwest regions of the subcontinent.\n\nPatanjali is also the reputed author of a medical text called \"Patanjalah\", also called \"Patanjala\" or \"Patanjalatantra\". This text is quoted in many yoga and health-related Indian texts. Patanjali is called a medical authority in a number of Sanskrit texts such as \"Yogaratnakara\", \"Yogaratnasamuccaya\", \"Padarthavijnana\", \"Cakradatta bhasya\". Some of these quotes are unique to \"Patanjala\", but others are also found in major Hindu medical treatises such as \"Charaka Samhita\" and \"Sushruta Samhita\".\n\nThere is a fourth scholar also named Patanjali, who likely lived in 8th-century CE and wrote a commentary on \"Charaka Samhita\" and this text is called \"Carakavarttika\". The two medical scholars named Patanjali may be the same person, but generally accepted to be completely different person than the Patanjali who wrote the Sanskrit grammar classic \"Mahabhasya\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18953936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18953936", "title": "Peter Bieri (author)", "text": "Peter Bieri (author)\n\nPeter Bieri (born 23 June 1944), better known by his pseudonym, Pascal Mercier, is a Swiss writer and philosopher.\n\nBieri studied philosophy, English studies and Indian studies in both London and Heidelberg. He took his doctoral degree in Heidelberg in 1971 after studies with Dieter Henrich and Ernst Tugendhat on the philosophy of time, with reference to the work of J. M. E. McTaggart. After the conferral of his doctorate, Bieri followed an academic career at the University of California, Berkeley, Harvard University, the Institute for Advanced Study, Berlin and the Van Leer Jerusalem Institute. In 1983 he started work at the University of Bielefeld and later he worked as a scientific assistant at the Philosophical Seminar at University of Heidelberg.\n\nBieri co-founded the research unit for Cognition and Brain studies at the German Research Foundation. The focuses of his research were the philosophy of mind, epistemology, and ethics. From 1990 to 1993, he was a professor of the history of philosophy at the University of Marburg; from 1993 he taught philosophy at the Free University of Berlin while holding the chair of analytic philosophy, succeeding his mentor, Ernst Tugendhat.\n\nIn 2007 he retired early, disillusioned by academic life and condemning what he saw as the rise of managerialism (\"\"Eine Diktatur der Geschäftigkeit\")\" and decline in respect for academic work.\n\nAs a writer, Bieri uses the pseudonym Pascal Mercier, made up of the surnames of the two French philosophers Blaise Pascal and Louis-Sébastien Mercier. Martin Halter, in \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\", criticized Bieri's attempt \"to dress up the trite man from Berne in a French philosopher's lace jabot\" as a pretentious mannerism. Peter Bieri has published four novels to date. Reviewers have identified “heart, pain and a lot of fate” as “his recipe for success” which Bieri, aiming at “wellness literature”, applies in each of his books with little variation.\n\nMarie-Luise-Kaschnitz Prize 2006\n\nA full list of his philosophical works may be found on Wikipedia's German pages.\n\n"}
{"id": "299168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299168", "title": "Reasonable person", "text": "Reasonable person\n\nIn law, a reasonable person, reasonable man, or the man on the Clapham omnibus is a hypothetical person of legal fiction crafted by the courts and communicated through case law and jury instructions. \n\nStrictly according to the fiction, it is misconceived for a party to seek evidence from actual people in order to establish how the reasonable man would have acted or what he would have foreseen. This person's character and care conduct under any \"common set of facts,\" is decided through reasoning of good practice or policy—or \"learned\" permitting there is a compelling consensus of public opinion—by high courts.\n\nIn some practices, for circumstances arising from an \"uncommon set of facts,\" this person is seen to represent a composite of a relevant community's judgement as to how a typical member of said community should behave in situations that might pose a threat of harm (through action or inaction) to the public. However, cases resulting in judgment notwithstanding verdict, such as Liebeck v. McDonald's Restaurants, can be examples where a vetted jury's composite judgment were deemed outside that of the actual fictional reasonable person, and thus overruled.\n\nThe reasonable person belongs to a family of hypothetical figures in law including: the \"right-thinking member of society,\" the \"officious bystander,\" the \"reasonable parent,\" the \"reasonable landlord,\" the \"fair-minded and informed observer,\" the \"person having ordinary skill in the art\" in patent law, and stretching back to Roman jurists, the figure of the bonus paterfamilias, all used to define legal standards. While there is a loose consensus in black letter law, there is no accepted technical definition. As with legal fiction in general, it is somewhat susceptible to ad hoc manipulation or transformation, and hence the \"reasonable person\" is an emergent concept of common law. The \"reasonable person\" is used as a tool to standardize, teach law students, or explain the law to a jury.\n\nAs a legal fiction, the \"reasonable person\" is not an average person or a typical person, leading to great difficulties in applying the concept in some criminal cases, especially in regards to the partial defence of provocation. The standard also holds that each person owes a duty to behave as a reasonable person would under the same or similar circumstances. While the specific circumstances of each case will require varying kinds of conduct and degrees of care, the reasonable person standard undergoes no variation itself. The \"reasonable person\" construct can be found applied in many areas of the law. The standard performs a crucial role in determining negligence in both criminal law—that is, criminal negligence—and tort law.\n\nThe standard is also used in contract law, to determine contractual intent, or if a breach of the standard of care has occurred, provided a duty of care can be proven. The intent of a party can be determined by examining the understanding of a reasonable person, after consideration is given to all relevant circumstances of the case including the negotiations, any practices the parties have established between themselves, usages and any subsequent conduct of the parties.\n\nThe standard does not exist independently of other circumstances within a case that could affect an individual's judgment.\n\nIn 1835, Adolphe Quetelet detailed the characteristics of \"l'homme moyen\" (French, \"average man\"). His work is translated into English several ways. As a result, some authors pick \"average man\", \"common man\", \"reasonable man\", or stick to the original \"l'homme moyen\". Quetelet was a Belgian astronomer, mathematician, statistician and sociologist. He documented the physical characteristics of man on a statistical basis and discussed man's motivations when acting in society.\n\nTwo years later, the \"reasonable person\" made his first appearance in the English case of \"Vaughan v. Menlove\" (1837). In \"Menlove\", the defendant had stacked hay on his rental property in a manner prone to spontaneous ignition. After he had been repeatedly warned over the course of five weeks, the hay ignited and burned the defendant's barns and stable and then spread to the landlord's two cottages on the adjacent property. Menlove's attorney admitted his client's \"misfortune of not possessing the highest order of intelligence,\" arguing that negligence should only be found if the jury decided Menlove had not acted with \"\"bona fide\" [and] to the best of his [own] judgment.\"\n\nThe \"Menlove\" court disagreed, reasoning that such a standard would be too subjective, instead preferring to set an objective standard for adjudicating cases:\nEnglish courts upheld the standard again nearly 20 years later in \"Blyth v. Company Proprietors of the Birmingham Water Works,\" holding:\nAmerican jurist Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. explained the theory behind the reasonable person standard as stemming from the impossibility of \"measuring a man's powers and limitations.\" Individual, personal quirks inadvertently injuring the persons or property of others are no less damaging than intentional acts. For society to function, \"a certain average of conduct, a sacrifice of individual peculiarities going beyond a certain point, is necessary to the general welfare.\" Thus, a reasonable application of the law is sought, compatible with planning, working, or getting along with others. As such, \"his neighbors accordingly require him, at his proper peril, to come up to their standard, and the courts which they establish decline to take his personal equation into account.\" He heralded the reasonable person as a legal fiction whose care conduct under any common set of facts, is chosen—or \"learned\" permitting there is a compelling consensus of public opinion—by the courts.\n\nThe reasonable person standard is by no means democratic in its scope; it is, contrary to popular conception, intentionally distinct from that of the \"average person,\" who is not necessarily guaranteed to always be reasonable. The reasonable person will weigh all of the following factors before acting:\nTaking such actions requires the reasonable person to be appropriately informed, capable, aware of the law, and fair-minded. Such a person might do something extraordinary in certain circumstances, but whatever that person does or thinks, it is always reasonable.\n\nThe reasonable person has been called an \"excellent but odious character.\"\nEnglish legal scholar Percy Henry Winfield summarized much of the literature by observing that:\n\nUnder American common law, a well known—though nonbinding—test for determining how a reasonable person might weigh the criteria listed above was set down in \"United States v. Carroll Towing Co.\" in 1947 by the Chief Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, Learned Hand. The case concerned a barge that had broken her mooring with the dock. Writing for the court, Hand said:\nWhile the test offered by Hand does not encompass all the criteria available above, juries in a negligence case might well still be instructed to take the other factors into consideration in determining whether the defendant was negligent.\n\nWhile the legal fiction of the reasonable person represents the ideal human actor, one would be hard-pressed to characterize any individual human as meeting the standard, whether in whole or in part, all of the time. Since some human actors have limitations, the standard only requires that people act similarly to how \"a reasonable person under the circumstance\" would, as if their limitations were themselves circumstances. As such, courts require that the reasonable person be viewed as experiencing the same limitations as the defendant.\n\nFor example, a disabled defendant is held to a standard that, by necessity, represents how a reasonable person with that same disability would act. One should not mistake this allowance for physical limitations as an allowance for poor judgment, attempting acts beyond one's abilities, or acting too quickly, etc. Were such allowances made for every defendant, there would be as many different standards for negligence as there were defendants; and courts would spend innumerable hours, and the parties much more money, on determining that particular defendant's reasonableness, character, and intelligence.\n\nBy using the reasonable person standard, the courts instead use an objective tool and avoid such subjective evaluations. The result is a standard that allows the law to behave in a uniform, foreseeable, and neutral manner when attempting to determine liability.\n\nOne broad allowance made to the reasonable person standard is for children. The standard here requires that a child act in a similar manner to how a \"reasonable person of like age, intelligence, and experience under like circumstances\" would act. In many common law systems, children under the age of 6 or 7 are typically exempt from any liability, whether civil or criminal, as they are deemed to be unable to understand the risk involved in their actions. This is called the defense of infancy: in Latin, \"doli incapax.\"\nIn some jurisdictions, one of the exceptions to these allowances concern children engaged in what is primarily considered to be high-risk adult activity, such as operating a motor vehicle, and in some jurisdictions, children can also be \"tried as an adult\" for serious crimes, such as murder, which causes the court to disregard the defendant's age.\n\nThe reasonable person standard makes no allowance for the mentally ill. Such a refusal goes back to the standard set in \"Menlove\", where Menlove's attorney argued for the subjective standard. In the 170 years since, the law has kept to the legal judgment of having only the single, objective standard. Such judicial adherence sends a message that the mentally ill would do better to refrain from taking risk-creating actions, unless they exercise a heightened degree of self-restraint and precaution, if they intend to avoid liability.\n\nGenerally, the courts have rationed that by not accepting mental illness as a bar to recovery, a liable third party, in the form of a caregiver, will be more likely to protect the public because of the potential for liability. The courts have also stated that the reasoning behind the harsh treatment is because, unlike children or the physically disabled, members of the public are unable to identify a person with a mental illness.\n\nIn cases where a human actor utilizes a professional skill set, the \"reasonable person under the circumstances\" test becomes elevated to a standard of whether the person acted how a \"reasonable professional under the circumstances\" would have, without regard to whether that actor is actually a professional, and further without regard to the degree of training or experience of that particular actor. Other factors also become relevant, such as the degree to which the professional is educated (i.e., whether a specialist within the specific field, or just a general practitioner of the trade), and customary practices and general procedures of similar professionals. However, such other relevant factors are never dispositive.\n\nSome professions may maintain a custom or practice long after a better method has become available. The new practices, though less risky, may be entirely ignored. In such cases, the practitioner may very well have acted unreasonably despite following custom or general practices.\n\nIn the realm of healthcare, plaintiffs must prove via expert testimony the standard of medical care owed and a departure from that standard. The only exception to the requirement of expert testimony is where the departure from accepted medical practices was so egregious that a layperson can readily recognize the departure.\n\nHowever, controversial medical practices can be deemed reasonable when followed by a respected and reputable minority of the medical field, or where the medical profession cannot agree over which practices are best.\n\nThe \"reasonable officer\" standard is a method often applied to law enforcement and other armed professions to help determine if a use of force was correctly applied. The test is usually applied to whether the level of force used was excessive or not. If an appropriately trained professional, knowing what the subject of the investigation knew at the time and following their agency guidelines (such as a force continuum), would have used the same level of force or higher, then the standard is met. If the level of response is determined to be justified, the quantity of force used is usually presumed to have been necessary unless there are additional factors. For example, should it be determined that a trained police officer was justified in using deadly force against a suspect, the number of times he fired is presumed to have been necessary to stop the suspect's action that justified use of deadly force, as long as there aren't other factors, such as a reckless disregard of other officers' or bystanders' safety, or it is clearly proven that additional force was used after the suspect was no longer a threat.\n\nWhen any person undertakes a skills-based activity that creates a risk to others, they are held to the minimum standard of how a reasonable person experienced in that task would act, regardless of their actual level of experience.\n\nFactors external to the defendant are always relevant. Additionally, so is the context within which each action is made. It is within these circumstances that the determinations and actions of the defendant are to be judged. There are myriad factors that could provide inputs into how a person acts: individual perceptions, knowledge, the weather, etc. The standard of care required for each set of circumstances will vary, yet the level of care due is always what is reasonable for that set of circumstances.\n\nWhile community customs may be relied upon to indicate what kind of action is expected in light of given circumstances, such customary requirements are not themselves conclusive of what a reasonable person would do.\n\nIt is precisely for this wide-ranging variety of possible facts that the reasonable person standard is so broad (and often confusing and difficult to apply). However, a few general areas of relevant circumstances rise above the others.\n\nAllowing for circumstances under which a person must act urgently is important to preventing hindsight bias from affecting the trier of fact. Given pressing circumstances, a reasonable person may not always act in a manner similar to how they would have acted in a more relaxed setting. As such, it is only fair that actions be judged in light of any exigent conditions that could have affected how the defendant acted.\n\nIn certain circumstances, human actors are faced with the problem of making do only with what is available. Such circumstances are relevant to any determination of whether the defendant acted reasonably. Where necessary resources are scarce, certain actions may be reasonable that would be unreasonable if those same resources were available and either readily at hand or realistically obtainable given other circumstances.\n\nBecause a reasonable person is objectively presumed to know the law, noncompliance with a local safety statute may also constitute negligence. The related doctrine of negligence \"per se\" addresses the circumstances under which the law of negligence can become an implied cause of action for breaching a statutory standard of care. Conversely, minimal compliance with a safety statute does not always absolve a defendant if the trier of fact determines that the reasonable person should have taken actions beyond and in excess of what the statute required. However, if the trier of fact finds the statute's standard itself is reasonable and the defendant acted in accordance with what the statute contemplated, the duty of care can be deemed met.\n\nFor common law contracts, disputes over contract formation are subjected to what is known as the \"objective test of assent\" in order to determine whether a contract exists. This standard is also known as the officious bystander, \"reasonable bystander\", \"reasonable third party\", or \"reasonable person in the position of the party\". This is in contrast to the subjective test employed in most civil law jurisdictions. The test stems from attempts to balance the competing interests of the judicial policies of assent and of reliability. The former holds that no person ought to be contractually obligated if they did not consent to such an agreement; the latter holds that if no person can rely on actions or words demonstrating consent, then the whole system of commercial exchange will ultimately collapse.\n\nPrior to the 19th century, courts used a test of subjective evaluation; that is, the trier of fact determined each party's understanding. If both parties were of the same mind and understanding on matters, then assent was manifested and the contract was valid. Between the 19th and 20th centuries, the courts shifted toward the objectivist test, reasoning that subjective testimony was often unreliable and self-serving.\n\nFrom those opposite principles, modern law has found its way to a rough middle ground, though it still shows a strong bias toward the objective test. Promises and agreements are reached through manifestations of consent, and parties are liable for actions that deliberately manifest such consent; however, evidence of either party's state of mind can be used to determine the context of the manifestation if said evidence is reliable and compatible with the manifestation in question, though such evidence is typically given very little weight.\n\nAnother circumstance where the reasonable bystander test is used occurs when one party has inadvertently misstated the terms of the contract, and the other party sues to enforce those terms: if it would have been clear to a reasonable bystander that a mistake had been made, then the contract is voidable by the party who made the error; otherwise, the contract is binding.\n\nA variant of the reasonable person can be found in sexual harassment law as the \"reasonable woman\" standard. The variation recognizes a difference between men and women regarding the effect of unwanted interaction with a sexual tone. As women have historically been more vulnerable to rape and sex-related violence than have men, some courts believe that the proper perspective for evaluating a claim of sexual harassment is that of the reasonable woman. Notably, J. Scalia held that women did not have constitutional protection from discrimination under the fourteenth amendment equal protection clause, where by extension of logic, held the \"reasonable woman\" standard to be of moot value. However, such has not been the majority opinion of the court. \n\nThough the use of the reasonable woman standard has gained traction in some areas of the law, the standard has not escaped the crosshairs of humorists. In 1924, legal humorist A. P. Herbert considered the concept of the reasonable man at length in the fictional case of \"Fardell v. Potts.\" In Herbert's fictional account, the judge addressed the lack of a reasonable woman standard in the common law, and ultimately concluded that \"a reasonable woman does not exist.\"\n\nThe concept of \"l'homme moyen sensuel\" does not speak of a reasonable person's ability, actions, or understandings. Rather it refers to the response of a reasonable person when presented with some form of information either by image or sound, or upon reading a book or magazine. A well-known application of the concept is Judge John M. Woolsey's lifting of the ban on the book Ulysses by James Joyce. That ruling contemplated the effect the book would have upon a reasonable person of reasonable sensibility. Similarly, when the publisher of Howl and Other Poems was charged in California with publishing an obscene book, the concept of l'homme moyen sensuel influenced the court's finding of innocence. It was nearly two decades after Woolsey that the US Supreme Court set down the standard by which materials, when viewed by l'homme moyen sensuel, were judged either obscene or not. Generally, it has been l'homme moyen sensuel that has dictated what is and is not obscene or pornographic in books, movies, pictures, and now the Internet for at least the past 100 years.\n\nVery often, for instance, in the case of noise ordinances, the enforcement of the law is only for the purpose of protecting the right of a \"reasonable person of normal sensitivity\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1281895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1281895", "title": "Robert Adamson (philosopher)", "text": "Robert Adamson (philosopher)\n\nRobert Adamson (19 January 1852 – 8 February 1902 was a Scottish philosopher and Professor of Logic at Glasgow.\n\nHe was born in Kingsbarns in Fife. His father was a solicitor, and his mother was the daughter of Matthew Buist, factor to Lord Haddington. In 1855 Mrs. Adamson was left a widow with small means, and devoted herself entirely to the education of her six children. Of these, Robert was successful from the first. At the end of his school career he entered the University of Edinburgh at the age of fourteen, and four years later graduated with first-class honours in mental philosophy, with prizes in every department of the faculty of Arts. He completed his university successes by winning the Tyndall-Bruce scholarship, the Hamilton fellowship (1872), the Ferguson scholarship (1872) and the Shaw fellowship (1873).\n\nAfter a short residence at Heidelberg (1871), where he began his study of German philosophy, he returned to Edinburgh as assistant first to Henry Calderwood and later to A. Campbell Fraser; he joined the staff of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" (9th edition) (1874) and studied widely in the Advocates' Library.\n\nIn 1876 he came to England as successor to W. S. Jevons in the chair of logic and philosophy, at Owens College, Manchester. In 1883 he received the honorary degree of LL.D. In 1893 he went to the University of Aberdeen, and finally in 1895 to the chair of logic at the University of Glasgow, which he held till his death.\n\nExcept during the first few years at Manchester, he delivered his lectures without manuscripts. In 1903, under the title \"The Development of Modern Philosophy and Other Essays\", his more important lectures were published with a short biographical introduction by W. R. Sorley of Cambridge University (see \"Mind\", xiii. 1904, p. 73 foil.). Most of the matter is taken verbatim from the note-book of one of his students. Under the same editorship there appeared, three years later, his \"Development of Greek Philosophy\".\n\nIn addition to his professional work, he did much administrative work for Victoria University and the University of Glasgow. In the organisation of Victoria University he took a foremost part, and, as chairman of the Board of Studies at Owens College, he presided over the general academical board of the Victoria University. At Glasgow he was soon elected one of the representatives on the court, and to him were due in large measure the extension of the academical session and the improved equipment of the university.\n\nThroughout his lectures, Adamson pursued the critical and historical method without formulating a constructive theory of his own. He felt that any philosophical advance must be based on the Kantian methods. It was his habit to make straight for the ultimate issue, disregarding half-truths and declining compromise. He left a hypothesis to be worked out by others; this done, he would criticise with all the rigour of logic, and with a profound distrust of imagination, metaphor and the attitude known as the will-to-believe.\n\nAs he grew older his metaphysical optimism waned. He felt that the increase of knowledge must come in the domains of physical science. But this empirical tendency as regards science never modified his metaphysical outlook. He has been called Kantian and Neo-Kantian, realist and idealist (by himself, for he held that appearance and reality are co-extensive and coincident).\n\nAt the same time, in his criticism of other views he was almost typical of Hegelian idealism. All processes of reasoning or judgment (i.e. all units of thought) are (i) analysable only by abstraction, and (2) are compound of deduction and induction, i.e. rational and empirical. An illustration of his empirical tendency is found in his attitude to the Absolute and the Self. The \"Absolute\" doctrines he regarded as a mere disguise of failure, a dishonest attempt to clothe ignorance in the pretentious garb of mystery. The Self as a primary, determining entity, he would not therefore admit. He represented an empiricism which, so far from refuting, was actually based on, idealism, and yet was alert to expose the fallacies of a particular idealist construction (see his essay in \"Ethical Democracy\", edited by Stanton Coit).\n\nHis wife, Margaret Duncan, the daughter of a Manchester merchant, was a woman of kindred tastes, and their union was entirely happy.\n\nIt is matter for regret to the student that Adamson's active labours in the lecture room precluded him from systematic production. His writings consisted of short articles, of which many appeared in the Encyclopaedia and in \"Mind\", a volume on Kant and another on Fichte. At the time of his death he was writing a \"History of Psychology\", and had promised a work on Kant and the Modern Naturalists. Both in his life and in his writings he was remarkable for impartiality. It was his peculiar virtue that he could quote his opponents without warping their meaning. From this point of view he would have been perhaps the first historian of philosophy of his time, had his professional labours been less exacting.\n\nThe following were published, either in his lifetime or posthumously.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4547355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4547355", "title": "Static interpretation of time", "text": "Static interpretation of time\n\nThe static interpretation of time is a view of time which arose in the early years of the 20th century from Einstein's special relativity and Hermann Minkowski's extension of special relativity in which time and space were famously united in physicists' thinking as spacetime.\n\nEssentially the universe is regarded as akin to a reel of film – which is a wholly static physical object – but which when played through a movie projector conjures a world of movement, color, light and change. In the static view our whole universe – our past, present, and future are fixed parts of that reel of film, and the projector is our consciousness. But the 'happenings' of our consciousness have no objective significance – the objective universe does not happen, it simply exists in its entirety, albeit perceived from within as a world of changes.\n\nThe alternative, and commonly assumed view, is that the world unfolds in existence, that our present has some wider physical significance, because the universe evolves in step with it.\n\nThe static view is the simpler in that all that is held to exist is the physical ordering of the universe. All that there is at every time simply exists. The unfolding view requires an additional quality to the universe – that besides the physical ordering there is some quality of coming into and out of existence.\n\nOne can argue that the onus is therefore upon those who propose it, that the world unfolds, and that this additional quality they hold to (absent from special relativity) is indeed a \"physical\" feature of the world. There is however as yet no proof, experiment, or measurement, to show that our conscious experience of an unfolding present has any objective physical significance, or that the universe is anything other than static.\n\nThe static view is however commonly rejected for psychological, not scientific reasons, because it leads to a fatalistic or \"fixed\" conclusion about human existence – our 'past', 'present', and 'future' being what they are – there is no contingency in the world and no possibility of 'altering' or creating the future through some act of will – the future exists. It is simply that our consciousness has not yet reached it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19248593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19248593", "title": "Sānanda samādhi", "text": "Sānanda samādhi\n\nSānanda samādhi, also known as \"supreme bliss\", or \"with ecstasy\", is the third level of the four samādhi described in the Yoga Sutras 1:17 by Patanjali. Sānanda: \"sa-\" means “with”, \"ananda\" means joy, bliss.\n\nIn Sutra 1:17 Patanjali tells us that \"samprajnata samadhi\" comprises four stages: \"Complete high consciousness (samprajnata samadhi) is that which is accompanied by vitarka (reasoning), vicara (reflection), \"sananda\" (ecstasy), and sasmita (a sense of 'I'-ness).\" \"Sānanda\" is free from vitarka and vicara.\n\nThis is joyous \"samādhi\" and it gives intense joy. In \"sānanda\" the gross and the five elements are given up. There arises in the Yogi a peculiar perception in the form of intense joy. In this state the mind continues to function, but knowledge of any particular object slowly fades away and the yogi becomes aware of the inner consciousness only. He experiences supreme bliss. In \"sānanda samādhi\" the yogi experiences a state of rapture or ecstasy, and the only thought in the mind is the wordless awareness of the feeling of \"I am in pleasure, I am happy.\"\n\nAccording to Dr. Sarasvati Buhrman PhD, \"Babaji once explained that when people feel blissful sensations during sādhanā, on a gross level the breath is equal in both nostrils, and on the subtle level pranic flow in \"ida\" and \"pingala\" nadis is balanced. This is called the sushumna breath because the residual prana of the sushuma, the kundalini, flows in sushumna nadi, causing sattva guna to dominate. \"It creates a feeling of peace. That peace is ananda.\" In \"sananda samadhi\" the experience of that ananda, that sattvic flow, is untainted by any other vrittis, or thoughts, save the awareness of the pleasure of receiving that bliss.\"\n\nAccording to John C Lilly, \"sānanda\" is the highest state of consciousness that can be experienced while staying in the body. In his book \"Center of the Cyclone\" he describes sānanda as, \"blissful state, making the Christ, the green qutub, realization of baraka, the reception of divine grace, cosmic love, cosmic energy, heightened bodily awareness, highest function of bodily and planetside consciousness, being in love, being in a positive LSD energy state. In the Oth emotional center in the chest.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1983388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1983388", "title": "Tadeusz Czeżowski", "text": "Tadeusz Czeżowski\n\nTadeusz Czeżowski (July 26, 1889 – March 28, 1981) was a Polish philosopher and logician.\n\nCzeżowski, born in Vienna, Austria-Hungary, became a student of Kazimierz Twardowski and member of the Lwów-Warsaw School of Logic. From 1923 to 1939 he was a professor at Stefan Batory University in Vilnius, Lithuania, and from 1945 to 1960 a professor at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, Poland. In 1948 he became editor of the magazine \"Ruch Filozoficzny\". He died in Toruń in 1981.\n\nHe was named a member of the Righteous Among the Nations in 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42839682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42839682", "title": "Textual Criticism and Qur’ān Manuscripts", "text": "Textual Criticism and Qur’ān Manuscripts\n\nTextual Criticism and Qur’ān Manuscripts is a 2011 book on the textual criticism of the Quran by Keith E. Small, a researcher and lecturer at the Centre for Islamic Studies and Muslim–Christian Relations at the London School of Theology.\n\nThe book is an application of \"reasoned eclecticism\" to a small portion of the :35–41. The book contains four parts: 1) chapters one and two covering the introduction and photographs and descriptions of the manuscripts used; 2) chapters three through eight describing the textual variants in the manuscripts; 3) chapters nine through eleven which includes comparisons of these variants with Islamic records of variants, and discussing possible causes of the variants, including unintentional mistakes in oral transmission or intentional changes; 4) a concluding, twelfth chapter.\n\nSmall concludes that a critical text of the Quran cannot currently be constructed. He says, \"...the available sources do not provide the necessary information for reconstructing the original text of the Qur’ān from the time of Muhammad. Neither do they yet provide the necessary information for reconstructing the text from the time immediately after Muhammad's death until the first official edition of the Qur’ān traditionally ordered by the Caliph ‘Uthmān\". Fred Donner interprets Small's work as showing \"that there was a very early attempt to establish a uniform consonantal text of the Qurʾān from what was probably a wider and more varied group of related texts in early transmission. [...] After the creation of this standardized canonical text, earlier authoritative texts were suppressed, and all extant manuscripts—despite their numerous variants—seem to date to a time after this standard consonantal text was established.\" Donner also says though that Small's conclusions are tentative, because analogous work on larger passages of the Quran may give different results.\n\nFred Donner of the University of Chicago writes that the book is of \"manifest excellence and importance\", with \"but minor blemishes\". One fault Donner sees is that Small does not engage with the work of Christoph Luxenberg. Efim Rezvan of the Saint Petersburg State University says that the work is \"capital\" and brings \"new insights to the history of the development of a standardized text of the Qur’ān.\" Marcin Grodzki of the University of Warsaw writes that—despite some \"minor flaws\"—Small should be congratulated for his work, and that it should be given a \"prominent place\" in libraries involved with the history of early Islam and the study of the Quran. One flaw Grodzki sees is that the book does not consider the possibility of the use different alphabets in the initial written transmission of the Quran, such as the use of the Syriac alphabet in Garshuni. \n\nHurtado in his review endorses Small's conclusions. \"In Small's bold statement, ‘the history of the transmission of the text of the Qur’ān is at least as much a testament to the destruction of Qur’ān material as it is to its preservation’, and ‘is also testimony to the fact that there never was one original text of the Qur’ān’ (p. 180). What we have in the Qur’ān as transmitted is ‘a text-form that was chosen from amidst a group of others, which was then edited and canonized at the expense of these others, and has been improved upon in order to make it conform to a desired ideal’ (p. 184).\" ... \"This is not so totally different from the textual histories of other scriptural texts. And perhaps that is the chief point which emerges from Small's analysis. It is richly documented, informed by other recent scholarship (both traditional Muslim and ‘Western’), eirenic and respectful in tone, and a solid and impressive case for the observations advanced.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37441922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37441922", "title": "The Democratic Intellect", "text": "The Democratic Intellect\n\nThe Democratic Intellect: Scotland and her Universities in the Nineteenth Century is a 1961 book by philosopher George Elder Davie.\n"}
{"id": "1688138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1688138", "title": "The Perennial Philosophy", "text": "The Perennial Philosophy\n\nThe Perennial Philosophy is a comparative study of mysticism by the British writer and novelist Aldous Huxley. Its title derives from the theological tradition of the \"philosophia perennis\".\n\n\"The Perennial Philosophy\" was first published in 1945 immediately after the Second World War (and the defeat of National Socialism) by Harper & Brothers in the United States (1946 by Chatto & Windus in the United Kingdom). The jacket text of the British first edition explains:\n\nThe book offers readers, who are assumed to be familiar with the Christian religion and the Bible, a fresh approach employing Eastern and Western mysticism:\nThe final paragraph of the jacket text states:\n\nIn the words of poet and anthologist John Robert Colombo:\n\nHuxley deliberately chose less well-known quotations because \"familiarity with traditionally hallowed writings tends to breed, not indeed contempt, but ... a kind of reverential insensibility, ... an inward deafness to the meaning of the sacred words.\" So, for example, Chapter 5 on \"Charity\" takes just one quotation from the Bible, combining it with less familiar sources:\n\nHuxley then explains: \"We can only love what we know, and we can never know completely what we do not love. Love is a mode of knowledge ...\"\n\nHuxley is quite vague with his references: \"No specific sources are given.\"\n\nThe book's structure consists of:\n\n\n\n\n\"The Perennial Philosophy\" was widely reviewed when first published in 1945, with articles appearing in \"Book Week\", \"Booklist\", \"The Christian Century\", Bull VA Kirkus' Bookshop Serv., \"The Nation\", \"The New Republic\", \"The New Yorker\", \"Saturday Review of Literature\", \"Springfield Republican\", \"New York Herald Tribune\", and the \"Wilson Bulletin\".\n\nThe \"New York Times\" wrote that, \"Perhaps Mr. Huxley, in \"The Perennial Philosophy\" has, at this time, written the most needed book in the world.\" The \"Times\" described the book as an:\n\nThe \"Times\" also stated that, \"It is important to say that even an agnostic, even a behaviorist-materialist ... can read this book with joy. It is the masterpiece of all anthologies.\"\n\nSimilarly, forty years later Huston Smith, a religious scholar, wrote that, in \"The Perennial Philosophy\":\n\nNot all the reception was so positive. Chad Walsh, writing in the \"Journal of Bible and Religion\" in 1948, spoke of Huxley's distinguished family background, only to continue:\n\nIn the United Kingdom, reviewers admired the comprehensiveness of Huxley's survey but questioned his other-worldliness and were hostile to his belief in the paranormal.\n\nC. E. M. Joad wrote in \"New Statesman and Society\" that, although the book was a mine of learning and Huxley's commentary was profound, readers would be surprised to find that he had adopted a series of peculiar beliefs such as the curative power of relics and spiritual presences incarnated in sacramental objects. Joad pointed out that, if the argument of the book is correct, only those who have undergone the religious experiences upon which it is based are properly able to assess its worth. Further, he found that the book was dogmatic and intolerant, \"in which pretty well everything we want to do is wrong.\"\n\nFinally, Joad asserted that Huxley's mistake was in his \"intellectual whole-hoggery\" and that he was led by ideas untempered by ordinary human experience.\n\nIn the journal \"Philosophy\", the Anglican priest Rev. W. R. Inge remarked on the book's well chosen quotations and called it \"probably the most important treatise we have had on mysticism for many years.\" He saw it as evidence that Huxley was now a mystical philosopher, which he regarded as an encouraging sign. Inge pointed out conflicts between religions and within religion and agreed that a rapprochement must be through mystical religion. However, he wondered if the book, with its transcendence of the personality and detachment from worldly concerns, might not be more Buddhist than Christian. He concluded his review by calling into question Huxley's belief in psychical phenomena.\n\nCanadian author John Robert Colombo wrote that as a young man he, like many others in the 1950s, was swept away with enthusiasm for \"the coveted volume\" :\n\nColombo also stated that:\n\nHuxley's Introduction to \"The Perennial Philosophy\" begins:\n\nIn the next paragraph, Huxley summarises the problem more succinctly, saying: \"Knowledge is a function of being.\" In other words, if you are not suited to knowing something, you do not know it. This makes knowing the Ground of All Being difficult, in Huxley's view. Therefore, he concludes his Introduction with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39980903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39980903", "title": "Triad (organized crime)", "text": "Triad (organized crime)\n\nA triad is one of many branches of Chinese transnational organized crime syndicates based in China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan and in countries with significant Chinese populations, such as the United States, Canada, Vietnam, Korea, Japan, Singapore, the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Spain, South Africa, Australia, Brazil and New Zealand.\n\nThe Hong Kong triad is distinct from mainland Chinese criminal organizations. In ancient China, the triad was one of three major secret societies. It established branches in Macau, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Chinese communities overseas. After the establishment of the People's Republic of China, all secret societies were destroyed in mainland China in a series of campaigns organized by Mao Zedong. Although organized-crime groups have returned to China after Mao, they are not triad societies. Known as \"mainland Chinese criminal organizations\", they are of two major types: dark forces (loosely-organized groups) and black societies (more-mature criminal organizations). Two features which distinguish a black society from a dark force are the ability to achieve illegal control over local markets, and receiving police protection. The Hong Kong triad refers to traditional criminal organizations operating in (or originating from) Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan and south-east Asian countries and regions, while organized-crime groups in mainland China are known as \"mainland Chinese criminal groups\".\n\nY. K. Chu's \"The Triads as Business\" (2002) examines the rise of the Hong Kong triad and the role of triad societies in legal, illegal and international markets. Peng Wang's \"The Chinese Mafia\" (2017) studies the origin of Chinese secret societies in ancient China, explores the rise of organized crime in post-Mao China, and investigates the ways in which local gangs offer quasi-law enforcement and private protection to local governments, corporations and individuals. Wang's book also explores how local gangs form mutually-beneficial networks with police officers and how the formation of a political-criminal nexus enables local gangs to control illegal markets and sell protection to citizens and businesses.\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", \"triad\" is a translation of the Chinese term \"San Ho Hui\" (or Triple Union Society), referring to the union of heaven, earth and humanity. Another theory posits that the word \"triad\" was coined by British authorities in colonial Hong Kong as a reference to the triads' use of triangular imagery. It has been speculated that triad organizations took after, or were originally part of, revolutionary movements such as the White Lotus, the Taiping and Boxer Rebellions and the Heaven and Earth Society.\n\nThe generic use of the word \"triads\" for all Chinese criminal organizations is imprecise; triad groups are geographically, ethnically, culturally and structurally unique. \"Triads\" are traditional organized-crime groups originating from Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. Criminal organizations operating in, or originating from, mainland China are \"mainland Chinese criminal groups\" or \"black societies\". After years of repression, only some elements of triad groups are involved with illegal activities. Triads in Hong Kong are less involved with \"traditional\" criminal activity and are becoming associated with white-collar crime; traditional initiation ceremonies rarely take place to avoid official attention.\n\nTriad, a China-based criminal organization, secret association or club, was a branch of the secret Hung Society. The society was fragmented, and one group (known as the Triad and the Ching Gang) became a criminal organization. After the People's Republic of China was founded in 1949, secret societies in mainland China were suppressed in campaigns ordered by Mao Zedong. Most Chinese secret societies, including the triads and some of the remaining Ching Gang, relocated to British-controlled Hong Kong, Taiwan, Southeast Asia and overseas countries (particularly the US) and competed with the Tong and other Chinese secret societies. Gradually, Chinese secret societies turned to drugs and extortion for income.\n\nThe Heaven and Earth Society (天地會, Tiandihui), a fraternal organization, was founded during the 1760s. As the society's influence spread throughout China, it branched into several smaller groups with different names; one was the Three Harmonies Society (三合會, Sanhehui). These societies adopted the triangle as their emblem, usually accompanied by decorative images of swords or portraits of Guan Yu.\n\nBritish Hong Kong was intolerant of secret societies, and the British considered the triads a criminal threat. Triads were charged and imprisoned under British law.\n\nDuring the 19th century, many such societies were seen as legitimate ways of helping immigrants from China settle into a new country. Secret societies were banned by the British government in Singapore during the 1890s, and slowly reduced in number by successive colonial governors and leaders. Facilitating the origins of Singapore gangs, the opium trade, prostitution and brothels were also banned. Immigrants were encouraged to seek help from a local \"kongsi\" instead of turning to secret societies, which contributed to the societies' decline.\n\nAfter World War II, the secret societies saw a resurgence as gangsters took advantage of uncertainty and growing anti-British sentiment. Some Chinese communities, such as \"new villages\" in Kuala Lumpur and Bukit Ho Swee in Singapore, became notorious for gang violence. When the Chinese Communist Party came to power in 1949 in mainland China, law enforcement became stricter and a government crackdown on criminal organizations forced the triads to migrate to British Hong Kong. An estimated 300,000 triad members lived in Hong Kong during the 1950s. According to the University of Hong Kong, most triad societies were established between 1914 and 1939 and there were once more than 300 in the territory. The number of groups has consolidated to about 50, of which 14 are under police surveillance. There were nine main triads operating in Hong Kong. They divided land by ethnic group and geographic locations, with each triad in charge of a region. The triads were Wo Hop To, Wo Shing Wo, Rung, Tung, Chuen, Shing, Sun Yee On, 14K and Luen. Each had a headquarters, sub-societies and public image. After the 1956 riots, the Hong Kong government introduced stricter law enforcement and the triads became less active.\n\nDuring the 2014 Hong Kong protests, two triad gangs (reportedly Sun Yee On and Wo Shing Wo) were used to help restore order. On 18 January 2018, Italian police arrested 33 people connected to a Chinese triad operating in Europe as part of its Operation China Truck (which began in 2011). The triad were active in Tuscany, Veneto, Rome and Milan in Italy, and in France, Spain and the German city of Neuss. The indictment accuses the Chinese triad of extortion, usury, illegal gambling, prostitution and drug trafficking. The group was said to have infiltrated the transport sector, using intimidation and violence against Chinese companies wishing to transport goods by road into Europe. Police seized several vehicles, businesses, properties and bank accounts.\n\nTriads engage in a variety of crimes, from fraud, extortion and money laundering to trafficking and prostitution, and are involved in smuggling and counterfeiting goods such as music, video, software, clothes, watches and money.\n\nSince the first opium bans during the 19th century, Chinese criminal gangs have been involved in worldwide illegal drug trade. Many triads switched from opium to heroin, produced from opium plants in the Golden Triangle, refined into heroin in China and trafficked to North America and Europe, in the 1960s and 1970s. The most important triads active in the international heroin trade are the 14K and the Tai Huen Chai. Triads have begun smuggling chemicals from Chinese factories to North America (for the production of methamphetamine), and to Europe for the production of Ecstasy.\n\nTriads have been engaging in counterfeiting since the 1880s. During the 1960s and 1970s, they were involved in counterfeiting currency (often the Hong Kong 50-cent piece). The gangs were also involved in counterfeiting expensive books for sale on the black market. With the advent of new technology and the improvement of the average standard of living, triads produce counterfeit goods such as watches, film VCDs and DVDs and designer apparel such as clothing and handbags. Since the 1970s, triad turf control was weakened and some shifted their revenue streams to legitimate businesses.\n\nIn 2012, four triad members were arrested for health care fraud in Japan.\n\nTriads use numeric codes to distinguish ranks and positions within the gang; the numbers are inspired by Chinese numerology and based on the \"I Ching\". The Mountain (or Dragon Master or Dragon Head) is 489, 438 is the Deputy Mountain Master, 432 indicates Grass Slipper rank; the Mountain Master's proxy, Incense Master (who oversees inductions into the triad), and Vanguard (who assists the Incense Master). A military commander (also known as a Red Pole), overseeing defensive and offensive operations, is 426; 49 denotes a soldier, or rank-and-file member. The White Paper Fan (415) provides financial and business advice, and the Straw Sandal (432) is a liaison between units. An undercover law-enforcement agent or spy from another triad is 25, also popular Hong Kong slang for an informant. Blue Lanterns are uninitiated members, equivalent to Mafia associates, and do not have a designating number. According to De Leon Petta Gomes da Costa, who interviewed triads and authorities in Hong Kong, most of the current structure is a vague, low hierarchy; the traditional ranks and positions no longer exist.\n\nSimilar to the Sicilian Mafia or the Japanese \"yakuza\", triad members participate in initiation ceremonies. A typical ceremony takes place at an altar dedicated to Guan Yu, with incense and an animal sacrifice (usually a chicken, pig or goat). After drinking a mixture of wine and blood (from the animal or the candidate), the member passes beneath an arch of swords while reciting the triad's oaths. The paper on which the oaths are written will be burnt on the altar to confirm the member's obligation to perform his duties to the gods. Three fingers of the left hand are raised as a binding gesture. The triad initiate is required to adhere to 36 oaths.\n\nThe most powerful triads based in Hong Kong are:\n\nMany triads emigrated to Taiwan and Chinese communities worldwide:\n\nSimilar to triads, Tongs originated independently in early immigrant Chinatown communities. The word means \"social club,\" and tongs are not specifically underground organizations. The first tongs formed during the second half of the 19th century among marginalized members of early immigrant Chinese-American communities for mutual support and protection from nativists. Modeled on triads, they were established without clear political motives and became involved in criminal activities such as extortion, illegal gambling, drug and human trafficking, murder and prostitution.\n\nTriads were also active in Chinese communities throughout Southeast Asia. When Malaysia and Singapore (with the region's largest population of ethnic Chinese) became crown colonies, secret societies and triads controlled local communities by extorting protection money and illegal money lending. Many conducted blood rituals, such as drinking one another's blood, as a sign of brotherhood; others ran opium dens and brothels.\n\nRemnants of these former gangs and societies still exist. Due to government efforts in Malaysia and Singapore to reduce crime, the societies have largely faded from the public eye (particularly in Singapore).\n\nTriads were also common in Vietnamese cities with large Chinese (especially Cantonese and Teochew) communities. During the French colonial period, many businesses and wealthy residents in Saigon (particularly in the Chinatown district) and Haiphong were controlled by protection-racket gangs.\n\nWith Vietnamese independence in 1945, organized crime activity was drastically reduced as Ho Chi Minh's governments purged criminal activity in the country. According to Ho, abolishing crime was a method of protecting Vietnam and its people. During the First Indochina War, Ho's police forces concentrated on protecting people in his zone from crime; the French cooperated with criminal organisations to fight the Viet Minh. In 1955, President Ngô Đình Diệm ordered the South Vietnamese military to disarm and imprison organized-crime groups in the Saigon-Gia Định-Biên Hòa-Vũng Tàu region and cities such as Mỹ Tho and Cần Thơ in the Mekong Delta. Diem banned brothels, massage parlours, casinos and gambling houses, opium dens, bars, drug houses and nightclubs, all establishments frequented by the triads. However, Diệm allowed criminal activity to finance his attempts to eliminate the Viet Minh in the south. Law enforcement was stricter in the north, with stringent control and monitoring of criminal activities. The government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam purged and imprisoned organized criminals, including triads, in the Haiphong and Hanoi areas. With pressure from Ho Chi Minh's police, Triad affiliates had to choose between elimination or legality. During the Vietnam War, the triads were eliminated in the north; in the south, Republic of Vietnam corruption protected their illegal activities and allowed them to control US aid. During the 1970s and 1980s, all illegal Sino-Vietnamese activities were eliminated by the Vietnamese police. Most triads were compelled to flee to Taiwan, Hong Kong or other countries in Southeast Asia.\n\nTriads are also active in other regions with significant overseas-Chinese populations: Macau, Taiwan, Hong Kong, the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Brazil, Peru and Argentina. They are often involved in migrant smuggling. Shanty and Mishra (2007) estimate that the annual profit from narcotics is $200 billion, and annual revenues from human trafficking into Europe and the United States are believed to amount to $3.5 billion.\n\nThe Organized Crime and Triad Bureau (OCTB) is the division of the Hong Kong Police Force responsible for triad countermeasures. The OCTB and the Criminal Intelligence Bureau work with the Narcotics and Commercial Crime Bureaus to process information to counter triad leaders. Other involved departments include the Customs and Excise Department, the Immigration Department and the Independent Commission Against Corruption. They cooperate with the police to impede the expansion of triads and other organized gangs. Police actions regularly target organised crime, including raids on triad-controlled entertainment establishments and undercover work.\n\nThe Guns and Gangs Unit of the Toronto Police Service is responsible for handling triads in the city. The Asian Gang Unit of the Metro Toronto Police was formerly responsible for dealing with triad-related matters, but a larger unit was created to deal with the broad array of ethnic gangs.\n\nAt the national (and, in some cases, provincial) level, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's Organized Crime Branch is responsible for investigating gang-related activities (including triads). The Canada Border Services Agency Organized Crime Unit works with the RCMP to detain and remove non-Canadian triad members. Asian gangs are found in many cities, primarily Toronto, Vancouver, Calgary and Edmonton.\n\nThe Organized Crime and Law Enforcement Act provides a tool for police forces in Canada to handle organized criminal activity. The act enhances the general role of the Criminal Code (with amendments to deal with organized crime) in dealing with criminal triad activities. Asian organized-crime groups were ranked the fourth-greatest organized-crime problem in Canada, behind outlaw motorcycle clubs, aboriginal crime groups and Indo-Canadian crime groups.\n\nIn 2011, it was estimated that criminal gangs associated with triads controlled 90 percent of the heroin trade in Vancouver, British Columbia. Due to its geographic and demographic characteristics, Vancouver is the point of entry into North America for much of the heroin produced in Southeast Asia (much of the trade controlled by international organized-crime groups associated with triads). From 2006 to 2014, Southeast, East and South Asians accounted for 21 percent of gang deaths in British Columbia (trailing only Caucasians, who made up 46.3 percent of gang deaths.\n\nPrimary laws addressing the triad problem are the Societies Ordinance and the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance. The former, enacted in 1949 to outlaw triads in Hong Kong, stipulates that any person convicted of being (or claiming to be) an officeholder or managing (or assisting in the management) of a triad can be fined up to HK$1 million and imprisoned for up to 15 years.\n\nThe power of triads has also diminished due to the 1974 establishment of the Independent Commission Against Corruption. The commission targeted corruption in police departments linked with triads.\nBeing a member of a triad is an offence punishable by fines ranging from HK$100,000 to HK$250,000 and three to seven years imprisonment under an ordinance enacted in Hong Kong in 1994, which aims to provide police with special investigative powers, provide heavier penalties for organized-crime activities and authorize the courts to confiscate the proceeds of such crimes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVideo\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35863013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35863013", "title": "Vaasi Yoga", "text": "Vaasi Yoga\n\nVaasi yoga (vasi yoga) is a form of yoga that concentrates on the breath \"naadi\" (\"nadi\"), the cycle of the distribution of oxygen throughout the body, that occurs as part of the breathing process. Indian philosophy describes \"prana\" (life force) as flowing in channels called naadis. Vaasi yoga attempts to heal the body and sprirt by cleansing the breath naadi, and thus prepare for balance, true consciousness of self and then enlightenment. As such it is one of the \"kaaya kalpa\", the class of ancient yogic rejuvenation therapies. As a yogic practice it is an art of living taught by siddhars for over 3000 years ago, as initiated by Lord Shiva. Like other advanced types of yoga which should be practiced only under the guidance of Guru. Vaasi yoga is practiced by very few.\n\n\"Vaasi yogam\" is the attainment of consciousness about the silent sound in our breath. To attain this consciousness, the body should be devoid of any waste. To remove all the waste from one’s body, one should be taught with asanas by a guru who should be in a position to analyze the \"naadi\" functionality of one’s body. A guru who has the capacity to analyze the \"naadi\" functionality is called Siva Sithan.\n\nThere has been lot of reference of this yoga to kriya yoga or kundalini pranayama (Yogic Breathing to increase the pranic energy). But all of the above practices are being followed or taught, without empowering the body to practice it. In other words, when the physique is not devoid of waste and when one with such a physique, practices any kind of yoga or breathing techniques, it will only aggravate the body conditions due to the heat or agni produced. All other kinds of yoga do not tend to remove the waste from the body, instead only rise the body temperature and increase the appetite. But in Vaasi yoga, food intake gets controlled automatically and one can control the appetite for food casually.\n\nOur body cells need oxygen derived from air. There are some definite paths for oxygen to reach the cells and to go out of cells. These paths have some energy centres. These centres control the organs and their functions. This pattern, this throb, which is called ‘Naadi’ in Tamil, differs from person to person. The pulse beat should be not taken for ‘Naadi’.\nFor a healthy living the Naadi has to function properly and be fully active. The imbalance in the Naadi functionality is the root cause of all ailments and diseases. By practicing Vaasi Yoga Naadi functionality gets strengthened and healthy living is achieved.\nVaasi Yoga is a technique to breath. The yogis who are expert in vaasi yoga avoids breathing through normal nostrils. But they exhale the air upward towards kapala (Brain). This strengthens the brain and give brightness to face and whole body too. Siddhar Shiva vaakiyar (Tamil Nadu) has narrated the secret of Vaasi yoga and its benefit.\n\nVaasi Yoga has unique nature of attaining the consciousness of the Self, by the following stages.\n\n\nVaasi Yoga practice simulates two special hormones 1. Seratonin 2. Melatonin. These two hormones ultimately stabilizes all the working systems in our body. They also help in experiencing the spiritual feeling in our body.\n\n\"முத்தியடா மந்திரத்தை நினைக்கும்போது\nசக்தியடா மனந்தானே யோக மாகத்\nபுத்தியடா பிரமத்திற் புகுந்து கொண்டாற்\nஎத்தியே திரியாமற் பிடரி மார்க்கம்\n- Emphases that, Vaasi Yoga is the only means to attain true consciousness.\n\n“விளையாடிக் கருநெல்லி பறித்தே உண்ணு\nமலையாமல் வொண்சாரை பிடித்தே யுண்ணு\nஅலையாமல் சோதியதன் பாலை யுண்ணே\nகலைநாலு போகிறதை யெட்டிற் சேரு\n- This verse talks about how one can control unfair sexual intentions by practicing Vaasi Yoga through rising Kundalini Energy.\n\n“நேரப்பா நெடுந்தூரம் போகும்போது\nவீரப்பா அக்கினி போல் படர்ந்து நிற்கும்\n\n“இருக்குமடா எங்குமொன்றாய் அக்கினிக் கம்பம்\nஉருக்கமுடன் பெண்ணரசி யொன்றி நிற்பாள்”\n- These verses talk about the importance of Sulumunai Nadi, which is described as Rod of Fire.\n\n“சாற்றுகிறே னென்மகனே வாசி நாதா\nபோற்றுகிற அக்கினியு\nமாற்றிலையும் அதிகமடா வுன்றன் தேகம்\nவாற்றியே நிழற் சாய்கை யற்றுப் போகும்\n- This verse talks about how Vaasi Yoga will help in attaining unbelievable powers.\nGuruve saranam Guruvadeye saranam.\nVaasi unarnthavan thanai unarukeran.\nVaasi yoga 3 vagai padum.\nathuve sanibagavan vaganamahavum, muruganin vaganamahavum, eruthiyaga sivanin kaluthilum ular.\nVaasi Vaasi endru marupadeyum marupadeyum kooru vaasi yogathin oru mukeya mantheram velipadum.\n\n“நூறிலேறு போதிலாறு கேணியாகும் விந்தடா\nவேறுமீச னேதுஞான வீதியேறு போதிலே\nகூறுநாவ தேதடாசொன் மூல நாடி யூதவே\nசரடா கணேசர்பாத கேசராதி வீதியிற்\n\nThe essence of this verse is that, one who practices Vaasi Yoga can live for more than 100 years easily. Because, through Vaasi Yoga, the breathing will be slow. Only if the breathing becomes slow, one can live longer and healthier.\n\nvaasi yogam\nhttp://kthillairaj.blogspot.in/2013/09/vaasi-yogamvasi-yoga-4.html\n\nSivavakkiyar Siddhar songs.\n\n"}
