{"id": "54077752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54077752", "title": "2017 Times Square car crash", "text": "2017 Times Square car crash\n\nOn May 18, 2017, a car was crashed in Times Square, New York City. One person was killed and 20 were injured. Navy veteran Richard Rojas was charged with two counts of second degree murder, 18 attempted murders and 38 assaults, to which he pled not guilty.\n\nAfter being detained, Rojas was found to have ingested phencyclidine before the crash. When interviewed by the NYPD, Rojas said he wanted to die in a \"suicide by cop\", and that he had been hearing voices. In a jailhouse news interview three days later, he said he did not remember the incident or any statements he made afterward.\n\nA year later, multiple liability lawsuits were filed between Rojas, victims and the city.\n\nRichard Rojas, the driver of a maroon 2009 Honda Accord, sped into pedestrians in Times Square after having jumped the sidewalk on the west side of Seventh Avenue at 42nd Street. He continued for three blocks before crashing at the northwest corner of 45th Street and Seventh Avenue, at Broadway. As Rojas was trying to leave his car, a traffic agent tackled him and took him into custody. After having exited the car Rojas said: \"I wanted to kill them,\" according to prosecutors.\n\nAlyssa Elsman, an 18-year-old tourist from Portage, Michigan, was killed and 20 people were injured, four critically.\n\nRichard Rojas (born 1991), a 26-year-old resident of the Bronx and a military veteran, was arrested and charged after the crash. He previously served in the United States Navy and had two prior arrests for driving under the influence. These arrests came in 2008 and 2015. He enlisted in the Navy in 2011 and was an electrician's mate fireman apprentice. In 2012, he served aboard the destroyer USS \"Carney\". He was most recently based at Naval Air Station Jacksonville and was discharged in 2014.\n\nRojas was arrested in September 2012 after assaulting a cab driver and yelling at an officer, \"My life is over\", and threatening to kill police officers after his release. He also spent two months in military prison in 2013. A neighbor said his family was Dominican. One of his friends said Rojas had developed a drinking problem after his military service, using it as medication for his \"dark thoughts and moods\", and posted what the friend described as \"demonic\" content on social media. According to authorities and his friends, his mental health issues dated back to his childhood though he never sought psychiatric care, becoming more paranoid and increasing his intake of marijuana and alcohol.\n\nRojas was obsessed with Scientology and had accumulated literature on the religion. He recently got back his car after it was repossessed a short time before the incident. A week before the incident, he was arrested and charged with pointing a knife at a notary, whom he accused of stealing his identity.\n\nInvestigators looked into his psychological history. In an interview for the \"New York Post\" on May 21, he said he had no recollection of the incident or any statements he made when arrested and sought help in the prior week, including speaking to a mental health counselor at a veteran's affairs center, who promised to call him on Monday (May 22).\n\nBill de Blasio, the Mayor of New York City, and other officials have said there is no indication the incident was an act of terrorism. Several law enforcement officials said the suspect thought he was hearing voices and expected to die. Rojas tested negative for alcohol, but additional testing was done to determine whether he was taking any drugs. The drug test came back as positive while blood tests were conducted for whether he had taken synthetic marijuana or PCP. Rojas has since offered alternative explanations to the investigators who said they hadn't come to any conclusions.\n\nAccording to a criminal complaint, Rojas admitted smoking marijuana laced with PCP before driving the car. Prosectors said he told the police he wanted to die by suicide by cop. He also rambled that he had been hearing voices and it was the last day on Earth. According to other sources, he said he claimed to hear voices telling him the police were going to kill him. Later, they said he had tested positive for PCP and told police God made him do it. His interview was said to be abnormal and rambling.\n\nRojas was later charged with second-degree murder, 20 counts of attempted murder, and five counts of aggravated vehicular homicide. \n\nOn July 13, Rojas, through his lawyer, Enrico DeMarco, pleaded not guilty to two counts of second-degree murder, 18 attempted murders and 38 assaults.\n\nOn October 24, DeMarco declined to reveal whether he would attempt an insanity defense, saying he needed \"another month or so\" to examine Rojas' possessions, such as notebooks, which the district attorney possesses. Justice Melissa Jackson urged him to hurry before adjourning till December 18. On December 17, he filed notice of his intent to pursue an insanity defense. Rojas will be examined by psychiatrists hired by both sides.\n\nIn July 2018, Eisman's father and sister sued New York City for unspecified damages, alleging it failed to provide adequate protection from civilian attacks. Rojas was also named as a defendant. The next month, victims Jessica Williams and William Nelson Sr. filed a similar joint suit for $75 million.\n\nRojas countersued the plaintiffs, blaming their injuries on their own culpable conduct, and holding their respective insurance companies solely responsible for paying their expenses. He agreed with their claim that the city was recklessly negligent, and sued it accordingly.\n"}
{"id": "2483640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2483640", "title": "Afar people", "text": "Afar people\n\nThe Afar (), also known as the Danakil, Adali and Odali, are an ethnic group inhabiting the Horn of Africa. They primarily live in the Afar Region of Ethiopia and in northern Djibouti, although some also inhabit the southern point of Eritrea. Afars speak the Afar language, which is part of the Cushitic branch of the Afroasiatic family.\n\nAfar society has traditionally been organized into independent kingdoms, each ruled by its own Sultan. Among these were the Sultanate of Aussa, Sultanate of Girrifo, Sultanate of Dawe, Sultanate of Tadjourah, Sultanate of Rahaito, and Sultanate of Goobad.\n\nThe earliest surviving written mention of the Afar is from the 13th-century Andalusian writer Ibn Sa'id, who reported that they inhabited the area around the port of Suakin, as far south as Mandeb, near Zeila. They are mentioned intermittently in Ethiopian records, first as helping Emperor Amda Seyon in a campaign beyond the Awash River, then over a century later when they assisted Emperor Baeda Maryam when he campaigned against their neighbors the Dobe'a.\n\nAlong with the closely related Somali and other adjacent Afro-Asiatic-speaking Muslim peoples, the Afar are also associated with the medieval Adal Sultanate that controlled large parts of the northern Horn of Africa. During its existence, Adal had relations and engaged in trade with other polities in Northeast Africa, the Near East, Europe and South Asia. Many of the historic cities in the Horn region, such as Maduna, Abasa, Berbera, Zeila and Harar, flourished with courtyard houses, mosques, shrines, walled enclosures and cisterns during the kingdom's Golden Age.\n\nThe Afar Sultanate (Aussa Sultanate) succeeded the earlier Imamate of Aussa. The latter polity had come into existence in 1577, when Muhammed Jasa moved his capital from Harar to Aussa with the split of the Adal Sultanate into Aussa and the Harari city-state. At some point after 1672, Aussa declined and temporarily came to an end in conjunction with Imam Umar Din bin Adam's recorded ascension to the throne.\n\nThe Sultanate was subsequently re-established by Kedafu around the year 1734, and was thereafter ruled by his Mudaito Dynasty. The primary symbol of the Sultan was a silver baton, which was considered to have magical properties.\n\nFollowing an unsuccessful rebellion led by the Afar Sultan, Alimirah Hanfare, the Afar Liberation Front was founded in 1975 to promote the interests of the Afar people. Sultan Hanfadhe was shortly afterwards exiled to Saudi Arabia. Ethiopia's then-ruling communist Derg regime later established the Autonomous Region of Assab (now called Aseb and located in Eritrea), although low level insurrection continued until the early 1990s. In Djibouti, a similar movement simmered throughout the 1980s, eventually culminating in the Afar Insurgency in 1991. After the fall of the Derg that same year, Sultan Hanfadhe returned from exile.\n\nIn March 1993, the Afar Revolutionary Democratic Front (ARDUF) was established. It constituted a coalition of three Afar organizations: the Afar Revolutionary Democratic Unity Union (ARDUU), founded in 1991 and led by Mohamooda Gaas (or Gaaz); the \"Afar Ummatah Demokrasiyyoh Focca\" (AUDF); and the Afar Revolutionary Forces (ARF). A political party, it aims to protect Afar interests. As of 2012, the ARDUF is part of the United Ethiopian Democratic Forces (UEDF) coalition opposition party.\n\nThe Afar principally reside in the Danakil Desert in the Afar Region of Ethiopia, as well as in Eritrea and Djibouti. They number 1,276,867 people in Ethiopia (or 1.73% of the total population), of whom 105,551 are urban inhabitants, according to the most recent census (2007). The Afar make up over a third of the population of Djibouti, and are one of the nine recognized ethnic divisions (\"kililoch\") of Ethiopia.\n\nAfars speak the Afar language as a mother tongue. It is part of the Cushitic branch of the Afroasiatic language family.\n\nThe Afar language is spoken by ethnic Afars in the Afar Region of Ethiopia, as well as in southern Eritrea and northern Djibouti. However, since the Afar are traditionally nomadic herders, Afar speakers may be found further afield.\n\nTogether, with the Saho language, Afar constitutes the Saho–Afar dialect cluster.\n\nAfar people are predominantly Muslim. They have a long association with Islam through the various local Muslim polities.\n\nThe Afar are traditionally pastoralists, raising goats, sheep, and cattle in the desert.\n\nSocially, they are organized into clan families and two main classes: the \"asaimara\" ('reds') who are the dominant class politically, and the \"adoimara\" ('whites') who are a working class and are found in the Mabla Mountains.\n\nIn addition, the Afar are reputed for their martial prowess. Men traditionally sport the \"jile\", a famous curved knife. They also have an extensive repertoire of battle songs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30713064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30713064", "title": "Albanian monarchy referendum, 1997", "text": "Albanian monarchy referendum, 1997\n\nA referendum on restoring the monarchy was held in Albania on 29 June 1997 alongside parliamentary elections. Officially the proposal was rejected by 66.7% of voters, although Crown Prince Leka claimed that 65.7% voted in favour.\n\nThe House of Zogu never accepted the official result of the referendum. After the publication of the result by the Central Election Commission of Albania, during the 1997 rebellion in Albania, Leka returned again, this time being greeted by 2,000 supporters. A referendum was held in Albania concerning a monarchical restoration. After a recount it was announced that the restoration was rejected by approximately two-thirds of those voting. The Crown Prince questioned the independence of the election. Police intervened, gunfire broke out, one person was killed, and Leka fled.\n\nOn 30 November 2011, after the death of Leka the Prime Minister of Albania, Sali Berisha admitted that there was vote manipulation in the referendum, and that the monarchy should have been restored. Berisha blamed the manipulation on the \"flames of communist rebellion\".\n"}
{"id": "17741443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17741443", "title": "Applied aesthetics", "text": "Applied aesthetics\n\nApplied aesthetics is the application of the branch of philosophy of aesthetics to cultural constructs.\n\nAlthough structural integrity, cost, the nature of building materials, and the functional utility of the building contribute heavily to the design process, architects can still apply aesthetic considerations to buildings and related architectural structures. Common aesthetic design principles include ornamentation, edge delineation, texture, flow, solemnity, symmetry, color, granularity, the interaction of sunlight and shadows, transcendence, and harmony.\n\nInterior designers, being less constrained by structural concerns, have a wider variety of applications to appeal to aesthetics. They may employ color, color harmony, wallpaper, ornamentation, furnishings, fabrics, textures, lighting, various floor treatments, as well as adhere to aesthetic concepts such as feng shui.\n\nA new art form struggling for acceptance is digital art, a by-product of computer programming that raises new questions about what truly constitutes art. Although paralleling many of the aesthetics in traditional media, digital art can additionally draw upon the aesthetic qualities of cross-media tactile relationships; interactivity; autonomous generativity; complexity and interdependence of relationships; suspense; and playfulness.\n\nArtists working in this type of art are often forced to justify their use of a computer rather than a traditional medium, leading to, like the debate over Warhol's \"Brillo Pad Boxes\", a question of what constitutes art.\n\nThe criticisms of digital art are many. For example, graphics programs allow perfect shading to be achieved with little to no effort. In other types of programs, there is a sense that because of the variety of tools, filters, distortions, etc., that an artist has a veritable image factory at their disposal. The various criticisms ultimately come down to the issue of \"what effort is the artist putting into their work?\"\n\nThe 3d art community frequently references that while the programs they utilize render and shade the objects, their efforts are more akin to the sculptor or architect, presenting an aesthetically arranged, lighted, and textured scene. The users of the other programs such as Photoshop or Gimp point out that while they may have many tools at their disposal, the art itself must be that much more detailed and imaginative to stand out. In both cases there is the challenge of overcoming the barriers of limited technology and the lack of direct contact with one's medium.\n\nEducators are also interested in how aesthetic designs influence the ways that students think and learn. Some historical figures like John Dewey have approached education through aesthetics. More recently, Elliot Eisner and jan jagodzinski have reopened the debate. Other researchers with postmodern or poststructural influences have done the same, these include Cleo H. Cherryholmes and Michel Foucault. Aesthetics in education has been linked to pragmatism as well as other areas of curriculum development and implementation.\n\nSee \"Understanding Curriculum,\" Chapter 11, Understanding Curriculum as Aesthetic Text, by William F. Pinar, William M. Reynolds, Patrick Slattery and Peter Taubman (1995) for more information.\n\nFashion designers use a variety of techniques to allow people to express the truth about their unconscious minds by way of their clothing. To create wearable personality designers use fabric, cut, colour, scale, references to the past, texture, color harmony, distressing, transparency, insignia, accessories, beading and embroidery.\nIt is also used to find the average size of things, to make a product suitable for a high number of customers.\n\nFilm combines many diverse disciplines, each of which may have their own rules of aesthetics. The aesthetics of cinematography are closely related to still photography, but the movement of the subject(s), or the camera and the intensities, colors, and placement of the lighting are highly important. Sound recording, editing, and mixing are other, highly important areas of film, often closely related with the musical score. As in Theatre, art direction, in the design of the sets and shooting locations also applies, as well as costume design and makeup. All of these disciplines are closely inter-twined and must be brought together by the aesthetic sensibilities of the director.\n\nMontage, or editing is probably the one discipline unique to film, video, and television. The timing, rhythm and progression of shots form the ultimate composition of the film. This procedure is one of the most critical element of post production, and incorporates sound editing and mixing, as well as the design and execution of digital special effects.\n\nIn the case of a video installation, the method of presentation becomes critical. The work may be screened on a simple monitor, projected on a wall or other surface, or incorporated into a larger sculptural installation. A video installation may also involve sound, with similar considerations to be made based on speaker design and placement, volume, and tone.\n\nAlthough food is a basic and frequently experienced commodity, careful attention to the aesthetic possibilities of foodstuffs can turn eating into gastronomy. Chefs inspire our aesthetic enjoyment through the visual sense using colour and arrangement; they inspire our senses of taste and smell using spices, diversity/contrast, anticipation, seduction, and decoration/garnishes. In regard to drinking water, there are formal criteria for aesthetic value including odour, colour, total dissolved solids and clarity. There are numerical standards in the U.S. for aesthetic acceptability of these parameters.\n\nNote, however, a use of a word translated to \"culinary\" in Adorno's aesthetics. Adorno distinguishes between technically accurate and \"beautiful\" musical interpretation, and an interpretation higher which brings out the \"truth\" in the musical text: interpretations more rehearsed, with more time for rehearsal, but which might sound strange to audiences pandered-to by popular conductors (perhaps in the way Glenn Gould enstranges the music of Beethoven).\n\nUnfortunately for the ordinary reader of Adorno, this isn't something technical such as \"original instruments\". It is instead the work of art that doesn't pander to what the audience \"wants\"...its whims.\n\nThis is linked to a Marxist interpretation which instead of treating the audience as an all-powerful \"customer\" adopts a teacherly or even priestly stance \"above\" the mere audience, something only the most \"snobbish\" of French chefs would dare, proposing to teach it to like Higher Things.\n\nThere are rarefied forms of *haute* cuisine; but note that common sense usually has a horselaugh about precious Yuppies eating designer food which it withholds about concert-goers listening to Berg; your man in the street merely thinks the latter crowd to be odd jobs, and doesn't resent them, meaning that ethical judgements play a role in aesthetic judgements that specialists in ethics, and specialists in aesthetics, systematically disregard...but which artists such as Tolstoy regarded as central.\n\nBased on Adorno's theory of the (merely) culinary as not being \"art\", this would seem to mean that it is a joke, for an Adornoite (if such a person exists meaningfully), to treat cooking as an art form or eating as art appreciation.\n\nMonty Python would often reverberate with this sort of arcana in a strange way: in the Mr. Creosote passage of The Meaning of Life, an enormously fat man is persuaded by the fawning waiter to have one more sweet whereupon Mr. Creosote throws up all over the dining room. Note that the scene has more claims to be art, despite being nauseating, than designer food.\n\nThis MAY be an unconscious comment on any theory of art that blindly equates \"fine dining\" and a visit to the picture galleries, a sort of tourist equation in which picture galleries are overrun in fact by post-prandial Mr. Creosotes. Even the ordinary man in the street would say that the starving artist visiting the gallery has a \"better\" apprehension of the higher, more inner, more elusive aura of the art work than Mr. Creosote, which means that for some authors, including Adorno, there is a nexus between ethics (which nearly tracks aesthetics polyphonically, where we use \"good\" and \"bad\" in ethics to characterise people and their deeds, and in aesthetics to judge what to buy).\n\nThe possibility of a rejection of the culinary in art starts with Kant's theory of the sublime but does not end there; post Holocaust (with its Nazis playing Bach: with Adorno's questions about poetry after Auschwitz) the culinary, and whether the German officer enjoying a \"fine\" meal has much of anything to do with art, become important aesthetic questions.\n\nA Marxist theory of art would probably conclude that the chef cannot be an artist, lacking autonomy and beholden to the customer, Mr. Creosote, in all regards.\n\nThere is a developed theory of the aesthetics of jokes and humor, including a mathematical and logical analysis.\n\nIndustrial Design: Designers need many aesthetic qualities to improve the marketability of manufactured products: smoothness, shininess/reflectivity, texture, pattern, curviness, color, simplicity, usability, velocity, symmetry, naturalness, and modernism.\nThe staff of the Design Aesthetics section focuses on design, appearance and the way people perceive products. Design aesthetics is interested in the appearance of products; the explanation and meaning of this appearance is studied mainly in terms of social and cultural factors. The distinctive focus of the section is research and education in the field of sensory modalities in relation to product design. These fields of attention generate design baggage that enables engineers to design products, systems, and services, and match them to the correct field of use.\n\nAesthetics in information technology has focused upon the study of human-computer interaction and creating user-friendly devices and software applications. Software itself has aesthetic dimensions (\"software aesthetics\"), as do information-technology-mediated processes and experiences such as computer video games and virtual reality simulations. Digital culture is a distinct aesthetic to judge the appeal of digital environments such as Web browsers, websites, and icons, as well as visual and aural art produced exclusively with digital technologies. The notion of cyberspace has sometimes been linked to the concept of the sublime.\n\nAesthetics in information technology do also apply to the act of designing software itself. Numerous programmers profess to experiencing a dimension of elegance in the functionality and structuring of software at the source code level. For example, a short, powerful expression that clearly expresses the intent of the code can be considered \"beautiful\" to the poor programmer charged with maintaining said code. This contrasts with code that is (as code all too often is) short, cryptic, unclear, and unnecessarily \"clever\". In-line documentation, while not strictly code, can be considered something a programmer would need to be good at in order to write beautiful code. Correctly done, documentation can accentuate the effect of beautiful code, when it is clear, concise, explains the intent of the programmer, and expands the understanding that one can gain by simply looking at the code. Comments that are redundant (only explain what the code already explains), cryptic, and overly long or short can detract from beautiful code. Aesthetics in programming can also have a practical level: Under the right conditions, elegant code can run faster and more efficiently, and (most importantly) be less prone to errors.\n\nCritics of this would say that the need to justify \"good design\" by reference to \"cost savings\" means that \"good design\" isn't \"art\" insofar as art is autonomous, and many aestheticians would have to say that art emerges in applications only in excess of cost savings. In information technology, theorists of \"user friendliness\" have to justify their \"user friendly\" applications and often disregard basic statistics when most users like a system, but a significant minority hate it.\n\nThat is, they may discard the standard deviation of their data in order to sell a good design for the best price, and this has nothing to do with art insofar as art is a useful signifier (if you cost-justify everything you are a businessman and not an artist).\n\nA folk phenomenon among real programmers is in fact their frequent hatred of practice described in books as best practice and good design. A Marxist theory of industrial \"art\" would ascribe this to alienation, in which subaltern programmers never produce code they own in any meaningful sense, with the problem that the same sort of alienation, soldiering, and bloody-mindedness appeared, it seems, in Soviet computing shops.\n\nThe most sophisticated writings on the topic of aesthetics are to be found in the late Edsger Wybe Dijkstra's corpus of papers and notes on computing: in Dijkstra, the art is real, but Ying with respect to the Yang of applications; Dijkstra seemed to have refused any analysis of programming as other than applied mathematics and, strange to say, never pursued what Adorno (the midcentury theoretician of whom Dijkstra was apparently unaware) called a purely culinary elegance...despite the protests of others that his work was \"hard to digest\", in Adorno's words not very culinary.\n\nDijkstra's beauty refused the notion of accessibility as do many \"artistic\" works ancient and modern: it was hard as is the Grosse Fuge, Beethoven's syncopated and neo-primitive late movement. In fact, no aesthetician makes \"user friendliness\" canonical and necessary in a work of art, strange to say in an era when supposedly the masses rule through the market; for most art theorists, it is nice if the canaille can enjoy some pretty rondo of Mozart and whistle it on the street, but would deny that this property must be shared by the Masonic prelude and fugue or the Requiem mass.\n\nThis makes strange any claim that a programmer making his work \"user friendly\" to all comers is some sort of artist by virtue of that. For Dijsktra, truth was primary, and beauty the automatic result.\n\nLandscape designers draw upon design elements such as axis, line, landform, horizontal and vertical planes, texture, and scale to create aesthetic variation within the landscape. They may additionally make use of aesthetic elements such as pools or fountains of water, plants, seasonal variance, stonework, fragrance, exterior lighting, statues, and lawns.\n\nIn poetry, short stories, novels and non-fiction, authors use a variety of techniques to appeal to our aesthetic values. Depending on the type of writing an author may employ rhythm, illustrations, structure, time shifting, juxtaposition, dualism, imagery, fantasy, suspense, analysis, humor/cynicism, and thinking aloud.\n\nAesthetics in cartography relates to the visual experience of map reading and can take two forms: responses to the map itself as an aesthetic object (e.g., through detail, colour, and form) and also the subject of the map symbolised, often the landscape (e.g., a particular expression of terrain which forms an imagined visual experience of the aesthetic).\n\nCartographers make aesthetic judgments when designing maps to ensure that the content forms a clear expression of the theme(s). Antique maps are perhaps especially revered due to their aesthetic value, which may seem to be derived from their styles of ornamentation. As such, aesthetics are often wrongly considered to be a by-product of design. If it is taken that aesthetic judgments are produced within a certain social context, they are fundamental to the cartographer's symbolisation and as such are integral to the function of maps.\n\nAs opposed to Industrial Design, which focuses on the aesthetic qualities of consumer products (see below), the use of aesthetics in marketing concerns itself with the \"trade dress\" of a product, such as its branding, its commercial representation, or the reputation of its producer. Marketing professionals may tickle the consumer's aesthetic appreciation of sassyness, sophistication, color-harmony, stylishness, catchy jingles, slogans, craftsmanship, soothingness, attentiveness, authenticity, or the related perceived experiences associated with product consumption.\n\nMarketing consists of intriguing the human mind to think in a direction where it would not have done so previously - or not without outside input. Human curiosity, self gain or mental adjustment is what drives marketing development itself.\n\nThe aesthetics of mathematics are often compared with music and poetry. Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős expressed his views on the indescribable beauty of mathematics when he said \"Why are numbers beautiful? It's like asking why is Beethoven's Ninth Symphony beautiful.\" Math appeals to the \"senses\" of logic, order, novelty, elegance, and discovery. Some concepts in math with specific aesthetic application include sacred ratios in geometry, the intuitiveness of axioms, the complexity and intrigue of fractals, the solidness and regularity of polyhedra, and the serendipity of relating theorems across disciplines. There is a developed aesthetic and theory of humor in mathematical humor.\n\nSome of the aesthetic elements expressed in music include lyricism, harmony, hypnotism, emotiveness, temporal dynamics, volume dynamics, resonance, playfulness, color, subtlety, elatedness, depth, and mood (see musical development). Aesthetics in music are often believed to be highly sensitive to their context: what sounds good in modern rock music might sound terrible in the context of the early baroque age.\n\nCognitive science has also considered aesthetics, with the advent of neuroesthetics, pioneered by Semir Zeki, which seeks to explain the prominence of great art as an embodiment of biological principles of the brain, namely that great works of art capture the essence of things just as vision and the brain capture the essentials of the world from the ever-changing stream of sensory input. \"See also\" Vogelkop bowerbird.\n\nPerforming arts appeal to our aesthetics of storytelling, grace, balance, class, timing, strength, shock, humor, costume, irony, beauty, drama, suspense, and sensuality. Whereas live stage performance is usually constrained by the physical reality at hand, film performance can further add the aesthetic elements of large-scale action, fantasy, and a complex interwoven musical score. Performance art often consciously mixes the aesthetics of several forms. Role-playing games are sometimes seen as a performing art with an aesthetic structure of their own, called RPG theory.\n\nAesthetic considerations within the visual arts are usually associated with the sense of vision. A painting or sculpture, however, is also perceived spatially by recognized associations and context, and even to some extent by the senses of smell, hearing, and touch. The form of the work can be subject to an aesthetic as much as the content.\n\nIn painting, the aesthetic convention that we see a three-dimensional representation rather than a two-dimensional canvas is so well understood that most people do not realize that they are making an aesthetic interpretation. This notion is the basis of abstract impressionism.\n\nIn the United States during the postwar period, the \"push-pull\" theories of Hans Hofmann, positing a relation between color and perceived depth, strongly influenced a generation of prominent abstract painters, many of whom studied under Hofmann and were generally associated with abstract expressionism. Hofmann's general attitude toward abstraction as virtually a moral imperative for the serious painter was also extremely influential.\n\nSome aesthetic effects available in visual arts include variation, juxtaposition, repetition, field effects, symmetry/asymmetry, perceived mass, subliminal structure, linear dynamics, tension and repose, pattern, contrast, perspective, 3 dimensionality, movement, rhythm, unity/Gestalt, matrixiality and proportion.\n\nOver half of mankind lives in cities; although it represents a lofty goal, planning and achieving urban aesthetics (beautification) involves a good deal of historical luck, happenstance, and indirect gestalt. Nevertheless, aesthetically pleasing cities share certain traits: ethnic and cultural variety, numerous microclimates that promote a diversity of vegetation, sufficient public transportation, Public art and freedom of expression in the community in the forms of sculpture, graffiti and street art, a range of build-out (or zoning) that creates both densely and sparsely populated areas, scenic neighboring geography (oceans or mountains), public spaces and events such as parks and parades, musical variety through local radio or street musicians, and enforcement of laws that abate noise, crime, and pollution.\n\nRecent research suggests that the visual aesthetics of computer interface is a strong determinant of users’ satisfaction and pleasure. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses found that users’ perceptions consist of different main dimensions. Lavie and Tractinsky found two main dimension which they termed “classical aesthetics” and “expressive aesthetics”. \nWhile both dimensions of perceived aesthetic are drawn from a pool of aesthetic judgments, they are clearly distinguishable from each other. \nIn a recent study Moshagen and Thielsch found four core dimensions of website aesthetics: \n\nSimplicity and diversity have repeatedly been treated as formal parameters of aesthetic objects throughout the history of empirical aesthetics. Colors are a very critical property of aesthetic objects. Craftsmanship addresses the skillful and coherent integration of the relevant design dimensions. While simplicity is highly correlated to classical aesthetics as mentioned by Lavie and Tractinsky, the other three factors could be treated as deeper differentiation of expressive aesthetics.\nBest practices for aesthetic Website Design\n• Create visual clues based on groupings; related items or links are grouped together while unrelated items are separated.\n• Use headings and subheadings to allow visual scanning of content.\n• Use headings, subheadings, font sizes, bold fonts and italic fonts in proportion to the importance of the item.\n• Align elements on a page so that they are all visually connected; size all elements on the page to create balance and unity; nothing should look out of place unless you have a specific reason for the effect.\n• Choose a font style that supports the site atmosphere and stick to it; limit styles to 2 at the most.\n• Use images and photos for visual appeal and to communicate ideas.\n• Use one set of design elements across your website.\n\nWebsite Design Aesthetics and Credibility \nWebsite design influences user’s perception of site credibility. One of the factors that influences whether users stay or go on a web page is the page aesthetics. Another reason may involve a user's judgment about the site's credibility. Findings indicate that when the same content is presented using different levels of aesthetic treatment, the content with a higher aesthetic treatment was judged as having higher credibility. We call this the amelioration effect of visual design and aesthetics on content credibility. Holmes suggests that this effect is operational within the first few seconds in which a user views a web page. Given the same content, a higher aesthetic treatment will increase perceived credibility.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41345409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41345409", "title": "Begum Akhtar Riazuddin", "text": "Begum Akhtar Riazuddin\n\nBegum Akhtar Riazuddin also spelt Riaz-ud-din or Riaz-ud-deen (born 15 October 1928) is a Pakistani feminist activist who is also the first modern Urdu-travelogue writer. She has received many awards in recognition of her efforts.\n\nAkhtar Jahan Begum was born in Calcutta on 15 October 1928 and graduated from Kinnaird College, Lahore, in 1949. She did her MA in English from Government College, Lahore, in 1951. She began her practical life with the profession of teaching. She remained a lecturer at Islamia College for Women, Lahore, from 1952 to 1965. She married Mian Riazuddin Ahmed, and came to be known as Begum Riazuddin. Their daughter, Ms. Nigar Ahmad, is the chairperson of the Aurat Foundation. Mr. Riazuddin, a senior civil servant, was the nephew of the Urdu writer, Salahuddin Ahmed. Justice Sabihuddin Ahmed and Asma Jahangir are related to Riazuddin through her husband.\n\nBegum Riazuddin's literary career is based on two travelogues, \"‘Dhanak Par Qadam’\" (1969) and \"‘Sat Samundar Par’\" (1963). In her travelogues, she uses unique similies and humorous allusions, along with satirical comments. She writes in an informal style. Her writings are simple as well as interesting. Her travelogues feature human mentality, along with civilisation and society.\n\nRiazuddin is an activist, focusing on women's uplift. She founded her welfare organisation, Behbud Association of Pakistan, for the purpose, in 1967. She worked as federal secretary of the Ministry of Women's Development in the late 1980s. She has attended many international conferences for the betterment and welfare of women, including the 32nd Session of the UN Commission on the Status of Women held in Vienna in March 1988.\n\nWhen Benazir Bhutto became the prime minister in 1988, Riazuddin was optimistic and hoped for a better future for women after the harsh Zia regime. She said:\n\nOther than being a teacher, she remained a member of the All Pakistan Music Conference Committee from 1957 to 1965. She also participated in the First All Pakistan Handicrafts Exhibition in Lahore in 1965. Begum Riazuddin also acted as adviser to the National Craft Council during mid-1980s. She is a member of the board of governors of the Bait-ul-Mal, to which she was nominated by the Prime Minister of Pakistan.\n\nHer book \"Pakistan\" was published by Stacey International, London, in 1975. Another book \"A History of Crafts in India and Pakistan\" was launched in Pakistan in 1990 and the next year in London. She has also worked on a thesis titled \"The Contribution of Islamic Civilisation to India & Pakistan.\" Her works also include her travelogues, \"Sat Samundar Par\" and \"Dhanak Par Qadam\" (1969).\n\nRiazuddin was conferred the Sitara-e-Imtiaz by the president of Pakistan in March 2000 for her voluntary social service. She received the 'Lifetime Achievement Award' of the Ministry of Women's Development in August 2005. She was given the Adamjee Prize by the for her pioneering work in the genre of travelogue in Urdu 'Dhanak Par Qadam' in March 1970. She was also one of the group of 1,000 women nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2005 as part of the 1000 PeaceWomen project.\n\n"}
{"id": "4361298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4361298", "title": "Bezhta language", "text": "Bezhta language\n\nThe Bezhta (or Bezheta) language (Bezhta: бежкьалас миц, \"bežƛʼalas mic\", ), also known as Kapucha (from the name of a large village), belongs to the Tsezic group of the North Caucasian language family. It is spoken by about 6,200 people in southern Dagestan, Russia\n\nBezhta can be divided into three dialects – Bezhta Proper, Tlyadal and Khocharkhotin – which are spoken in various villages in the region. Its closest linguistic relatives are Hunzib and Khwarshi. Bezhta is unwritten, but various attempts have been made to develop an official orthography for the language. The Bezhta people use Avar as the literary language. The first book ever printed in Bezhta was the Gospel of Luke.\n\nBezhta has a rich consonantal and – unlike its relatives Tsez and Avar – a relatively large vowel inventory (18 distinct vowel phonemes), compared to other languages of the same family.\n\nConsonants:\n\nBezhta is mostly agglutinative and the vast amount of locative cases makes its case system particularly rich. The verb morphology is relatively simple, though. It is an ergative language.\n\nUnlike Tsez, Bezhta has a decimal system with the word for twenty being an exception.\n\n\nThis is a passage taken from the Gospel of Luke written in a Cyrillic orthography based on Avar and Chechen, a Latinized transcription and one in IPA.\n"}
{"id": "50503329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50503329", "title": "Consumer innovativeness", "text": "Consumer innovativeness\n\nConsumer innovativeness is a construct that deals with how receptive consumers are to new products. Consumer innovativeness has been defined as a predisposition or propensity to buy or adopt new products or a preference for new and different experience.\n"}
{"id": "910859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910859", "title": "Countess Maritza", "text": "Countess Maritza\n\nGräfin Mariza (\"Countess Maritza\") is an operetta in three acts composed by Hungarian composer Emmerich Kálmán, with a German libretto by Julius Brammer and Alfred Grünwald. It premiered in Vienna on 28 February 1924 at the Theater an der Wien.\n\nAs \"Countess Maritza\", it made its New York City debut on 18 September 1926 at the Shubert Theatre, in an adaptation by Harry B. Smith, and with interpolated music by other composers, playing 318 performances. The show was staged by J. C. Huffman.\n\nAs \"Maritza\", it opened in London at the Palace Theatre on 6 July 1938, with Mary Losseff in the title role.\n\nA London revival by New Sadler's Wells Opera opened at Sadler's Wells Theatre in February 1983, with a new English book and lyrics by Nigel Douglas, starring Marilyn Hill Smith (Maritza), Ramon Remedios (Tassilo), Laureen Livingstone (Lisa), Lynn Barber (Manja) and Tudor Davies (Zsupan) conducted by Barry Wordsworth.\n\nManja the gypsy girl flirts with the newly appointed bailiff, Béla Törek. Unknown to anyone, Törek is in fact the impoverished Count Tassilo, who is seeking to earn a living and set aside some cash for the dowry of his sister Lisa. The Countess Maritza, a young widow, unexpectedly arrives at the estate to celebrate her engagement. This 'engagement' is however quite fictitious, an invention intended to put off her numerous followers. The name she has chosen for her suitor, based on her recollection of Strauss' operetta, \"The Gypsy Baron\", is Baron Koloman Zsupán. However, amongst Maritza's guests, to Tassilo's horror, is Lisa, who he instructs to keep their relationship and his identity strictly secret. Maritza is also embarrassed when a genuine Koloman Zsupán materialises, having seen an announcement of his 'engagement' in the press.\nTassilo is heard by the guests singing an air \"Komm, Zigány\" (\"Come, gypsies!\"), which he ends with a czardas. Maritza orders him to repeat it; he refuses, and the angry countess announces that he is fired. Manja predicts that The Countess will be very happy in love. \"One moon will pass over this Earth and Maritza will find her happiness\", she sings. Maritza therefore decides to remain on her estate. She stops Tassilo from leaving and apologises.\n\nZsupan has meanwhile decided that he prefers Lisa to Maritza, whilst Maritza is increasingly attracted to Tassilo. However, the ageing Lothario Populescu reveals to Maritza Tassilo's identity, and moreover alleges that Lisa is his girlfriend. Maritza in a high temper insults Tassilo, who declares that he will leave. However, before he goes, the repentant Maritza writes him a 'reference' which is in fact a proposal of marriage. The operetta ends with Maritza and Tassilo, and Zsupan and Lisa, engaged.\n\nKalman: \"Gräfin Mariza\", Wiener Opernball Orch.\n\nThere are a number of film versions of the operetta:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52820675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52820675", "title": "David Strecker", "text": "David Strecker\n\nDavid Strecker (born August 12, 1950) also known by the alias Cuba Dave, is a retired American laborer who received a 5-year prison sentence in Costa Rica for the promotion of sex tourism. Prior to his arrest and conviction, Strecker was held in preventative detention in San Sebastián prison in San José, Costa Rica. He is the first individual to be targeted for prosecution under Costa Rica's controversial new law, passed in 2012, that makes it illegal for a third party to profit on prostitution.\n\nDavid Strecker is a former softball pitcher who grew up in Minneapolis, Minnesota, where he is a member of the Minnesota Softball Hall of Fame. After retiring from his work as a construction contractor, Strecker relocated to Key West, Florida, where he began to make extended trips to various Latin American countries. Strecker later documented these trips in various written articles and photos on his CubaDave web site and Facebook and MySpace pages, where he provided information to readers about his experiences with prostitutes across Latin America.\n\nIn a 2013 interview with the Miami New Times, Strecker admitted to being a sex addict, having slept with more than 2,500 women and taking part in prostitution in Cuba, Costa Rica, Colombia and the Dominican Republic, among other locations. A wall in his residence contained photos of women with which he had sexual relations more than 10 times.\n\nAuthorities in Costa Rica arrested Strecker on September 4, 2015 at Juan Santamaría International Airport while he was attempting to return to the United States. Strecker was charged with promoting sex tourism in Costa Rica, a charged based upon a new 2012 law making it illegal to promote sex tourism. His arrest was precipitated by a complaint to Costa Rica's Organismo de Investigación Judicial (OIJ) in August 2015 by the Fundación Rehab, an NGO that combats human trafficking in Costa Rica.\nWhile the government was preparing its case against Strecker, he was held in preventive detention for 14 months, as he was deemed to be a flight risk. He was unaware a trial date had been set until the eve of the trial, from his public defender. Strecker maintained his innocence during the detention and through his trial, proclaiming himself to be a political prisoner. While he does not deny publishing images and articles about prostitution in Costa Rica, he claims that these articles did not actively promote sex tourism. He told the Florida Keys News that, “In their mind, by me posting things or telling others how to safely do this, I’m promoting prostitution. There are lots of other things to do in Costa Rica. That part of it is only part of the trip, but they’re trying to make this look like that’s all my focus is.”.\n\nStrecker was unable to fund his own legal defense and, with the help of Dennis Eatmon, created a legal defense fund. According to his website CubaDave.com, Strecker was able to raise a total of $1500.00, and needed to raise an additional $1500.00 used to pay his legal expenses.\n\nIn a trial that lasted only a week, on November 16, 2016 David Strecker became the first person convicted under Costa Rica’s new Sex Tourism Law. He was convicted by three judges in San José, Costa Rica by unanimous decision. Judge Vivian Obando berated Strecker during the sentencing hearing, telling him that his articles have done “societal harm” to the country's external image. The evidence presented in the trial was principally derived from Strecker's own articles, photos, and various YouTube videos in which he described his sexual exploits.\n\nStrecker was sentenced to a five-year prison term for violating the 2012 law prohibiting the promotion of Costa Rica as a sexual tourism destination. Strecker was released on August 18, 2017 after having his conviction dismissed by an appellate court.\n\nOn May 25th, 2017, an appellate court vacated the decision against David Strecker, citing fundamental flaws in Costa Rica's Law 9095 and serious flaws in the evidence presented in the case. The prosecution contested the decision. Mr. Strecker remained held in prison while awaiting the outcome of the prosecution's appeal.\n\nA.M. Costa Rica reported on August 18, 2017 that David Strecker has been acquitted and released.\n"}
{"id": "54184882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54184882", "title": "Disability in Yemen", "text": "Disability in Yemen\n\nDisability in Yemen has been increasing over time, especially because of increased conflict in the area. Disabled people in Yemen face many challenges due to poverty, lack of accessible infrastructure, gender segregation and more. The government of Yemen has passed laws to help protect the rights of the disabled in their country, but not all laws are equally enforced.\n\nA 2004 estimate indicated that there were around 380,000 disabled people in Yemen. A paper produced by the United Nations (UN) in 2009 estimated the number at between 3 and 5% of the population. The Yemen government recorded around 150,000 Yemeni people with disabilities, while in 2014, the Yemeni Handicapped Forum revealed that there were more than two million people living with some type of disability in Yemen. The ongoing conflict in Yemen has added to the number of people who are disabled. There have been around 28,500 people injured in Yemen since March of 2015.\n\nThe number of people in Yemen diagnosed with autism has increased over time. \n\nDisabled individuals make up less than 1% of the workforce in the country. More individuals with disability live in rural areas of Yemen. In addition, those in the lowest income brackets are twice as likely to be disabled as people in the highest brackets as reported in 2005.\n\nIn many cases disability in Yemen could be prevented. People in Yemen have disabilities related to spinal cord injuries which could be corrected with surgery. Incidents of polio still occur in Yemen, with 485 cases occurring in 2005 and 2006. Approximately 30% of disabilities in Yemen may result from congenital conditions or from complications during delivery as reported in 2003.\n\nA study released by Ibrahim Omran ties most cases of disability to war and conflict in Yemen. Because of armed conflict in the region, thousands of Yemeni people have lost limbs since 2015. Traffic accidents, conflicts between tribes, land mines, spinal fever, genetic diseases and malnutrition are also leading causes of disability in Yemen. Marriages between close cousins also increases changes of genetic causes of disability.\n\nThe major religion of Yemen, Islam, emphasizes caring for the disabled and enduring hardship. This attitude affects the way that many Yemeni people face the challenges of disability.\n\nFamilies of disabled people and those who are disabled can, however, face social stigma. Some people in Yemen believe that mothers can pass a disability to their children. Families have kept disabled people under virtual house arrest in some situations because of the shame associated with disability. Disabled women have difficulty seeing themselves getting married, although disabled men in Yemen imagined they would be able to marry almost anyone.\n\nIndividuals with disability in Yemen can be denied access to education, employment, access to healthcare and have difficulties with public spaces and transportation that are not designed to accommodate disabled people.\n\nYemen has participated in the Paralympic Games only once, the 1992 Summer Games in Barcelona. the Yemen Paralympic Committee is suspended from the International Paralympic Committee.\n\nThe government organization responsible for helping disabled individuals is the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour (MoSAL). MoSAL also has a Disability Fund (DF). Yemen is one of the countries who has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Social Fund for Development (SFD) is a social safety net created in 1997 which targets at-risk people in Yemen, including people with disabilities. In 2008, the SFD supported programs for 1,083 children with disabilities. The government of Yemen, in 2007, created a National Disability Strategy which \"outlines the vision, objectives and principles of a 'rights-based' approach to disability for Yemen.\"\n\nThe Ministry of Education in Yemen has not always had enough funding to support disabled students. There are only a few schools for disabled children and these are only in Yemen's cities. Most people with disabilities in Yemen lack education and only 23.6% of those with disabilities have finished secondary school, according to a 2005 study.\n\nVarious non-governmental organizations (NGOs) operate in Yemen to help people with disabilities, however, many are underfunded. Organizations like Handicap International have helped by donating mobility aids and offer psychological support for people in Yemen. The Yemen Center for Autism (YCA) in Sana'a helps individuals with autism and their families. However, YCA has had trouble meeting the needs of their clients. The Altahadi Foundation, also in Sana'a, helps disabled women and girls.\n\nThe Law for the Welfare of Disabled (Law Number 2, 2002) is considered by the UN to be the principal document pertaining to people with disability. Other laws covering disability include articles 115 - 123 of the Child Law (Number 45, 2002) and Public Law Number 61, 1999. Public Law (61/1999) guarantees that disabled people have the same rights as non-disabled people under the Constitution of Yemen. It also \"allocates the responsibility for disability to the Disability Fund. Civil Service Law Number 19 in 1991 and Labor Law Number 5 in 1995 both address quotas to be met for the employment of people with disabilities. Building Code 19 of 2002 is intended to create accessible infrastructure.\n\nDisabled people, however, have claimed that while the laws Yemen has created are good, they are rarely enforced. Wording of the laws is also often vague, making it difficult to enforce these laws on behalf of disabled people.\n\nBecause of ongoing conflict in Yemen, people with disabilities face problems such as lack of services and inability to access buildings. Rubble in the streets can make it difficult for those with physical disabilities to access services. Areas that have received heavy bombing have had to discontinue services to people with disabilities. In late 2015, Saudi-led coalitions bombed the Al Noor Center for Care and Rehabilitation of the Blind in Sana'a.\n\nHuman Rights Watch (HRW) states that people with disabilities are at increased risk during times of crisis and conflict. People with disabilities and their families have had difficulty leaving conflict zones. On December 3, 2016, disabled Yemenis rallied on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, asking that the conflict in Yemen end.\n\nBecause most Yemeni people live in rural areas outside of cities, it is difficult to access services for people with disability. Due to the poverty of many disabled Yemeni people, assistive devices are too expensive to purchase. Government services meant to help disabled people in poverty must be requested in person in Sana'a and require that the applicant be literate.\n\nDisabled women in Yemen face unique challenges because of the conservative attitude towards women in the country. Disabled women in 2004 had illiteracy rates as high as 87 to 90 percent. In some cases, however, education for disabled girls was actively encouraged as an alternative opportunity.\n\nWomen in Yemen who become disabled as adults and are unable to perform their usual roles can lose their sense of self-worth.\n\nNon-disabled women are often prevented from getting an education or marrying out of the family unit if there are disabled members of her family; she is expected to help care for the family members with disabilities.\n\nFemale teachers have rejected teaching disabled men because of the stratification of Yemeni society where men and women do not normally interact with one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52446634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52446634", "title": "Family policy in the Netherlands", "text": "Family policy in the Netherlands\n\nMarriage legislation has a long tradition in the Netherlands. The minimum age at marriage was set in the 1811 Civil Code, amended in 1838. Same sex marriage was allowed in 2001. The first Family Allowance Act was introduced in 1941, and provided benefits only to working families with more than two children. In 1947, the income dependency was abolished and wage earners were also entitled to an allowance for their first and second children under 18 years old. In 1963, family allowances were extended to self-employed people. Currently, all families living in the Netherlands are entitled to a family allowance if their child (biological, adopted, step or foster) is younger than 18 years old. In 1956, the Netherlands passed the Nursery Education Act that funded preschool; however, in 1981, preschool was added to the standard education system. The Childcare Act of 2005 gave childcare an official framework which provided funding and supervision for many programs.\n\nMarriage in the Netherlands has very few rules that have changed throughout history. The first rule was set in the 1811 Civil Code which stated that the groom must be at least 18 years of age and the bride must be at least 15 years of age. This was changed in 1838 when brides were made to be at least 16 years of age and grooms still 18. Recent additions to the Civil Code have changed the brides' age to 18, along with the grooms' age of 18.\n\nThese Civil Codes also added to the laws that in order to be married in the Netherlands, one partner must be Dutch or currently living in the Netherlands.\n\nAlong with this law was the provision of relatives marrying; however, it only applies to brother-sister, parent-child, and grandparent-grandchild.\n\nPre-2001, the Civil Code did not explicitly address same-sex marriage. In 2001, a law was created that allowed same-sex marriage in the Netherlands.\n\nIn 1941, the Family Allowance Act was created in order to support families in hard times; however, this act only applied to working families with three or more children. This was because it was assumed that an average salary was enough to support a family with two children. In addition to this, the children had to be dependent on the parent and once the child turned 15, the benefits no longer applied.\n\nIn 1947, working families were allowed benefits from all children if they were under the age of 18 years old; in 1963, benefits were extended to self-employed families as well.\n\nFamily allowance is broken down based on the age of the child in euros per month (EpM): 0-6=191.65 EpM, 6-12=232.71 EpM, 12-18=273.78 EpM.\n\nIf a child is earning more than 1,266 euros per quarter or is receiving study benefits, the family can not receive benefits for them. Additionally, a family is only allowed benefits for 16 and 17-year-olds if they are actively participating in an education program to receive a VMBO, HAVO, or VWO.\n\nThese rules change slightly given different situations such as disability, single-parent families, and other special circumstances.\n\nIn 1956, the Netherlands passed the Nursery Education Act that funded preschool; however, in 1981, preschool was added to the standard education system. Four-year-olds were allowed to be enrolled in school but it was not mandatory; school became mandatory once the child reached five years old. If a child has the possibility of a language disadvantage, mainly for immigrant children, they can be enrolled as young as two years old in order to catch them up before primary school started.\n\nDaycare and after-school care have policies dating back to the 1970s in the Netherlands. The recent increase in women in the workforce has called for an increase in the amount of daycare and after-school care needed. Today, the system is mixed of formal, informal, public, and private care. The Childcare Act of 2005 gave childcare an official framework and provided funding and supervision for many programs. In 2010, the act was amended and renamed to the \"Childcare and Quality Standards for Playgroups Act\". This new version of the act provided better supervision and funding while also regulating the quality of these daycare facilities and providing education for the children in these facilities.\n"}
{"id": "16231219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16231219", "title": "Guduf-Gava language", "text": "Guduf-Gava language\n\nGuduf-Gava (also known as Gudupe, Afkabiye) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in Borno State, Nigeria. In a 2006 paper, Roger Blench classified Cineni as a dialect.\n"}
{"id": "23466744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23466744", "title": "Haymarket affair", "text": "Haymarket affair\n\nThe Haymarket affair (also known as the Haymarket massacre, Haymarket riot, or Haymarket Square riot) was the aftermath of a bombing that took place at a labor demonstration on Tuesday, May 4, 1886, at Haymarket Square in Chicago. It began as a peaceful rally in support of workers striking for an eight-hour day and in reaction to the killing of several workers the previous day by the police. An unknown person threw a dynamite bomb at the police as they acted to disperse the public meeting. The bomb blast and ensuing gunfire resulted in the deaths of seven police officers and at least four civilians; dozens of others were wounded.\n\nIn the internationally publicized legal proceedings that followed, eight anarchists were convicted of conspiracy. The evidence was that one of the defendants may have built the bomb, but none of those on trial had thrown it. Seven were sentenced to death and one to a term of 15 years in prison. The death sentences of two of the defendants were commuted by Illinois governor Richard J. Oglesby to terms of life in prison, and another committed suicide in jail rather than face the gallows. The other four were hanged on November 11, 1887. In 1893, Illinois's new governor, John Peter Altgeld, pardoned the remaining defendants and criticized the trial.\n\nThe Haymarket Affair is generally considered significant as the origin of International Workers' Day, held on May 1. According to labor studies professor William J. Adelman:\n\nNo single event has influenced the history of labor in Illinois, the United States, and even the world, more than the Chicago Haymarket Affair. It began with a rally on May 4, 1886, but the consequences are still being felt today. Although the rally is included in American history textbooks, very few present the event accurately or point out its significance.\n\nThe site of the incident was designated a Chicago Landmark in 1992, and a public sculpture was dedicated there in 2004. In addition, the \"Haymarket Martyrs' Monument\" at the defendants' burial site in nearby Forest Park was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1997.\n\nFollowing the Civil War, particularly following the Long Depression, there was a rapid expansion of industrial production in the United States. Chicago was a major industrial center and tens of thousands of German and Bohemian immigrants were employed at about $1.50 a day. American workers worked on average slightly over 60 hours, during a six-day work week. The city became a center for many attempts to organize labor's demands for better working conditions. Employers responded with anti-union measures, such as firing and blacklisting union members, locking out workers, recruiting strikebreakers; employing spies, thugs, and private security forces and exacerbating ethnic tensions in order to divide the workers. Mainstream newspapers supported business interests, and were opposed by the labor and immigrant press. During the economic slowdown between 1882 and 1886, socialist and anarchist organizations were active. Membership of the Knights of Labor, which rejected socialism and radicalism, but supported the 8-hour work day, grew from 70,000 in 1884 to over 700,000 by 1886. In Chicago, the anarchist movement of several thousand, mostly immigrant, workers centered about the German-language newspaper \"Arbeiter-Zeitung\" (\"Workers' Times\"), edited by August Spies. Other anarchists operated a militant revolutionary force with an armed section that was equipped with guns and explosives. Its revolutionary strategy centered around the belief that successful operations against the police and the seizure of major industrial centers would result in massive public support by workers, start a revolution, destroy capitalism, and establish a socialist economy.\n\nIn October 1884, a convention held by the Federation of Organized Trades and Labor Unions unanimously set May 1, 1886, as the date by which the eight-hour work day would become standard. As the chosen date approached, U.S. labor unions prepared for a general strike in support of the eight-hour day.\n\nOn Saturday, May 1, thousands of workers went on strike and rallies were held throughout the United States, with the cry, \"Eight-hour day with no cut in pay.\" Estimates of the number of striking workers across the U.S. range from 300,000 to half a million. In New York City, the number of demonstrators was estimated at 10,000 and in Detroit at 11,000. In Milwaukee, Wisconsin, some 10,000 workers turned out. In Chicago, the movement's center, an estimated 30,000-to-40,000 workers had gone on strike and there were perhaps twice as many people out on the streets participating in various demonstrations and marches, as, for example, a march by 10,000 men employed in the Chicago lumber yards. Though participants in these events added up to 80,000, it is disputed whether there was a march of that number down Michigan Avenue led by anarchist Albert Parsons, founder of the International Working People's Association [IWPA], his wife Lucy Parsons and their children.\nOn May 3, striking workers in Chicago met near the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company plant. Union molders at the plant had been locked out since early February and the predominantly Irish-American workers at McCormick had come under attack from Pinkerton guards during an earlier strike action in 1885. This event, along with the eight-hour militancy of McCormick workers, had gained the strikers some respect and notoriety around the city. By the time of the 1886 general strike, strikebreakers entering the McCormick plant were under protection from a garrison of 400 police officers. Although half of the replacement workers defected to the general strike on May 1, McCormick workers continued to harass strikebreakers as they crossed the picket lines.\n\nSpeaking to a rally outside the plant on May 3, August Spies advised the striking workers to \"hold together, to stand by their union, or they would not succeed\". Well-planned and coordinated, the general strike to this point had remained largely nonviolent. When the end-of-the-workday bell sounded, however, a group of workers surged to the gates to confront the strikebreakers. Despite calls for calm by Spies, the police fired on the crowd. Two McCormick workers were killed (although some newspaper accounts said there were six fatalities). Spies would later testify, \"I was very indignant. I knew from experience of the past that this butchering of people was done for the express purpose of defeating the eight-hour movement.\"\n\nOutraged by this act of police violence, local anarchists quickly printed and distributed fliers calling for a rally the following day at Haymarket Square (also called the Haymarket), which was then a bustling commercial center near the corner of Randolph Street and Desplaines Street. Printed in German and English, the fliers claimed that the police had murdered the strikers on behalf of business interests and urged workers to seek justice. The first batch of fliers contain the words \"Workingmen Arm Yourselves and Appear in Full Force!\" When Spies saw the line, he said he would not speak at the rally unless the words were removed from the flier. All but a few hundred of the fliers were destroyed, and new fliers were printed without the offending words. More than 20,000 copies of the revised flier were distributed.\n\nThe rally began peacefully under a light rain on the evening of May 4. August Spies, Albert Parsons, and Samuel Fielden spoke to a crowd estimated variously between 600 and 3,000 while standing in an open wagon adjacent to the square on Des Plaines Street. A large number of on-duty police officers watched from nearby.\n\nPaul Avrich, a historian specializing in the study of anarchism, quotes Spies as saying:\nThere seems to prevail the opinion in some quarters that this meeting has been called for the purpose of inaugurating a riot, hence these warlike preparations on the part of so-called 'law and order.' However, let me tell you at the beginning that this meeting has not been called for any such purpose. The object of this meeting is to explain the general situation of the eight-hour movement and to throw light upon various incidents in connection with it.\n\nFollowing Spies' speech, the crowd was addressed by Parsons, the Alabama-born editor of the radical English-language weekly \"The Alarm.\" The crowd was so calm that Mayor Carter Harrison Sr., who had stopped by to watch, walked home early. Parsons spoke for almost an hour before standing down in favor of the last speaker of the evening, the British socialist Samuel Fielden, who delivered a brief ten-minute address. Many of the crowd had already left as the weather was deteriorating.\n\nA \"New York Times\" article, with the dateline May 4, and headlined \"Rioting and Bloodshed in the Streets of Chicago ... Twelve Policemen Dead or Dying\", reported that Fielden spoke for 20 minutes, alleging that his words grew \"wilder and more violent as he proceeded\". Another \"New York Times\" article, headlined \"Anarchy's Red Hand\" and dated May 6, opens with: \"The villainous teachings of the Anarchists bore bloody fruit in Chicago tonight and before daylight at least a dozen stalwart men will have laid down their lives as a tribute to the doctrine of Herr Johann Most.\" It referred to the strikers as a \"mob\" and used quotation marks around the term \"workingmen\".\n\nAt about 10:30 pm, just as Fielden was finishing his speech, police arrived en masse, marching in formation towards the speakers' wagon, and ordered the rally to disperse. Fielden insisted that the meeting was peaceful. Police Inspector John Bonfield proclaimed:\n\nI command you [addressing the speaker] in the name of the law to desist and you [addressing the crowd] to disperse.\n\nA home-made bomb with a brittle metal casing filled with dynamite and ignited by a fuse was thrown into the path of the advancing police. Its fuse briefly sputtered, and then the bomb exploded, killing policeman Mathias J. Degan with flying metal fragments and mortally wounding six other officers.\n\nWitnesses maintained that immediately after the bomb blast there was an exchange of gunshots between police and demonstrators. Accounts vary widely as to who fired first and whether any of the crowd fired at the police. Historian Paul Avrich maintains that the police fired on the fleeing demonstrators, reloaded and then fired again, killing four and wounding as many as 70 people. What is not disputed is that in less than five minutes the square was empty except for the casualties. According to the May 4 \"New York Times,\" demonstrators began firing at the police, who then returned fire. In his report on the incident, Inspector Bonfield wrote that he \"gave the order to cease firing, fearing that some of our men, in the darkness might fire into each other\". An anonymous police official told the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"A very large number of the police were wounded by each other's revolvers. ... It was every man for himself, and while some got two or three squares away, the rest emptied their revolvers, mainly into each other.\"\n\nIn all, seven policemen and at least four workers were killed. Another policeman died two years after the incident from complications related to injuries received on that day. About 60 policemen were wounded in the incident. They were carried, along with some other wounded people, into a nearby police station. Police captain Michael Schaack later wrote that the number of wounded workers was \"largely in excess of that on the side of the police\". The \"Chicago Herald\" described a scene of \"wild carnage\" and estimated at least fifty dead or wounded civilians lay in the streets. It is unclear how many civilians were wounded since many were afraid to seek medical attention, fearing arrest. They found aid where they could.\n\nA harsh anti-union clampdown followed the Haymarket incident. There was a massive outpouring of community and business support for the police and many thousands of dollars were donated to funds for their medical care and to assist their efforts. The entire labor and immigrant community, particularly Germans and Bohemians, came under suspicion. Police raids were carried out on homes and offices of suspected anarchists. Dozens of suspects, many only remotely related to the Haymarket affair, were arrested. Casting legal requirements such as search warrants aside, Chicago police squads subjected the labor activists of Chicago to an eight-week shakedown, ransacking their meeting halls and places of business. The emphasis was on the speakers at the Haymarket rally and the newspaper \"Arbeiter-Zeitung\". A small group of anarchists were discovered to have been engaged in making bombs on the same day as the incident, including round ones like the one used in Haymarket Square.\n\nNewspaper reports declared that anarchist agitators were to blame for the \"riot\", a view adopted by an alarmed public. As time passed, press reports and illustrations of the incident became more elaborate. Coverage was national, then international. Among property owners, the press, and other elements of society, a consensus developed that suppression of anarchist agitation was necessary while for their part, union organizations such as The Knights of Labor and craft unions were quick to disassociate themselves from the anarchist movement and to repudiate violent tactics as self-defeating. Many workers, on the other hand, believed that men of the Pinkerton agency were responsible because of the agency's tactic of secretly infiltrating labor groups and its sometimes violent methods of strike breaking.\n\nThe police assumed that an anarchist had thrown the bomb as part of a planned conspiracy; their problem was how to prove it. On the morning of May 5, they raided the offices of the \"Arbeiter-Zeitung\", arresting its editor August Spies, and his brother (who was not charged). Also arrested were editorial assistant Michael Schwab and Adolph Fischer, a typesetter. A search of the premises resulted in the discovery of the \"Revenge Poster\" and other evidence considered incriminating by the prosecution.\n\nOn May 7, police searched the premises of Louis Lingg where they found a number of bombs and bomb-making materials. Lingg's landlord William Seliger was also arrested but cooperated with police and identified Lingg as a bomb maker and was not charged. An associate of Spies, Balthazar Rau, suspected as the bomber, was traced to Omaha and brought back to Chicago. After interrogation, Rau offered to cooperate with police. He alleged that the defendants had experimented with dynamite bombs and accused them of having published what he said was a code word, \"Ruhe\" (\"peace\"), in the \"Arbeiter-Zeitung\" as a call to arms at Haymarket Square.\n\nRudolf Schnaubelt, the police's lead suspect as the bomb thrower, was arrested twice early on and released. By May 14, when it became apparent he had played a significant role in the event, he had fled the country. William Seliger, who had turned state's evidence and testified for the prosecution, was not charged. On June 4, 1886, seven other suspects, however, were indicted by the grand jury and stood trial for being accessories to the murder of Degan. Of these, only two had been present when the bomb exploded. Newspaper editor August Spies and Samuel Fielden had spoken at the peaceful rally and were stepping down from the speaker's wagon in compliance with police orders to disperse just before the bomb went off. Two others had been present at the beginning of the rally but had left and were at Zepf's Hall, an anarchist rendezvous, at the time of the explosion. They were: \"Arbeiter-Zeitung\" typesetter Adolph Fischer and the well-known activist Albert Parsons, who had spoken for an hour at the Haymarket rally before going to Zepf's. Parsons, who believed that the evidence against them all was weak, subsequently voluntarily turned himself in, in solidarity with the accused. A third man, Spies's assistant editor Michael Schwab (who was the brother-in-law of Schnaubelt) was arrested since he was speaking at another rally at the time of the bombing (he was also later pardoned). Not directly tied to the Haymarket rally, but arrested because they were notorious for their militant radicalism were George Engel (who was at home playing cards on that day), and Louis Lingg, the hot-headed bomb maker denounced by his associate, Seliger. Another defendant who had not been present that day was Oscar Neebe, an American-born citizen of German descent who was associated with the \"Arbeiter-Zeitung\" and had attempted to revive it in the aftermath of the Haymarket riot.\n\nOf the eight defendants, five – Spies, Fischer, Engel, Lingg and Schwab – were German-born immigrants; a sixth, Neebe, was a U.S.-born citizen of German descent. Only the remaining two, Parsons and Fielden, born in the U.S. and England, respectively, were of British heritage.\n\nThe trial, \"Illinois vs. August Spies et al.\", began on June 21, 1886, and went on until August 11. The trial was conducted in an atmosphere of extreme prejudice by both public and media toward the defendants. It was presided over by Judge Joseph Gary. Judge Gary displayed open hostility to the defendants, consistently ruled for the prosecution, and failed to maintain decorum. A motion to try the defendants separately was denied. The defense counsel included Sigmund Zeisler, William Perkins Black, William Foster, and Moses Salomon. Selection of the jury was extraordinarily difficult, lasting three weeks, and nearly one thousand people called. All union members and anyone who expressed sympathy toward socialism were dismissed. In the end a jury of 12 was seated, most of whom confessed prejudice towards the defendants. Despite their professions of prejudice Judge Gary seated those who declared that despite their prejudices they would acquit if the evidence supported it, refusing to dismiss for prejudice. Eventually the peremptory challenges of the defense were exhausted. Frustrated by the hundreds of jurors who were being dismissed, a bailiff was appointed who selected jurors rather than calling them at random. The bailiff proved prejudiced himself and selected jurors who seemed likely to convict based on their social position and attitudes toward the defendants. The prosecution, led by Julius Grinnell, argued that since the defendants had not actively discouraged the person who had thrown the bomb, they were therefore equally responsible as conspirators. The jury heard the testimony of 118 people, including 54 members of the Chicago Police Department and the defendants Fielden, Schwab, Spies and Parsons. Albert Parsons' brother claimed there was evidence linking the Pinkertons to the bomb. This reflected a widespread belief among the strikers.\nPolice investigators under Captain Michael Schaack had a lead fragment removed from a policeman's wounds chemically analyzed. They reported that the lead used in the casing matched the casings of bombs found in Lingg's home. A metal nut and fragments of the casing taken from the wound also roughly matched bombs made by Lingg. Schaack concluded, on the basis of interviews, that the anarchists had been experimenting for years with dynamite and other explosives, refining the design of their bombs before coming up with the effective one used at the Haymarket.\n\nAt the last minute, when it was discovered that instructions for manslaughter had not been included in the submitted instructions, the jury was called back, and the instructions were given.\n\nThe jury returned guilty verdicts for all eight defendants. Before being sentenced, Neebe told the court that Schaack's officers were among the city's worst gangs, ransacking houses and stealing money and watches. Schaack laughed and Neebe retorted, \"You need not laugh about it, Captain Schaack. You are one of them. You are an anarchist, as you understand it. You are all anarchists, in this sense of the word, I must say.\" Judge Gary sentenced seven of the defendants to death by hanging and Neebe to 15 years in prison. The sentencing provoked outrage from labor and workers' movements and their supporters, resulting in protests around the world, and elevating the defendants to the status of martyrs, especially abroad. Portrayals of the anarchists as bloodthirsty foreign fanatics in the press along with the 1889 publication of Captain Schaack's sensational account, \"Anarchy and Anarchism,\" on the other hand, inspired widespread public fear and revulsion against the strikers and general anti-immigrant feeling, polarizing public opinion.\n\nIn an article datelined May 4, entitled \"Anarchy's Red Hand\", \"The New York Times\" had described the incident as the \"bloody fruit\" of \"the villainous teachings of the Anarchists\". The \"Chicago Times\" described the defendants as \"arch counselors of riot, pillage, incendiarism and murder\"; other reporters described them as \"bloody brutes\", \"red ruffians\", \"dynamarchists\", \"bloody monsters\", \"cowards\", \"cutthroats\", \"thieves\", \"assassins\", and \"fiends\". The journalist George Frederic Parsons wrote a piece for \"The Atlantic Monthly\" in which he identified the fears of middle-class Americans concerning labor radicalism, and asserted that the workers had only themselves to blame for their troubles. Edward Aveling remarked, \"If these men are ultimately hanged, it will be the \"Chicago Tribune\" that has done it.\" Schaack, who had led the investigation, was dismissed from the police force for allegedly having fabricated evidence in the case but was reinstated in 1892.\n\nThe case was appealed in 1887 to the Supreme Court of Illinois, then to the United States Supreme Court where the defendants were represented by John Randolph Tucker, Roger Atkinson Pryor, General Benjamin F. Butler and William P. Black. The petition for \"certiorari\" was denied.\n\nAfter the appeals had been exhausted, Illinois Governor Richard James Oglesby commuted Fielden's and Schwab's sentences to life in prison on November 10, 1887. On the eve of his scheduled execution, Lingg committed suicide in his cell with a smuggled blasting cap which he reportedly held in his mouth like a cigar (the blast blew off half his face and he survived in agony for six hours).\n\nThe next day (November 11, 1887) four defendants—Engel, Fischer, Parsons, and Spies—were taken to the gallows in white robes and hoods. They sang the \"Marseillaise\", then the anthem of the international revolutionary movement. Family members including Lucy Parsons, who attempted to see them for the last time, were arrested and searched for bombs (none were found). According to witnesses, in the moments before the men were hanged, Spies shouted, \"The time will come when our silence will be more powerful than the voices you strangle today.\" In their last words, Engel and Fischer called out, \"Hurrah for anarchism!\" Parsons then requested to speak, but he was cut off when the signal was given to open the trap door. Witnesses reported that the condemned men did not die immediately when they dropped, but strangled to death slowly, a sight which left the spectators visibly shaken.\n\nNotwithstanding the convictions for conspiracy, no actual bomber was ever brought to trial, \"and no lawyerly explanation could ever make a conspiracy trial without the main perpetrator in the conspiracy seem completely legitimate.\" Historians such as James Joll and Timothy Messer-Kruse say the evidence points to Rudolph Schnaubelt, brother-in-law of Schwab, as the likely perpetrator.\n\nAn extensive collection of documents relating to the Haymarket Affair and the legal proceedings related to it, The Haymarket Affair Digital Collection, has been created by the Chicago Historical Society\n\nAmong supporters of the labor movement in the United States and abroad and others, the trial was widely believed to have been unfair, and even a serious miscarriage of justice. Prominent people such as novelist William Dean Howells; celebrated attorney Clarence Darrow; poet and playwright Oscar Wilde; playwright George Bernard Shaw; and poet William Morris, strongly condemned it. On June 26, 1893, Illinois Governor John Peter Altgeld, the progressive governor of Illinois, himself a German immigrant, signed pardons for Fielden, Neebe, and Schwab, calling them victims of \"hysteria, packed juries, and a biased judge\" and noting that the state \"has never discovered who it was that threw the bomb which killed the policeman, and the evidence does not show any connection whatsoever between the defendants and the man who threw it\". Altgeld also faulted the city of Chicago for failing to hold Pinkerton guards responsible for repeated use of lethal violence against striking workers. Altgeld's actions concerning labor were used to defeat his reelection.\n\nSoon after the trial, anarchist Dyer Lum wrote a history of the trial critical of the prosecution. In 1888, George McLean, and in 1889, police captain Michael Shack, wrote accounts from the opposite perspective. Awaiting sentencing, each of the defendants wrote their own autobiographies (edited and published by Philip Foner in 1969), and later activist Lucy Parsons published a biography of her condemned husband Albert Parsons. Fifty years after the event, Henry Davis wrote a history, which preceded another scholarly treatment by Paul Avrich in 1984, and a \"social history\" of the era by Bruce C. Nelson in 1988. In 2006, labor historian James Green wrote a popular history.\n\nChristopher Thale writes in the \"Encyclopedia of Chicago\" that lacking credible evidence regarding the bombing, \"...the prosecution focused on the writings and speeches of the defendants.\" He further notes that the conspiracy charge was legally unprecedented, the Judge was \"partisan,\" and all the jurors admitted prejudice against the defendants. Historian Carl Smith writes, \"The visceral feelings of fear and anger surrounding the trial ruled out anything but the pretense of justice right from the outset.\" Smith notes that scholars have long considered the trial a \"notorious\" \"miscarriage of justice\". In a review somewhat more critical of the defendants, historian Jon Teaford concludes that \"[t]he tragedy of Haymarket is the American justice system did not protect the damn fools who most needed that protection... It is the damn fools who talk too much and too wildly who are most in need of protection from the state.\" Historian Timothy Messer-Kruse revisited the digitized trial transcript and argued that the proceedings were fair for their time, a challenge to the historical consensus that the trial was a travesty.\n\nDuring the late 20th century, scholars doing research into the Haymarket affair were surprised to learn that much of the primary source documentation relating to the incident (beside materials concerning the trial) was not in Chicago, but had been transferred to then-communist East Berlin.\n\nHistorian Nathan Fine points out that trade-union activities continued to show signs of growth and vitality, culminating later in 1886 with the establishment of the Labor Party of Chicago.\n\nFine observes:\n\n[T]he fact is that despite police repression, newspaper incitement to hysteria, and organization of the possessing classes, which followed the throwing of the bomb on May 4, the Chicago wage earners only united their forces and stiffened their resistance. The conservative and radical central bodies – there were two each of the trade unions and two also of the Knights of Labor — the socialists and the anarchists, the single taxers and the reformers, the native born...and the foreign born Germans, Bohemians, and Scandinavians, all got together for the first time on the political field in the summer following the Haymarket affair... [T]he Knights of Labor doubled its membership, reaching 40,000 in the fall of 1886. On Labor Day the number of Chicago workers in parade led the country.\n\nOn the first anniversary of the event, May 4, 1887, the \"New-York Tribune\" published an interview with Senator Leland Stanford, in which he addressed the consensus that \"the conflict between capital and labor is intensifying\" and articulated the vision advocated by the Knights of Labor for an industrial system of worker-owned co-operatives, another among the strategies pursued to advance the conditions of laborers. The interview was republished as a pamphlet to include the bill Stanford introduced in the Senate to foster co-operatives.\n\nPopular pressure continued for the establishment of the 8-hour day. At the convention of the American Federation of Labor (AFL) in 1888, the union decided to campaign for the shorter workday again. May 1, 1890, was agreed upon as the date on which workers would strike for an eight-hour work day.\nIn 1889, AFL president Samuel Gompers wrote to the first congress of the Second International, which was meeting in Paris. He informed the world's socialists of the AFL's plans and proposed an international fight for a universal eight-hour work day. In response to Gompers's letter, the Second International adopted a resolution calling for \"a great international demonstration\" on a single date so workers everywhere could demand the eight-hour work day. In light of the Americans' plan, the International adopted May 1, 1890, as the date for this demonstration.\n\nA secondary purpose behind the adoption of the resolution by the Second International was to honor the memory of the Haymarket martyrs and other workers who had been killed in association with the strikes on May 1, 1886. Historian Philip Foner writes \"[t]here is little doubt that everyone associated with the resolution passed by the Paris Congress knew of the May 1 demonstrations and strikes for the eight-hour day in 1886 in the United States ... and the events associated with the Haymarket tragedy.\"\n\nThe first International Workers Day was a spectacular success. The front page of the \"New York World\" on May 2, 1890, was devoted to coverage of the event. Two of its headlines were \"Parade of Jubilant Workingmen in All the Trade Centers of the Civilized World\" and \"Everywhere the Workmen Join in Demands for a Normal Day\". \"The Times\" of London listed two dozen European cities in which demonstrations had taken place, noting there had been rallies in Cuba, Peru and Chile. Commemoration of May Day became an annual event the following year.\n\nThe association of May Day with the Haymarket martyrs has remained strong in Mexico. Mary Harris \"Mother\" Jones was in Mexico on May 1, 1921, and wrote of the \"day of 'fiestas'\" that marked \"the killing of the workers in Chicago for demanding the eight-hour day\". In 1929, \"The New York Times\" referred to the May Day parade in Mexico City as \"the annual demonstration glorifying the memory of those who were killed in Chicago in 1887\". \"The New York Times\" described the 1936 demonstration as a commemoration of \"the death of the martyrs in Chicago\". In 1939, Oscar Neebe's grandson attended the May Day parade in Mexico City and was shown, as his host told him, \"how the world shows respect to your grandfather\".\n\nThe influence of the Haymarket affair was not limited to the celebration of May Day. Emma Goldman, the activist and political theorist, was attracted to anarchism after reading about the incident and the executions, which she later described as \"the events that had inspired my spiritual birth and growth\". She considered the Haymarket martyrs to be \"the most decisive influence in my existence\". Her associate, Alexander Berkman also described the Haymarket anarchists as \"a potent and vital inspiration\". Others whose commitment to anarchism, or revolutionary socialism, crystallized as a result of the Haymarket affair included Voltairine de Cleyre and \"Big Bill\" Haywood, a founding member of the Industrial Workers of the World. Goldman wrote to historian Max Nettlau that the Haymarket affair had awakened the social consciousness of \"hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people\".\n\nWhile admitting that none of the defendants were involved in the bombing, the prosecution made the argument that Lingg had built the bomb, and two prosecution witnesses (Harry Gilmer and Malvern Thompson) tried to imply that the bomb thrower was helped by Spies, Fischer and Schwab. The defendants claimed they had no knowledge of the bomber at all.\n\nSeveral activists, including Dyer Lum (a close associate of the defendants who wrote an account of the case in 1891), Voltairine de Cleyre and Robert Reitzel, later hinted they knew who the bomber was. Writers and other commentators have speculated about many possible suspects:\n\nLingg, Spies, Fischer, Engel, and Parsons were buried at the German Waldheim Cemetery (later merged with Forest Home Cemetery) in Forest Park, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. Schwab and Neebe were also buried at Waldheim when they died, reuniting the \"Martyrs\". In 1893, the \"Haymarket Martyrs' Monument\" by sculptor Albert Weinert was raised at Waldheim. Over a century later, it was designated a National Historic Landmark by the United States Department of the Interior.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, activists such as Emma Goldman chose to be buried near the \"Haymarket Martyrs' Monument\" graves.\n\nIn October 2016, a time capsule with materials relating to the Haymarket Affair was dug up in Waldheim Cemetery.\n\nIn 1889, a commemorative nine-foot (2.7 meter) bronze statue of a Chicago policeman by sculptor Johannes Gelert was erected in the middle of Haymarket Square with private funds raised by the Union League Club of Chicago. The statue was unveiled on May 30, 1889, by Frank Degan, the son of Officer Mathias Degan. On May 4, 1927, the 41st anniversary of the Haymarket affair, a streetcar jumped its tracks and crashed into the monument. The motorman said he was \"sick of seeing that policeman with his arm raised\". The city restored the statue in 1928 and moved it to Union Park. During the 1950s, construction of the Kennedy Expressway erased about half of the old, run-down market square, and in 1956, the statue was moved to a special platform built for it overlooking the freeway, near its original location.\nThe Haymarket statue was vandalized with black paint on May 4, 1968, the 82nd anniversary of the Haymarket affair, following a confrontation between police and demonstrators at a protest against the Vietnam War. On October 6, 1969, shortly before the \"Days of Rage\" protests, the statue was destroyed when a bomb was placed between its legs. Weatherman took credit for the blast, which broke nearly 100 windows in the neighborhood and scattered pieces of the statue onto the Kennedy Expressway below. The statue was rebuilt and unveiled on May 4, 1970, to be blown up yet again by Weatherman on October 6, 1970. The statue was rebuilt, again, and Mayor Richard J. Daley posted a 24‑hour police guard at the statue. This guard cost $67,440 per year. In 1972, it was moved to the lobby of the Central Police Headquarters, and in 1976 to the enclosed courtyard of the Chicago police academy. For another three decades the statue's empty, graffiti-marked pedestal stood on its platform in the run-down remains of Haymarket Square where it was known as an anarchist landmark. On June 1, 2007, the statue was rededicated at Chicago Police Headquarters with a new pedestal, unveiled by Geraldine Doceka, Officer Mathias Degan's great-granddaughter.\n\nIn 1992, the site of the speakers' wagon was marked by a bronze plaque set into the sidewalk, reading:\n\nOn September 14, 2004, Daley and union leaders—including the president of Chicago's police union—unveiled a monument by Chicago artist Mary Brogger, a fifteen-foot (4.5 m) speakers' wagon sculpture echoing the wagon on which the labor leaders stood in Haymarket Square to champion the eight-hour day. The bronze sculpture, intended to be the centerpiece of a proposed \"Labor Park\", is meant to symbolize both the rally at Haymarket and free speech. The planned site was to include an international commemoration wall, sidewalk plaques, a cultural pylon, a seating area, and banners, but construction has not yet begun.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2178541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178541", "title": "Highway revolts", "text": "Highway revolts\n\nMany highway revolts (also freeway revolts, expressway revolts, or road protests) took place in developed countries during the 1960s and 1970s, in response to plans for the construction of new freeways, a significant number of which were abandoned or significantly scaled back due to widespread public opposition, especially of those whose neighborhoods would be disrupted or displaced by the proposed freeways, and due to various other negative effects that freeways are considered to have.\n\nWhile anti-freeway activism in Australia has not been as vocal as in North America, small-scale revolts against freeway construction have occurred in Sydney and Melbourne, with many protesting toll collection.\n\nMelbourne saw protests against the 1969 Melbourne Transportation Plan, mostly by those in the impacted inner-city areas.\n\nIn 1974, 150 residents protesting plans for the F-19 freeway through Collingwood put themselves in front of construction equipment in an attempt to halt construction. In 1978, protesters rallied to defend Gardiners Creek in Kooyong, which was in the path of the South Eastern Freeway. In 1984, over 100 protesters rallied against the widening of Punt Road to become the Hoddle Highway.\n\nMany of the unbuilt freeways were eventually cancelled by change of government, but some projects were later resurrected. An umbrella organisation known as the Coalition Against Freeway Expansion (CAFE) was formed in 1994, and in the following year, 14 of its activists were arrested whilst protesting an Eastern Freeway extension and the partial demolition of Alexandra Parade. The aggressive police response was criticised, and led to the eventual disbandment of the group. One of the largest protests occurred in 2008 in Kensington, one of the areas most impacted by the proposed East-West road connection; it drew wider support due to opposition to the Eddington Transport Report.\n\nSydney freeway protests have included large-scale green bans in the 1970s, which prevented freeway proposals that would have required the demolition of The Rocks historic precinct and The Domain gardens for freeway developments.\n\nIn 1989, 200 protesters rallied against a proposed north-west tollway. In 1991, 150 anti-freeway protesters rallied outside Parliament House. In 1995, over 400 people protested the M2 Hills Motorway.\n\nTasmanian Aboriginals have conducted protests against the construction of the Brighton Bypass. They have stated that construction of the bypass will suffer the loss of their heritage.\n\nIn Halifax, Nova Scotia the construction of an elevated waterfront freeway, Harbour Drive, was halted in the 1970s after local opposition to the proposed destruction of many historic buildings. All that remains of the project today is the Cogswell Interchange, a massive concrete structure widely considered a barrier between sections of the city. Its demolition is currently planned.\n\nSeveral areas were destroyed to make room for highways in the 1960s and 1970s. At that time, a historical preservation movement involving figures such as Sandy van Ginkel and Phyllis Lambert prevented a project to run the Ville-Marie Expressway along the waterfront of the Old Port, which would have demolished much of the then-unloved Old Montreal and cut the city off from the river. Many historic homes were demolished to make way for the western section of the autoroute, but the eastern section was reconceived as a tunnel skirting the southern edge of the downtown core and a sunken expressway along the inland edge of the old city. Since then, Old Montreal has undergone significant rehabilitation and is now a desirable residential and commercial district and the city's leading tourist area. Part of the sunken expressway has been covered over (see Quartier international de Montréal) and the section immediately north of Montreal City Hall is also slated to be covered.\n\nAnother cancelled project would have seen Rue Berri converted into a north-south expressway, demolishing much of the Plateau Mont-Royal district. Only the portion south of Rue Cherrier was built.\n\nIn recent years, protests took place regarding a proposal to extend the Ville-Marie in the axis of Rue Notre-Dame Est, as an 8-lane entrenched highway that would separate the residential neighborhood of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve from the St. Lawrence River. The current plan is to widen the current 4-lane road into a six-lane \"urban boulevard\" rather than converting it into a full-scale expressway.\n\nSome large road projects from the heyday of the automobile have since been removed at public demand. One of the most prominent was a large interchange at the corner of Avenue du Parc and Avenue des Pins, which had long impeded pedestrian access along a major entryway into Mount Royal Park. The elevated structure was demolished in the early 2000s and replaced with a simpler, at-grade intersection. Another current project aims to replace the Bonaventure Expressway with another \"urban boulevard\" along a long stretch of cut-off waterfront.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Toronto experienced the same sort of urban sprawl that was sweeping through the United States. Suburbs grew along existing highway corridors, stretching the city east and west, and then northward along the various provincial superhighways. These highways ended at the city limits, however, and there was little route capacity within the city itself. This caused enormous traffic problems within the city, and a network of new highways to address the problem became part of the Official Plan in 1959.\n\nAs construction of the network started, the mood of the citizens changed. By the mid-1960s, there was a growing awareness that the growth of the suburbs led to a flight of capital from the city cores, resulting in the urban decay being seen throughout the US. Additionally, several of the chosen routes ran through densely settled neighbourhoods, including some of the more upscale areas of Toronto, like Forest Hill and the University of Toronto. While the opposition was growing, Jane Jacobs moved to Toronto after having successfully rallied groups to cancel the construction of the Lower Manhattan Expressway in New York City. Applying the same formula in Toronto, Jacobs rallied local groups to oppose development of the Spadina Expressway project, while twice being arrested in the process.\n\nOn June 3, 1971, Premier Bill Davis rose in the Provincial Legislature and stated, \"Cities were built for people and not cars. If we are building a transportation system to serve the automobile, the Spadina Expressway would be a good place to start. But if we are building a transportation system to serve people, the Spadina Expressway is a good place to stop.\" The expressway plan was dead; construction of the Spadina Expressway ended. The successful outcome of inspired protests of varying degrees to other expressway projects in Toronto including the Scarborough, Richview, Crosstown and East Metro Expressway Projects. This led to none of the other planned expressways ever being built.\n\nInstead of expressways, Davis and his new Minister of Transport, Charles MacNaughton, outlined the \"GO-Urban\" plan, an Intermediate Capacity Transit System that will serve the Greater Toronto Area in place of expressways. This led to the development of Bombardier Innovia Metro. By the time the prototype was ready for service in the early 1980s, changes in the provincial government ended support for the entire GO-Urban project. Only a single short demonstration line was built in Toronto, the Scarborough RT.\n\nWindsor, Ontario is an interesting case of freeway revolt that was later partially reversed. By 1965, the MTO had completed construction of Highway 401 from the south end of Windsor to the Thousand Islands Parkway and onward to the Quebec border. Plans were announced to extend the freeway along Huron Church Road to the Ambassador Bridge, but residents and business owners along the route protested and killed the plan, leaving the freeway's terminus at Highway 3. In recent years, traffic had increased. A new bridge and freeway was needed; expropriation of nearby properties began in the late 2000s for Highway 401's extension to a new proposed border crossing. The Rt. Hon. Herb Gray Parkway's construction, much of it below-grade, began in late 2011 and is expected to be completed by 2015. , the proposed Gordie Howe International Bridge which will continue Ontario 401 through the Delray neighborhood of Detroit, Michigan to I-75 is expected to be completed by 2023.\n\nOriginal plans called for Alberta Highway 2 to continue into Edmonton, akin to the Deerfoot in Calgary, using 91st Street then descending into the Mill Creek Ravine. However residents along Mill Creek as well as many others who did not wish to have portions of the river valley destroyed at the expense of a freeway opposed the plans and as such they were never completed. The only portions to be completed were 91st Street and the James MacDonald Bridge.\n\nIn Vancouver, a freeway project that began with the construction of the Georgia and Dunsmuir Viaducts in the Strathcona neighborhood was stopped by activists and residents; the plan was intended to link an eight-lane freeway from the Trans-Canada Highway through the East End, destroying much of Chinatown. Before it was stopped, Vancouver's Hogan's Alley neighbourhood was largely demolished. The complete proposal in reports prepared by Swan-Wooster included a six lane tunnel to North Vancouver. An elevated freeway would have run along the Burrard Inlet waterfront, right through property where two Fairmont hotels and many other buildings have since been built. Another elevated freeway would have run through what is now the new portion of Yaletown, where the roundhouse is. It would likely have been adjacent to or above the current Pacific Avenue, between Old and New Yaletown.\n\nThe Dunsmuir tunnel, a former freight railroad line of the CPR would also have been part of the freeway. This tunnel is now used by the SkyTrain Expo Line, a rapid transit line using the Bombardier Innovia Metro technology developed for Toronto.\n\nAn attempt was made in 1995 to revive part of the project, adding three lanes of traffic to the north shore; it was also killed by public protest.\n\nSuccessive city councils in the 1970s and 1980s prohibited the construction of freeways as part of a long-term plan.\nThis was taken as far as refusing to have a cloverleaf where the provincially authorized and funded Oak Street Bridge entered the city. It was allowed to enter directly onto Oak Street, but no other approaches were allowed for decades. As a result, the only freeway within city limits is the Trans-Canada Highway, which passes through the north-eastern corner of the city. Very few major roads have been built in decades although the population would likely have doubled.\n\nThe conflicting opinions of the City of Vancouver's residents, as represented by their successive councils, and the British Columbia Ministry of Transportation continue in 2013. Many of the suburbs also want more automobile access to Vancouver. The city resists additional cars entering from the suburbs. The province continues to build bridges and freeways throughout the region, but they end at the city's boundaries.\n\nIn Amsterdam in the 1970s, plans existed for a highway between the end of the A2 at the President Kennedylaan to the IJtunnel, along with the plans of the Amsterdam Metro around Nieuwmarkt. It would have demolished thousands of houses and monuments on its path, and therefore it led to the Nieuwmarkt riots in 1975. The metro was built, but the highway plans were removed.\n\nIn Utrecht, plans to build the A27 led to years of protests and juridical procedures, for example in October 1978, there was a big demonstration. Eventually in 1982, the Dutch Parliament had to decide whether to build or not. A narrow majority of 71 was in favour, 69 opposed. Parts of Amelisweerd were occupied by activists after the decision. The encampment, established by the activists, was evacuated by police and 465 trees were cut down and bulldozed. At the same time a procedure opposing the tree felling was started, however, a municipality lawyer reported that the last tree had already been cut down. Thus the short-term procedure failed to achieve its aim. After the motorway was completed in 1986, more congestion arose on the motorway. In 2009, new plans were made to extend the road from 2x4 lanes to 2x6 or even 2x7. The start of the construction in 2011 led again to protests, with clearly visible banners along the motorway.\n\nIn the United States the \"revolts\" occurred mainly in cities and suburbs. Many cities have unused highways, abruptly terminating freeway alignments, and short stretches of freeway in the middle of nowhere, all evidence of larger projects which were never completed. In some instances, freeway revolts have led to the eventual removal or relocation of freeways that had been built.\n\n"}
{"id": "215387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215387", "title": "History of Freemasonry", "text": "History of Freemasonry\n\nThe history of Freemasonry encompasses the origins, evolution and defining events of the known as Freemasonry. It covers three phases. Firstly, the emergence of organised lodges of operative masons during the Middle Ages, then the admission of lay members as \"accepted\" or speculative masons, and finally the evolution of purely speculative lodges, and the emergence of Grand Lodges to govern them. The watershed in this process is generally taken to be the formation of the first Grand Lodge in London in 1717. The two difficulties facing historians are the paucity of written material, even down to the 19th century, and the misinformation generated by masons and non-masons alike from the earliest years.\n\nA complete history of Freemasonry is beyond the scope of a single article. This article traces the early development of Freemasonry from organised bodies of operative stonemasons to the modern system of speculative lodges organised around regional or national \"Grand Lodges\". Notable events and developments of the modern period are also briefly described. The history of specific subjects, rites and jurisdictions within the general heading of Freemasonry is dealt with in detail elsewhere, in .\n\nThe earliest masonic texts each contain some sort of a history of the craft, or \"mystery\", of masonry. The oldest known work of this type, The Halliwell Manuscript, or Regius Poem, dates from between 1390 and 1425. This document has a brief history in its introduction, stating that the \"craft of masonry\" began with Euclid in Egypt, and came to England in the reign of King Athelstan (born about 894, died 27 October 939). Shortly afterwards, the Cooke Manuscript traces masonry to Jabal son of Lamech (Genesis 4: 20–22), and tells how this knowledge came to Euclid, from him to the Children of Israel (while they were in Egypt), and so on through an elaborate path to Athelstan. This myth formed the basis for subsequent manuscript constitutions, all tracing masonry back to biblical times, and fixing its institutional establishment in England during the reign of Athelstan (927–939).\n\nShortly after the formation of the Premier Grand Lodge of England, James Anderson was commissioned to digest these \"Gothic Constitutions\" in a palatable, modern form. The resulting constitutions are prefaced by a history more extensive than any before, again tracing the history of what was now freemasonry back to biblical roots, again forging Euclid into the chain. True to his material, Anderson fixes the first grand assembly of English Masons at York, under Athelstan's son, Edwin, who is otherwise unknown to history. Expanded, revised, and republished, Anderson's 1738 constitutions listed the Grand Masters since Augustine of Canterbury, listed as \"Austin the Monk\". William Preston's \"Illustrations of Freemasonry\" enlarged and expanded on this masonic creation myth.\n\nIn France, the 1737 lecture of Chevalier Ramsay added the crusaders to the lineage. He maintained that \"Crusader Masons\" had revived the craft with secrets recovered in the Holy Land, under the patronage of the Knights Hospitaller. At this point, the \"history\" of the craft in Continental Freemasonry diverged from that in England.\n\nAnderson's histories of 1723 and 1738, Ramsay's romanticisation, together with the internal allegory of masonic ritual, centred on King Solomon’s Temple and its architect, Hiram Abiff, have provided ample material for further speculation.\n\nThe earliest known ritual places the first masonic lodge in the porchway of King Solomon’s Temple. Following Anderson, it has also been possible to trace Freemasonry to Euclid, Pythagoras, Moses, the Essenes, and the Culdees. Preston started his history with the Druids, while Anderson's description of masons as \"Noachides\", extrapolated by Albert Mackey, put Noah into the equation.\n\nFollowing Ramsay's introduction of Crusader masons, the Knights Templar became involved in the myth, starting with Karl Gotthelf von Hund's Rite of Strict Observance, which also linked in the exiled House of Stuart. The murder of Hiram Abiff was taken as an allegory for the death of Charles I of England. Oliver Cromwell emerges as the founder of Freemasonry in an anonymous anti-masonic work of 1745, commonly attributed to Abbé Larudan. Mackey states that \"The propositions of Larudan are distinguished for their absolute independence of all historical authority and for the bold assumptions which are presented to the reader in the place of facts.\" The anti-masonic writings of Christoph Friedrich Nicolai implicated Francis Bacon and the Rosicrucians, while Christopher Wren's connection with the craft was omitted from Anderson's first book of constitutions, but appeared in the second when Wren was dead.\nSimilarly, attempts to root Freemasonry in the French Compagnonnage have produced no concrete links. Connections to the Roman Collegia and Comacine masters are similarly tenuous, although some Freemasons see them as exemplars rather than ancestors. Thomas Paine traced Freemasonry to Ancient Egypt, as did Cagliostro, who went so far as to supply the ritual.\n\nMore recently, several authors have attempted to link the Templars to the timeline of Freemasonry through the imagery of the carvings in Rosslyn Chapel in Scotland, where the Templars are rumoured to have sought refuge after the dissolution of the order. In \"The Hiram Key\", Robert Lomas and Christopher Knight describe a timeline starting in ancient Egypt, and taking in Jesus, the Templars, and Rosslyn before arriving at modern Freemasonry. These claims are challenged by Robert Cooper, the curator of the Grand Lodge of Scotland's library and museum, in his book The Rosslyn Hoax.\n\nThe first rational study of masonic history was published in Germany, but Georg Kloss's 1847 work, \"Geschichte der Freimaurerei in England, Irland und Schottland\" was never translated. When Findel's \"History of Freemasonry\" was translated from German to English in 1866, Woodford in England and Murray-Lyon in Scotland were already active writers on the subject. Woodford was Findel's guide when he visited York to inspect manuscripts, and would shortly collaborate with in collecting, dating and classifying the old manuscript constitutions. Albert Mackey was no less active in America. The list of his published works start in 1844 with \"A Lexicon of Freemasonry\", and extend to his monumental \"Encyclopedia of Freemasonry\" in 1874. Increasing interest, and participation, in masonic studies led, in 1886, to the formation in London of Quatuor Coronati Lodge, the first lodge dedicated to masonic research.\n\nThe earliest official English documents to refer to masons are written in Latin or Norman French. Thus we have \"sculptores lapidum liberorum\" (London 1212), \"magister lathomus liberarum petrarum\" (Oxford 1391), and \"mestre mason de franche peer\" (Statute of Labourers 1351). These all signify a worker in freestone, a grainless sandstone or limestone suitable for ornamental masonry. In the 17th century building accounts of Wadham College the terms freemason and freestone mason are used interchangeably. Freemason also contrasts with \"Rough Mason\" or \"Layer\", as a more skilled worker who worked or laid dressed stone.\n\nThe adjective \"free\" in this context may also be taken to infer that the mason is not enslaved, indentured or feudally bound. While this is difficult to reconcile with medieval English masons, it apparently became important to Scottish operative lodges.\n\nA medieval Master Mason would be required to undergo what passed for a liberal education in those days. In England, he would leave home at nine or ten years of age already literate in English and French, educated at home or at the petty (junior) school. From then until the age of fourteen, he would attend monastery or grammar school to learn Latin, or as a page in a knightly household would learn deportment in addition to his studies. Between the ages of fourteen and seventeen he would learn the basic skills of choosing, shaping, and combining stone and then between the ages of 17 and 21, be required to learn by rote a large number of formal problems in geometry. Three years as a journeyman would often finish with the submission of a masterwork dealing with a set problem in construction or design. At this point, he was considered qualified, but still had a career ladder to climb before attaining the status of Master Mason on a large project.\n\nIn his function as architect, the Master Mason probably made his plans for each successive stage of a build in silverpoint on a prepared parchment or board. These would be realised on the ground by using a larger compass than the one used for drafting. Medieval architects are depicted with much larger compasses and squares where they are shown on a building site. Fine detail was transferred from the drawing board by means of wooden templates supplied to the masons.\n\nThe Master Masons who appear in record as presiding over major works, such as York Minster, became wealthy and respected. Visiting Master Masons and Master Carpenters sat at high table of monasteries, dining with the abbott.\n\nThe historical record shows two levels of organisation in medieval masonry, the lodge and the \"guild\". The original use of the word lodge indicates a workshop erected on the site of a major work, the first mention being Vale Royal Abbey in 1278. Later, it gained the secondary meaning of the community of masons in a particular place. The earliest surviving records of these are the laws and ordinances of the lodge at York Minster in 1352. It should be noted that these regulations were imposed by the Dean and Chapter of the Minster.\n\nNineteenth-century historians imposed the term \"Guild\" on the \"fellowships\" of medieval tradesmen as an analogy with the merchant guilds. The masons were late in forming such bodies. The major employer of masons in medieval England was the crown, and the crown frequently employed masons by impressment. In other words, they were forcibly recruited when the need arose. \n\nThe Halliwell Manuscript, or Regius Poem is the oldest known document of masonic origin. It was published in 1840 by Shakespearean scholar and collector James Halliwell who dated it to 1390. A. F. A. Woodford, the pioneering Masonic scholar and a founder of Quatuor Coronati Lodge, agreed with this dating. More recently, historian Andrew Prescott has dated the text to the second quarter of the fifteenth century. \n\nThe poem may be seen as a response to a stream of legislation dating back to the Black Death, and the Statute of Labourers of 1351, in which Edward III attempted to fix wages at pre-plague levels. The earlier date follows the 1389 ordinance of Richard II requiring the guilds and fellowships to lay before him their Charters and Letters Patent, and the second follows the more serious legislation of 1425 banning the annual assemblies of masons. \n\nIn 1356, the preamble to regulations governing the Trade of Masons specifically states that, unlike the other trades, no body existed for the regulation of masonry by masons. Finally, in 1376, four representatives of the \"mystery\" or trade are elected to the Common Council in London. This also seems to be the first use of the word \"freemason\" in English. It was immediately struck out, and replaced with the word \"mason\".\nThe poem claims that these assemblies were ordained by King Athelstan and that he also linked the wages of a mason to the cost of living.\n\nThe Cooke Manuscript, dating from about 1450, set the pattern for what Anderson called the \"Gothic Constitutions\", the older histories and regulations of the craft. After a brief blessing, these documents describe the seven Liberal Arts, assigning predominance to Geometry, which is equated with Masonry. They then proceed to a history of masonry/geometry, finishing with King Athelstan, or Edwin, his brother or son depending on source, assembling England's masons to give them their charges. The regulations or charges follow, usually with instructions as to the manner in which a new mason should swear to them.\n\nAlso around 1450 the will of a mason from Beverley gives a tantalising glimpse into the emergence of masonic regalia. An inventory of John Cadeby's possessions mentions several \"zona\"s, or girdles. Two were silver mounted, and one of these had the letters B and I in the middle, indicating Boaz and Jachin, the twin pillars of Solomon's Temple. He also owned a writing table and six English books, making him comfortably well-off and literate.\n\nThe following century and a half produced few new manuscripts. The Dowland manuscript, whose original is now lost, and Grand Lodge No 1, for the first time locate Edwin's assembly of Masons at York. The Lansdowne, originally dated to this period, is now thought to date from the 17th century.\n\nIt was during this period that the Reformation occurred. It was at one time assumed that the church was the major employer of masons, and with the Dissolution of the Monasteries the lodges disappeared. It was also believed that the craft \"guilds\" were abolished in England in 1547. On the death of Henry VIII, Archbishop Cranmer sought to advance the reformation by the abolition of Guilds and fellowships. In 1548, \"The bill of conspiracies of victuallers and craftsmen\" was passed, revoking their monopolies. In 1549 it was repealed, presumably because they were too useful to the government. The government continued to be a major employer of masons, who in London had moved from a fellowship to an incorporation. While this was not chartered until 1666, the state used it in the sixteenth century to procure and indent masons for building projects. In addition, masons were increasingly employed by private individuals. The Saints day parades by the various crafts, enacting plays about their various patron saints, were however suppressed. Robert Cooper, the archivist of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, believes that the lost mystery play of the masons may survive in the ritual of contemporary masonic lodges.\n\nAn early continental history quotes a 16th-century source that by 1535, there were two Scottish masonic lodges recorded in France, one in Paris and the other in Lyon. \n\nIn Scotland, the lodges of masons were brought under the control of two crown appointed officials, the Warden General and the Principal Master of Work to the Crown, the latter being in existence from 1539 at the latest. Towards the end of the century, William Schaw held both these posts. In 1598, in conference with the masters of lodges in south east Scotland, he produced a set of regulations for the governance of masons and their lodges now known as the Schaw Statutes. These state \"They shall be true to one another and live charitably together as becometh sworn brethren and companions of the Craft.\" They mention wardens, deacons, entered prentices and cowans. The second Schaw statutes, a year later, included in their negotiations a representative of the Lodge of Kilwinning (now Lodge Mother Kilwinning No 0) in Ayrshire, which was assigned jurisdiction over the west of Scotland. Edinburgh became the \"first and principal\" lodge and Kilwinning the \"second and head\" lodge of Scotland, attempting to appease all parties. Since neither the King nor the master of Kilwinning was present, the document was not regarded as final or binding. It was assumed that the King's warrant for the regulations would be obtained. In 1602, Schaw wrote a Charter granting to Sir William St. Clair of Rosslyn the right to purchase patronage over the masons of Scotland. Kilwinning is noticeably absent from the list of lodges appending their endorsement. The charter seems to have lapsed when St. Clair fled following a scandal, and a second charter was granted to his son, also William St. Clair, in 1628. This patronage was surrendered by their descendant, another William St. Clair, on the formation of the Grand Lodge of Scotland in 1736, in spite of the fact that it never won the royal approval that would have made it valid.\n\nThe lasting effect of the Schaw Statutes arose from the 1599 directive that the lodges should employ a reputable notary as secretary, and that he should record all important transactions. The Scottish lodges began to keep minutes, and therefore the appearance of \"accepted\" or non-operative masons is better recorded than in England, where there are no known internal records of lodge proceedings. \n\nThe first recorded admission of non-masons was on 3 July 1634 at Lodge of Edinburgh (Mary's Chapel) No. 1 , in the persons of Sir Anthony Alexander, his elder brother, Lord Alexander, and Sir Alexander Strachan of Thornton. Sir Anthony was the King's Principal Master of Work, and the man who had effectively blocked the second St. Clair charter, the lodges of Scotland being his own responsibility. The reasons that his brother and their friend were also admitted are unclear.\n\nThe reasons and mechanisms for the transition of masonic lodges from operative communities to speculative fellowships remain elusive. As the responsibility for design shifted from the Master Mason to the architect in the sixteenth century, it is probable that architects started to join the lodges of the masons they worked with. It is also possible that, along with other professional bodies (including the East India Company), operative masonic lodges began to raise money by charging the gentry for admission to their \"mysteries\". Another opinion states that masonic lodges deliberately recruited the rich and powerful in an attempt to improve their pay and working conditions.\n\nWhile lodge records show a gradual development of mixed lodges in Scotland, it is evident that the lodge which initiated Elias Ashmole at Warrington on 16 October 1646 was mainly or entirely composed of speculative or accepted masons. In 1686 Robert Plot's \"Natural History of Staffordshire\" contains a passage about persons of quality being admitted to the society of free-masons, whose history Plot finds invented and ridiculous. At the start of the Grand Lodge period, there appears to have been a predominance of purely speculative lodges in the south of England, with operative and mixed lodges still in the majority in the north and in Scotland.\n\nIn 1716, four lodges and \"some old Brothers\" met at the Apple Tree Tavern in Covent Garden and agreed to meet again the next year to form a \"Grand Lodge\". These were the Goose and Gridiron, the Crown, the Apple Tree, and the Rummer and Grapes. The \"old Brothers\" were probably from the Cheshire Cheese and at least one other lodge.\n\nThe early history of Grand Lodge is uncertain, since no minutes were taken until 1723. It is known that the four lodges mentioned above held an assembly at the Goose and Gridiron, in St. Paul's Churchyard, on, 24 June 1717 (the Feast of St. John the Baptist). They agreed to restore their \"Quarterly Communications\", four meetings a year for the transaction of masonic business, and an annual assembly to elect the next Grand Master. At this meeting, they elected Anthony Sayer, Master of the lodge at the Apple Tree, of whom little else is known, and the Grand Lodge of London and Westminster was born. At this stage, it is unlikely that they saw themselves as anything more than an association of London lodges. This perception was to change very rapidly.\n\nThe next year, George Payne became Grand Master. He was a career civil servant with the commissioners of taxes. In 1719, they elected John Theophilus Desaguliers, a clergyman, an eminent scientist, and a Fellow of the Royal Society. The last commoner to serve as Grand Master was George Payne in his second term of office in 1720/21, when he wrote \"The General Regulations of a Free Mason\" which were later incorporated in Anderson's Constitutions. Thereafter, in what appears to be a deliberate attempt to raise the profile of the organisation, all the Grand Masters have been members of the nobility.\n\nDesaguliers is often described as the \"father\" of modern freemasonry. It was Desaguliers who inscribed the dedication to Anderson's Constitutions, headed the committee which directed and approved them, and supplied the \"Gothic Constitutions\" from which they were formed. Although he only served one term as Grand Master, he was twice Deputy Grand Master under figurehead Grand Masters, and at other times behaved as if he was Grand Master, forming irregular lodges to conduct initiations. It seems to have been Desaguliers who insisted that ritual be remembered rather than written down, leading to a dearth of material on the development of English ritual until after the formation of United Grand Lodge.\n\nThese considerations cause many masonic historians to see him as the guiding intelligence as the new Grand Lodge embarked on an era of self-publicity, which saw the sudden expansion of speculative masonry, with a corresponding rise in anti-masonic groups and publications. Initiations began to be reported in newspapers. The noble grand masters were often fellows of the Royal Society, but the Duke of Wharton (1722–23) had just had his Hell-fire club shut down by the government, and joined, or possibly formed, an anti-masonic group called the Gormagons almost as soon as he left office. From 1721 the installation of the new Grand Master was the occasion for a parade, originally on foot, later in carriages. This became the subject of some ridicule, until starting in 1740 there were also mock processions by anti-masonic groups, leading to the discontinuation of the practice in 1747. The rapid expansion of freemasonry also led to many new lodges failing after only a year or two. In addition to attacks from outside the craft, there were now disillusioned ex-masons willing to make money out of \"exposures\" of freemasonry.\n\n\"The Constitutions of the Free-Masons\", \"For the Use of the Lodges\" in London and Westminster, was published in 1723. It was edited by the presbyterian clergyman, James Anderson, to the order of John Theophilus Desaguliers, and approved by a Grand Lodge committee under his control. This work was reprinted in Philadelphia in 1734 by Benjamin Franklin, who was that year elected Grand Master of Masons in Pennsylvania. It was also translated into Dutch (1736), German (1741), and French (1745).\n\nAnderson was minister of the Presbyterian church in Swallow Street, London, which had once been Huguenot church, and one of its four Deacons was Desaguliers' father. At the time of his meeting with Desaguliers, he seems to have passed himself off as a Talmudic scholar. His reward for his labours was the copyright on the work. In time, and to Anderson's dismay, it was condensed into \"pocket\" editions over which he had no control and from which he received no income. It was expanded, updated, and re-published in 1738.\n\nThe historical section, which comprises almost half the book, has already been described. This is followed by the \"Charges\", or general rules for the conduct of Freemasons, and Payne's Regulations, the specific rules by which Grand Lodge and the lodges under its control were to be governed. The ceremony for dedicating a new lodge was briefly outlined, and the work finished with a section of songs. For the first time, the old hand-written charges and constitutions was replaced by an accessible, printed condensation of all there was to being a Freemason, omitting only the ritual. Although the historical section was attacked at the time, and ever since, as being a work of obvious fiction, the work remains a milestone in masonic history. The \"Antient Charges\" published in the current \"Book of Constitutions\" of the United Grand Lodge of England have altered little from those originally published by Anderson.\n\nIn common with other trades or mysteries, medieval masonry recognised three grades of craftsman;— the apprentice, the journeyman, and the master. An apprentice who had learned his craft became a journeyman, qualified to do all manner of masonic work. The master was also qualified as a project manager, often functioning as architect as well. He would sketch the day's work on a tracing board for execution by the journeymen and apprentices. The Schaw Statutes of 1598 show how this had evolved in the lodge system of Scottish masonry. An apprentice, after serving his term of seven years, could elect to pay to join a lodge, becoming an \"entered apprentice\". (Alternatively, he could elect to freelance on the lower grades of building work as a \"Cowan\".) The journeymen were referred to as \"fellows\" or \"fellows of the craft\", which accords with the Regius poem's injunction (line 51) that masons should \"calle other felows by cuthe\". The members of the lodge were \"Brithers\" (brothers), a Scottish legal term for those bound to each other by oath. The Master was simply the mason in charge of the lodge, or one who had held that distinction.\n\nWhile the swearing of some sort of oath goes back to the earliest records of organised masonry, the first recorded ritual is not until 1696, in the Edinburgh Register House manuscript. From this, and from other documents of the same period, such as the Trinity College, Dublin manuscript of 1711, we can form an idea of the ritual of an operative lodge at the end of the 17th century. On taking of the oath of an Entered Apprentice a mason was entrusted with appropriate signs, a \"Mason's Word\", and a catechism. This was accompanied by much horseplay, which was probably excised as the craft became more gentrified. The fellowcraft was made to take a further oath, and entrusted with two further words and the \"five points of fellowship\", which in 1696 were foot to foot, knee to knee, heart to heart, hand to hand, and ear to ear. The distinction between a fellowcraft and a master is unclear, and in many documents they appear to be synonymous. As accepted masons became initiated, where the various words and signs could no longer be regarded as professional qualifications, the entered apprentice ritual and the fellowcraft/master were sometimes condensed into one ceremony.\n\nIn Pritchard's \"Masonry Dissected\", an exposure of masonic ritual written in 1730 by a disillusioned ex-mason, we see for the first time something recognisable as the three degrees of modern Freemasonry. On being admitted to a lodge, a new mason naturally progresses through the degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft, and Master Mason. There still remains the rank of Installed Master, which comprises the Master in charge of the lodge and its past masters, and involves its own ritual, words and signs, but entails being elected to take charge of the lodge for a year. These are the regular degrees and ranks of \"craft\" masonry, common to all constitutions. Other, \"higher\" degrees are optional and require a mason to join a side-order, except in lodges constituted under the Grand Lodge of Scotland, which are empowered to confer the Mark Master Mason degree on Master Masons, as an extension to the second or Fellowcraft degree. (see main article, Freemasonry)\n\nAnderson's 1723 constitutions seem to recognise only the grades of Entered Apprentice, and the Fellowcraft/Master. Hence the third degree emerged sometime between 1723 and 1730, and took some time to spread within the craft. The fact that it did spread seems to many scholars to indicate that the tri-gradal system was not so much innovation, as the re-organisation of pre-existing material. The Mason word, once given to the Entered Apprentice, was now conferred in the third degree with the five points of fellowship, and the two linked words formerly bestowed on a fellowcraft were split between the first two degrees. The new Master Mason degree was centred on the myth of Hiram Abiff, which itself consists of three parts. The first is the biblical story of the Tyrian artisan with a Northern Israelite mother who became a master craftsman involved in the construction of King Solomon's Temple. The second is the story of his murder by subordinates, which is similar to one of the legends of the French Compagnonnage. Lastly, the story of the finding of his body, and the derivation therefrom of the five points of fellowship, which appears in the Graham Manuscript of 1725, where the body being sought and exhumed is that of Noah. The origin of this re-organisation is unknown. The earliest reference to the conferment of a third degree is from London, from the minutes of \"Philo Musicae et Architecturae Societas Apollini\", a short-lived musical society composed entirely of Freemasons. These minutes record the initiation and passing to the degree of Fellowcraft of Charles Cotton. Then, on 12 May 1725, the society took it upon itself to \"pass\" Brother Cotton and Brother Papillion Ball as Master Masons. This would nowadays be regarded as highly irregular. In March 1726 Gabriel Porterfield received the same degree in lodge Dumbarton Kilwinning in Scotland. That he was not the first is attested by the minutes of the lodge's foundation, only two months earlier, where Apprentices, Fellowcrafts, and Master Masons are recorded as attending. In December 1728, Greenock Kilwinning recorded separate fees for initiation, passing and raising.\n\nEven in London, there were many lodges that never affiliated with the new Grand Lodge. These unaffiliated Masons and their Lodges were referred to as \"Old Masons,\" or \"St. John Masons\", and \"St. John Lodges\". Nonetheless, the influence of the new central body spread quickly, and the 1725 minutes mention lodges in ten provincial towns as far north as Salford, with Provincial Grand Lodges in South Wales and Cheshire.\n\nIn the same year, a second Grand Lodge was founded in Ireland, which took several decades to bring all the Irish lodges under its wing. Rival Grand Lodges quickly appeared in Munster and Cork. It was in Ireland that the practice of recognising the regularity of a lodge by the issue of a warrant began, the first known example dating from 1731. The Grand Lodge of Scotland was not formed until 1736.\n\nAlso in 1725 \"The Ancient and Honourable Society and Fraternity of Freemasons meeting since time immemorial in the City of York\" assumed the title, \" The Grand Lodge of All England meeting in the City of York.\" This should not be interpreted as rivalry, as there was no overlap in the two jurisdictions. Indeed, Anderson's history would have produced the expectation of an older Grand Lodge at York, and the London Lodges were duly furnished with minutes going back some twenty years. Anderson's 1738 \"Constitutions\" recognised the independence of \"the Old Lodge of York City. and the Lodges of Scotland, Ireland. France, Italy, etc\".\n\nHowever, in 1735, the Master and Wardens of an Irish lodge were refused admission to Grand Lodge because they did not have the written authority of the Grand Master of Ireland. It seems that they hoped to be recognised as a deputation from Lord Kingston, then Grand Master of Ireland, and Past Grand Master of the London Grand Lodge. They were offered, and refused, the English authorisation. This has been interpreted as evidence of a split between the two constitutions.\n\nResponding to the popularity of Pritchard's and other exposures of masonic ritual, Grand Lodge, about this time, made changes to ritual and passwords to make it more difficult for outsiders to pass themselves off as masons. These changes were not universally accepted by affiliated lodges. The Goose and Gridiron (now Lodge of Antiquity No. 2), one of the original and most senior lodges of the constitution, never adopted them. For the unaffiliated, the innovations simply deepened the division. At the time, London was absorbing many economic migrants from Ireland. Those who were already Freemasons felt that they could not work with the new ritual, and the lodges they formed swelled further the numbers of unaffiliated lodges in the capital.\n\nIn the same period, Freemasonry as practiced by the English, Irish and Scottish lodges began to spread to Europe. The establishment of the first Grand Lodge in France is particularly problematic. Freemasonry itself appears to have been established in France by exiled Jacobites. The Grand Lodge of France dates its foundation to 1728, when it claims the Grand Master was the Duke of Wharton. Some Grand Orient seals date the first Grand Lodge to 1736 (the split between the Grand Lodge and the Grand Orient occurred in 1773). French histories date the first Grand Lodge to 24 June 1738. The situation seems confused, as other histories state that the first legitimate Grand Lodge was formed on 11 December 1743 as \"The English Grand Lodge of France\" with the Count of Clermont as grand master. Although the government of the craft was in the hands of a series of deputies, the protection of the count until his death in 1771 afforded French masonry a period of stability and growth. As masonry was persecuted in other catholic states, the moral and egalitarian nature of the French lodges accorded with the spirit of the age.\n\nAlthough Anderson seems to imply the existence of an Italian Grand Lodge, no such body existed until the creation of the Grand Orient of Italy in 1805. The first lodge was the English Lodge (\"La Loggia degli Inglesi\") in Florence, founded in 1731, and Freemasonry quickly spread, in spite of a series of Papal bans.\n\nThe first appearance of the many German Grand Lodges dates from the 1740s, notably \"Of the Three Globes\", founded in Berlin in 1744, which became the \"Grand National Mother Lodge\" in 1772. Frederick the Great became a Freemason while he was still Crown Prince and personally sanctioned the Berlin Lodge. Although a few authors cite the existence of German operative grand lodges as far back as that formed at Cologne Cathedral in 1250, continuity of tradition has been hard to prove, and most sources believe the Eighteenth-century German speculative lodges show descent from the English model.\n\nFreemasonry was brought to the Russian Empire by foreign officers in the Russian service. For instance, James Keith is recorded as being master of a lodge in Saint Petersburg in 1732–34. Several years later his cousin John Keith, 3rd Earl of Kintore was appointed Provincial Grand Master of Russia by the Grand Lodge of England. In the early 1770s, Ivan Yelagin succeeded in reorganizing Russian Freemasonry into a far-reaching system that united some 14 lodges and about 400 government officials. He secured English authorization of the first Russian Grand Lodge and became its Provincial Grand Master. Most Russian lodges were attracted to the Swedish Rite. In 1782, Ivan Schwarz represented Russia at the masonic congress in Wilhelmsbad (a health resort in Hanau), where Russia was recognized as the 8th province of the Rite of Strict Observance. See History of Freemasonry in Russia for further details.\n\nOn 17 July 1751, representatives of six Lodges gathered at the Turk's Head Tavern, in Greek Street, Soho, London. Five were unaffiliated lodges of mainly Irish membership, and the sixth appears to have been formed shortly beforehand for the business of the evening. On that night, they established the \"Most Ancient and Honourable Society of Free and Accepted Masons according to the Old Constitutions\", now commonly known as the Grand Lodge of the Antients. The first Grand Secretary, John Morgan, obtained a position in the Navy, and resigned after seven months. His successor, Laurence Dermott, presided as Grand Secretary for almost twenty years, being deputy Grand Master on three occasions after that, and exercised considerable influence until his death in 1791.\n\nDermott's immediate impact was in replacing the regulations that Morgan had written with those of his own lodge in Dublin. In 1756 he published the Antient's own book of constitutions, entitled the \"Ahiman Rezon\", for which no meaning is known. Modeled on Spratt's Irish Constitutions, the regulations are comprehensive and well written, and are followed by an extended section devoted to songs. At the beginning, instead of Anderson's history, is an extended introduction attacking the original Grand Lodge, now calling itself the Grand Lodge of England, but saddled by Dermott with \"the Moderns\" in contrast to the \"Ancient\" usages of the new Grand Lodge. This name remains in use to the present day. His main weapon was satire. He started with an account of how he attempted to write a history which would better the others by describing masonry before Adam, but towards the end of the first volume, he fell asleep. He dreamed of a conversation with Ahimon, one of four sojourners from Jerusalem, about the futility of masonic histories, after which an ancient in a shining breastplate perused his first volume and pronounced, \"Thou hast div'd deep into the water, and hast brought up a potsherd\". He was woken by his neighbour's puppy eating his manuscript. Dermott then proceeded to a reasoned explanation of why a new Mason should not join a \"Moderns\" lodge, since their amended passwords would not be recognised by any of the other Grand Lodges which at that time existed. There follows a humorous account of their \"unconstitutional fopperies\", including Dermott's belief that their greatest masonic symbols were the knife and fork.\n\nUnder Dermott's influence, penmanship, and oratory, the new Grand Lodge grew to be a serious challenge to the original. The Antient's lodges were warranted from 1752, a practice not taken up by the Moderns for another two decades. As the unaffiliated lodges increasingly saw the sense of belonging to a larger organisation, they usually found that the Antients practice was closer to their own, although it was known for lodges to change allegiance from the Antients to the Moderns. The fact that the practices eventually adopted by the United Grand Lodge largely reflect those of the Antients is attributable to Dermott's industry.\n\nWhile the emergence of the Antients simply consolidated a division in English Freemasonry, a schism occurred within the Moderns in 1777/78. While this only involved one lodge, it was the oldest and most prestigious in the constitution, and its Master the Moderns' most respected author and historian. William Preston was already in dispute with the Grand Secretary over the royalties to the new Book of Constitutions he had just written. Some members of his Lodge of Antiquity (formerly the Goose and Gridiron, or the Old Lodge of St. Pauls), having attended church as masons, walked back to the lodge in their regalia. Three brethren saw fit to report this to the Moderns Grand Lodge as an unauthorised masonic parade. Preston, the Master of Antiquity, sided with the accused, arguing that since the lodge was one of the original four, it had only subscribed to the original constitutions, and did not require any other authority to hold a parade. For this, he was promptly expelled. Antiquity responded by expelling the three who had complained. At least half of the lodge seceded to the Grand Lodge of All England at York, quoting Article 39 of Payne's regulations, that the Landmarks of the order must be preserved in any new regulations of Grand Lodge (alluding to their own rights and privileges). Antiquity became, for the period of separation, \"the Grand Lodge of All England South of the River Trent\", warranting at least two lodges in its own right. The dispute was not resolved until May 1789, when Preston and his brethren were received back into the Moderns with much feasting and fanfare.\n\nA similar situation arose in Scotland. Seniority was assigned according to the dating of lodge minutes, and due to a fire, Kilwinning records started at 1642, somewhat later than the Lodge of St. Mary's Chapel in Edinburgh. Offended by being recognised as only the second lodge in the constitution, Lodge Mother Kilwinning withdrew from the Grand Lodge of Scotland in 1743, and did not rejoin until 1807. During this period, Kilwinning functioned as yet another Grand Lodge, chartering about 70 lodges in Scotland and abroad. While the two Grand Lodges ignored each other at an official level, there does not appear to have been any real animosity, with no bar on masons visiting lodges in the competing jurisdiction. One Kilwinning member became Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Scotland. The Lodge at Melrose, claiming an antiquity at least as great as Kilwinning, simply ignored the Grand Lodge of Scotland, again chartering daughter lodges, with the Master being addressed as \"Grand Master\". They finally joined the national body on 25 February 1891 as The Lodge Of Melrose St. John No 1 bis.\n\nIn the wake of the French Revolution, the British Government became uneasy about possible revolutionary conspiracies. Amongst other repressive measures, Pitt's government proposed to introduce the Unlawful Societies Act in 1799, which declared that any body which administered a secret oath was illegal. Acting quickly, a delegation representing the Ancients, Moderns and the Grand Lodge of Scotland arranged a meeting with the Prime Minister. The delegation included the Duke of Atholl, Grand Master of the Ancients, and Past Grand Master Mason of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and the Earl of Moira, Acting Grand Master of the Moderns (the Grand Master being the Prince of Wales). As a result of this meeting, Freemasons were specifically excluded from the act, although lodges were obliged to return a list of members to the local Clerk of the Peace, a practice which continued until 1967. It also demonstrated that the two rival Grand Lodges could act together.\n\nIn 1733, Henry Price, the Provincial Grand Master over all of North America for the Grand Lodge of England, granted a charter to a group of Boston Freemasons. This lodge was later named St. John's Lodge and was the first duly constituted lodge in America. Between 1733 and 1737 the Grand Lodge in England warranted Provincial Grand Lodges in Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania and South Carolina. Benjamin Franklin re-issued Anderson's 1723 constitutions as Provincial Grand Master of Pennsylvania. Franklin had written in the Pennsylvania Gazette of 8 December 1730 of the several lodges of freemasons already in the \"province\", joined St. John's Lodge in Philadelphia the following year, and in 1732 was Junior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of Philadelphia. All this before the \"first\" lodge in North America.\n\nCorrespondence from John Moore, the collector for the port of Philadelphia and himself a Mason, indicate that Masonic Lodges were meeting in Philadelphia in 1715. The present Grand Lodge has the Carmick manuscript, a handwritten copy of the ancient charges dating from 1727, and headed \"The Constitutions of St. John's Lodge\". Colonel Daniel Coxe was made Provincial Grand Master of New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania by the Grand Lodge of England in 1730, with effect from 24 June (St. John the Baptist's day) for two years. It is unclear whether he was in America or England at the time, but he was present at Grand Lodge, at the Devil Tavern in London, on 29 January 1731, where he is minuted as \"Provincial Grand Master of North America\". There is no record of his chartering any lodges, but he arranged for St. John's Lodge to double as a Provincial Grand Lodge, and appointed his successor in 1731, a year early. Notwithstanding the acceptance of Coxe as their first Provincial Grand Master, it has been suggested that the formation of the new Grand Lodge by consenting pre-existing lodges makes it a Grand Lodge by \"Immemorial right\", and a sister lodge to the Grand Lodges of England Scotland and Ireland.\n\nNorth America would have many independent lodges in the 18th century. Authorisation, which later would become a Warrant, took time and expense, especially in the period when the nearest Grand Lodge was on the other side of the Atlantic. Many lodges became \"self starters\", and only applied for Grand Lodge authorisation when they were reasonably confident that the lodge would survive for more than a few years. George Washington was initiated into the Lodge of Fredericksburg in 1752. The same lodge was chartered by the Grand Lodge of Scotland in 1758. The first properly chartered \"Scottish\" lodge was only two years earlier, being the Lodge of St. Andrews in Boston. Members included Paul Revere and Joseph Warren, and (according to some) later lodge outings included the Boston Tea Party.\n\nMany lodges were attached British Army regiments. The Moderns may have been wary of warranting lodges without a permanent address, so there was only one Grand Lodge of England warrant in the continental army from 1775–1777. The Antients and the Grand Lodge of Scotland were slightly better represented, but the overwhelming majority of regimental lodges held warrants from the Grand Lodge of Ireland. Thus it was that a group of African Americans, having been rejected by the lodges in Boston, were initiated into Lodge No 441 on the register of the Grand Lodge of Ireland, which was attached to the 38th Foot (later the 1st Staffordshire). These 15 men formed African Lodge No 1, as the British departed, leaving them a permit to do almost everything but admit new masons. Two of the members were seafarers, and obtained entrance to a lodge in London, being recognised as regularly initiated Masons. This enabled their master, Prince Hall, to apply to the Moderns for a charter, which was duly granted on 29 September 1784, now as African Lodge No. 459. Such was the success of the lodge that it became a Provincial Grand Lodge, and Prince Hall the Provincial Grand Master. After his death, the provincial lodges reconstituted themselves as a grand lodge (African Grand Lodge), becoming Prince Hall Grand Lodge in 1847. Around the same time, the history of Freemasonry in Mexico can be traced to at least 1806 when the first Masonic lodge was formally established in the nation.\n\nThe majority of this article deals with craft, or \"blue lodge\" masonry, the three degrees that are common to all masonic lodges and jurisdictions. Further degrees are usually outside of the jurisdiction of Grand Lodges, involve separate ceremonies, and are regulated by different Masonic bodies. The number and names of the \"chivalric\" orders and degrees depend on the local tradition of Freemasonry, and have varied greatly over the years. The oldest of these, and the most universal, is the Royal Arch Chapter (the Holy Royal Arch in England).\n\nAlthough some masonic writers have attempted to see Royal Arch symbolism in material from the 1720s, the earliest definite reference is to a Royal Arch in a procession in Dublin preceding the master and held aloft by two \"Excellent Masons\". In 1744 it is mentioned as a degree in Dr. Dassigny's \"Serious and Impartial Inquiry\".\n\nLaurence Dermott, the guiding force behind the Ancients Grand Lodge, claimed to have been made a Royal Arch Mason in Dublin in 1746. He referred to it as the fourth degree, and campaigned to have it recognised as such. This happened just after he died, and only twenty years before the union of the Ancients and Moderns. The Moderns, on the other hand, had created a separate Grand Chapter in 1765 to deal with the degree, and wished to keep it separate from pure craft masonry. This would be a point of contention as the two jurisdictions moved towards union. The second of the articles of union stated that there were but three degrees in \"pure Ancient Masonry\", but included the Royal Arch in the third degree. The degree continues to be administered by a separate Grand Chapter, and until a revision in 2004, English Master Masons were simply told that the degree of the Holy Royal Arch completes their third degree.\n\nThe oldest Irish records of the ritual indicate that Royal Arch Chapters originally administered three degrees. The first was based on the refurbishment of the first temple by King Josiah. The second was a short bridge to the third, which was based on the rebuilding of the temple after the exile. Most jurisdictions base the modern Royal Arch ritual on the post-exilic legend. In 1864, the Grand Chapter of Ireland decided to base their ritual on the reign of Josiah, the main practical difference being the names of the officers.\n\nIn 1809, the Grand Lodge of England (the Moderns) set up a \"Lodge of Promulgation\". Its purpose was to \"revert to the Ancient Land Marks of the Society\" and to promulgate those landmarks amongst the brethren. One of its members was the Duke of Sussex, the Master of the Lodge of Antiquity, No 2, and sixth son of George III. The result of their labours was a reply to the Ancients in 1811 that the Grand Lodge had resolved to \"return to the Ancient Landmarks...when it should be ascertained what those ancient landmarks and obligations were.\" Both Grand Lodges moved visibly towards union, forming committees to negotiate the precise terms. The main sticking point was the inability of the Ancients' committee to decide anything without reporting back to a quarterly meeting of their own Grand Lodge. In October 1812, the Ancients allayed the frustration of the Moderns by granting their commissioners full powers. Shortly after this, the Earl of Moira resigned as acting Grand Master of the Moderns, due to his appointment as Governor General of India. His successor was the Duke of Sussex, who became Grand Master the next January on the resignation of his brother, the Prince of Wales. On 1 December 1813, the Duke of Atholl ceded the leadership of the Ancients to the Duke of Kent, the older brother of Sussex and the father of Queen Victoria. Kent had already presided over the union of the Ancients and Moderns in Canada, accomplished by the brutally simple expedient of merging the lodges of the Moderns with the nearest lodge of the Ancients. The Moderns in Canada had simply ceased to exist. These two men oversaw the union in 1813 to form the United Grand Lodge of England, with the Duke of Sussex appointed as Grand Master of the new body.\n\nThe actual process of unification continued for some years, first with the Lodge of Reconciliation (1813–1816), made up of two lodges, one of each constitution, which ironed out some sort of ritual acceptable to the two parties. The work of this lodge was spread by the Stability Lodge of Instruction (1817) and fleshed out by the Emulation Lodge of Improvement (1823 onwards). The new Grand Lodge essentially ended up with the ritual of the Ancients and the infrastructure of the Moderns. While the \"Emulation Ritual\" became the standard, many variations still exist which, while mutually recognisable, present many flavours of Masonic ritual within the English Constitution.\n\nIn 1826, William Morgan disappeared from Batavia, New York, after threatening to expose Freemasonry's secrets, causing some to claim that he had been murdered by Masons. What exactly occurred has never been conclusively proven. However, Morgan's disappearance – and the minimal punishment received by his kidnappers – sparked a series of protests against Freemasons throughout the United States, especially in New York and neighboring states. The protracted backlash led to many masons leaving the craft. The Grand Lodge of New York controlled 227 lodges in 1827, but only 41 in 1835.\n\nUnder the leadership of Thurlow Weed, an anti-Masonic and anti-Andrew Jackson (Jackson was a Mason) movement grew to become the Anti-Masonic Party and made the ballot for the presidency in 1828 while gaining the support of such notable politicians as William H. Seward. Its influence was such that other Jackson rivals, including John Quincy Adams, denounced the Masons. In 1847, Adams wrote a widely distributed book titled \"Letters on the Masonic Institution\" that was highly critical of the Masons. In 1832, the party fielded William Wirt as its presidential candidate. This was rather ironic because he was, in fact, a Freemason, and even gave a speech at the Anti-Masonic convention defending the organization. The party only received seven electoral votes. Three years later, the party had disbanded in every state save Pennsylvania, as other issues such as slavery had become the focus of national attention.\n\nThe fortunes of American Freemasonry declined sharply following the Morgan Affair, only to rebound as the force of the Anti-Masonic movement sputtered out in the mid-1830s. By the late 1850s, masonry in America was the subject of renewed popular interest and lodge membership, which had bottomed out during the anti-Masonic period began to rise. By the time of the American Civil War, U.S. freemasonry tripled its membership from 66,000 to 200,000 members in over 5000 lodges nationwide. This surge in membership helps explain, at least in part, the many stories of Masonic fraternisation during the American Civil War, which include accounts of Masonic soldiers and sailors rescuing enemy combatants who identified themselves as members of the fraternity. Masonic incidents are also recorded involving Freemasons burying their own with Masonic formalities during battle, as well as aid and special treatment given to Masonic POWs.\n\nAfter the Civil War, American Freemasonry flourished along with other fraternal organizations during the so-called \"Golden Age of Fraternalism\" from approximately 1870 to 1920.\n\nIn France, the number of Freemasons grew from 10,000 in 1802, when Napoleon gave it semi-official status, to 20,000 in 1889, 32,000 in 1908, 40,000 in 1926, and about 60,000 in 1936. At an early stage, nearly all the lodges were affiliated with the Radical party. Zeldin argues that in 19th century France:\n\nRumors were rife, especially in conservative circles, that the order secretly ran the government, and was the main source of materialistic and anti-clerical propaganda. Zeldin concludes that was a \"vast exaggeration.\" The details are known because the Vichy regime in 1941 seized the archives, and failed to find significant evidence. While the order did support anti-clerical campaigns, it did not initiate them. Its primary role was to serve as a social club which the members could rise in the world, and get 10% discounts in shops owned by fellow Masons. The chapters provided some charity and life insurance. In 1904 a scandal erupted because the Grand Orient de France lodges were asked by the Radical government to secretly collect information about the religious and political affiliations of army officers, with a view to blocking the promotion of Catholics. When the news leaked out, the government was forced to resign. The concern with Radical politics gradually declined, and it disappeared after 1945.\n\nAccording to Ernest Belfort Bax, Freemasons were responsible for the last serious attempt at conciliation between Versailles and the Paris Commune on 21 April 1871. They were received coldly by Adolphe Thiers, who assured them that, though Paris was given over to destruction and slaughter, the law should be enforced, and he kept his word. A few days after they decided, in a public meeting, to plant their banner on the ramparts and throw in their lot with the Commune. On the 29th, accordingly, 10,000 of the brethren met (55 lodges being represented), and marched to the Hôtel de Ville, headed by the Grand Masters in full insignia and the banners of the lodges. Amongst them the new banner of Vincennes was conspicuous, bearing the inscription in red letters on a white ground, \"Love one another.\" A balloon was then sent up, which let fall at intervals, outside Paris, a manifesto of the Freemasons. The procession then wended its way through the boulevards and the Champs Elysées to the Arc de Triomphe, where the banners were planted at various points along the ramparts. On seeing the white flag on the Porte Maillot the Versaillese ceased firing, and the commander, himself a Freemason, received a deputation of brethren, and suggested a final appeal to Versailles, which was agreed to. The \"chief of the executive\" hardly listened to the envoys, and declined to further discuss the question of peace with anyone. This last formal challenge having been made and rejected, the Freemasons definitely took their stand as combatants for the Commune.\n\nThe schism between French and English Freemasonry is popularly supposed to originate at a general assembly of the Grand Orient de France in September 1877. Accepting a recommendation in a report by a Protestant minister, Frédéric Desmons, the assembly, on a majority vote, amended its constitutions to read \"Its principles are absolute liberty of conscience and human solidarity\". The words \"Its principles are the existence of God, the immortality of the soul and human solidarity\" were struck out. The United Grand Lodge of England's (UGLE) response was a resolution in March 1878 that \"That the Grand Lodge, whilst always anxious to receive in the most fraternal spirit the Brethren of any Foreign Grand Lodge whose proceedings are conducted according to the Ancient Landmarks of the Order, of which a belief in T. G. A. O. T. U. (the Great Architect of the Universe) is the first and most important, cannot recognise as ‘true and genuine’ Brethren any who have been initiated in Lodges which either deny or ignore that belief\". Relations between the two governing bodies effectively ceased, purportedly because the French body had removed the requirement for a belief in a supreme being. However, UGLE had just entered into fraternal relations with the Grand Orient of Belgium, which had removed the Great Architect from its constitutions in 1872, a relationship which lasted until 1921. The reasons for the split are obviously deeper and more complex than the official records suggest.\n\nMutual distrust between English and French Freemasons was apparent in the 1850s, when French Masonic refugees were appalled at the relationship between UGLE and the Monarchy, aristocracy, and the Anglican church. The English distrusted the mysticism of French Masonry, and its ideals of Fraternity and Universality.\n\nDesmons' review had been prompted by the Lausanne Congress of Supreme Councils of 1875. Eleven countries were represented at an attempt to unify the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite. An agreement on colonial lodges would have seen the UGLE as the only recognised masonic grand lodge in British colonies, in spite of the Scottish and Irish lodges already flourishing there. The Scottish delegate, Mackersy, who also represented Greece, withdrew. His letter of withdrawal cited his jurisdiction's disagreement with any shift from the requirement for a member to believe in a personal god. He said that he believed the congress would agree to a non-requirement, or the specification of a vague universal principle. In avoiding ratifying a treaty which would obliterate Scottish lodges in the colonies, Mackersy sparked a debate that led to the removal of a requirement for an open volume of scripture in French lodges. The English interpretation of this as a slide towards atheism was probably partly prompted by the difficult political relationship between Britain and France at that time.\n\nThe gulf between UGLE and GOdF widened due to the French body's active engagement in politics, on a personal and organisational level. All discussion of politics and religion is expressly banned from English lodges.\n\nDuring the First World War, many American lodges relaxed their opposition to the Grand Orient de France to allow servicemen to engage with other masons while in France. Many of these continue to allow their members to associate with continental Freemasons.\n\nIn December 1913, UGLE recognised a new Grand Lodge in France. The basis of this recognition was the series of obligations that the \"Independent and Regular National Grand Lodge of France\" (later the Grande Loge Nationale Française) imposed on its lodges. These were —\nThese \"basic principles\" were accepted by UGLE itself in 1929, and written into its constitutions.\n\nBetween the years 1885 and 1897, Léo Taxil maintained a hoax against both Freemasonry and the Roman Catholic Church, by making increasingly outlandish claims regarding Freemasonry. On 19 April 1897, Taxil called a press conference at which he claimed he would introduce the \"author\" of his books to the press. He instead announced that his revelations about the Freemasons were fictitious. Nevertheless, the material is still used on some anti-Masonic websites today.\n\nMany twentieth century totalitarian regimes, both Fascist and Communist, have treated Freemasonry as a potential source of opposition due to its secret nature and international connections (not to mention its promotion of religious and political tolerance through its symbolism). It has been alleged by Masonic scholars that the language used by the totalitarian regimes is similar to that used by some modern critics of Freemasonry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44315545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44315545", "title": "Hong Kong slang", "text": "Hong Kong slang\n\nSlang in Hong Kong evolves over time, and mainly comprises Cantonese, English, or a combination of the two.\n\nThe word slanguage consists of two original English words, slang and language. ‘Slang’ means informal usage in vocabulary and idioms that is characteristically more metaphorical, while ‘Language’ means a body of words in which people who are of the same culture, community or nation share the system.\n\nHong Kong slanguage consists of commonly used terms or trendy expressions in Hong Kong which are in Cantonese only. This type of language is used both in written and spoken words. As Hong Kong slanguage mainly consists of trendy expressions that are commonly used in the Internet and other social medias, it broadly represents the culture or social issues which take place in a certain period of time. Therefore, Hong Kong slanguage usually changes with time and some words would be eliminated over time. Due to usage of non-standard words or phrases, Hong Kong slanguage is still relatively less accepted and understood by Cantonese speakers.\n\nThe rise of local slanguage is a social phenomenon in Hong Kong. In Hong Kong, there are approximately 5400000 active Internet users. This immense number of Internet users apparently gives an impetus to the evolution of Hong Kong online forums and the birth of Hong Kong slanguage.\n\nThe trend started with the development of local online forums. The two dominating online forums in Hong Kong, HK Golden Forum and HK Discuss Forum, were found in 2000 and 2003 respectively. As the number of Hong Kong forum users gradually increased, members of younger generation found typing formal Chinese words and sentences on the Internet to be old-fashioned, developing distinct and innovative online buzzwords.\n\nIn the beginning, those words were exclusively used on online forums and amongst younger Internet users. Unexpectedly, some new phrases spread extensively, becoming commonplace, not only amongst Hong Kong teenagers, but also enjoying use widespread use among Hong Kong adults and in the media. Some of these new terms are now widely accepted by the public and are classified as ‘Hong Kong slanguage’.\n\nIn 2008 Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination, local slanguage was included in the questions by the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority in Chinese paper five. In 2009, a form-three student was found using slang terms in the Territory-wide System Assessment. Hong Kong slanguage has had a broad impact in the lives of Hongkongese people, far outreaching its Internet origins.\n\nThere are several examples of the usage of slanguage.\n\n1.Hea -To describe someone who stroll around without any purpose and heedless of everything.\n\n2.Fong Fei Gei (放飛機) - Literally to fly an aeroplane; to fail to turn up on a date.\n\n3.Sap buk (十卜) - Sounds like the English word, support. To cheer someone up.\n\n4.Fu Luk (負碌) - Sounds like the English word, fluke. Meaning something that is unlikely or surprising and only happens because of luck.\n\n5.O jui (O嘴) - Literally to have an O shaped mouth; to feel astonishing and stunning, meaning Oh my Gosh. Thus, the jaw drops and the shape of the mouth resembles the English letter, O.\n\n6.Cyun Zoei(串嘴) - To behave arrogantly and rudely.\n\n7.Wat Gei(屈機) - Literally to break a machine into two pieces. An adjective describing someone who is tremendous and excellent.\n\n8.Sing Ne (升呢) - To gain a higher level in video game.\n\n9.Baan Haai (扮蟹) - To behave pretentiously\n\n10.Pan Faan (噴飯) - Something makes you burst into laughter.\n\n11.Maai Fei Fat (賣飛佛) - My favorite.\n\n12.Dik Hon (滴汗) - Literally to sweat. To feel speechless and reticent.\n\n13.Taat Zoek (撻著) - Literally to ignite a fire. Two people fall in love and become a couple.\n\n14.Gwai Cuk (龜速) - Literally 'turtle speed'; extremely slow speed.\n\nFrom the aspect of linguistics, the lexicon of Hong Kong slanguage can be classified into three types, including compounds, simple words and accessional words. Over 80% of 237 Hong Kong slang words consist of compound, a word with more than one radical element, which indicates that Cantonese slangs are usually composed by the existing words. Aforementioned examples such as Fong Fei Gei (放飛機), Cyun Zoei(串嘴) and Wat Gei(屈機) are all compounds, while Hea, Sap buk (十卜), Fu Luk(負碌) are simple words, which cannot be broken down into different words and O jui (O嘴) is accessional word.\n\nCantonese has an array of unique features and the classification in usage of Cantonese is particular. The components of a Chinese word relate to each other compactly. For instance, radicals in Chinese symbolize various gestures and actions. It paves a way for Cantonese to possess strong expressiveness. Therefore, people nurture and create slanguage in Cantonese easily. Some words simply do not exist in other Chinese dialects. For example, there is no formal Chinese character for jiu(𡁻), which is verbal Cantonese for chew in which the word is simply made up by Hong Kong people.\n\nTeenagers, being the most innovative and dynamic language users in a society, create new terms frequently. The younger generation is probably more responsible for spreading slangs directly because they are much more susceptible to the world of television comedies, commercials, comic strips and so on. This explains why a large portion of slang expressions originate and spread out from youth communities. It also states that slanguage is not only for communication, but also for recording the current culture. Thus, through the wide acceptance of Hong Kong slanguage, the culture of Hong Kong teenagers and perhaps even the entire society can be realized.\n\n"}
{"id": "15465307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15465307", "title": "Indians in Portugal", "text": "Indians in Portugal\n\nIndians in Portugal, including recent immigrants and people who trace their ancestry back to India, together number around 70,000. They are concentrated in Lisbon and Porto. They are also found in the Algarve, Coimbra, Guarda and Leiria. They consist of Goans, Gujaratis, people from Daman and Diu, and most recently Punjabis.\n\nIn sixteenth century southern Portugal there were Chinese slaves but the number of them was described as \"negligible\", being outnumbered by East Indian, Mourisco, and African slaves. Amerindians, Chinese, Malays, and Indians were slaves in Portugal but in far fewer number than Turks, Berbers, and Arabs. China and Malacca were origins of slaves delivered to Portugal by Portuguese viceroys.\n\nA Portuguese woman, Dona Ana de Ataíde owned an Indian man named António as a slave in Évora. He served as a cook for her. Ana de Ataíde's Indian slave escaped from her in 1587. A large number of slaves were forcibly brought there since the commercial, artisanal, and service sectors all flourished in a regional capital like Évora. Rigorous and demanding tasks were assigned to Mourisco, Chinese, and Indian slaves. Chinese, Mouriscos, and Indians were among the ethnicities of prized slaves and were much more expensive compared to blacks, so high class individuals owned these ethnicities.\n\nA fugitive Indian slave from Evora named António went to Badajoz after leaving his master in 1545. António was among the three most common male names given to male slaves in Evora.\n\nAntão Azedo took an Indian slave named Heitor to Evora, who along with another slave was from Bengal were among the 34 Indian slaves in total who were owned by Tristão Homem, a nobleman in 1544 in Evora. Manuel Gomes previously owned a slave who escaped in 1558 at age 18 and he was said to be from the \"land of Prester John of the Indias\" named Diogo.\n\nIn Evora, men were owned and used as slaves by female establishments like convents for nuns. A capelão do rei, father João Pinto left an Indian man in Porto where he was picked up in 1546 by the Evora-based Santa Marta convent's nuns to serve as their slave. However, female slaves did not serve in male establishments, unlike vice versa.\n\nJapanese Christian Daimyos mainly responsible for selling to the Portuguese their fellow Japanese. Japanese women and Japanese men, Javanese, Chinese, and Indians were all sold as slaves in Portugal.\n\nTraits such as high intelligence were ascribed to Indians, Chinese, and Japanese slaves.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104718", "title": "International broadcasting", "text": "International broadcasting\n\nInternational broadcasting is broadcasting that is deliberately aimed at a foreign, rather than a domestic, audience. It usually is broadcast by means of longwave, mediumwave, or (more usually) shortwave radio, but in recent years has also used direct satellite broadcasting and the internet as means of reaching audiences.\n\nAlthough radio and television programs do travel outside national borders, in many cases reception by foreigners is accidental. However, for purposes of propaganda, transmitting religious beliefs, keeping in touch with colonies or expatriates, education, improving trade, increasing national prestige, or promoting tourism and goodwill, broadcasting services have operated external services since the 1920s.\n\nInternational broadcasting, in a limited extent, began during World War I, when German and British stations broadcast press communiqués using Morse code. With the severing of Germany's undersea cables, the wireless telegraph station in Nauen was the country's sole means of long-distance communication.\n\nThe US Navy Radio Service radio station in New Brunswick, Canada, transmitted the 'Fourteen Points' by wireless to Nauen in 1917. In turn, Nauen station broadcast the news of the abdication of Kaiser Wilhelm II on November 10, 1918.\n\nGuglielmo Marconi pioneered the use of short wave radio for long distance transmissions in the early 1920s. Using a system of parabolic reflector antennae, Marconi's assistant, Charles Samuel Franklin, rigged up a large antenna at Poldhu Wireless Station, Cornwall, running on 25 kW of power. In June and July 1923, wireless transmissions were completed during nights on 97 meters from Poldhu to Marconi's yacht \"Elettra\" in the Cape Verde Islands. High speed shortwave telegraphy circuits were then installed from London to Australia, India, South Africa and Canada as the main element of the Imperial Wireless Chain from 1926.\n\nThe Dutch began conducting experiments in the shortwave frequencies in 1925 from Eindhoven. The radio station PCJJ began the first international broadcasting on March 11, 1927 with programmes in Dutch for colonies in the Dutch West Indies and Dutch East Indies and in German, Spanish and English for the rest of the world. The popular Happy Station show was inaugurated in 1928.\n\nIn 1927, Marconi also turned his attention toward long distance broadcasting on shortwave. His first such broadcasts took place to commemorate Armistice Day in the same year. He continued running a regular international broadcast that was picked up around the world, with programming from the 2LO station, then run by the BBC. The success of this operation caught the BBC's attention, and rented out a shortwave transmitting station in Chelmsford, with the callsign G5SW, to Marconi. The BBC Empire Service was finally inaugurated on December 19, 1932, with transmissions aimed towards Australia and New Zealand.\n\nOther notable early international broadcasters included Vatican Radio (February 12, 1931), Radio Moscow, the official service of the Soviet Union (this has since been renamed the Voice of Russia, following the collapse of the Soviet Union). Clarence W. Jones started transmitting on Christmas Day, 1931 from Christian missionary radio station HCJB in Quito, Ecuador. Broadcasting in South Asia was launched in 1925 in Ceylon - Radio Ceylon, now the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation is the oldest in the region.\nShortwave broadcasting from Nauen in Germany to the USA, Central and South America, and the Far East began in 1926. A second station, Zeesen, was added in 1931. In January 1932, the German Reichspost assumed control of the Nauen station and added to its shortwave and longwave capacity. Once Adolf Hitler assumed power in 1933, shortwave, under the \"Auslandsrundfunk\" (Foreign Radio Section), was regarded as a vital element of Nazi propaganda.\n\nGerman shortwave hours were increased from two hours a day to 18 per day, and eventually twelve languages were broadcast on a 24-hour basis, including English. A 100 kilowatt transmitter and antenna complex was built at Zeesen, near Berlin. Specialty target programming to the United States began in 1933, to South Africa, South America, and East Asia in 1934, and South Asia and Central America in 1938. German propaganda was organized under Joseph Goebbels, and played a key role in the German annexation of Austria and the Munich Crisis of 1938.\n\nIn 1936, the International Radio Union recognized Vatican Radio as a \"special case\" and authorized its broadcasting without any geographical limits. On December 25, 1937, a Telefunken 25-kW transmitter and two directional antennas were added. Vatican Radio broadcast over 10 frequencies.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, the Nationalist forces received a powerful Telefunken transmitter as a gift of Nazi Germany to aid their propaganda efforts, and until 1943 Radio Nacional de España collaborated with the Axis powers to retransmit in Spanish news from the official radio stations of Germany and Italy.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Russian, German, British, and Italian international broadcasting services expanded. In 1942, the United States initiated its international broadcasting service, the Voice of America. In the Pacific theater, General Douglas MacArthur used shortwave radio to keep in touch with the citizens of the Japanese-occupied Philippine Islands.\n\nSeveral announcers who became well known in their countries included British Union of Fascists member William Joyce, who was one of the two \"Lord Haw-Haw\"s; Frenchmen Paul Ferdonnet and André Olbrecht, called \"the traitors of [Radio] Stuttgart\"; and Americans Frederick William Kaltenbach, \"Lord Hee-Haw\", and Mildred Gillars, one of the two announcers called \"Axis Sally\". Listeners to German programs often tuned in for curiosity's sake—at one time, German radio had half a million listeners in the U.S.--but most of them soon lost interest. Japan had \"Tokyo Rose\", who broadcast Japanese propaganda in English, along with American music to help ensure listeners.\n\nDuring World War II, Vatican Radio's news broadcasts were banned in Germany. During the war, the radio service operated in four languages.\n\nThe British launched Radio SEAC from Colombo, Ceylon (Sri Lanka) during World War II. The station broadcast radio programs to the allied armed forces across the region from their headquarters in Ceylon.\n\nFollowing the war and German partition, each Germany developed its own international broadcasting station: Deutsche Welle, using studios in Cologne, West Germany, and Radio Berlin International (RBI) in East Germany. RBI's broadcasts ceased shortly before the reunification of Germany on October 3, 1990, and Deutsche Welle took over its transmitters and frequencies.\n\nThe Cold War led to increased international broadcasting (and jamming), as Communist and non-Communist states attempted to influence each other's domestic population. Some of the most prominent Western broadcasters were the Voice of America, the BBC World Service, and the (covertly) CIA-backed Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. The Soviet Union's most prominent service was Radio Moscow (now the Voice of Russia) and China used Radio Peking (then Radio Beijing, now China Radio International). In addition to the U.S.-Soviet cold war, the Chinese-Russian border dispute led to an increase of the numbers of transmitters aimed at the two nations, and the development of new techniques such as playing tapes backwards for reel-to-reel recorders.\n\nWest Germany resumed regular shortwave broadcasts using Deutsche Welle on May 3, 1953. Its Julich transmitter site began operation in 1956, with eleven 100-kW Telefunken transmitters. The Wertachtal site was authorized in 1972 and began with four 500-kW transmitters. By 1989, there were 15 transmitters, four of which relayed the Voice of America. Meanwhile, in East Germany, the Nauen site began transmitting Radio DDR, later Radio Berlin International, on October 15, 1959.\nIn addition to these states, international broadcast services grew in Europe and the Middle East. Under the presidency of Gamal Nasser, Egyptian transmitters covered the Arab world; Israel's service, Kol Yisrael, served both to present the Israeli point of view to the world and to serve the Jewish diaspora, particularly behind the Iron Curtain.\n\nRadio RSA, as part of the South African Broadcasting Corporation, was established in 1966 to promote the image of South Africa internationally and reduce criticism of apartheid. It continued in 1992, when the post-apartheid government renamed it Channel Africa.\n\nIronically, the isolationist Albania under Enver Hoxha, virtually a hermit kingdom, became one of the most prolific international broadcasters during the latter decades of the Cold War, with Radio Tirana one of the top five broadcasters in terms of hours of programming produced.\n\nEstimated total programme hours per week of some external broadcasters\nAt the end of the Cold War, many international broadcasters cut back on hours and foreign languages broadcast, or reemphasized other language services. For example, in 1984, Radio Canada International broadcast in English, French, German, Spanish, Czech/Slovak, Hungarian, Polish, Russian, and Ukrainian. In 2005, RCI broadcast in English, Chinese, Arabic, Russian, and Spanish. There is a bigger trend towards TV (e.g. BBC World News, NHK World, CCTV-9) and news websites. Some services, such as Swiss Radio International, left shortwave altogether and exist in Internet form. In addition, new standards, such as Digital Radio Mondiale, are being introduced, as well as sending programs over the Web to be played back later, as \"podcasts\".\n\nInternational broadcasting using the traditional audio-only method will not cease any time soon due to its cost efficiencies. However, international broadcasting via television is considered more strategically important at least since the early 2000s.\n\nThe BBC World Service was the first broadcaster to consider setting up a satellite television news and information channel as far back as 1976, but ceded being the first to CNN (that had primary access to Canada soon after launch). The defunct BBC World Service Antigua Relay Station was built in 1976, but its setup costs were not known to have been part of the BBCWS decision processes at the time.\n\nIn the early 1990s, many international (as well as domestic) 24-hour news and information channels launched as part of the post-Cold War prosperity bubble. There was another burst of global news channels launching in the late 2000s as part the developing world trying to catch up with the developed world in this area.\n\nBroadcasters in one country have several reasons to reach out to an audience in other countries. The examples given below are not meant to be exhaustive, but are illustrative.\n\nOne clear reason is for ideological, or propaganda reasons. Many government-owned stations portray their nation in a positive, non-threatening way. This could be to encourage business investment and/or tourism to the nation. Another reason is to combat a negative image produced by other nations or internal dissidents, or insurgents. Radio RSA, the broadcasting arm of the apartheid South African government, is an example of this. A third reason is to promote the ideology of the broadcaster. For example, a program on Radio Moscow from the 1960s to the 1980s was \"What is Communism?\"\n\nA second reason is to advance a nation's foreign policy interests and agenda by disseminating its views on international affairs or on the events in particular parts of the world. During the Cold War the American Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty and Indian Radio AIR were founded to broadcast news from \"behind the Iron Curtain\" that was otherwise being censored and promote dissent and occasionally, to disseminate disinformation. Currently the US operates similar services aimed at Cuba and the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe BBC World Service, the Voice of America, All India Radio and other western broadcasters have emphasized news broadcasts, particularly to countries that are experiencing repression or civil unrest and whose populations are unable to obtain news from non-government sources. In the case of emergencies, a nation may broadcast special programs overseas to inform listeners what is occurring. During Iraqi missile strikes on Israel during the 1991 Gulf War, Kol Israel relayed its domestic service on its shortwave service.\n\nBesides ideological reasons, many stations are run by religious broadcasters and are used to provide religious education, religious music, or worship service programs. For example, Vatican Radio, established in 1931, broadcasts such programs. Another station, such as HCJB or Trans World Radio will carry brokered programming from evangelists. In the case of the Broadcasting Services of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, both governmental and religious programming is provided.\n\nStations also broadcast to international audiences for cultural reasons. Often a station has an official mandate to keep expatriates in touch with the home country. Many broadcasters often relay their national domestic service on shortwave for that reason. Other reasons include teaching a foreign language, such as Radio Exterior de España's Spanish class, \"Un idioma sin fronteras\", or the Voice of America's broadcasts in Special English. In the case of major broadcasters such as the BBC World Service or Radio Australia, there is also an educational outreach.\n\nAn additional reason for international broadcasting is to maintain contact with a country's citizens travelling abroad or expatriates who have emigrated and share news from home as well as cultural programming. This role of external shortwave broadcasting has declined as advances in communications have allowed expatriates to read news from home and listen and watch to domestic broadcasts in their own language via the internet and satellite. A number of international services such as the original BBC Empire Service, Radio Netherlands, France's Poste Colonial (now Radio France International) and others were founded in part with the goal of helping draw overseas empires closer to the mother country and provide closer cultural and communication connections between the home country and its colonies, a role that became largely obsolete due to decolonization.\n\n\nBecause of this many broadcasters are discovering they can reach a wider audience through other methods (particularly the internet and satellite television) and are cutting back on (or even entirely dropping) shortwave.\n\nAn international broadcaster has several options for reaching a foreign audience:\n\nAn international broadcaster such as the BBC, Radio France International or Germany's Deutsche Welle, may use all the above methods. Several international broadcasters, such as Swiss Radio International, have abandoned shortwave broadcasting altogether, relying on Internet transmissions only. Others, such as the BBC World Service, have abandoned shortwave transmissions to North America, relying on local relays, the Internet, and satellite transmissions\n\nMost radio receivers in the world receive the mediumwave band (530 kHz to 1710 kHz), which at night is capable of reliable reception from 150 to 2,500 km distance from a transmitter. Mediumwave is used heavily all over the world for international broadcasting on a formal and informal basis.\n\nIn addition, many receivers used in Europe and Russia can receive the longwave broadcast band (150 to 280 kHz), which provides reliable long-distance communications over continental distances.\n\nShortwave receivers are capable of receiving shortwave transmissions (2,000 to 30,000 kHz or 2 to 30 MHz). Depending on time of day, season of year, solar weather and Earth's geomagnetic field, a signal might reach around the world.\n\nIn previous decades shortwave (and sometimes high-powered mediumwave) transmission was regarded as the main (and often the \"only\") way in which broadcasters could reach an international audience. In recent years the proliferation of technologies such as satellite broadcasting, the Internet, and rebroadcasts of programming on AM and FM within target nations has meant that this is no longer necessarily the case.\n\nTransmitter output power has increased since 1920. Higher transmitter powers do guarantee better reception in the target area. Higher transmitter power in most cases counteracts the lesser effects of jamming.\n\nInternational stations generally use special directional antennas to aim the signal toward the intended audience and increase the effective power in that direction. Use of such antennas for international broadcasting began in the mid-1930s and became prominent by the 1950s. By using antennas which focus most of their energy in one direction, a modern station may achieve the equivalent, in that direction, of tens of millions of watts of radio power.\n\nSome international broadcasters have become available via Digital Audio Broadcasting (DAB) in Europe in the 1990s, and in a similar limited way in the Americas via in-band FM (IBOC) DAB systems in the US in the 2000s. This is a popular method to reach listeners in cars that would otherwise not be accessible during that part of the day. However, in terms of the global international broadcasting audience the DAB listener base is very small—one can assume that it is less than 2% of the listener base globally.\n\nInternational broadcasting via 24 hour TV news channels has its origins in North America in the early 1980s. CNN technically was the first 24-hour international news channel as it was made available in Canada soon after launch. The BBC World Service considered setting up a global TV news channel as far back as 1975, but abandoned the idea for internal reasons.\n\nNotwithstanding a large number of international 24-hour television news and information broadcasters, the television percentage of viewers is still fairly small when compared to global radio listener numbers.\n\nThe rural populations of Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia (as well as East Asia) have radio listener bases that are far larger than the largest international TV broadcaster could hope for, yet they could be considered underserved since the end of the Cold War (when these regions had more radio broadcasts targeted at them).\n\nMany international television broadcasters (as well as domestic television broadcasters) have set up accounts on streaming video sites like YouTube to allow their news and information broadcasts to be globally distributed. The viewer numbers for these sites may seem huge. Cable, TVRO and terrestrial television broadcasters probably have 100 to 1,000 times larger audiences for their international broadcasting content.\n\nInternational broadcasters known to maintain their own streaming video sites (not authoritative):\n\n\nMany international broadcasters (television or radio) can reach \"unreachable\" audiences via email and RSS feeds. This is not at all unusual, as the first commonly agreed international broadcast was a Morse Code telegram transmitted from US President Wilson to the German Kaiser (mid-1918) via a high powered longwave transmitter on the US East Coast (this important event in international broadcasting history was described in depth in the IEEE \"The History of International Broadcasting\" first volume). As Morse Code is considered to be a data format, with email and RSS merely being refinements of the technology it can be said that international broadcasting has a deep relationship with modern-day datacasting.\n\nThe reach of RSS and email for international broadcasters is not really known that well, especially considering that emails get forwarded. The numbers for active RSS and email audiences are probably 5 to 20 times larger than for streaming video. It may take into the 2010s to get meaningful numbers with respect to the size of these audiences for assorted technical reasons related to the RSS and email technologies.\n\nEmail and RSS feeds can traverse telecommunications barriers that streaming video cannot, thus the larger expected audience numbers. The global economic downturn of 2008-2009 will probably increase the email and RSS audience sizes as fewer people will be able to afford high speed internet connections in North America, Western Europe and the Asia-Pacific regions.\n\nAn international broadcaster may have the technical means of reaching a foreign audience, but unless the foreign audience has a reason to listen, the effectiveness of the broadcaster is in question.\n\nOne of the most common foreign audiences consists of expatriates, who cannot listen to radio or watch television programs from home. Another common audience is radio hobbyists, who attempt to listen to as many countries as possible and obtain verification cards or letters (\"QSLs\"). These audiences send letters and in response few radio stations write them back. These kind of Listeners often take part in weekly and monthly quizzes and contests started by many radio stations. A third audience consists of journalists, government officials, and key businesspersons, who exert a disproportionate influence on a state's foreign or economic policy.\n\nA fourth, but less publicized audience, consists of intelligence officers and agents who monitor broadcasts for both open-source intelligence clues to the broadcasting state's policies and for hidden messages to foreign agents operating in the receiving country. The BBC started its monitoring service in Caversham, Reading in 1936 (now BBC Monitoring). In the United States, the DNI Open Source Center (formerly the Central Intelligence Agency's Foreign Broadcast Information Service) provides the same service. Copies of OSC/FBIS reports can be found in many U.S. libraries that serve as government depositories. In addition, a number of hobbyists listen and report \"spook\" transmissions.\n\nWithout these four audiences, international broadcasters face difficulty in getting funding. In 2001, for example, the BBC World Service stopped transmitting shortwave broadcasts to North America, and other international broadcasters, such as YLE Radio Finland, stopped certain foreign-language programs.\n\nHowever, international broadcasting has been successful when a country does not provide programming wanted by a wide segment of the population. In the 1960s, when there was no BBC service playing rock and roll, Radio Television Luxembourg (RTL) broadcast rock and roll, including bands such as the Beatles, into the United Kingdom. Similar programming came from an unlicensed, or \"pirate\" station, Radio Caroline, which broadcast from a ship in the international waters of the North Sea.\n\nIn many cases, governments do not want their citizens listening to international broadcasters. In Nazi Germany, a major propaganda campaign, backed by law and prison sentences, attempted to discourage Germans from listening to such stations. The practice was made illegal in 1939. In addition, the German government sold a cheap, 76-Reichsmark \"People's Receiver\", as well as an even cheaper 35-Reichsmark receiver, that could not pick up distant signals well.\n\nThe idea was copied by Stalin's Soviet Union, which had a nearly identical copy manufactured in the Tesla factory in Czechoslovakia.\nIn North Korea, all receivers are sold with fixed frequencies, tuned to local stations.\n\nThe most common method of preventing reception is jamming, or broadcasting a signal on the same frequencies as the international broadcaster. Germany jammed the BBC European service during the Second World War. Russian and Eastern European jammers were aimed against Radio Free Europe, other Western broadcasters, and against Chinese broadcasters during the nadir of Sino-Soviet relations. In 2002, the Cuban government jammed the Voice of America's Radio Martí program and the Chinese government jammed Radio Free Asia, Voice of America, Radio Taiwan International as well broadcasts made by adherents of Falun Gong.\n\nNorth Korea restricts most people to a single fixed frequency mediumwave receiver; those who met political requirements and whose work absolutely required familiarity with events abroad were allowed shortwave receivers. Another method of reaching people with government radio programming, but not foreign programming, is the use of radio broadcasting by direct broadcasting to loudspeakers.\nDavid Jackson, director of the Voice of America, noted \"The North Korean government doesn't jam us, but they try to keep people from listening through intimidation or worse. But people figure out ways to listen despite the odds. They're very resourceful.\"\n\nYet another method of preventing reception involves moving a domestic station to the frequency used by the international broadcaster. During the Batista government of Cuba, and during the Castro years, Cuban medium-wave stations broadcast on the frequencies of popular South Florida stations. In October 2002, Iraq changed frequencies of two stations to block the Voice of America's Radio Sawa program.\n\nJamming can be defeated by using very efficient transmitting antennas, carefully choosing the transmitted frequency, changing transmitted frequency often, using single sideband, and properly aiming the receiving antenna.\n\nFor a list of international broadcasters, see List of international broadcasters.\n\n\nGraef 2005<br>\nGraef, Robert. \"Bicycling to Amersfoort: A World War II Memoir\". 2005, iUniverse. \n\nHorwitz 2001<br>\nHorwitz, Robert Britt. \"Communication and Democratic Reform in South Africa\". 2001, Cambridge University Press .\n\nHughes and Mann 2002<br>\nHughes, Matthew, and Chris Mann. \"Inside Hitler's Germany: Life Under the Third Reich\". 2002, Brassey's. \n\nLevillain 2002<br>\nLevillain, Philippe. \"The Papacy: An Encyclopedia\". Translated by John O'Malley. Routledge, 2002. \n\nMartin 2006<br>\nMartin, Bradley K. \"Under the Loving Care of the Fatherly Leader: North Korea and the Kim Dynasty\". 2006, Macmillan. \n\nWood 2000<br>\nWood, James. \"History of International Broadcasting\". 2000, IET. \n\n"}
{"id": "55718322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55718322", "title": "It's OK to be white", "text": "It's OK to be white\n\nIt's okay to be white or It's OK to be white (IOTBW) is a slogan based on a poster campaign organized on the American imageboard 4chan in 2017, as a \"proof of concept\" that a \"harmless message\" would cause a media backlash. Posters and stickers containing the sentence \"It's okay to be white\" have been placed in streets in the United States as well as on campuses in the United States, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and the United Kingdom. The slogan has been spread by Fox News host Tucker Carlson, and racist groups including neo-Nazis and white supremacists.\n\nThe suggestion for the use of posters with the saying originated on the message board 4chan with the intent of provoking reactions. The saying was later spread by neo-Nazi groups and politically organized racists, including former Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard David Duke and \"The Daily Stormer\". A report by the ADL states that the phrase itself has a history within the white supremacist movement going back to 2001 when it was used as the title of a song by a white power music group called Aggressive Force as well as fliers with the phrase being spotted in 2005 and the slogan being used by a member of the United Klans of America.\n\nMany of the flyers were torn down and some accused the posters of being covertly racist, while others, like Jeff Guillory, executive director of Washington State University's Office of Equity and Diversity, argued that there was nothing offensive.\n\nThe University of Regina declared the posters \"divisive\". University President Vianne Timmons said: \"Simply put, these signs have no place at our university.\"\n\nA spokesman for a Waterloo Region District School Board commented: \"Our schools are safe spaces. We want to see them be safe for all of our children, so to see this kind of thing emerge is a worry.\"\n\nAfter the signs were found at Washington State University, Phil Weiler, Vice President of University Communications, said that \"one could reasonably believe the intention of the signs is to set a sense of fear and intimidation on campus\". Executive director of Washington State University's Office of Equity and Diversity responded to the posters by saying: \"In my mind, it's a nonthreatening statement\", further stating: \"Sure, it's OK to be white. It's OK to be African-American. It's OK to be Latino. It's OK to be gay.\"\n\nThe University of Utah said: \"If, indeed, these tactics are meant to silence our work in diversity and inclusion, please know we shall not be deterred.\" Concordia College said that their President was planning a meeting where students could \"discuss the matter\".\n\nPolice were contacted regarding the flyers being posted at University of California, Berkeley. A police department spokesperson said \"the signs did not constitute a hate crime because they did not target a specific race and because no criminal act was committed\".\n\nIn November 2017, Lucian Wintrich attempted to give a speech titled \"It's OK To Be White\" at University of Connecticut as an invited speaker of the school's Republican club. The speech was protested and came to an end when a protester, employed as the director of career services at Quinebaug Valley Community College, grabbed Wintrich's speech papers from the podium and Wintrich grabbed her, resulting in breach of peace charges against Wintrich. In December 2017, the charges against Wintrich were dropped and the woman who took the papers was charged with attempted sixth-degree larceny and disorderly conduct. She stated through her attorney she took Wintrich's speech as a form of protest, describing Wintrich's \"It's OK To Be White\" speech as \"hateful language\".\n\nWhile some media sources reacted in the way the original authors on 4chan had expected, others like TheBlaze described the campaign as trolling, or a prank.\n\nTucker Carlson on Fox News defended the campaign in a segment entitled \"High school Fliers Create Shock and Horror\". Carlson asked: \"What’s the correct position? That it’s not okay to be white?\", but \"Newsweek\" writer Michael Hayden said Carlson was helping to spread neo-Nazi propaganda by defending the posters, saying the slogan is being promoted by neo-Nazis and white supremacists. Writing for \"The Washington Post\", Janell Ross commented on the poster campaign saying \"the white victim construct is one that experts say, not so long ago, only had traction in avowed white supremacists, segregationists and neo-Nazi circles. But today, it animates open and anonymous public discussions of race and shapes the nation’s politics.\" \"The Root\" compared it with the children's book \"It's Okay To Be Different\" and said, \"but white folks have taken that beautiful sentiment and distorted it to suit their infinite need to center themselves\".\n\nThe online magazine \"Jacobite\" argued that the goal of the meme was to trick certain political progressives into attacking an \"anodyne\" message and thus elicit a \"second-order reaction\" from outsiders perplexed by the idea that the concept of being white is somehow unacceptable, instead of ignoring the message. The writer claims that the meme attempts to exploit its progressive opponents psychologically.\n\nThe Guardian columnist Jason Wilson argued that \"It's OK To Be White\" was devised by white supremacists in order to stoke overreaction from the left, sow confusion, embed a racist agenda in the mainstream media, and ultimately invite a backlash against anti-racist activism. \n\nAccording to \"ThinkProgress\", T-shirts with the slogan were put on sale at Shopify by Milo Yiannopoulos.\n\nMarkus Persson, founder of Mojang, tweeted the phrase on November 30, 2017.\n\nOn October 15, 2018, right-wing politician Pauline Hanson proposed an \"It's OK to be white\" motion in the Australian Senate intended to acknowledge the \"deplorable rise of anti-white racism and attacks on Western civilization\". It was supported by most senators from the governing Liberal-National Coalition, but was defeated 31-28 by opponents who called it a racist slogan from the white supremacist movement. The following day, the motion was brought up again and rejected unanimously by senators in attendance, with its initial supporters saying they had voted for it due to an administrative error.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18155983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18155983", "title": "Japanese settlement in the Dominican Republic", "text": "Japanese settlement in the Dominican Republic\n\nJapanese Dominicans are Dominican citizens of Japanese origin. Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs estimates the Japanese descended population in the country at roughly 800. , there were also 873 Japanese nationals in the Dominican Republic. These consist of both the settlers who have retained their Japanese citizenship, and more recent expatriate residents. The Dominican Republic has the largest Japanese population in the Caribbean and Central American region.\n\nMigration from Japan to the Dominican Republic did not begin until after World War II. With the end of the Allied occupation, Japan regained control over its migration policy. The Dominican Republic signed a treaty with Japan in 1956 to accept migrants for agricultural labour, one of the earliest in a series of treaties signed by Japan's newly established emigration bureau. From the Japanese government's perspective, the goal of the emigration policy was to improve Japan's international reputation by having Japanese people contribute to the development of foreign countries. Latin America was the only potential outlet for emigration; the United States' Gentlemen's Agreement of 1907 and Immigration Act of 1924 and Australia's White Australia policy eliminated the option of settlement in those two countries, while anti-Japanese sentiment in Asia due to Japan's wartime atrocities meant that none of those countries would accept Japanese migrants either. Rafael Trujillo, dictator of the Dominican Republic since 1930, for his part sought to use European and later Japanese migrants as a demographic buffer against black Haitian squatters, by settling them along the country's western border with Haiti.\n\nThe Japanese migrants came to the Dominican Republic with the intention of permanent settlement in the country. They had been promised furnished houses, land ready for planting, and credit until the first harvest. More than 200 families totaling 1,319 people braved the month-long ocean voyage and arrived from 1956 to 1959. However, the May 1961 assassination of Rafael Trujillo and a subsequent civil war, plunged the country into chaos and political violence, leaving many of the governmental promises of assistance and protection broken. The migrants entirely abandoned five of their eight settlements. Beginning in 1961, 70 families fled to other Latin American countries which had agreed with the Japanese government to resettle them, including Brazil, Argentina, and Bolivia, while 111 other families returned to Japan.\n\nJapanese settlement in the Dominican Republic never grew to a very large scale; protests over the extreme hardships and broken government promises faced by the initial group of migrants set the stage for the end of state-supported labour emigration in Japan. By 1962, just 276 Japanese remained in the country. Of the forty-seven families which settled in Constanza and the nearby valley, just seven remained. However, they clung tenuously to their land, improving irrigation facilities and introducing the Japanese \"bokashi\" composting technique. By the 1990s, Constanza had become a major area of agricultural production, growing over 90% of the country's vegetables.\n\nThe failure of migration to the Dominican Republic marked an important turning point in Japanese emigration policy. Along with rising wages in Japan due to labour shortages, the widespread reporting of the tragedy faced by emigrants to the Dominican Republic dampened popular and official enthusiasm for emigration; the total number of emigrants from Japan fell by nearly two-thirds from 1961 to 1962, and in 1968, Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs finally abolished its Central-South America Emigration Bureau. Backlash would continue for decades; in 2000, more than 170 of the migrants sued the Japanese government, charging that it lied to them about conditions in the Dominican Republic in order to trick them into leaving Japan. The Japanese government settled the lawsuit in July 2006, paying US$17,000 to each plaintiff as well as US$10,000 to non-plaintiff migrants; then-Prime Minister of Japan Junichiro Koizumi made a formal statement apologising for the \"immense suffering due to the government's response at the time\".\n\nAccording to Japanese diplomat Teruyuki Ishikawa, the presence of the remaining Japanese immigrants and their descendants is the major reason why the Dominican Republic is the biggest recipient of official development aid from Japan.\n\nSome of the initial Japanese migrants to the Dominican Republic still speak little Spanish. Their spoken Japanese is also full of archaisms, such as the Sino-Japanese-derived instead of the modern loanword for \"camera\".\n\nThe \"Colegio Japones de Santo Domingo\" is a supplementary Japanese education program in Santo Domingo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7807416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7807416", "title": "Jewish Motorcyclists Alliance", "text": "Jewish Motorcyclists Alliance\n\nJewish Motorcyclists Alliance (JMA) is an umbrella organization for Jewish motorcycle clubs. \nThe JMA's affiliate clubs consist of official, organized motorcycle riding clubs with JMA membership criteria. A member club designates a delegate to serve on the JMA Council.\n\nThe JMA is the home of Jewish motorcyclists from around the world. The JMA is a worldwide association of Jewish motorcycle clubs that upon its formation included organized groups in the United States, Canada, Israel, England and Australia, representing over 2,500 Jewish motorcycle enthusiasts. The common thread is the religion; however membership or admittance to the member clubs is not dictated by faith or brand of motorcycle: riders of any denomination or brand of bike are welcome.\n\nA meeting was set up by King Ken of the Semites On Bikes and Scott Wynn of the Chai Riders. The original meeting took place at Mike's Famous Harley Davidson in Delaware on October 3, 2004. Five of those original clubs made the meeting. There was a total of 69 bikes and about 100 people. Although it was planned as just a \"Meet and Greet\", from that meeting grew the concept of the first Ride to Remember, honoring the anniversary of the freedom from the death camps in Europe. The Ride to Remember took place in Washington, DC, in May 2005 under the auspices of the newly named Jewish Motorcyclists Alliance (JMA). Five of the six original clubs were the founding members of the JMA. The founding members are Chai Riders, Hillel's Angels, King David Bikers, Tribe (Washington D.C.), and Yidden On Wheels.\n\nAt that time, JMA had a name and people got together under the label, but there was no formal organization. During the early part of 2006, six new clubs joined the original five, with the addition of Tribe MC (Seattle) The Sabra Riders (Atlanta), The Chai Riders (Detroit), The Chaiway Riders (Chicago), Or Tikva (Chicago), and YOW (Australia). The JMA also became formally organized: a Charter & By-laws were instituted so that conduct of JMA business for current and future members would be guided by rules. To date, there are 44 registered clubs affiliated with the JMA and several more in the planning stage.\n\nThe Ride to Remember (R2R) has become the de facto defining event for the JMA and will occur annually at a venue to be selected by the JMA’s governing council.\n\nR2R 2006 was held in Whitwell, TN, to honor the staff and students of its middle school for their efforts in the Paper Clips Project. R2R 2007 was held in New York City in May, 2007. In May 2008, the Jewish Motorcyclists Alliance rode its motorcycles to Omaha, Nebraska for the \"Illuminating the Past to Protect the Future\" event in support of the Heartland Holocaust Education Fund (HHEF). 2009 R2R enjoyed 215 attendees who, through their collective efforts, raised $57,000 for the Holocaust Research and Lending Library in Savannah and The Remember Project in Charleston. The 2010 Ride to Remember took place in Chicago/Skokie on June 10–13 and followed the route of the Skokie Nazi March 1977, ending at the Illinois Holocaust Museum. The 2011 R2R was held in Virginia Beach; the 2012 R2R in Toronto; the 2013 R2R in Orange County, California; and 2014 in Oswego, New York. The 2015 Ride to Remember will be held sometime in June in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\n\"As individuals, we share the fundamental passion to ride motorcycles, but we are drawn to each of our own clubs by our common faith and heritage as members of the Jewish faith.\n\nThe common thread is our religion, regardless of the degree and manner in which we choose to observe the Jewish faith. The admission of a prospective club for membership into the JMA is not predicated upon the degree to which the members of a Jewish club observes or practices the Jewish faith, or by the brands of motorcycles that its members may ride.\"\n\nThe mission of the Jewish Motorcyclists Alliance, and by extension the forum is to create a global internet environment whereby members of the Jewish faith who ride motorcycles can congregate to share and exchange ideas and opinions about matters of concern to the Jewish community at large, as well as issues specifically concerning motorcycles and motorcycle riding.\n\n"}
{"id": "15670740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15670740", "title": "John Roberton (1776)", "text": "John Roberton (1776)\n\nJohn Roberton (1776 – 1840) was a Scottish physician and social reformer. A radical and fringe figure in the medical profession, he is best remembered for advocating the founding of a \"medical police\" to promote health and social welfare and for authoring a book that became the centre of a notorious legal case.\n\nRoberton was born in Hamilton, Lanarkshire, the eldest of four children to a modest family. By 1799 he was in Edinburgh attending medical lectures though he seems never to have graduated. He was admitted to the Royal Medical Society which suggests that he enjoyed the support of a patron. His early published scientific papers on blisters, catarrh and cantharides already suggest that he nurtured unconventional views. Though he seems to have practised under the supervision of a senior doctor until 1802, he then established himself independently as a general practitioner. He specialised in the treatment of sexually transmitted diseases and was a single-minded advocate of the use of cantharides. In 1809 Roberton published \"A Treatise on Medical Police, and on Diet, Regimen, &c.\". He was fond of controversy and became involved in many undignified disputes, including that between the rival rites of freemasonry. His conduct was eventually adjudged \"disgraceful\" by the Royal Medical Society and he was expelled, departing for London in 1810.\n\nOn arrival in London, he started to finalise his work on the pathology of the reproductive system, \"On Diseases of the Generative System\" and asked Matthew Baillie to accept the dedication of the book. In the book, Roberton had criticised the methods of Sir Everard Home, a relative of Baillie's, and Baillie balked at accepting the dedication. Further, the book made no pretension of being a scientific work. As Roberton asserted in the introduction, \"In this work, no tedious, uninteresting investigation will be entered into; it will be purely practical and suited to readers in general.\" Another undignified exchange of correspondence followed. Owing to his reputation and the somewhat sensational nature of the work along with its explicit illustrations, Roberton had some difficulty in finding a publisher. The book was eventually published by John Joseph Stockdale, who himself had something of the reputation of a pornographer, further enhancing its notoriety. Stockdale guaranteed the salacious reputation of the work when he published further editions, himself interpolating still more sensational illustrations. After a well-thumbed copy of the book was discovered by prison inspectors in Newgate Prison in 1839, the book became the centre of the important defamation case of \"Stockdale v. Hansard\".\n\nRoberton was again disgraced but seems to have maintained a prosperous household in St. James's Park on the revenue from \"Generative System\" and some private practice. Practice by unlicensed and unqualified physicians was not proscribed by law until the Medical Act 1858. In 1821, under the pseudonym T. Bell MD, he published, again through Stockdale, \"Kalogynomia, or the Laws of Female Beauty\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33540612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33540612", "title": "Kar language", "text": "Kar language\n\nKar (Kler), or Eastern Karaboro, is a central Senufo of Burkina Faso. Kar speakers have moderate comprehension of Western Karaboro, but the reverse is not the case.\n\n(French) Description grammaticale du kar : langue senoufo du Burkina Faso.\n"}
{"id": "21121979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21121979", "title": "Khudabadi script", "text": "Khudabadi script\n\nKhudabadi is a script generally used by some Sindhis in India to write the Sindhi language. It is also known as \"Vaniki\", \"Hatvaniki\" and \"Hatkai\" script. Khudabadi is one of the three scripts used for writing the Sindhi language, the other being Perso-Arabic and Devanagari script. It was used by traders and merchants to record their information and rose to importance as the script began to be used to record information kept secret from other groups and kingdoms.\n\nModern Khudabadi has 37 consonants, 10 vowels, 9 vowel signs written as diacritic marks added to the consonants, 3 miscellaneous signs, one symbol for nasal sounds (\"anusvara\"), one symbol for conjucts (\"virama\") and 10 digits like many other Indic scripts. The \"nukta\" has been borrowed from Devanagari for representing additional signs found in Arabic but not found in Sindhi. It is written from left to right, like Sanskrit. It follows a natural pattern and style of other Landa scripts.\n\nThe Khudabadi script has roots in the Brahmi script, like most Indian, Tibetan, and Southeast Asian languages. It appears different from other Indic scripts such as Bengali, Odia, Gurmukhi or Devanagari, but a closer examination reveals they are similar except for angles and structure.\nKhudabadi is an \"abugida\" in which all consonants have an inherent vowel. \"Matras\" are used to change the inherent vowel. Vowels that appear at the beginning of a word are written as independent letters. When certain consonants occur together, special conjunct symbols are used which combine the essential parts of each letter.\n\nThe Khudabadi script was created by the Sindhi diaspora residing in Khudabad to send written messages to their relatives, who lived in their hometowns. Due to its simplicity, the use of this script spread very quickly and got acceptance in other Sindhi groups for sending written letters and messages. It continued to be in use for very long period of time. Because it was originated from Khudabad, it was called Khudabadi script.\n\nThe Sindhi traders started maintaining their accounts and other business books in this new script. The knowledge of Khudabadi script became important for employing people who intend to go to overseas so that their business accounts and books can be kept secret from foreign people and government officials. Schools started teaching the Sindhi language in Khudabadi script.\n\nSindhi language is now generally written in the Arabic script, but it belongs to the Indo-Aryan language family and over seventy percent of Sindhi words are of Sanskrit origin. The historian Al-Biruni found Sindhi written in three scripts – Ardhanagari, Mahajani and Khudabadi, all of them variations of Devanagari.\n\nAfter Mir Nasir Khan Talpur's defeat, British rule commenced in Sindh. When the British arrived they found the Pandits writing Sindhi in Devanagari, Hindu women using Gurmukhi, government servants using Perso-Arabic script and traders keeping their business records in Khudabadi which was completely unknown to the British at the time. The British called it 'Hindu Sindhi' to differentiate it from Sindhi written in the Perso-Arabic script.\n\nThe British scholars found the Sindhi language to be closer to Sanskrit and said that the Devanagari script would be suitable for it while the government servants favoured the Arabic script since they did not know Devanagari and had to learn it. A debate began, with Captain Richard Francis Burton favoring the Arabic script and Captain Stack favouring Devanagari.\n\nSir Bartle Frere, the Commissioner of Sindh, then referred the matter to the Court of Directors of the British East India Company, which directed that:\n\nIn the year 1868, the Bombay Presidency assigned \"Narayan Jagannath Vaidya\" (Deputy Educational Inspector of Sindh) to replace the Abjad script used for Sindhi with the Khudabadi script. The script was decreed a standard script modified with ten vowels by the Bombay Presidency. The Khudabadi script of Sindhi language did not make further progress. Traders continued to maintain their records in this script till the independence of Pakistan in 1947.\n\nThe present script predominantly used in Sindh as well as in many states in India and else, where migrants Hindu Sindhi have settled, is Arabic in Naskh styles having 52 letters. However, in some circles in India, Khudabadi and Devanagari is used for writing Sindhi. The Government of India recognizes both scripts.\n\nKhudabadi script was added to the Unicode Standard in June 2014 with the release of version 7.0.\n\nKhudabadi is being used as the unified encoding for all of the Sindhi scripts except for Khojki, because each Sindhi script is named after the mercantile village in which it was used, and a vast majority are not well-developed enough to be encoded. Local scripts may be encoded in the future, but at the present, Khudabadi is recommended to represent all of the Landa-based Sindhi scripts that have been in use.\n\nThe Unicode block for Khudabadi, called Khudawadi, is U+112B0–U+112FF:\n\n"}
{"id": "12103964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12103964", "title": "Kidnappings in Colombia", "text": "Kidnappings in Colombia\n\nKidnappings in Colombia refers to the practice of kidnapping in the Republic of Colombia. This criminal practice was first introduced in modern Colombian history during the early 1970s by the guerrilla movements and, later, also by criminal groups. With the release of Colombian presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt on July 2, 2008 this practice gained worldwide notoriety.\n\nGuerrilla groups like the M-19, the FARC, ELN among others widely exploited this practice. To counter these paramilitary groups also adopted this method to intimidate adversaries. Drug cartels like the Medellín Cartel also used this practice to intimidate politicians who were trying to approve in congress an extradition treaty with the United States, and also used in drug cartel wars. Regular criminal organizations also kidnap and sell persons of interest to guerrilla groups. \n\nPolice in Colombia say the number of people kidnapped has fallen 92% since 2000. Common criminals are now the perpetrators of the overwhelming majority of kidnappings. \n\nBy July 2005, the FARC alone had an estimated 2500 kidnapped civilians, without including the number of military servicemen or government officials. The paramilitary groups were estimated to have kidnapped 500 people between 1996 and 2004. Guerrilla organizations typically demand a ransom, while Paramilitary groups generally use the practice as a means of terror or coercion. \n\nSince the 1970s kidnappings in Colombia gradually increased until 2001. In the year 2000 alone the number of kidnapped people in Colombia rose to 3572. This number declined steadily in the following years, reaching 687 kidnappings in 2006. By the year 2015, the number of kidnappings in Colombia had declined to 213 and it continues to decline. Colombia happily no longer has the highest rate of kidnappings in the world. By the year 2016, the number of kidnappings in Colombia had declined to 205 and it continues to decline. Common criminals are now the perpetrators of the overwhelming majority of kidnappings. \n\nFollowing the guerrilla's example, criminal organizations mostly based in large cities began to practice Express kidnappings (\"secuestros express\"), colloquially named \"Millionaire tours\" (\"Paseo Millionario\"). Victims are boarded in places with little police presence or where they are most vulnerable. Most commonly these are performed after victims withdraw money from ATMs or while riding in fake, terrorist-operated taxi cabs.\n\n\n\"See List of political hostages held by FARC\"\n\n\n\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "986058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986058", "title": "Komi language", "text": "Komi language\n\nThe Komi language (, endonym: Коми кыв, \"Komi kyv\" ) is a Uralic macrolanguage spoken by the Komi peoples in the northeastern European part of Russia. Komi may be considered a single language with several dialects, or a group of closely related languages, making up one of the two branches of the Permic branch of the family. The other Permic language is Udmurt, to which Komi is closely related.\n\nOf the several Komi dialects or languages, two major varieties are recognized, closely related to one another: Komi-Zyrian, the largest group, serves as the literary basis within the Komi Republic; and Komi-Permyak (also called Permyak), spoken in Komi-Permyak Okrug, where it has literary status. A third variety, Komi-Yodzyak is spoken by a small, isolated group of Komi to the north-west of Perm Krai and south of the Komi Republic.\n\nThe first writing system, the Old Permic script, was invented in the 14th century by the missionary Stepan Khrap, apparently of a Komi mother in Veliky Ustyug. The alphabet shows some similarity to medieval Greek and Cyrillic. In the 16th century this alphabet was replaced by the Russian alphabet with certain modifications for affricates. In the 1920s, the language was written in Molodtsov alphabet, also derived from Cyrillic. In the 1930s it was switched to Latin. Since the 1940s the Komi alphabet was simply changed to the Russian alphabet, albeit with the addition of \"І, і\" and \"Ӧ, ӧ\".\n\nLetters particular to the Molodtsov alphabet include ԁ, ԃ, ԅ, ԇ, ԉ, ԋ, ԍ, ԏ, where the hooks represent palatalization.\n\nIn addition, the letters Ф ф, Х х, and Ц ц might be used for words borrowed from Russian.\n\nThe first book published in Komi was a vaccination manual published in 1815.\n\nKomi has seven vowels: close , , , mid , , and low . It has 17 cases, with a rich inventory of local cases. Like other Uralic languages, Komi has no gender. Verbs agree with subjects in person and number (sg/pl). Negation is expressed with an auxiliary verb, which is inflected for person, number and tense.\n\nKomi is an agglutinative language and adheres to a subject–object–verb order.\n\nThere are three literary standard varieties of Komi: \n\nAccording to Lytkin (1966:44-49; 1976:106–115) and Teplyashina (1976:106–115) the Komi macrolanguage divided into four principal dialect groups or types depending on the development of Proto-Komi *\"l\".\n\n\nThis division does not clearly correspond with the division into Zyrian, Permyak and Yazva dialects.\nKomi-Permyak itself divided into three dialects: two /l/ types, Northern (Middle Kama) and Zyuzdino (Upper Kama) and one /v/ type, Southern near Kudymkar, the capital of the Komi-Permyak Okrug.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "762405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762405", "title": "Kru people", "text": "Kru people\n\nThe Kru or Kroo are a West African ethnic group who originated in eastern Liberia and migrated and settled along various points of the West African coast, notably Freetown, Sierra Leone, but also the Ivorian and Nigerian coasts. The Kru were famous for their skills in navigating and sailing the Atlantic. Their maritime expertise evolved along the west coast of Africa as they made livings as fishermen and traders. Knowing the in-shore waters of the western coast of Africa, and having nautical experience, they were employed as sailors, navigators and interpreters aboard slave ships, as well as American and British warships used against the slave trade.\n\nKru people were more valuable as traders and sailors on slave ships than as slave labor. To ensure their status as “freemen,” they initiated the practice of tattooing their foreheads and the bridge of their nose with indigo dye to distinguish them from slave labor.\n\nTheir history is one marked by a strong sense of ethnicity and resistance to occupation. In 1856 when part of Liberia was still known as the independent Republic of Maryland, the Kru along with the Grebo resisted Maryland settlers' efforts to control their trade. They were also infamous amongst early European slave raiders as being especially averse to capture.\n\nThe Kru are one of the many ethnic groups in Liberia, comprising 7% of the population. It is also one of the main languages spoken. The Kru are one of the three main indigenous group players in Liberia's socio-political activities along with the Krahn and Mano people.\n\nNotable ethnic Krus include the 25th President of Liberia George Weah, who is of mixed Kru, Gbee, Mano, and Bassa heritage, as well as his predecessor, former President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf , who is of mixed Kru, Gola, and German ancestry. Soccer star William Jebor is exclusively of Kru background, as is Christian Evangelist Samuel Morris who was originally known as Kaboo. Mary Broh, the current mayor of Monrovia, is of mixed Kru and Bassa ancestry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29204163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29204163", "title": "Kunchitiga", "text": "Kunchitiga\n\nKunchitiga is a community of people from Karnataka, India. They are concentrated mostly in Tumkur and the cities of Bangalore and Mysore. They are also found in Chitradurga district.\n\nWhile the exact origins of the community is disputed till date, there seems a consistent legend describing the migration of the community from the north to the south of India.\n\nLegend has it that Kunchitigas were originally from northern parts of India and were forced to migrate south due to various circumstances prevailing in that region. In most legends concerning this migration a Muslim ruler is involved, who is said to have coveted the daughter of the community's chief. Their leader/progenitor was one Undetharaya who whilst fleeing the said Muslim ruler, was unable to cross an overflowing river( Some legends claim the river to be Godavari and some as Ganges) and was helped by a Kuruba called \"Jaladhi Bapparaya\" on the promise that the community would be named after him. He is said to have offered himself as sacrifice to the river goddess at which an easy passage was created for the fleeing people. Jaladhi Bapparaya was holding a Kuncha(cluster) used to weave woolen blankets in his hands, a symbol of his profession. Janakal Undetharaya is said to have named his community as Kunchitiga in his honour. Undetharaya is also said to have given his daughter in marriage to the corpse of the Kuruba Gowda, who was then revived by divine grace. Their union thus heralded the start of a new community. Currently it is recognized with Vokkaliga and emerged as huge brotherhood becoming 2nd largest Hindu community of Karnataka. \nJaladhi Bopparaya is a Kuruba leader and great divine Shiva worshiper, Kurubas being good from heart wanted to help people who wanted to cross Godavari river. Kuruba is the only single community in India who ruled almost India .Jaladhi Bopparaya was ruling the region around Godavari river and he was very famous. With his great sacrifice and devotion he saved many people and from then new caste was formed called as \"Kunchitiga\". Kunchitiga still work ship the great Kuruba Jaladhi Bopparaya for his great work and sacrifice.\n\nIt is believed that Kunchitigas originally had 101 Gothras. Currently people of the following 48 gothras are found in the Karnataka region.\n\nThe following gothras are found outside the Karnataka region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1055633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1055633", "title": "Latter Days", "text": "Latter Days\n\nLatter Days is a 2003 American romantic comedy-drama film about a gay relationship between a closeted Mormon missionary and his openly gay neighbor. The film was written and directed by C. Jay Cox and stars Steve Sandvoss as the missionary, Aaron, and Wes Ramsey as the neighbor, Christian. Joseph Gordon-Levitt appears as Elder Ryder, and Rebekah Johnson as Julie Taylor. Mary Kay Place, Erik Palladino, Amber Benson, and Jacqueline Bisset have supporting roles.\n\n\"Latter Days\" premiered at the Philadelphia International Gay & Lesbian Film Festival on July 10, 2003 and was released in various states of USA over the next 12 months. Later the film was released in a few other countries and shown at several gay film festivals. It was the first film to portray openly the clash between the principles of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and homosexuality, and its exhibition in some U.S. states was controversial. Various religious groups demanded that the film be withdrawn from theaters and video stores under boycott threats.\n\nThe film was met with mixed reactions from film critics, but was popular with most film festival attendees. At the North American box office however, \"Latter Days\" only made $834,685, barely covering the production's costs with an estimated budget of $850,000. In 2004, freelance writer T. Fabris made \"Latter Days\" into a novel, which was published by Alyson Publications.\n\nElder Aaron Davis, a young Mormon from Pocatello, Idaho, is sent to Los Angeles with three other missionaries to spread the Mormon faith. They move into an apartment next to openly gay party boy Christian Markelli and his roommate Julie, an aspiring singer. Christian and Julie work as waiters at Lila's, a trendy restaurant owned by retired actress Lila Montagne.\n\nChristian makes a bet with his co-workers that he can seduce one of the Mormons, and soon realizes that Aaron, the most inexperienced missionary, is a closeted homosexual. Aaron and Christian become acquainted after several encounters in the apartment complex. When Christian accidentally cuts himself on a metal hose reel and faints, Aaron helps him indoors and cleans his wound. Christian attempts to seduce Aaron, but the hesitant Mormon becomes upset by Christian's remark that sex \"doesn't have to mean anything.\" Aaron accuses him of being shallow and walks out. Worried that Aaron is correct, Christian joins Project Angel Food, delivering meals to people with AIDS.\n\nAaron's fellow missionary, Paul Ryder, has a cycling accident. Returning to his apartment, a distraught Aaron encounters Christian, who tries to comfort him with a hug. Both men are overwhelmed by their feelings and end up kissing, failing to notice the return of Aaron's roommates. Aaron is sent home in disgrace, leading Christian to confront Ryder, who is angry that Christian corrupted Aaron for no reason. Christian admits that he initially just wanted to win a bet, but says \"it's not about that\" anymore. Recognizing Christian's distress, Ryder tells him that Aaron's flight has a five-hour layover in Salt Lake City.\n\nChristian finds Aaron standing in the snow outside the airport terminal. Christian confesses his love, and despite his misgivings, Aaron admits his own feelings of love. With all flights canceled due to a snowstorm, Christian and Aaron spend an intimate night in a motel. When Christian awakes, he finds Aaron gone. Aaron's pocket watch, a family heirloom, has been left behind. Christian returns to Los Angeles. In Idaho, Aaron is excommunicated by the church elders, led by his own father, Farron, who is the stake president. Aaron is rejected by his father and scolded by his mother, who tells him that he needs to pray for forgiveness. When Aaron suggests that he might be gay, his mother slaps him. Overwhelmed by despair, Aaron attempts suicide. He is subsequently sent by his parents to a treatment facility to be cured of his homosexuality.\n\nChristian is desperate to find Aaron and locates his home address and phone number. Aaron's mother informs him that \"Thanks to you, my son took a razor to his wrists; thanks to you I have lost my son.\" Believing that Aaron is dead, Christian spends the next few days thinking continually about Aaron. Julie discovers an entry about Christian's feelings in his cellphone journal and uses it as the basis for her new song. Christian travels to the Davis home in Idaho, where he tearfully returns Aaron's watch to his mother. During an encounter with Julie, she hesitantly shows him her new video, which upsets Christian, realizing that part of the lyrics came from his personal journal without his consent. Julie tells Christian that she hoped something good would come from it.\n\nIn the treatment facility, Aaron hears a female voice singing and investigates. He discovers a music video playing on television, the song performed by Julie. The video prompts Aaron to return to Los Angeles in search of Christian. Upon arriving at Christian's apartment, Aaron is heartbroken when a stranger answers the door. Thinking that Christian has returned to his party boy ways and moved on, and having nowhere else to go, Aaron makes his way to Lila's restaurant, having befriended the owner while on missionary work after her life partner died. Christian, who happens to be working there, comes out and is overjoyed to see Aaron alive. They reconcile and later celebrate Thanksgiving with Christian's co-workers. Lila tells everyone that, no matter what, they will always have \"a place at my table, and a place in my heart\".\n\n\n\n\nCox has stated that the film is primarily about a love story between two characters. There is also an exploration of religious attitudes towards homosexuality, and the dilemma of religious homosexuals, torn between who they are and what they believe. A non-fiction film with similar themes that has been contrasted with \"Latter Days\" is \"Trembling Before G-d\".\n\nCox has also said that there is a massive irony, both in the film and in real life, that a religion so focused on the family and its importance is ripping families apart through its teaching on homosexuality. In fact, Cox believes one cannot be Mormon and gay. Nevertheless, a major theme of \"Latter Days\" is that there is an underlying spirituality in the world that goes beyond the rituals and dogmas of religion.\n\n\"Latter Days\" was written and directed by C. Jay Cox after the success of his previous screenplay, \"Sweet Home Alabama\", gave him the financial resources and critical credit to write a more personal love story. Cox based both characters – Christian and Aaron – on himself. He was raised as a Mormon and served a mission before coming out as gay, and had wondered what the two halves of himself would have said to each other if they had ever met. \n\"Latter Days\" was filmed in several locations in Los Angeles in 24 days on an estimated $850,000 budget. After Cox had financed the search for initial backing, funding was acquired from private investors who wanted to see the film made. However producer Kirkland Tibbels still faced several bottlenecks, as financing the whole film remained difficult. It was distributed through TLA Releasing, an independent film distributor, who picked it up through its partnership with production company Funny Boy Films, which specializes in gay-themed media.\n\nDespite coming from a Mormon background, Cox had to research details of the excommunication tribunal, which is held after Aaron is sent back to Idaho. Former Mormons told him about their experiences and provided Cox with \"a pretty accurate representation, right down to the folding tables.\" According to Cox experienced actress Jacqueline Bisset also added valuable suggestions for improvements to the story.\n\nCasting for the two main characters did not focus on their sexuality, but their ability \"to show vulnerability\". In a behind-the-scenes commentary, Steve Sandvoss explains that he did not want to play his character as a gay character, and Wes Ramsey emphasizes that the love story aspect of the film to him was detached from the character's gender. Due to several nude and kissing scenes, \"Latter Days\" was released unrated.\n\n\"Latter Days\" premiered at the Philadelphia International Gay and Lesbian Film Festival on July 10, 2003. The audience enjoyed the film so much that they gave it a standing ovation. When the cast came on stage, they received another standing ovation. The film had a similar reception both at OutFest a week later, and at the Palm Springs International Film Festival. The film also screened at the Seattle and Washington film festivals before being released across the United States over the following 12 months. Later the film was released in several other countries and shown at numerous gay film festivals, namely in Barcelona and Madrid (where it was also a popular pick) and Mexico City. Since its initial release it had received nine best film awards, as Cox mentioned in 2005 on a featurette included on the UK DVD.\n\nThe film was banned by Madstone Theaters, an arthouse cinema chain with nine theaters across the country, which claimed it was \"not up to [our] artistic quality.\" The company was pressured with threatened boycotts and protests by conservative groups to withdraw their planned release. At the North American box office, \"Latter Days\" made $834,685 from a maximum of 19 theaters. As of January 2011, the film is the top-grossing film from its distributor TLA Releasing.\n\nCritics' reviews have been mixed; film review website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 45% of critics gave the film positive write-ups, based upon a sample of 44 reviews, with an average score of 5.4/10. Frank Scheck, reviewer for \"The Hollywood Reporter\", wrote: \"Cox's screenplay, while occasionally lapsing into the sort of clichés endemic to so many gay-themed films, generally treats its unusual subject matter with dignity and complexity.\" Film critic Roger Ebert gave it two and a half stars out of four, declaring that the script was peopled from the \"Stock Characters Store\" and \"the movie could have been (a) a gay love story, or (b) an attack on the Mormon Church, but is an awkward fit by trying to be (c) both at the same time\". Michael Wilmington of the \"Chicago Tribune\" commented \"this movie is often as kitschy and artificial as ... 'Sweet Home Alabama'\", another film written by Cox.\n\nOther reviewers were more favourable, such as \"Toronto Sun\" critic Liz Braun, who said \"Latter Days\" was \"the most important gay male movie of the past few years.\" Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" commented: \"At once romantic, earthy and socially critical, \"Latter Days\" is a dynamic film filled with humor and pathos.\" Gary Booher, an editor for the LGBT Mormon organization , said \"It was so realistic that it was scary. I felt exposed as the particulars of my experience and of others I know was brazenly spread across the big screen for all to behold.\"\n\nEric Allaman scored the soundtrack to the film after shooting wrapped, and composed much of the score himself. Several scenes featuring the rapid passing of time, such as Christian's desperate search for Aaron at Salt Lake City Airport, were scored with techno style beats, and scenes with emotional content were given a more \"ambient 'tronica feel\". A total of three songs were written by C. Jay Cox for Rebekah Johnson to sing: \"More\", \"Another Beautiful Day\", and \"Tuesday 3:00 a.m.\". Allaman was very impressed with Cox's musical ability, and both men composed more songs as background music.\n\nThe official soundtrack album was released on October 26, 2004. Due to contractual reasons, Johnson did not appear on the album, and her character's songs were performed by Nita Whitaker instead.\n\nIn 2004, the \"Latter Days\" screenplay was adapted into a novel by freelance writer T. Fabris, which was published by Alyson Publications. The book was faithful to the film, but added several extra scenes that explained confusing aspects of the film and gave more about the characters' backgrounds. For example, the reason Ryder tells Christian where to find Aaron is his own broken heart over a girl he fell in love with while on his mission training. The novel also added dialogue that had been cut out of the film: finishing, for example Christian's cry – in the film – of \"That's the hand I use to...\" with \"masturbate with.\"\n\nIn France, \"Latter Days\" has been titled \"La Tentation d'Aaron\" (\"The Temptation of Aaron\"), and the DVD given a cover showing Aaron in a nude and suggestive pose. A new trailer was also released, which is considerably more sexual than the original. In Italy, \"Latter Days\" is distributed by Fourlab. The film has also been titled \"Inguaribili Romantici\", shown on pay-TV on Sky Show in December 2006, and then released on DVD by Fourlab's gay-themed label \"OutLoud!\". The film is also available in an Italian-language-dubbed version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10214584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10214584", "title": "List of ethnic groups in Russia", "text": "List of ethnic groups in Russia\n\nRussian Federation is a dual-national state with over 185 ethnic groups designated as nationalities, population of these groups varying enormously, from millions in case of e.g. Russians and Tatars to under ten thousand in the case of Samis and Kets. Among 85 subjects which constitute the Russian Federation, there are 21 national republics (meant to be home to a specific ethnic minority), 5 autonomous okrugs (usually with substantial or predominant ethnic minority) and an autonomous oblast.\n\nThe table below gives the population of various ethnic groups of Russia according to the 2002 Russian Census.\n\nSince the number of ethnic groups recorded was too high the table was modified merging similar ethnic groups. The below table was prepared after merging similar groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "38138056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38138056", "title": "Macho like Me", "text": "Macho like Me\n\nMacho like Me is a documentary film directed and performed by Helie Lee. She performs a social experiment where she by cutting her hair and changing her wardrobe to men’s clothes transforming her appearance from an established woman into a “man”, and takes a step into the masculine world. The documentary is a mix of raw documentary footage and a live presentation, and was presented at SDAFF and DC APA in 2010.\n\nIn the documentary she gets help from her friends Anna and Katie and shows the whole process of the transformation into a man named \"Harry\", a role which then lasts for 6 months. While she initially is excited by what the male life has to offer, she soon faces difficulties having to suppress her emotions and having a constant fear of being regarded as a homosexual. She then runs into an awkward and near disastrous episode with a few macho guys. During a party at the Playboy Mansion she starts to see that men have it harder than she had ever imagined, and her views on men privileges and relationships are tested.\n\nHer motivation for making the documentary was many stranded relationships with men together with a stereotypical view that men have it easier in life than women after growing up with her brother being \"treated like a crown prince, while she and her sister were judged purely on their marital prospects\". So Lee sets out to see if the grass is greener on the other side having the view to want to prove that men have it better than women with all the strength and freedom she attributes them. It turns out, though, that she gets a new view that surprises her, as her experience as a man returns her surprising conclusions that makes her question the gender roles and the true meaning of being a \"woman\" or \"man\". What started out as a critique of male-gender advantages turns into an unexpected personal enlightenment in which she deconstructs the male identity and portrays all types of men on the verge of nervous breakdowns.\n"}
{"id": "3212019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3212019", "title": "Mamund", "text": "Mamund\n\nThe Mamund (or Mamond) (, ) is a Pashtun clan which is a part of the larger Tarkani tribe. The clan is located principally in the Watelai valley (also known as Mamund Valley), but also owns villages on both sides of the Durand Line. Majority of the Mamund Pashtuns live in Bajaur Agency, one of the seven tribal regions of Khyber Pukhtunkhwa, Pakistan, and in Marawara, Asadabad, Shigal, Watapur and Ghazi Abad Districts of Kunar Province in Afghanistan.\n\nThe Mamund clan is split into two divisions: Kakazai and Wara.\n"}
{"id": "33620693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33620693", "title": "Matengo language", "text": "Matengo language\n\nMatengo is a Bantu language of Tanzania. Speakers are mostly monolingual, and neighboring languages are not intelligible.\n"}
{"id": "51105732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51105732", "title": "Matt DeLisi", "text": "Matt DeLisi\n\nMatthew \"Matt\" DeLisi is an American sociologist and professor of sociology at Iowa State University, where he is also Coordinator of Criminal Justice Studies and a faculty affiliate of the Center for the Study of Violence.\nDeLisi received his B.A. from Syracuse University and his Ph.D. from the University of Colorado.\nDeLisi's research focuses on multiple areas in the field of criminology, such as career criminals and the self-control theory of crime. He has published studies on the economic costs of murders in the United States and on the relationship between violent video games and criminal behavior.\n\nDeLisi has been a fellow of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences since 2012. He is the editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Criminal Justice\" (JCJ). DeLisi has been criticized by the website Retraction Watch, and by some academics affiliated with the American Society of Criminology, for frequently publishing his own articles in JCJ. He has also been criticized for publishing articles in JCJ that include numerous citations to other papers published in the same journal, which has led to its impact factor rising from 2012 to 2014 faster than any other journal in the field. DeLisi responded to these criticisms by telling Retraction Watch that \"There are some hurt feelings in the American Society of Criminology and its journal [Criminology] and this was a way to attack JCJ and me.\"\n"}
{"id": "232415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232415", "title": "Medical anthropology", "text": "Medical anthropology\n\nMedical anthropology studies \"human health and disease, health care systems, and biocultural adaptation\". It views humans from multidimensional and ecological perspectives. It is one of the most highly developed areas of anthropology and applied anthropology, and is a subfield of social and cultural anthropology that examines the ways in which culture and society are organized around or influenced by issues of health, health care and related issues.\n\nThe term \"medical anthropology\" has been used since 1963 as a label for empirical research and theoretical production by anthropologists into the social processes and cultural representations of health, illness and the nursing/care practices associated with these.\n\nFurthermore, in Europe the terms \"anthropology of medicine\", \"anthropology of health\" and \"anthropology of illness\" have also been used, and \"medical anthropology\", was also a translation of the 19th century Dutch term \"medische anthropologie\". This term was chosen by some authors during the 1940s to refer to philosophical studies on health and illness.\n\nThe relationship between anthropology, \"medicine\" and medical practice is well documented. General anthropology occupied a notable position in the basic medical sciences (which correspond to those subjects commonly known as pre-clinical). However, medical education started to be restricted to the confines of the hospital as a consequence of the development of the clinical gaze and the confinement of patients in observational infirmaries. The hegemony of hospital clinical education and of experimental methodologies suggested by Claude Bernard relegate the value of the practitioners' everyday experience who was previously seen as a source of knowledge represented by the reports called \"medical geographies\" and \"medical topographies\" both based on ethnographic, demographic, statistical and sometimes epidemiological data. After the development of hospital clinical training the basic source of knowledge in medicine was experimental medicine in the hospital and laboratory, and these factors together meant that over time mostly doctors abandoned ethnography as a tool of knowledge. Most, not all because ethnography remained during a large part of the 20th century as a tool of knowledge in primary health care, rural medicine, and in international public health. The abandonment of ethnography by medicine happened when social anthropology adopted ethnography as one of the markers of its professional identity and started to depart from the initial project of general anthropology. The divergence of professional anthropology from medicine was never a complete split. The relationships between the two disciplines remained constant during the 20th century, until the development of modern medical anthropology in the 1960s and 1970s. A large number of contributors to 20th Century medical anthropology had their primary training in medicine, nursing, psychology or psychiatry, including W. H. R. Rivers, Abram Kardiner, Robert I. Levy, Jean Benoist, Gonzalo Aguirre Beltrán and Arthur Kleinman. Some of them share clinical and anthropological roles. Others came from anthropology or social sciences, like George Foster, William Caudill, Byron Good, Tullio Seppilli, Gilles Bibeau, Lluis Mallart, Andràs Zempleni, Gilbert Lewis, Ronald Frankenberg, and Eduardo Menéndez. A recent book by Saillant & Genest describes a large international panorama of the development of medical anthropology, and some of the main theoretical and intellectual actual debates.\n\nFor much of the 20th century, the concept of \"popular medicine\", or \"folk medicine\", has been familiar to both doctors and anthropologists. Doctors, anthropologists and medical anthropologists used these terms to describe the resources, other than the help of health professionals, which European or Latin American peasants used to resolve any health problems. The term was also used to describe the health practices of aborigines in different parts of the world, with particular emphasis on their ethnobotanical knowledge. This knowledge is fundamental for isolating alkaloids and active pharmacological principles. Furthermore, studying the rituals surrounding popular therapies served to challenge Western psychopathological categories, as well as the relationship in the West between science and religion. Doctors were not trying to turn popular medicine into an anthropological concept, rather they wanted to construct a scientifically based medical concept which they could use to establish the cultural limits of biomedicine. Examples of this practice can be found in medical archives and oral history projects.\n\nThe concept of \"folk medicine\" was taken up by professional anthropologists in the first half of the twentieth century to demarcate between \"magical practices\", \"medicine\" and \"religion\" and to explore the role and the significance of \"popular healers\" and their self-medicating practices. For them, popular medicine was a specific cultural feature of some groups of humans which was distinct from the universal practices of biomedicine. If every culture had its own specific popular medicine based on its general cultural features, it would be possible to propose the existence of as many medical systems as there were cultures and, therefore, develop the comparative study of these systems. Those medical systems which showed none of the syncretic features of European popular medicine were called primitive or pretechnical medicine according to whether they referred to contemporary aboriginal cultures or to cultures predating Classical Greece. Those cultures with a documentary corpus, such as the Tibetan, traditional Chinese or Ayurvedic cultures, were sometimes called \"systematic medicines\". The comparative study of medical systems is known as ethnomedicine or, if psychopathology is the object of study, ethnopsychiatry (Beneduce 2007, 2008), transcultural psychiatry (Bibeau, 1997) and anthropology of mental illness (Lézé, 2014).\n\nUnder this concept, medical systems would be seen as the specific product of each ethnic group's cultural history. Scientific biomedicine would become another medical system and therefore a cultural form which could be studied as such. This position, which originated in the cultural relativism maintained by cultural anthropology, allowed the debate with medicine and psychiatry to revolve around some fundamental questions:\n\n\nSince the end of the 20th century, medical anthropologists have had a much more sophisticated understanding of the problem of cultural representations and social practices related to health, disease and medical care and attention. These have been understood as being universal with very diverse local forms articulated in transactional processes. The link at the end of this page is included to offer a wide panorama of current positions in medical anthropology.\n\nIn the United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil, collaboration between anthropology and medicine was initially concerned with implementing community health programs among ethnic and cultural minorities and with the qualitative and ethnographic evaluation of health institutions (hospitals and mental hospitals) and primary care services. Regarding the community health programs, the intention was to resolve the problems of establishing these services for a complex mosaic of ethnic groups. The ethnographic evaluation involved analyzing the interclass conflicts within the institutions which had an undesirable effect on their administrative reorganization and their institutional objectives, particularly those conflicts among the doctors, nurses, auxiliary staff and administrative staff. The ethnographic reports show that interclass crises directly affected therapeutic criteria and care of the ill. They also contributed new methodological criteria for evaluating the new institutions resulting from the reforms as well as experimental care techniques such as therapeutic communities.\n\nThe ethnographic evidence supported the criticisms of the institutional custodialism and contributed decisively to policies of deinstitutionalizing psychiatric and social care in general and led to in some countries such as Italy, a rethink of the guidelines on education and promoting health.\n\nThe empirical answers to these questions led to the anthropologists being involved in many areas. These include: developing international and community health programs in developing countries; evaluating the influence of social and cultural variables in the epidemiology of certain forms of psychiatric pathology (transcultural psychiatry); studying cultural resistance to innovation in therapeutic and care practices; analysing healing practices toward immigrants; and studying traditional healers, folk healers and empirical midwives who may be reinvented as health workers (the so-called barefoot doctors).\n\nAlso, since the 1960s, biomedicine in developed countries has been faced by a series of problems which demand that we inspect the (unfortunately-named) predisposing social or cultural factors, which have been reduced to mere variables in quantitative protocols and subordinated to causal biological or genetic interpretations. Among these the following are of particular note:\na) The transition between a dominant system designed for acute infectious pathology to a system designed for chronic degenerative pathology without any specific etiological therapy.\n\nb) The emergence of the need to develop long term treatment mechanisms and strategies, as opposed to incisive therapeutic treatments.\n\nc) The influence of concepts such as quality of life in relation to classic biomedical therapeutic criteria.\nAdded to these are the problems associated with implementing community health mechanisms. These problems are perceived initially as tools for fighting against unequal access to health services. However, once a comprehensive service is available to the public, new problems emerge from ethnic, cultural or religious differences, or from differences between age groups, genders or social classes.\n\nIf implementing community care mechanisms gives rise to one set of problems, then a whole new set of problems also arises when these same mechanisms are dismantled and the responsibilities which they once assumed are placed back on the shoulders of individual members of society.\n\nIn all these fields, local and qualitative ethnographic research is indispensable for understanding the way patients and their social networks incorporate knowledge on health and illness when their experience is nuanced by complex cultural influences. These influences result from the nature of social relations in advanced societies and from the influence of social communication media, especially audiovisual media and advertising.\n\nCurrently, research in medical anthropology is one of the main growth areas in the field of anthropology as a whole and important processes of internal specialization are taking place. For this reason, any agenda is always debatable. In general, we may consider the following six basic fields:\n\n\nOther subjects that have become central to the medical anthropology worldwide are violence and social suffering as well as other issues that involve physical and psychological harm and suffering that are not a result of illness. On the other hand, there are fields that intersect with medical anthropology in terms of research methodology and theoretical production, such as \"cultural psychiatry\" and \"transcultural psychiatry\" or \"ethnopsychiatry\".\n\nAll medical anthropologists are trained in anthropology as their main discipline. Many come from the health professions such as medicine or nursing, whereas others come from the other backgrounds such as psychology, social work, social education or sociology. Cultural and transcultural psychiatrists are trained as anthropologists and, naturally, psychiatric clinicians. Training in medical anthropology is normally acquired at a master's (M.A. or M.Sc.) and doctoral level. In Latin countries there are specific masters' in medical anthropology, such as in México, Brazil, and Spain, while in the United States universities such as Brown University, Washington University in St. Louis, University of South Florida, UC Berkeley, UC San Francisco, University of Connecticut, Johns Hopkins University, the University of Arizona, the University of Alabama, the University of Washington, and Southern Methodist University offer PhD programs focused on this subject. In Asia, the University of the Philippines Manila offers both the Master of Science and master's degrees in Medical Anthropology. The University of South Florida, the University of Arizona, the University of Connecticut, the University of Washington and others also offer a dual degree (MA/PhD) in applied anthropology with an MPH. In the UK, MSc and PhD programs are offered at University College, London, the University of Oxford, the University of Edinburgh and Durham University. A fairly comprehensive account of different postgraduate training courses in different countries can be found on the website of the \"Society of Medical Anthropology\" of the \"American Anthropological Association\".\n\nThe following books present a global panorama on international medical anthropology, and can be useful as handbooks for beginners, students interested or for people who need a general text on this topic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4995224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995224", "title": "Mesakin people", "text": "Mesakin people\n\nMesakin is an ethnic group in the Nuba Hills in Sudan. The population of this minority possibly exceeds 50,000. They speak Ngile and Dengebu, Niger–Congo languages close enough to be considered dialects. \n\n"}
{"id": "4677546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4677546", "title": "Mud March (suffragists)", "text": "Mud March (suffragists)\n\nThe United Procession of Women, or Mud March as it became known, was a peaceful demonstration in London on 9 February 1907 organised by the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS), in which more than three thousand women marched from Hyde Park Corner to the Strand in support of votes for women. Women from all classes participated in what was the largest public demonstration supporting women's suffrage seen up to that date. It acquired the name \"Mud March\" from the day's weather, when incessant heavy rain left the marchers drenched and mud-spattered.\n\nThe proponents of women's suffrage were divided between those who favoured constitutional methods and those who supported direct action. In 1903 Emmeline Pankhurst formed the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU). Known as the suffragettes, the WSPU held demonstrations, heckled politicians, and from 1905 saw several of its members imprisoned, gaining press attention and increased support from women. To maintain that momentum and create support for a new suffrage bill in the House of Commons, the NUWSS and other groups organised the Mud March to coincide with the opening of Parliament. The event attracted much public interest and broadly sympathetic press coverage, but when the bill was presented the following month, it was \"talked out\" without a vote.\n\nWhile the march failed to influence the immediate parliamentary process, it had a considerable impact on public awareness and on the movement's future tactics. Large peaceful public demonstrations, never previously attempted, became standard features of the suffrage campaign; on 21 June 1908 up to half a million people attended Women's Sunday, a WSPU rally in Hyde Park. The marches showed that the fight for women's suffrage had the support of women in every stratum of society, who despite their social differences were able to unite and work together for a common cause.\n\nIn October 1897 Millicent Fawcett was the driving force behind the formation of the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS), a new umbrella organisation for all the factions and regional societies, and to liaise with sympathetic MPs. Initially, seventeen groups affiliated to the new central body. The organisation became the leading body following a constitutional path to women's suffrage. In October 1903 Emmeline Pankhurst and her daughter Christabel Pankhurst formed a women-only group in Manchester, the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU). Although the NUWSS sought its objectives through constitutional means, such as petitions to parliament, the WSPU organised open-air meetings and heckled politicians, choosing jail over fines when prosecuted. From 1906 they began to use the nickname \"suffragettes\", which differentiate them from the constitutionalist \"suffragists\".\n\nAt the time of the Mud March, before the suffragette campaign had progressed to damaging property, relations between the WSPU and NUWSS remained cordial. When eleven suffragettes were jailed in October 1906 after a protest in the House of Commons lobby, Fawcett and the NUWSS stood by them; on 27 October 1906, in a letter to \"The Times\", she wrote:\n\nThe militant actions of the WSPU raised the profile of the women's suffrage campaign in Britain and the NUWSS wanted to show that they were as committed as the suffragettes to the cause. In January 1906 the Liberal Party, led by Henry Campbell-Bannerman, had won an overwhelming general election victory; although before the election many Liberal MPs had promised that the new administration would introduce a women's suffrage bill, once in power, Campbell-Bannerman said that it was \"not realistic\" to introduce new legislation. A month after the election, the WSPU held a successful London march, attended by 300–400 women. To show there was support for a suffrage bill, the Central Society for Women's Suffrage suggested, in November 1906, holding a mass procession in London to coincide with the opening of Parliament in February. The NUWSS called on its members to join in.\n\nThe task of organising the event, scheduled for Saturday, 9 February 1907, was delegated to Pippa Strachey of the Central Society for Women's Suffrage. Her mother, Lady Jane Strachey, a friend of Fawcett, was a long-standing suffragist, but Pippa Strachey had shown little interest in the issue before a meeting with Emily Davies, who quickly converted her to the cause. She took on the organisation of the London march with no experience of doing anything similar, but carried out the task so effectively that she was given responsibility for the planning of all future large processions of the NUWSS. On 29 January the executive committee of the London Society determined the order of the procession and arranged for advertisements to be placed in the \"Tribune\" and \"The Morning Post\".\n\nRegional suffrage societies and other organisations were invited to bring delegations to the march. The art historian Lisa Tickner writes that \"all sensibilities and political disagreements had to be soothed\" to make sure the various groups would take part. The Women's Cooperative Guild would attend only if certain conditions were met, and the British Women's Temperance Association and Women's Liberal Federation (WLF) would not attend if the WSPU was formally invited. The WLF—a \"crucial lever on the Liberal government\", according to Tickner—objected to the WSPU's criticism of the government. At the time of the march, ten of the twenty women who sat on the NUWSS executive committee were connected to the Liberal Party.\n\nThe march would begin at Hyde Park Corner and progress via Piccadilly to Exeter Hall, a large meeting venue on the Strand. A second, open-air meeting was scheduled for Trafalgar Square. Members of the Artists' Suffrage League produced posters and postcards for the march. In all, around forty organisations from all over the country chose to participate.\n\nOn the morning of 9 February, large numbers of women converged on the march's starting point, the statue of Achilles near Hyde Park Corner. Between three and four thousand women were assembled, from all ages and strata of society, in appalling weather with incessant rain; \"mud, mud, mud\" was the dominant feature of the day, wrote Fawcett. The marchers included Lady Frances Balfour, sister-in-law of Arthur Balfour, the former Conservative prime minister; Rosalind Howard, the Countess of Carlisle, of the Women's Liberal Federation; the poet and trade unionist Eva Gore-Booth; and the veteran campaigner Emily Davies. The march's aristocratic representation was matched by numbers of professional women – doctors, schoolmistresses, artists – and large contingents of working women from northern and other provincial cities, marching under banners that proclaimed their varied trades: bank-and-bobbin winders, cigar makers, clay-pipe finishers, power-loom weavers, shirt makers.\n\nAlthough the WSPU was not officially represented, many of its members attended, including Christabel Pankhurst, Emmeline Pethick-Lawrence, Annie Kenney, Anne Cobden-Sanderson, Nellie Martel, Edith How-Martyn, Flora Drummond, Charlotte Despard and Gertrude Ansell. According to the historian Diane Atkinson, \"belonging to both organisations, going to each others' events and wearing both badges was quite usual\".\nBy around 2.30 pm the march had formed a line that stretched far down Rotten Row. It set off in the drenching rain, with a brass band leading and Lady Frances Balfour, Millicent Fawcett and Lady Jane Strachey at the head of the column. The procession was followed by a phalanx of carriages and motor cars, many of which carried flags bearing the letters \"WS\", red and white banners and bouquets of red and white flowers. Despite the weather, thousands thronged the pavements to enjoy the novel spectacle of \"respectable women marching in the streets\", according to the historian Harold Smith.\n\n\"The Observer\"s reporter recorded that \"there was hardly any of the derisive laughter which had greeted former female demonstrations\", although \"The Morning Post\" reported \"scoffs and jeers of enfranchised males who had posted themselves along the line of the route, and appeared to regard the occasion as suitable for the display of crude and vulgar jests\". Katharine Frye, who joined the march at Piccadilly Circus, recorded \"not much joking at our expense and no roughness\". The \"Daily Mail\"—which supported women's suffrage—carried an eyewitness account, \"How It Felt\", by Constance Smedley of the Lyceum Club. Smedley described a divided reaction from the crowd \"that shared by the poorer class of men, namely, bitter resentment at the possibility of women getting any civic privilege they had not got; the other that of amusement at the fact of women wanting any serious thing ... badly enough to face the ordeal of a public demonstration\".\nApproaching Trafalgar Square the march divided: representatives from the northern industrial towns broke off for an open-air meeting at Nelson's Column, which had been arranged by the Northern Franchise Demonstration Committee. The main march continued to Exeter Hall, for a meeting chaired by the Liberal politician Walter McLaren, whose wife, Eva McLaren, was one of the scheduled speakers. Keir Hardie, leader of the Labour Party, told the meeting, to hissing from several Liberal women on the platform, that if women won the vote, it would be thanks to the \"suffragettes' fighting brigade\". He spoke strongly in favour of the meeting's resolution, which was carried, that women be given the vote on the same basis as men, and demanded a bill in the current parliamentary session. At the Trafalgar Square meeting, Eva Gore-Booth referred to the \"alienation of the Labour Party through the action of a certain section in the suffrage movement\", according to \"The Observer\", and asked the party \"not to punish the millions of women workers\" because of the actions of a small minority. When Hardie arrived from Exeter Hall, he expressed the hope that \"no working man bring discredit on the class to which he belonged by denying to women those political rights which their fathers had won for them\".\n\nThe press coverage gave the movement \"more publicity in a week\", according to one commentator, \"than it had enjoyed in the previous fifty years\". Tickner writes that the reporting was \"inflected by the sympathy or otherwise of particular newspapers for the suffrage cause\". \"The Daily Mirror\", neutral on the issue of women's suffrage, offered a large photospread, and praised the crowd's diversity. The \"Tribune\" also commented on the mix of social classes represented in the marchers. \"The Times\", an opponent of women's suffrage, thought the event \"remarkable as much for its representative character as for its size\", describing the scenes and speeches in detail over 20 column inches.\n\nThe protesters had had to \"run the gauntlet of much inconsiderate comment\", according to the \"Daily Chronicle\", a publication supportive of women's suffrage. The pictorial journal \"The Sphere\" provided a montage of photographs under the headline \"The Attack on Man's Supremacy\". \"The Graphic\", a pro-suffrage paper, published a series of illustrations sympathetic to the event, except for one that showed a man holding aloft a pair of scissors \"suggesting that demonstrating women should have their tongues cut out\", according to Katherine Kelly in a study of how the suffrage movement was portrayed in the British press. Some newspapers, including \"The Times\" and the \"Daily Mail\" carried pieces written by the marchers.\n\nIn its leading article, \"The Observer\" warned that \"the vital civic duty and natural function of women ... is the healthy propagation of race\", and that the aim of the movement was \"nothing less than complete sex emancipation\". It was concerned that women were not ready for the vote. The movement should educate its own sex, it said, rather than \"seeking to confound men\". The newspaper nevertheless welcomed that there had been \"no attempts to bash policemen's helmets, to tear down the railings of the Park, to utter piercing war cries ...\" Likewise, \"The Daily News\" compared the event favourably to the actions of suffragettes: \"Such a demonstration is far more likely to prove the reality of the demand for a vote than the practice of breaking up meetings held by Liberal Associations.\" \"The Manchester Guardian\" agreed: \"For those ... who, like ourselves, wish to see this movement – a great movement, as will one day be recognised – carried through in such a way as to win respect even where it cannot command agreement Saturday's demonstration was of good omen.\"\n\nFour days after the march, the NUWSS executive met with the Parliamentary Committee for Women's Suffrage (founded 1893) to discuss a private member's bill. On the same day, the suffragettes held their first \"Women's Parliament\" at Caxton Hall, after which 400 women marched toward the Commons to protest against the omission from the King's Speech, the day before, of a women's suffrage bill; over 60 were arrested, and 53 chose prison over a fine.\n\nOn 26 February 1907 the Liberal MP for St Pancras North, Willoughby Dickinson, published the text of a bill proposing that women should have the vote subject to the same property qualification that applied to men. This would, it was estimated, enfranchise between one and two million women. (On the day the bill was published, the Cambridge Union passed by a small majority a motion \"that this House would view with regret the extension of the franchise to women\".) Although the bill received strong backing from the suffragist movement, it was viewed more equivocally in the House of Commons, some of whose members regarded it as giving more votes to the propertied classes, but doing nothing for working women. On 8 March Dickinson introduced his Women's Enfranchisement Bill to the House of Commons for its second reading, with a plea that members should not be swayed by their distaste for militant actions; the House of Commons \"Ladies Gallery\" was kept closed during the debate in case of protests by the WSPU. The debate was inconclusive and the bill was \"talked out\" without a vote. The NUWSS had worked hard for the bill and found the response insulting.\n\nThe Mud March was the largest-ever public demonstration at that time in support of woman's suffrage. Although it brought little by way of immediate progress on the parliamentary front, its significance in the general suffrage campaign was considerable. By embracing activism, the constitutionalists' tactics become closer to those of the WSPU, at least in relation to the latter's non-violent activities. In her 1988 study of the suffrage campaign, Tickner observes that \"modest and uncertain as it was by subsequent standards, [the march] established the precedent of large-scale processions, carefully ordered and publicised, accompanied by banners, bands and the colours of the participant societies.\" The feminist politician Ray Strachey wrote:\n\nThe march marked a change in perception of the NUWSS from what \"The Manchester Guardian\" described as \"regional debating society\" into the sphere of \"practical politics. According to Jane Chapman, in her study \"Gender, Citizenship and Newspapers\", the Mud March \"established a precedent for advance press publicity\".\n\nThe failure of Dickinson's bill brought about a change in the NUWSS's strategy; it began to intervene directly in by-elections, on behalf of the candidate of any party who would publicly support women's suffrage. In 1907 the NUWSS supported the Conservatives in Hexham and Labour in Jarrow; where no suitable candidate was available they used the by-election to propagandise. This tactic met with sufficient success for the NUWSS to resolve that it would fight in all future by-elections, and between 1907 and 1909 they had been involved in 31 by-elections.\n\nFrom 1907 until the start of the First World War, the NUWSS and suffragettes held several peaceful demonstrations. On 13 June 1908 over 10,000 women took part in a London march organised by the NUWSS, and on 21 June that year the suffragettes organised Women's Sunday in Hyde Park, attended by up to half a million. During the NUWSS's Great Pilgrimage of April 1913, women marched from all over the country to London for a mass rally in Hyde Park, which 50,000 attended. \n\nThe Mud March is featured in window No. 4 of the stained-glass Dearsley Windows in St Stephen's Hall in the Palace of Westminster. The window includes panels depicting, among other things, the formation of the NUWSS, WSPU and Women's Freedom League, the NUWSS's Great Pilgrimage, the force-feeding of suffragettes, the Cat and Mouse Act and the death in 1913 of Emily Davison. The window was installed in 2002 as a memorial to the long and ultimately successful campaign for women's suffrage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "865081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=865081", "title": "Nationalist activism", "text": "Nationalist activism\n\nThe Nationalist activism was an elitist political movement of the early 20th century in Scandinavia, Finland and the Baltic countries. The \"Activists\" advocated in brief a close cooperation with Imperial Germany, and active support of Germany's military aims — primarily directed against Imperial Russia, Bolshevist Russia and the Soviet Union. The activism was revived in both Finland and Sweden in connection with the Winter War.\n\nThis \"activism\" was ideologically related, although distantly, to the thoughts that would result in Fascism in Italy. Activists were often ardent anti-Socialists and deeply suspicious of democracy and parliamentarism.\n\nIn Scandinavia, activist policies were judged unsuccessful when occasionally (half-ways) implemented, as in the years before the dissolution of the union between Sweden and Norway and in Sweden in the first two years of World War I; but in Finland the Activism was seen as successful in establishing the White Guard, the German-trained Jägers, the victory in the Finnish Civil War, and the thereby secured independence.\n\nWhile in Finland the \"activism\" would continue in movements of the interbellum: the Academic Karelia Society, the Lapua movement and the Patriotic People's Movement; in the Baltic countries and Sweden it hardly survived outside some narrow circles of military officers, industrialists and aristocrats with political ambitions.\n\nIn Latvia Nationalist activism was represent by Pērkonkrusts.\n\nIn Estonia was Nationalistic Vaps Movement.\n"}
{"id": "33131127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33131127", "title": "Prisons in Slovakia", "text": "Prisons in Slovakia\n\nPrisons in Slovakia are fully owned and operated by the state. In 2004, Slovakia had 8 891 prisoners, representing 165 per 100 000 of the national population. By the end of 2010 the prison population has risen to 10 031 prisoners (184 per 100 000 citizens). As of 2010, Slovakia had 18 correctional institutions capable of holding 9 500 inmates (other sources claim 10 615). Of these, five are devoted to pre-trial detainees, nine for sentenced prisoners, and four for a combination of sentenced prisoners and pre-trial detainees.\n\nThe prison system is administered by the Slovak General Directorate of the Prison and Court Guard Corps (current Director General is Col. Mgr. Róbert Mudronček, since 1 October 2010 ) falling under the Ministry of Interior of the Slovak Republic. Current occupancy level of the Slovak prison system is 94.5%. According to newspaper SME, currently there is no place for convicted criminals evading their sentences, if they were to be arrested by the Slovak police, there would simply be no place where to detain them. According to the Slovak Ministry of Justice, the number of convicted prisoners is critical, despite the fact that 9 prisons lowered the minimal space per prisoner to lower values than mandated by law.\n\nCzechoslovakia inherited a prison system from Austria-Hungary that is considered relatively progressive, with the facilities cited as being among the better prisons in Europe. As late as during the 1940s the prison system still incorporated the Leopoldov structure, originally built in 1669 to defend against the Turkish invaders. Between 1865 and 1952, Slovakia's prison system was controlled by the General Directorate of the Corps of Prison and Court Guard, under the Ministry of Justice, an organisational scheme similar to the one still in use today.\n\nThe country's oldest prisons date from the 17th century. Two of the largest prisons, Leopoldov Prison and Ilava Prison were reconstructed from an army fortress and a monastery respectively, both during Austria-Hungary. The largest prisons have a capacity of 600 - 900 prisoners.\n\nAt the end of 1989, Czechoslovakia overthrew communism in its velvet revolution. Coinciding with the social and political changes outside, prisoners all around the country became rebellious. In Slovakia, the unrest started in December 1989 in Zeliezovce prison. In many prisons the inmates constructed simple banners out of bed sheets with slogans similar to those worn by protesters in the squares. Also, the prisoners started organizing themselves creating self-governing commissions and choosing spokespersons to represent their demands. Prison unrest became the focus of daily news coverage in Slovakia and situation escalated to the point, where several government ministers and the prime minister personally came to conduct negotiations to Leopoldov Prison.\n\nThe most serious offenders are housed at Ilava, Leopoldov, or Ružomberok.\n\nIn 2011 the average cost of imprisoning one person in Slovakia was 37.26 euro per day. Each prisoner and detainee is obliged by law to pay 3.09 euro per day, an obligation that many people manage to evade. The total unpaid sum rose to 11.7 million euro as of June 2011.\n\nIn the years 2012-2013 the Prison and Court Guard Corps is planning to re-equip its officers with new pistols and machine guns, yet the new arms are not part of the State Budget. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20218414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20218414", "title": "Public Prosecutor of Costa Rica", "text": "Public Prosecutor of Costa Rica\n\nThe Public Ministry of Costa Rica has an accusatory function before the courts by the Criminal prosecutions and conducting preparatory research into the crimes of public action, work being done in conjunction with the Judicial Investigation Department.\n\nHowever, when the law empowering the prior authorization of superior, the representative of the Public Prosecutor may request that dispensing with whole or in part for criminal prosecution, which is limited to one or more violations or any of the individuals involved in the incident.\n\nThis same body should intervene in the criminal enforcement proceedings in the civil defense of the victim when appropriate and to assume other duties which the law may require.\n\nThe current Attorney General is Francisco Dall'Anese.\n\nThe Public Ministry of Costa Rica was created by law of the Republic, has not yet enshrined in the Constitution. The body that exists today, as auxiliary institution of the modern administration of justice, dating back thirty-four years to the date despite its essence as a republican institution is the product of over one hundred and fifty years of history and constitutional independent.\n\nInitially, officials had to know a vast amount of material, all related to State interests, among which highlighted three main aspects: the hacendaria the assets and criminal. The Criminal Matters came to prevail over the others, because hacendaria remained in the area of the executive branch and as \"criminal hacendario\" in the Public Ministry. The matter \"criminal hacendaria\" was of little significance, since its laws unique to the administrative procedure reserved most of the activities, for its part, the art heritage was as a task for the Attorney General's Office in a relatively equal terms with private subject.\n\nThe Public Ministry is made up of different units and prosecutors' offices, including:\n\n\nIt is an office that supplies to victims of a crime the services of a legal representative, to help them obtain compensation for the damages they have suffered.\n\nThe Civil Defense Office of the Victim is under the Public Ministry and began its work on January 1, 1998, with the entry into force of the Code of Criminal Procedure.\n\nThe professional service provided by this office is absolutely free and is to assign the victim a lawyer, who performs the procedures necessary to enable the accused or who responds by him, paid the damages caused. This is called \"civil action for damages.\" If the office finds that it did have enough resources to hire a legal representative who leads the particular case, carry out the formalities to pay for professional services received.\n\nCreated with the purpose of guiding the victim and reduce their problems during the development of the criminal proceedings. Seeks to provide assistance as quickly as possible, because if the aid is late, worsens the situation of persons injured and that is precisely what we are trying to avoid. This Office is also attached to the Public Ministry and is on the sixth floor of the Courts of the First Judicial Circuit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5816935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5816935", "title": "Rokker Radio", "text": "Rokker Radio\n\nRokker Radio was a radio programme which has been broadcast on BBC Three Counties Radio since April 2006 for Romanies and the travelling community. The programme was discontinued late in 2008.\n\nIt is the only radio programme for Traveller Communities in the UK.\n\nUsed to go out on Sunday evenings from 19:00 to 21:00. In August 2006, the programme expanded to several BBC Local Radio Stations across the east of England including BBC Radio Essex, BBC Radio Cambridgeshire and BBC Radio Norfolk. One of the secondary purposes of Rokker Radio is to educate the 'settled' community in the ways and lifestyles of People of No Fixed Abode, showmen, travellers (or those who would be).\n\nThe show was first produced by Karen Shrosbery, then Paul Scoins, David Landau and Victoria Cook and was presented by Romani journalist Jake Bowers\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45223212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45223212", "title": "Seiyun Palace", "text": "Seiyun Palace\n\nSeiyun Palace is the royal residence of the sultan of Kathiri, located in the town of Seiyun in the Hadhramaut region, Yemen.\n"}
{"id": "55570391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55570391", "title": "Sembadavar", "text": "Sembadavar\n\nSembadavar (also known as Parvatha Rajakulam) is a community found mainly on the Coromandel coast of the Indian states of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry. They also take the title Nattar.\n\nThey are a maritime community who are occupied primarily as inland and river fishermen and primarily fish with fishing net.\n\nA similar caste also known as \"Sambuni Reddi\" is found in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana There are many theories as to their origins but they have since ancient times been recorded in the area of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry.\n\nThe name Sembadavar is mythologically connected to the principal Hindu god Shiva. The name is derived from the Tamil words \"Sambu,\" a name of Shiva and \"Padavar\" meaning boatmen thus literally meaning \"Shiva's boatmen\". The name might also be derived from \"Sem\" meaning good and \"Padavar\" thus literally meaning \"good boatmen\".\n\nAccording to one legend was Shiva fond of one of their chief deity \"Ankalamman\". Out of the union was \"Parvatha Rajan\" (king of the Parvata Kingdom) born who disguised himself as a boatman. His boat was made of copper, the Vedas assumed the form of his fishing net and the Rakshasas took the form of the pisces. Accidentally was a rishi caught in his net, who angered called Parvatha Rajan a \"Sembu Padavar\" meaning \"copper boatmen\" and cursed his descendants to become fishermen. From this myth do they call themselves as Sembadavar or also \"Parvatha Rajakulam\" (meaning descendant of Parvatha Raja).\n\nIn 1947, the fisheries became a monopoly of the new independent Indian government.\n\n, Parvatharajakulam is classified as a Most backward caste by the Governments of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry. \n\n"}
{"id": "7731812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7731812", "title": "South African Sheepdog Association", "text": "South African Sheepdog Association\n\nThe South African Sheepdog Association (SASDA) is an association responsible for organising and controlling sheepdog related activities in South Africa. This involves overseeing the competitions (sheepdog trials) that are held by regional clubs during the year and maintaining the stud book to manage the registration of sheepdogs in South Africa. It also works with the regional clubs in an effort to further the spread of interest in sheepdogs as useful working resources in the life of the stock farmer and to encourage handlers to participate in competition. Competition is seen as a way to maintain the standard of breeding and training of working sheepdogs.\n\nThe South African Sheepdog Association was established in 1961 when a group of farmers in the Karoo came together to discuss the future of the sheepdog in South Africa. The inaugural meeting, with 13 members present, was held at Union High School in Graaff Reinet and Mr Bun Kingwill was elected as the first president of the association.\nDuring the South African championship of that year, \"Tess\" of Mr Billy Kingwill became the first South African champion under the watchful eye of the judge, Mr Henry Hartzenberg of Graaff Reinet.\nSince the inauguration of SASDA a South African championship has been held each year.\nOver time the course has also changed, to upgrade the standard and difficulty to improve the dog's working ability. In the beginning the course was very much like the ones used in Australia but gradually changed to the English version.\nThe current course with the double lift, which has been implemented in 2001, has been taken over virtually as is from the one used for the international championship in the United Kingdom and in so doing putting South African dogs and handlers on the same foot as their overseas counterparts.\nThrough the years the South African Sheepdog Association still strives toward its main objective – to introduce farmers and other interested people to sheepdogs as a labour saving force. This is done through demonstrations and courses, as well as competitions, where breeding success is tested and the best breeding material selected according to working ability.\nThe previous logo appears on the right.\n\nThe association is made up of a number of regional clubs, loosely based on the provinces and regions of South Africa, together with a central office responsible for the maintenance of the registration of dogs and breeders.\n\nEach club typically holds one trial a year. They normally run for two to three days and are usually arranged in such a way as to give each dog at least two opportunities to compete. Trials that comply with certain standards, including a minimum entry, will be able to advertise as 'Dog of the Year' (DOY) trials. Competitors taking part in these trials will be able to accumulate points towards the DOY competition.\n\nOnce a year a national trial is held. It is generally referred to as 'The Nationals'. Handlers all compete on the same trial field on an equal footing and after a number of rounds the most successful dog is awarded the title of National Champion. At the same event the dog that has accumulated the most points at 'Dog of the Year' trials since the last Nationals competition is awarded the title of South Africa Dog of the Year.\n\nDuring club competition dogs compete in three different categories: \"juniors\", \"seniors\" and \"top dogs\". Juniors don't do the more challenging tests of skill like shedding and must win a junior trial to qualify for seniors. To qualify for top dogs a dog must win a senior competition and attain a score of at least 90% of the points on offer on the same run. The course for top dogs is more of a test. It includes narrow drive gates and may include a double lift or some other additional test.\n\nMost club trials include a further category: \"beginners\". Any dog can compete in a beginner competition. To qualify for beginner the \"handler\" must have never competed in any other trial category. This category was introduced to encourage novices to become part of the family of competitors.\n\nSASDA have tried to maintain links with similar organisations in other countries. Over the years several experienced handlers from England, Wales, Scotland and the USA have been invited to come and judge important trials, most often the Nationals. The 2006 Nationals were judged by Dick Roper from England. Most international judges invited to travel to judge trials are also invited to run workshops to encourage the sharing of ideas.\n\nSouth African dogs are not allowed to compete in Europe without first completing six months of quarantine but South African dogs have competed in the USA. In 2005 Faansie Basson and Wally Ward represented South Africa in the USA. At the Meeker Classic Faansie Basson finished 8th in the final with \"Lad\".\n\nHandlers have brought dogs from Europe to compete in South Africa in the past. To do this, before they travel to South Africa, they need to arrange to sell the dogs they bring to local handlers after the competition so that they can leave them behind when they leave.\n\nOccasionally handlers from neighbouring countries will compete in regional trials although this is more the exception than the rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4176748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4176748", "title": "Taarof", "text": "Taarof\n\nTarof or Taʿârof () is a Persian word which refers to an Iranian form of civility emphasizing both deference and social rank. It encompasses a range of social behaviors; one example of taarof could be described as posing false invitations and promising future services or deeds to primarily strangers or distant relatives and expecting them not to take the offer and keep declining it. Taarof more often works in a totally opposite way. For example, an absolutely desired object/person/offer may seemingly be refused while deep inside is demanded and wished. For instance, young Persian ladies may never express their passion to a potential lover based on shyness and social norms; while, they expect the person of interest remain consistent in expressing love and posing. This also applies to objects, specially food, which are offered to individuals as a favor or even a donation, and Taarof dictates individuals to refuse the favors/donations no matter how badly are needed. The refusing individual expects the object (or the favor) to be left for his/her benefit instead of directly receiving it. However, the closer two people get in a relationship, the less taarof appears in their behavior towards one another.\n\nThe prevalence of taarof often gives rise to distinctly Iranian styles of negotiation. For example, a worker negotiating a salary might begin with a eulogy of the employer, followed by a lengthy bargaining session consisting entirely of indirect, polite language – both parties are expected to understand the \"implied\" topic of discussion. Likewise, a shopkeeper may initially refuse to quote a price for an item, \"suggesting\" that it is worthless (\"ghaabel nadaareh\"). Taarof obliges the customer to insist on paying, possibly several times (three times), before a shopkeeper finally quotes a price and real negotiation can begin.\n\nTaarof also governs the rules of hospitality: a host is obliged to offer anything a guest might want, and a guest is equally obliged to refuse it. This ritual may repeat itself several times (three times) before the host and guest finally determine whether the host's offer and the guest's refusal are real or simply polite. \n\nTaarof plays a large role in the etiquette of food. If you go to any meal, are invited to any house for food, then you will be expected to eat seconds and thirds. You must eat to please the host but at the same time taarof demands that you can’t just go ahead and dig into the food once you are done with your first round. Good manners dictates that you have to pretend you are full, the food was excellent and that it would be impossible to fit anything else in. Your host will then demand you do not do tarof (“ta’rof nakon”) – you say 'no' 2 or 3 times and then you pretend you have caved into their insistence and pile on the food. If you do it any other way, you can come across as either starving or simply a bit uncouth.\n\nIt is possible to ask someone not to taarof (\"taarof nakonid\"), but that raises new difficulties, since the request itself might be a devious type of taarof.\nAt times, taarof can lead to one performing a task that one does not want to perform. For instance, if one friend offers a ride to another friend only because they are being polite, they may become stuck in the situation if the friend agrees to get the ride. Of course if one was going by the rules of taarof, one would refuse the offer many times before accepting.\n\nIt is a way of denying one's will to please your counterpart, although sometimes the will is only denied because of the custom and not just to please the counterpart. But there are situations where taarof persist upon a request to make the counterpart genuinely satisfied. Taarof may cause misunderstandings between both parties and can be a source for awkward situations in a social setting.\n\nSome political theorists have argued that during the period of serfdom, taarof regulated diplomatic discourse at princely courts. It involved a sharp curbing of one's comportment, speech, and action to make people, honour, and prestige calculable as instruments for political advancement.\n\nAccording to D. M. Rejali, for the feudal elite the ornamentation of speech symbolises prestige. With the advent of capitalism and its scientific paradigm, communication became more precise and the formality of taarof a hindrance in the pursuit for rapid capital accumulation.\n\nThe closest one can come to taarof in the Western culture is the question of \"Who's paying the restaurant bill?\" This is an awkward situation where everybody in the company is reaching for their wallets and it's usually resolved by social status: the one with the highest income, the most legitimate reason, or most power pays. But still, everyone insists on paying. In Southern Italy a custom similar to taarof exists (\"fare i complimenti\"), and is part of table manners.\n\nFor an extensive treatment of tarof vocabulary and language strategies see Beeman. William O., \"Language, Status and Power in Iran\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933839", "title": "Teenybopper", "text": "Teenybopper\n\nA teenybopper is a young teenager who follows adolescent trends in music, fashion and culture. The term may have been coined by marketing professionals and psychologists, later becoming a subculture of its own. The term was introduced in the 1950s to refer to teenagers who mainly listened to pop music and/or rock and roll and not much else. \"Teenybopper\" became widely used again in the late 1960s and early 1970s, following an increase in the marketing of pop music, teen idols and fashions aimed specifically at younger girls, generally 10–15 years old.\n\nThe subculture is exclusive to young girls. As a subculture, it is a \"retreat and preparation\", allowing girls to relate to their peers and \"practice in the secrecy of girl culture the rituals of courtship away from the eye of male ridicule\", also having no risks of standing out or personal humiliation, and serving as a retreat to avoid being labeled sexually. It also allows young girls to participate in semi-masturbatory rituals, since they don't have access to the masturbatory rituals common among boys. While the subculture allows them to have a space of their own, the subculture magazines offer an idealized relation with the teen idols, always implying a subordination of the female to the male, anticipating that the subordination will keep being present in their future relationships, and presenting an idealized form of marriage.\n\nThe narrative fantasies elaborated around teenyboppers serve as distractions from boring, unrewarding, or demanding aspects of life, such as school or work, and as a defensive means against the authoritarian structures at school. When shared with other teenyboppers, it allows for defensive solidarity. It allows its members to define themselves apart from younger and older girls. Their groups, like all girl groups, will rarely go above four, unlike boys, who prefer bigger numbers.\n\nIt has a commercial origin and is \"an almost packaged cultural commodity\", emerging from the pop business and relying on commercial magazines and TV. As a result, it has fewer creative elements than other subcultures.\n\nMembership has very few restrictions, does not require elaborate spending, and requires much less competence and money than certain school activities. Because its members don't have as much freedom as their male counterparts, the subculture is suited to being followed at school or home, and they can hold a party with just a bedroom, a music player and permission to invite friends.\n\nIn the 1960s, a new type of music appeared, different from the Tin Pan Alley music school, but moulded by it. It was no longer written by the old established songwriters of Tin Pan Alley, but by young people. They helped to establish the new teen idols and wrote the so-called \"teeny bopper songs\", which \"blend soft rock with pop ballad, is not explicitly physical and only hints at sexual interaction.\n\nThe difference that the 70s' \"Teeny Bopper syndrome\" had with prior idol phenomena was that these new teen idols were directed at even younger girls, down to 15 years old, who were too young to have heard The Beatles and were not attracted to the new hard rock music of the time that their elder siblings listened to. This new market has a quick turnover potential and it boosted the benefits of many broadcasting companies.\n\nThe teenybopper idol image is that of the young boy next door, with its key elements being self-pity, vulnerability and need. Their music is consumed by young girls, who collect posters and pin ups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18300184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18300184", "title": "The Spanish Gypsy (film)", "text": "The Spanish Gypsy (film)\n\nThe Spanish Gypsy is a 1911 American short silent drama film directed by D. W. Griffith, starring Wilfred Lucas and featuring Blanche Sweet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29834", "title": "The Time Machine", "text": "The Time Machine\n\nThe Time Machine is a science fiction novella by H. G. Wells, published in 1895 and written as a frame narrative. The work is generally credited with the popularization of the concept of time travel by using a vehicle that allows an operator to travel purposely and selectively forwards or backwards in time. The term \"time machine\", coined by Wells, is now almost universally used to refer to such a vehicle.\n\n\"The Time Machine\" has been adapted into three feature films of the same name, as well as two television versions, and a large number of comic book adaptations. It has also indirectly inspired many more works of fiction in many media productions.\n\nWells had considered the notion of time travel before, in a short story titled \"The Chronic Argonauts\" (1888). This work, published in his college newspaper, was the foundation for \"The Time Machine\".\n\nWells frequently stated that he had thought of using some of this material in a series of articles in the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" until the publisher asked him if he could instead write a serial novel on the same theme. Wells readily agreed and was paid £100 (equal to about £ today) on its publication by Heinemann in 1895, which first published the story in serial form in the January to May numbers of \"The New Review\" (newly under the nominal editorship of W. E. Henley). Henry Holt and Company published the first book edition (possibly prepared from a different manuscript) on 7 May 1895; Heinemann published an English edition on 29 May. These two editions are different textually and are commonly referred to as the \"Holt text\" and \"Heinemann text\", respectively. Nearly all modern reprints reproduce the Heinemann text.\n\nThe story reflects Wells's own socialist political views, his view on life and abundance, and the contemporary angst about industrial relations. It is also influenced by Ray Lankester's theories about social degeneration and shares many elements with Edward Bulwer-Lytton's novel \"Vril, the Power of the Coming Race\" (1871). Other science fiction works of the period, including Edward Bellamy's novel \"Looking Backward: 2000-1887\" (1888) and the later film \"Metropolis\" (1927), dealt with similar themes.\n\nBased on Wells' personal experiences and childhood, the working class literally spent a lot of their time underground. His own family would spend most of their time in a dark basement kitchen when not being occupied in their father's shop. Later, his own mother would work as a housekeeper in a house with underground tunnels, where the staff and servants lived in underground quarters. A medical journal published in 1905 would focus on these living quarters for servants in poorly ventilated dark basements. In his early teens, Wells became a draper's apprentice, having to work in a basement for hours on end.\n\nThis work is an early example of the Dying Earth subgenre. The portion of the novella that sees the Time Traveller in a distant future where the sun is huge and red also places \"The Time Machine\" within the realm of eschatology, i.e. the study of the end times, the end of the world, and the ultimate destiny of humankind.\n\nThe book's protagonist is a Victorian English scientist and gentleman inventor living in Richmond, Surrey, and identified by a narrator simply as the \"Time Traveller\". The narrator recounts the Traveller's lecture to his weekly dinner guests that time is simply a fourth dimension and demonstrates a tabletop model machine for travelling through the fourth dimension. He reveals that he has built a machine capable of carrying a person through time, and returns at dinner the following week to recount a remarkable tale, becoming the new narrator.\n\nIn the new narrative, the Time Traveller tests his device. At first he thinks nothing has happened but soon finds out he went five hours into the future. He continues forward and sees his house disappear and turn into a lush garden. The Time Traveller stops in A.D. 802,701, where he meets the Eloi, a society of small, elegant, childlike adults. They live in small communities within large and futuristic yet slowly deteriorating buildings, and having a fruit-based diet. His efforts to communicate with them are hampered by their lack of curiosity or discipline. They appear happy and carefree, but fear the dark and in particular fear moonless nights. Observing them, he finds that they give no response to mysterious nocturnal disappearances. (Perhaps they had become traumatized and would not discuss it.) He speculates that they are a peaceful society.\n\nReturning to the site where he arrived, the Time Traveller is shocked to find his time machine missing and eventually concludes that it has been dragged by some unknown party into a nearby structure with heavy doors, locked from the inside, which resembles a Sphinx. Luckily, he had removed the machine's levers before leaving it (the time machine being unable to travel through time without them). Later in the dark, he is approached menacingly by the Morlocks, ape-like troglodytes who live in darkness underground and surface only at night. Exploring one of many \"wells\" that lead to the Morlocks' dwellings, he discovers the machinery and industry that makes the above-ground paradise of the Eloi possible. He alters his theory, speculating that the human race has evolved into two species: the leisured classes have become the ineffectual Eloi, and the downtrodden working classes have become the brutal light-fearing Morlocks.\n\nDeducing that the Morlocks have taken his time machine, he explores the Morlock tunnels, learning that due to a lack of any other means of sustenance, they feed on the Eloi. His revised analysis is that their relationship is not one of lords and servants but of livestock and ranchers. The Time Traveller theorizes that intelligence is the result of and response to danger; with no real challenges facing the Eloi, they have lost the spirit, intelligence, and physical fitness of humanity at its peak.\n\nMeanwhile, he saves an Eloi named Weena from drowning as none of the other Eloi take any notice of her plight, and they develop an innocently affectionate relationship over the course of several days. He takes Weena with him on an expedition to a distant structure that turns out to be the remains of a museum, where he finds a fresh supply of matches and fashions a crude weapon against Morlocks, whom he must fight to get back his machine. He plans to take Weena back to his own time. Because the long and tiring journey back to Weena's home is too much for them, they stop in the forest for the night. They are then overcome by Morlocks in the night, whereby Weena faints. The Traveller escapes when a small fire he had left behind them to distract the Morlocks catches up to them as a forest fire; Weena and the pursuing Morlocks are lost in the fire and the Time Traveller is devastated over his loss.\n\nThe Morlocks open the Sphinx and use the time machine as bait to capture the Traveller, not understanding that he will use it to escape. He reattaches the levers before he travels further ahead to roughly 30 million years from his own time. There he sees some of the last living things on a dying Earth: Menacing reddish crab-like creatures slowly wandering the blood-red beaches chasing enormous butterflies, in a world covered in simple lichenous vegetation. He continues to make jumps forward through time, seeing Earth's rotation gradually cease and the sun grow larger, redder, and dimmer, and the world falling silent and freezing as the last degenerate living things die out.\n\nOverwhelmed, he goes back to the machine and returns to his own time, arriving at the laboratory just three hours after he originally left. He arrives late to his own dinner party, whereupon, after eating, the Time Traveller relates his adventures to his disbelieving visitors, producing as evidence two strange white flowers Weena had put in his pocket. \n\nThe original narrator then takes over and relates that he returned to the Time Traveller's house the next day, finding him preparing for another journey and promising to return in a short time. However, the narrator reveals that he has waited three years before writing and stating the Time Traveller has not returned from his journey.\n\nA section from the eleventh chapter of the serial published in \"New Review\" (May 1895) was deleted from the book. It was drafted at the suggestion of Wells's editor, William Ernest Henley, who wanted Wells to \"oblige your editor\" by lengthening the text with, among other things, an illustration of \"the ultimate degeneracy\" of humanity. \"There was a slight struggle,\" Wells later recalled, \"between the writer and W. E. Henley who wanted, he said, to put a little 'writing' into the tale. But the writer was in reaction from that sort of thing, the Henley interpolations were cut out again, and he had his own way with his text.\" This portion of the story was published elsewhere as \"\". The deleted text was also published by Forrest J Ackerman in an issue of the American edition of \"Perry Rhodan\".\n\nThe deleted text recounts an incident immediately after the Traveller's escape from the Morlocks. He finds himself in the distant future of an unrecognisable Earth, populated with furry, hopping herbivores resembling kangaroos. He stuns or kills one with a rock, and upon closer examination realises they are probably the descendants of humans / Eloi / Morlocks. A gigantic, centipede-like arthropod approaches and the Traveller flees into the next day, finding that the creature has apparently eaten the tiny humanoid. The Dover Press and Easton Press editions of the novella restore this deleted segment.\n\nSignificant scholarly commentary on \"The Time Machine\" began from the early 1960s, initially contained in various broad studies of Wells's early novels (such as Bernard Bergonzi's \"The Early H.G. Wells: A Study of the Scientific Romances\") and studies of utopias/dystopias in science fiction (such as Mark R. Hillegas's \"The Future as Nightmare: H.G. Wells and the Anti-Utopians\"). Much critical and textual work was done in the 1970s, including the tracing of the very complex publication history of the text, its drafts, and unpublished fragments.\n\nA further resurgence in scholarship came around the time of the novella's centenary in 1995, and a major outcome of this was the 1995 conference and substantial anthology of academic papers, which was collected in print as \"H.G. Wells’s Perennial Time Machine\". This publication then allowed the development of a guide-book for academic study at Master's and Ph.D. level: \"H.G. Wells's The Time Machine: A Reference Guide\".\n\nThe scholarly journal \"The Wellsian\" has published around twenty articles on \"The Time Machine\", and a U.S. academic journal \"The Undying Fire\", devoted to H.G. Wells studies, has published three articles since its inception in 2002. Richard Wasson explores the use in \"The Time Machine\" of myth and ex-nomination of class.\n\nThe name \"Eloi\" is the Hebrew plural for Elohim, or lesser gods, in the Old Testament.\n\nWells' source for the name \"morlock\" is less clear. It may refer to the Canaanite god Moloch associated with child sacrifice. The name Morlock may be a play on \"mollocks\" – what miners might call themselves – or a Scots word for rubbish, or a reference to the Morlacchi community in Dalmatia.\n\n\"The Time Machine\" can be read as a symbolic novel. The time machine itself can be viewed as a symbol, and there are several symbols in the narrative, including the Sphinx, flowers, and fire.\n\n\n\n\nThe CBS radio anthology \"Escape\" adapted \"The Time Machine\" twice, in 1948 starring Jeff Corey, and again in 1950 starring Lawrence Dobkin as the traveller. In both episodes, a script adapted by Irving Ravetch was used. The Time Traveller was named Dudley and was accompanied by his skeptical friend Fowler as they traveled to the year 100,080.\n\nIn 1994, an audio drama was released on cassette and CD by Alien Voices, starring Leonard Nimoy as the Time Traveller (named John in this adaptation) and John de Lancie as David Filby. John de Lancie's children, Owen de Lancie and Keegan de Lancie, played the parts of the Eloi. The drama is approximately two hours long and is more faithful to the story than several of the film adaptations. Some changes are made to reflect modern language and knowledge of science.\n\nIn 2000, Alan Young read \"The Time Machine\" for 7th Voyage Productions, Inc., in 2016 to celebrate the 120th Anniversary of H.G. Wells' novella.\n\nRobert Glenister starred as the Time Traveller, with William Gaunt as H. G. Wells in a new 100-minute radio dramatisation by Philip Osment, directed by Jeremy Mortimer as part of a BBC Radio Science Fiction season. This was the first adaptation of the novella for British radio. It was first broadcast on 22 February 2009 on BBC Radio 3 and later published as a 2-CD BBC audio book.\n\nThe other cast members were:\n\nThe adaptation retained the nameless status of the Time Traveller and set it as a true story told to the young Wells by the time traveller, which Wells then re-tells as an older man to the American journalist, Martha, whilst firewatching on the roof of Broadcasting House during the Blitz. It also retained the deleted ending from the novella as a recorded message sent back to Wells from the future by the traveller using a prototype of his machine, with the traveller escaping the anthropoid creatures to 30 million AD at the end of the universe before disappearing or dying there.\n\nOn 5 September 2017, Big Finish Productions released an adaptation of \"The Time Machine\". This adaptation was written by Marc Platt, and starred Ben Miles as the Time Traveller.\n\nPlatt explained in an interview that adapting The Time Machine to audio was not much different to writing Doctor Who, and that he can see where some of the roots of early Doctor Who came from.\n\nThe first visual adaptation of the book was a live teleplay broadcast from Alexandra Palace on 25 January 1949 by the BBC, which starred Russell Napier as the Time Traveller and Mary Donn as Weena. No recording of this live broadcast was made; the only record of the production is the script and a few black and white still photographs. A reading of the script, however, suggests that this teleplay remained fairly faithful to the book.\n\nIn 1960, the novella was made into an American science fiction film, also known promotionally as \"H.G. Wells' The Time Machine\". The film starred Rod Taylor, Alan Young, and Yvette Mimieux. The film was produced and directed by George Pal, who also filmed a 1953 version of Wells' \"The War of the Worlds\". The film won an Academy Award for time-lapse photographic effects showing the world changing rapidly.\n\nIn 1993, Rod Taylor hosted \"\" reuniting him with Alan Young and Whit Bissell, featuring the only sequel to Mr. Pal's classic film, written by the original screenwriter, David Duncan. In the special were Academy Award-winners special effect artists Wah Chang and Gene Warren.\n\nSunn Classic Pictures produced a television film version of \"The Time Machine\" as a part of their \"Classics Illustrated\" series in 1978. It was a modernization of the Wells' story, making the Time Traveller a 1970s scientist working for a fictional US defence contractor, \"the Mega Corporation\". Dr. Neil Perry (John Beck), the Time Traveller, is described as one of Mega's most reliable contributors by his senior co-worker Branly (Whit Bissell, an alumnus of the 1960 adaptation). Perry's skill is demonstrated by his rapid reprogramming of an off-course missile, averting a disaster that could destroy Los Angeles. His reputation secures a grant of $20 million for his time machine project. Although nearing completion, the corporation wants Perry to put the project on hold so that he can head a military weapon development project. Perry accelerates work on the time machine, permitting him to test it before being forced to work on the new project.\n\nThe 1960 film was remade in 2002, starring Guy Pearce as the Time Traveller, a mechanical engineering professor named Alexander Hartdegen, Mark Addy as his colleague David Filby, Sienna Guillory as Alex's ill-fated fiancée Emma, Phyllida Law as Mrs. Watchit, and Jeremy Irons as the Uber-Morlock. Playing a quick cameo as a shopkeeper was Alan Young, who featured in the 1960 film. (H.G. Wells himself can also be said to have a \"cameo\" appearance, in the form of a photograph on the wall of Alex's home, near the front door.)\n\nThe film was directed by Wells's great-grandson Simon Wells, with an even more revised plot that incorporated the ideas of paradoxes and changing the past. The place is changed from Richmond, Surrey, to downtown New York City, where the Time Traveller moves forward in time to find answers to his questions on 'Practical Application of Time Travel;' first in 2030 New York, to witness an orbital lunar catastrophe in 2037, before moving on to 802,701 for the main plot. He later briefly finds himself in 635,427,810 with toxic clouds and a world laid waste (presumably by the Morlocks) with devastation and Morlock artifacts stretching out to the horizon.\n\nIt was met with generally negative reviews and earned $56 million before VHS/DVD sales. The Time Machine used a design that was very reminiscent of the one in the Pal film but was much larger and employed polished turned brass construction, along with rotating glass reminiscent of the Fresnel lenses common to lighthouses. (In Wells's original book, the Time Traveller mentioned his 'scientific papers on optics'). Hartdegen becomes involved with a female Eloi named Mara, played by Samantha Mumba, who essentially takes the place of Weena, from the earlier versions of the story. In this film, the Eloi have, as a tradition, preserved a \"stone language\" that is identical to English. The Morlocks are much more barbaric and agile, and the Time Traveller has a direct impact on the plot.\n\nIn \"Time After Time\", H.G. Wells invents a time machine and shows it to some friends in a manner similar to the first part of the novella. He does not know that one of his friends is Jack The Ripper. The Ripper, fleeing police, escapes to the future (1979), but without a key which prevents the machine from remaining in the future. When it does return home, Wells follows him in order to protect the future (which he imagines to be a utopia) from the Ripper. In turn, the film inspired a 2017 TV series of the same name.\n\n\"Classics Illustrated\" was the first to adapt \"The Time Machine\" into a comic book format, issuing an American edition in July 1956.\n\nThe Classics Illustrated version was published in French by \"Classiques Illustres\" in Dec 1957, and \"Classics Illustrated\" Strato Publications (Australian) in 1957, and \"Kuvitettuja Klassikkoja\" (a Finnish edition) in November 1957. There were also \"Classics Illustrated\" Greek editions in 1976, Swedish in 1987, German in 1992 and 2001, and a Canadian reprint of the English edition in 2008.\n\nIn 1976, Marvel Comics published a new version of \"The Time Machine\", as #2 in their \"Marvel Classics Comics\" series, with art by Alex Niño. (This adaptation was originally published in 1973 by Pendulum Press as part of their \"Pendulum Now Age Classics\" series; it was colorized and reprinted by Marvel in 1976.) From April 1990, Eternity Comics published a three-issue miniseries adaptation of \"The Time Machine\", written by Bill Spangler and illustrated by John Ross — this was collected as a trade paperback graphic novel in 1991.\n\nWells's novella has become one of the cornerstones of science-fiction literature. As a result, it has spawned many offspring. Works expanding on Wells's story include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17945405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17945405", "title": "You Wouldn't Steal a Car", "text": "You Wouldn't Steal a Car\n\n\"You Wouldn't Steal a Car\" is the first sentence of a propaganda PSA which is part of an anti-piracy campaign \"Piracy. It's a crime.\" It was created by the Federation Against Copyright Theft in cooperation with the Intellectual Property Office of Singapore in 2004, and appeared on many commercial DVDs as either a skippable clip or an unskippable clip before a film is shown. It shows a man committing theft of various objects, and compares these crimes with the unauthorized duplication and distribution of copyrighted materials, such as films.\n\n\"The IT Crowd\" episode \"Moss and the German\" spoofed this advert near the start of the episode.\n\nIn \"The Amazing World Of Gumball\" episode \"The DVD\" Darwin conveys the information to Gumball after he was about to download a movie named \"Alligators on a Train\"\n\nThe Greens-European Free Alliance, in association with Rafilm, released their own version of the film to oppose the media industry and government views on existing copyright laws, as well as to educate the public on alternative views about intellectual property.\n\nThe Juice Media produced a controversial parody of this video for Australia Day in 2017 The video compared the celebration of Australia Day, which marks the arrival of the First Fleet, to a number of infamous events in history. The events depicted include Nazis' \"Final Solution\", dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Sep 11 attacks on the Twin Towers.\n"}
