{"id": "30235371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30235371", "title": "Abahlali baseMjondolo (membership &amp; structures)", "text": "Abahlali baseMjondolo (membership &amp; structures)\n\nAbahlali baseMjondolo is a South African social movement. It is based in the provinces of KwaZulu-Natal and Western Cape with the bulk of its membership in the former. The structure of the organisation is centred on open mass assemblies and elected committees at the community level and Annual General Meetings and open committee meetings at the movement level. The movement also holds a number of rallies, workshops and political youth camps open for all its members to attend.\n\nThe movement claims to have around 25 000 active supporters and 10,000 card-carrying members in over 64 different shack settlements. The bulk of these members are in Kwazulu-Natal. However, the new Abahlali baseMjondolo of the Western Cape has a sizable membership in the township of Khayelitsha.\n\nThe movement has affiliated settlements, branches, and individual members in settlements which do not have branches. They claim to have a bottom-up structure where members direct their branches and their branches direct the movement executive. In addition, Abahlali have a movement level Youth League and Women's League which are elected separately from the movement leadership at their own Annual General Meetings.\n\nThe movement elects its members to hold the following positions at the Annual General Meeting (includes the current holders of these positions as of 2010): \n\nThe movement claims to have branches and members in the following shack settlements in KwaZulu-Natal (in alphabetical order): \n"}
{"id": "8526772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8526772", "title": "Alto Paraná Atlantic forests", "text": "Alto Paraná Atlantic forests\n\nThe Alto Paraná Atlantic forests, also known as the Paraná-Paraíba interior forests, is an ecoregion of the tropical moist forests Biome, and the South American Atlantic Forest biome. It is located in southern Brazil, northeastern Argentina, and eastern Paraguay.\n\nThe Alto Paraná Atlantic forests are an interior extension of the coastal forests, extending across the southern portion of the Brazilian Highlands. The ecoregion extends from the mouth of the Paraíba do Sul River eastward along the Paraíba valley lying behind the coastal Serra do Mar, and further eastward and northward along the basin of the Paraná River and its tributaries, forming a complex mosaic with the surrounding ecoregions.\n\nThe ecoregion covers portions of the Brazilian states of Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais, São Paulo, Goiás, Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraná, Santa Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul, the Argentinian province of Misiones, and the Paraguayan departments of Alto Paraná, Amambay, Caaguazu, Caazapa, Canindeyú, Concepción, Guairá, and Itapúa.\n\nThe Cerrado lie to the north and east (in São Paulo), entwining with the Paraná-Paraíba forests in a complex mosaic. The Serra do Mar coastal forests lie to the south, on the Atlantic side of the Serra do Mar range. The Alto Paraná Atlantic forests wrap around the north, east, and south of the Araucaria moist forests, which cover a higher-elevation portion of the plateau in Paraná, Santa Catarina, and northern Rio Grande do Sul states. The Uruguayan savanna lies to the south, and to the west lie the Southern Cone Mesopotamian savanna and the Humid Chaco in Argentina and Paraguay, respectively.\n\nThe climate of the ecoregion is subtropical, with of rainfall per year. The winter dry season extends from April to September.\n\nThe main vegetation type is semi-deciduous forests, akin to the other interior forest ecoregions of the Atlantic forests. Approximately 40% of the trees lose their leaves during the winter dry season.\n\n"}
{"id": "9028796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9028796", "title": "Anne Kelly Knowles", "text": "Anne Kelly Knowles\n\nAnne Kelly Knowles (born 1957) is an American geographer and a specialist in Historical GIS. After teaching for over ten years at Middlebury College in Vermont as a professor of geography, she is now a professor of history at University of Maine.\n\nShe received her MA and PhD from University of Wisconsin–Madison. Her first book, \"Calvinists Incorporated Welsh Immigrants on Ohio’s Industrial Frontier\" examined the influence of immigrants’ traditions and social values on their economic behavior during the industrialization of their new region as workers and investors in Welsh-owned charcoal iron companies.\n\nIn 2002 she edited the first book ever published with case studies of the use of Historical GIS in various disciplines. She was the guest editor of a special issue of the journal \"Social Science History\" about this field.\n\nHer research has included spatial analysis of the role of skilled ironworkers in the transfer of technology in the U.S. iron industry 1800-1868, and the mapping of the Holocaust.\n\nGuggenheim Fellowship (2015).\n\nJohn Brinkerhoff Jackson Book Award, Association of American Geographers (2014).\n\nAmerican Ingenuity Award for Historical Scholarship, \"Smithsonian\" magazine (2012).\n\nNational Science Foundation Collaborative Research Grant, Holocaust Historical GIS, with Alberto Giordano as fellow PI (2008 – 2011).\n\nNational Endowment for the Humanities Research Fellowship (2005).\n\nAmerican Council of Learned Societies Research Fellowship (1999).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19629367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19629367", "title": "Australian Continuous Plankton Recorder Survey", "text": "Australian Continuous Plankton Recorder Survey\n\nPlankton respond rapidly to changes in the ocean environment compared to other marine animals such as fish, birds and mammals, which makes them ideal biological indicators of ecosystem change. \n\nAusCPR was initiated in 2007 and funding has been secured initially for four years, although it is envisaged that the survey will continue well into the future. \nThe aims of the AusCPR survey are to: \n\n\nThe AusCPR survey uses the Continuous Plankton Recorder (CPR), a device developed by pioneering British marine biologist Sir Alister Hardy. In 1931, this device formed the basis of the ongoing CPR survey of the North Atlantic. This survey is one of the longest running marine biological surveys in the world, and many climate related changes in the plankton have been observed over the past 70 years. \n\nThe design of the CPR has remained fundamentally unchanged over time as the simple yet robust design is a key to its success as an effective plankton sampler. The key to its success as a frequent basin-scale sampler is that the device is towed behind ships of opportunity (SOOPs) unaccompanied by scientists or research staff, making it a cost-effective sampling platform. The CPR is towed at about 10 metres below the surface and for about 450 nautical miles (830 km) per ‘tow’. The plankton enters a small opening in the device and is trapped and preserved between two layers of silk mesh. In the laboratory the silk is unrolled and phytoplankton and zooplankton are counted and identified.\n\nData generated by the survey will be made freely available according to the Integrated Marine Observing System (IMOS)] data policy and will provide researchers and policy makers with environmental and climatic indicators on harmful algal blooms, eutrophication, pollution, climate change and fisheries. \n\nThe AusCPR survey will collaborate with sister surveys, the SCAR Southern Ocean Continuous Plankton Recorder Survey and the Continuous Plankton Recorder in the North Atlantic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48866551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48866551", "title": "Australian Surveying and Land Information Group", "text": "Australian Surveying and Land Information Group\n\nAustralian Surveying and Land Information Group (AUSLIG) was an Australian organization that merged in 2001 with the Australian Geological Survey Organization to become Geoscience Australia.\n\nIts headquarters building was located in Canberra, Fernhill Technology Park \n\nAUSLIG's main function was to provide national geographic information.\n\nIt produced maps and audovisual products relative to many aspects of Australian geography from the technology available during its time of operation.\n\nIt was formed in 1987, when the \"Australian Survey Office\", joined with the \"Division of National Mapping\" which had been in operation since the 1940s, and had been publisher of the \"Atlas of Australian resources\" which had incorporated over 20 component booklets of standard information about Australian natural resources at the time of publication \n\nAUSLIG provised of satellite imagery to industry and government, starting with the Australian Landsat Station in 1979, which was renamed the Australian Centre for Remote Sensing (ACRES) in 1986.\n\nThe Australian Survey Office, under its own name, was working with remote sensing data in 1988.\n"}
{"id": "31129127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31129127", "title": "Badaghagara Waterfall", "text": "Badaghagara Waterfall\n\nThe Badaghagara Waterfall is a waterfall of the Kendujhar district in the Indian state of Odisha.\n\nBadaghagara is located at a distance of 9 km from the district headquarters (Kendujhar) of Kendujhar district. Being a perennial source of water, a dam has constructed on the downstream side. It is situated at a distance of 3 kilometers on the downstream of Sanaghagara Waterfall.\n\nIt is a perennial waterfall. The Machha Kandana, a small river, plunges from a height of in a single drop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57380351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57380351", "title": "Blokland (surname)", "text": "Blokland (surname)\n\nBlokland or Van Blokland is a Dutch toponymic surname indicating an origin in either Blokland, Utrecht, Hoogblokland, Laagblokland or Blokland, South Holland. People with the surname include:\n\n\nVan Blokland\n\nBeelaerts van Blokland\n"}
{"id": "30008951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30008951", "title": "Desert Breath", "text": "Desert Breath\n\nThe Desert Breath, located in the Egyptian desert near Hurghada on the Red Sea coast, is a double-spiral work of land art.\n\nIt was created by the D.A.ST. Arteam, a group made up of three Greek artists - Danae Stratou, sculptor, Alexandra Stratou, industrial designer, and Stella Constantinides, architect. The work, completed on March 7, 1997, covers an area of about 10 hectares (25 acres). It consists of 89 protruding cones of gradually increasing size set in a spiral and another 89 depressed (incised) cones set in spirals. The sand dug out from the depressed cones was used to create the protruding cones, resulting in the displacement of 8000 cubic meters (10500 cubic yards) of sand. At the center of the art piece used to be a body of water 30 meters (98 feet) in diameter which has since evaporated. The artwork is subject to natural erosion and in due course the area will revert to original desert plain. It is viewable by satellite pictures via Google Earth.\n\nThe artists have stated that the project was meant to suggest an experience of infinity with the desert as a landscape of the mind. Even though it is in a state of slow disintegration, Desert Breath is still viewable two decades after its creation. Through its slow disintegration, the installation has been seen as an instrument to measure the passage of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "15365182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15365182", "title": "Environmental Justice Foundation", "text": "Environmental Justice Foundation\n\nThe Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF) is a non-governmental organisation (NGO) founded in 2001 by Steve Trent and Juliette Williams that promotes the non-violent resolution of human rights abuses and related environmental issues in the Global South. It describes itself as \"a UK-based non-profit organisation working internationally to protect the environment and human rights.\"\n\nEJF's core tenet, as set out in its Mission Statement asserts that the injustices suffered by people living in poor and disenfranchised communities are often closely related to the destruction, over-exploitation and other abuses of the local natural environment these people depend on.\n\nEJF makes direct links between the western world's demands for cheap food and other goods, especially fish, shrimp and cotton and degraded natural environments in developing countries.\n\nIn seeking to resolve environmental and human rights abuses, EJF works to give an international voice to vulnerable communities working to protect the local environment that sustains their basic human needs of a shelter, food and income.\n\nIts work covers five main campaigning areas: 'Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated' fishing (IUU); pesticide use; cotton production; shrimp farming; and climate refugees. EJF has also campaigned on the issue of the trade in wild animals with NGO partner WildAid.\n\nMuch of the Environmental Justice Foundation's work involves training and equipping affected environmental justice communities in producer countries to investigate, record and expose abuses and then campaign effectively for an equitable resolution to the issues.\n\nEmphasis is placed on the power of film, both to record irrefutable evidence of environmental injustice and to create strong campaigning messages.\n\nIt sees its role as a catalyst working to achieve long-term change, by alerting governments, international policy makers, consumers and businesses to the damaging human and environmental effects that western demand has on the natural environment and local communities, primarily in the global south. EJF aims to encourage action from key decision-makers in business and politics, along with individual action from consumers and concerned individuals.\n\nThe Environmental Justice Foundation was founded in London, UK in 2000 and became a Registered Charity in August 2001 by Steve Trent and Juliette Williams. EJF's creation was a response to the human suffering and environmental degradation that its founders witnessed in their work as environmental campaigners.\n\nThis experience had led both founders to conclude that the basic human rights of people in the world's poorest countries often depend on those people's access to a healthy environment for food, shelter and a means to make a living.\n\nEJF undertook its first campaign in 2001: defending a community's fishing rights in Cambodia. As a result of training and documentation programmes, a national network – the Fisheries Action Coalition Team – was founded. The Fisheries Action Coalition Team is a coalition of NGO consisting 12 NGOs, both local and international, which was localised from NGO Forum. A campaign report called Feast or Famine was produced and presented to policymakers at a meeting hosted by the British Ambassador to Cambodia, proving to be a catalyst for the issue in the country as well as securing international support.\n\nEJF expanded its work to encompass the pesticide endosulfan (2002), trafficking of wildlife (2003), shrimp trawling and shrimp farming (2003), illegal, unreported and unregulated IUU fishing (2004), cotton production (2004) and climate refugees (2009).\n\nAccording to the Impact Report 2008/09, the Environmental Justice Foundation pursues its goals through: investigation, campaigns, aiding grassroots action by communities in producer countries and catalysing consumer, business and governmental action internationally.\n\nIt sends its own reporters to investigate, document and compile reports of environmental and human rights abuses in the Global South. It also works on the ground to help train local groups in effective investigative and reporting techniques to publicise abuses in their area and then advocate on those issues nationally and globally.\n\nEJF's work often takes it into partnership with other NGOs, national governments and international bodies, businesses and corporations. It works with celebrity ambassadors to publicise its campaigns including its Patrons – artist Rachel Whiteread, actress Emilia Fox, writer Iain Banks, explorer Benedict Allen and model, actress and activist Lily Cole. Nobel Prize-winner Harold Pinter, CH, CBE was an EJF Patron from 2003 to 2008.\n\nEJF campaigns directly at policy-makers including the European Commission, Parliament and United Nations organisations. In January 2011 EJF presented a petition of 10,000 signatures to the UN in 2011 calling for a Global Record on Fishing Vessels.\n\nOne of EJF's first programs was its campaign for national and ultimately a global ban on the manufacture and use of chemical pesticide endosulfan. Categorized by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as a ‘highly hazardous' substance, endosulfan has been compared to DDT in its potential for environmental harm.\n\nEJF points out that pesticides such as endosulfan, that are banned or restricted in the EU, the US and other developed nations, are widely used in developing countries, where their harmful potential can be exacerbated by low levels safety awareness, inadequate labeling, illiteracy and poor access to safety equipment.\n\nEndosulfan is readily absorbed by humans via the stomach, lungs and skin where it can cause hormone disruption as well as being a neurotoxin, haematoxin and nephrotoxin.\n\nDuring its investigations, EJF has documented in a series of reports of acute medical symptoms linked to endosulfan among farmers and local populations. These symptoms include headache, nausea, breathing problems, renal problems, loss of consciousness, and seizures; numerous fatalities have been documented, particularly in West Africa \n\nIn its reports EJF has expressed concern that, like DDT, endosulfan is persistent in the environment, where it is harmful to mammals, fish, bees, birds and other wildlife. Endosulfan use has led to the pollution and abandonment of agricultural land and it has been shown to bioaccumulate and travel long distances through air and water. In 2009 the Stockholm Convention's Scientific Committee acknowledged endosulfan as being a persistent organic pollutant.\n\nEJF began documenting the use of endosulfan in Cambodia in 2002 and published a report called Death in Small Doses in 2003.\n\nDeath in Small Doses, a report on the problems of and alternatives to pesticide use in Cambodia, was presented to Ministries in Cambodia, international donor agencies, media, business and NGOs as part of an advocacy strategy to raise public and political awareness.\n\nWorking with CEDAC (Centre d'Etude et de Développement Agricole Cambodgien), a Cambodian NGO, EJF documented widespread use of endosulfan by Cambodian farmers and recorded numerous safety concerns, including a lack of protective equipment and exposure of children, homes, livestock and family food crops.\n\nLabelling inadequacies where endosulfan was being imported to Cambodia from Vietnam and Thailand were also highlighted in EJF's 2004 briefing paper \"End of the Road for Endosulfan\".\n\nAs part of EJF's work in Cambodia in 2002, the charity worked with Cambodian farmers to promote sustainable agriculture and educate them about risks of hazardous pesticides. A short briefing entitled End of the Road for Endosulfan was used to convince the Cambodian Environment Minister to ban endosulfan in the country.\n\nThis briefing was later cited in the European Union's 2008 proposal to include endosulfan in the Annexes of the Stockholm Convention.\n\nIn 2007, EJF produced a report, Deadly Chemicals in Cotton following investigations that gathered evidence of hazardous pesticide use on cotton crops in Mali and India in 2006, which included documenting the medical impacts of the chemical.\n\nThe report, Deadly Chemicals in Cotton, was produced with the Pesticide Action Network UK to raise awareness of the human and environmental costs of pesticide use in West Africa, Uzbekistan and India.\n\nThe report also highlights the heavy reliance of cotton production on pesticides and insecticides: an average estimated eight times more per hectare on cotton crop than per hectare of food crop. EJF reports that US$2 billion-worth (2007) are used on cotton crops each year, US$819 million-worth of which are classed as hazardous by the World Health Organization according to the report. EJF characterises cotton as the world's dirtiest crop.\n\nIn 2009 EJF launched a new report with the same name as the 2004 briefing paper, 'End of the Road for Endosulfan'. This documents health and environmental impacts associated with endosulfan exposure and advocates alternatives available for all its uses, organic crops and the avoidance of chemical fertilisers and pesticides.\n\nIn 2009/10 EJF recruited high-profile Indian celebrities, including film directors Deepa Mehta and M Night Shyamalan, and musician Ravi Shankar, to lend their support to the campaign.\n\nIn 2010, EJF was involved in securing a commitment from Bayer Cropscience to end its manufacture of endosulfan by the end of that year.\n\nIn 2011, EJF announced on their website that they were \"delighted to announce that, after extensive review and debate, we have finally reached the end of the road for chemical pesticide endosulfan\" following news that on Friday April 29, 2011, national delegates at the fifth conference of parties (COP5) agreed to list endosulfan under Annex A of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs).\n\nEJF's stated objective for its wildlife campaign is to train and support investigators and advocates for wildlife in key conservation locations around the globe. It is particularly concerned that illegal trafficking of plants and animals for pets, trophies, food and traditional medicines, estimated to be worth $20 billion a year, has a detrimental effect on biodiversity and ecosystems and is pushing some species to the brink of extinction.\n\nThe campaign has so far concentrated on working in Vietnam where EJF report that a great diversity of wild species is under threat from the swift recent conversion to agriculture and building development. EJF believe that, Vietnam, although a signatory to CITES, lacks the manpower and legal framework to enforce domestic wildlife legislation. [ ]\n\nEJF first collaborated with the NGO Education for Nature Vietnam (ENV) in 2003 which was established in 2000 as Vietnam's first non-governmental organization focused on conservation of nature and wildlife, to combat illegal bear farming. EJF reports that estimated 4000 Asiatic black bears and sun bears are kept illegally in Vietnam's bear farms. Adult bears are caged and their bile regularly extracted for the ursodeoxycholic acid it contains which is then used in traditional medicines and tonics.\n\nIn 2003, EJF provided ENV with video, media and advocacy training, a digital stills camera and a computer for film editing and design. It also gave advice and support on website development.\n\nIn 2004 EJF helped ENV to conduct undercover investigations into bear farms in and around Hanoi and undertake a consumer survey in preparation for a campaign to influence people's attitudes to bear farming. This included recruiting Vietnamese singer My Linh to front a public service announcement (PSA) shown on Vietnamese television. [ ]\n\nIn 2006-07, EJF continued training ENV in the use of film to produce another PSA, supplying a cameraman and editor to give assistance. The charity used funding from the World Society for the Protection of Animals to equip ENV with new computer and filming equipment and professional editing software. Further video and media training for ENV was completed in 2008-09.\n\nAs a separate part of its wildlife campaign, EJF has committed to support the leading wildlife charity WildAid in their work to support protected areas, investigate illegal wildlife trade and reduce consumer demand. EJF and WildAid UK share a London office and Steve Trent, EJF's Executive Director is the President of WildAid.\n\nThe Environmental Justice Foundation received the SeaWeb Seafood Champion Award for Advocacy in 2015 for its work combating Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated (IUU) fishing in West African fisheries.\n\n"}
{"id": "49964153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49964153", "title": "Eziobodo", "text": "Eziobodo\n\nEziobodo is an ancient kingdom located in today's Owerri-West local government, Owerri - Imo State Nigeria. Eziobodo is an igbo-speaking community with a population of over 15,000 locals.\n\nEziobodo is also known as Alueze or Alu-eze as this was the ancient name of the community before the colonial arrival of the former British Empire and Warrant Chiefs that followed much later around the 1930s. The town is made up by four villages namely; Eziobo (the first sons), Umuayo village, Umuokele village and Umuezala. There is a fifth village battling for independence from Umuokele village called Umuechem but they are grouped as one entity most of the time.\n\nThe town hosts the Federal University of Technology Owerri - FUTO. There is a misconception that a neighboring village Ihiagwa is the host community of FUTO but that is not true as Eziobodo accounts for over 70% of the landmass of Federal University of Technology Owerri.\n\nThe town is also known for agricultural produce such as cassava, pumpkin leaf (Ugu), cocoyam, maize, and palm oil. The Otamiri river crosses through Umuayo and Eziobo villages.\n\nThe traditional stool, and the traditional leadership responsibility in Eziobodo autonomous community, is a right reserved for the OKOROAGBARA royal family from Umuezala. An application and attempt to split Eziobodo into two autonomous communities was not approved by the Imo State Government.\n\nNotable people of Eziobodo include HRH Eze Lucky Ndubueze Okoroagbara (Eze and Custodian of Traditional Institution), Kelly Hansome (musician), Emmanuel Amuneke, Chidiebere Nwakali - (Former U17 World cup winner in 2013), Kelechi Nwakali (Former U17 World cup winner in 2015) now with Arsenal Football club in England, Chukwudi Agor (Former U17 World cup winner in 2015), Miss Ego, former singer for popular musician Lagbaja, Emeka Bethel, CEO Bensoft Enterprise and Linux/open source activist in Nigeria, Sir Bobby owner of Bobby's signature - The beautician for former miss world winner Agbani Derego in 2001, Dr. Steve Eke-Okoroagabra MD, CEO Doctors Charity Inc.\n"}
{"id": "43146001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43146001", "title": "GeoPlanet", "text": "GeoPlanet\n\nGeoPlanet is a computer platform for coordinating world-wide geographic information, and providing both text and cartographic output, such as digital maps for any location in the world. It provides a location infrastructure for search engines, portals and both Web and WAP sites. It was developed by GDC, a London-based geographic information company, which was acquired by Whereonearth in 1998. When Whereonearth spun off GDC in 2002, it kept GeoPlanet. When Yahoo! purchased Whereonearth in 2005, it acquired GeoPlanet.\n\nAn integral part of GeoPlanet is the WOEID (Where On Earth IDentifier), a unique 32-bit reference identifier, now assigned by Yahoo!, that identifies any feature on Earth. In addition to the strict numerical WOEID, GeoPlanet also has a hierarchical structure that allows accessing surrounding locations, and zooming up and down administrative divisions. In 2009, Yahoo! released GeoPlanet's WOEID data to the public, but the last release was on 1 June 2012 after which Yahoo! decided to cease making the data downloadable until they \"determine a better way to surface the data as a part of the service\".\n\nIn June 2015 Yahoo announced that the GeoPlanet APIs would be dropped as the functionality is now available through their Yahoo Query Language and BOSS APIs. The GeoPlanet APIs stopped responding to requests in late August 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "21385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21385", "title": "Geography of Nigeria", "text": "Geography of Nigeria\n\nNigeria is a country in West Africa. Nigeria shares land borders with the Republic of Benin in the west, Chad and Cameroon in the east, and Niger in the north. Its coast lies on the Gulf of Guinea in the south and it borders Lake Chad to the northeast. Noted geographical features in Nigeria include the Adamawa highlands, Mambilla Plateau, Jos Plateau, Obudu Plateau, the Niger River, River Benue and Niger Delta.\n\nNigeria is found in the Tropics, where the climate is seasonally damp and very humid.\nNigeria is affected by four climate types; these climate types are distinguishable, as one moves from the southern part of Nigeria to the northern part of Nigeria through Nigeria's middle belt.\n\nThe tropical monsoon climate, designated by the Köppen climate classification as \"Am\", is found in the southern part of the country. This climate is influenced by the monsoons originating from the South Atlantic ocean, which is brought into the country by the (maritime tropical) MT airmass, a warm moist sea to land seasonal wind. Its warmth and high humidity gives it a strong tendency to ascend and produce copious rainfall, which is a result of the condensation of water vapour in the rapidly rising air.\n\nThe Tropical monsoon climate has a very small temperature range. Then temperature ranges are almost constant throughout the year, for example, Warri town in the southern part of Nigeria, records a maximum of for its hottest month while its lowest temperature is in its coldest month. The temperature difference of Warri town is not more than 2 °C (5 °F).\n\nThe southern part of Nigeria experiences heavy and abundant rainfall. These storms are usually convectional in nature due to the regions proximity, to the equatorial belt. The annual rainfall received in this region is very high, usually above the rainfall totals giving for tropical rainforest climates worldwide. Over of rainfall is received in the coastal region of Nigeria around the Niger delta area. Bonny town found in the coastal region of the Niger delta area in southern Nigeria receives well over of rainfall annually. The rest of the southeast receives between 2,000 and of rain per year.\n\nThe southern region of Nigeria experiences a double rainfall maxima characterised by two high rainfall peaks, with a short dry season and a longer dry season falling between and after each peaks. The first rainy season begins around March and last to the end of July with a peak in June, this rainy season is followed by a short dry break in August known as the August break which is a short dry season lasting for two to three weeks in August. This break is broken by the short rainy season starting around early September and lasting to Mid October with a peak period at the end of September. The ending of the short rainy season in October is followed by long dry season. This period starts from late October and lasts till early March with peak dry conditions between early December and late February.\n\nThe tropical savanna climate or tropical wet and dry climate, is extensive in area and covers most of Western Nigeria to central Nigeria beginning from the Tropical rainforest climate boundary in southern Nigeria to the central part of Nigeria, where it exerts enormous influence on the region.\n\nThis climate, the tropical savanna climate exhibits a well marked rainy season and a dry season with a single peak known as the summer maximum due to its distance from the equator. Temperatures are above throughout the year. Abuja, Nigeria's capital city found in central Nigeria, has a temperature range of to , and an annual rainfall of about with a single rainfall maxima in September.\n\nThe single Dry season experienced in this climate, the tropical savanna climate in central Nigeria beginning from December to march, is hot and dry with the Harmattan wind, a continental tropical (CT) airmass laden with dust from the Sahara Desert prevailing throughout this period.\n\nWith the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) swinging northward over West Africa from the Southern Hemisphere in April, heavy showers coming from pre-monsoonal convective clouds mainly in the form of squall lines also known as the north easterlies formed mainly as a result of the interactions of the two dominant airmasses in Nigeria known as the Maritime tropical(south westerlies) and the Continental tropical(north easterlies), begins in central Nigeria while the Monsoons from the south atlantic ocean arrives in central Nigeria in July bringing with it high humidity, heavy cloud cover and heavy rainfall which can be daily occurrence lasting till September when the monsoons gradually begin retreating southward to the southern part of Nigeria.Rainfall totals in central Nigeria varies from in the lowlands of the river Niger Benue trough to over along the south western escarpment of the Jos Plateau.\n\nThe Sahel climate or tropical dry climate, is the predominant climate type in the northern part of Nigeria. Annual rainfall totals are lower compared to the southern and central part of Nigeria. The rainy season in the northern part of Nigeria last for only three to four months (June–September). The rest of the year is hot and dry with temperatures climbing as high as .\n\nAlpine climate or highland climate or mountain climate are found on highlands regions in Nigeria. Highlands with the alpine climate in Nigeria, are well over above sea level. Due to their location in the tropics, this elevation is high enough to reach the temperate climate line in the tropics thereby giving the highlands, mountains and the plateau regions standing above this height, a cool mountain climate.\n\nNigeria, like the rest of West Africa and other tropical lands, has only two seasons. These are the dry season and the rainy season. The dry season is accompanied by a dust laden airmass from the Sahara Desert, locally known as Harmattan, or by its main name, The Tropical Continental (CT) airmass, while the rainy season is heavily influenced by an airmass originating from the south atlantic ocean, locally known as the south western wind, or by its main name, The Tropical Maritime (MT) airmass. These two major wind systems in Nigeria are known as the trade winds.\n\nThe tropical maritime airmass (MT) is responsible for Nigeria's rainy season. This wind (the tropical maritime airmass) invades the country from February in the southern part of Nigeria while it takes longer for the wind to fully cover the whole of the country, reaching the northern part of Nigeria in June. Its invasion is as a result of the northward retreat, of the tropical continental airmass (CT) known as the harmattan. The northward retreat of the tropical continental airmass (CT), is caused by the sun's northward shift from the tropic of capricorn in the southern hemisphere to the tropic of cancer in the northern hemisphere. This shift begins from February and ends in June, when the sun is fully overhead, at the tropic of cancer in the northern hemisphere.\n\nDuring this northward migration of the sun as a result of the earth tilting along its axis, the sun crosses the equator (around March), moving over west Africa at this time on its journey to the northern hemisphere. West Africa comes directly under the sun at this time. The sun is overhead throughout west Africa and over Nigeria during this period of the sun's northward migration to the tropic of cancer in the northern hemisphere.\n\nThe whole of West Africa is heated intensely as result of the increased insolation received from the sun being overhead over west Africa. Temperatures can climb as high as over west Africa during this time. Temperatures in the northern part of Nigeria can go as high as in cities like Maiduguri.\n\nThe high temperatures coupled with an increase in insolation causes a region of low pressure to develop over west Africa and Nigeria (between March to May). The Tropical continental airmass (CT) from the Sahara Desert in the northern part of West Africa, is weakened due to the overheating of the land surface in west Africa and Nigeria at this time. The Tropical continental airmass (CT) begins to retreat northwards to the Sahara Desert due to massive heating of the land which transfers heat in the form of convection into the Tropical continental airmass (CT) which constitutes the main layer of air above the land. This transfer of heat in the Tropical continental airmass (CT) in turn, causes the wind to expand and become lighter as this is the normal behaviour for winds moving above intensely heated grounds.\nThe Tropical continental airmass (CT) loses its strength as a major airmass in the region of west Africa and over Nigeria at this time (around February in the southern part of Nigeria to June in northern Nigeria) and begins to retreat coupled with the rising of air in form of convection within this airmass (Tropical continental airmass (CT)), further weakening the dominance of the wind over west Africa and Nigeria.\nThe Tropical continental airmass (CT) finally retreats from most part of Nigeria, and the West African atmosphere around April to May, leaving an empty atmosphere over Nigeria. The sun's rays enters into the atmosphere of Nigeria more intense than it does during the presence of the Tropical continental airmass, which contained dust (in form of haze) that reduced the intensity of the sun. The overheating of the west Africa land mass and Nigeria in particular creates a low pressure region over west Africa and Nigeria. This low pressure zone attracts the Tropical Maritime Airmass (MT) from the south Atlantic Ocean since areas of low pressures experiences inward blowing winds because winds are moving air blowing outwards from regions of high pressure to regions of low pressure.\n\nThe Tropical Maritime Airmass is a warm humid and unstable trade wind due to its warmth. Convectional currents are easily set up within the airmass whenever there is little instability in the airmass as a result of a slight to a very high orographic uplift in mountainous regions like the obudu plateau or the heating of the land which can trigger the formation of cumulonimbus cloud leading to thunderstorms within the airmass.\n\nDuring the dominance of the Tropical Maritime Airmass (MT) in the rainy season of Nigeria, mornings are bright and sunny, the sun's heating of the land in the mornings and afternoons sets up convectional currents, these currents rise vertically and cumulonimbus clouds are formed, by afternoons to evenings, torrential downpour follows.\n\nThe Easterly wave or the African easterly waves is another major contributor of rainfall during the summer monsoons months of May to September in Nigeria.\n\nThe nature of this waves changes at about the 15 degrees line. The waves that pass south of this line carry moisture and create convection that leads to rain clouds. Nigeria's northern end is south of the 15 degrees line at about 14 degrees. Nigeria's location in the wetter part of the easterly waves south of the 15 degree line creates wetter climatic conditions for Nigeria especially during the monsoons.\n\nThe Tropical Continental Airmass (CT) locally known as the harmattan, is a wind originating from North Africa which crosses the Sahara Desert into west Africa to Nigeria. This airmass dominates Nigeria's climate during the dry season from December to March. \nThe Tropical continental airmass is dusty and creates a haze within the atmosphere of west Africa and Nigeria when it predominates. The haze is as a result of the dust within the airmass limiting visibility and blocking much of the sun's rays from reaching the earth.\n\nThe mass has no ability of forming rain due to low humidity within the airmass, since it crosses the Sahara Desert, it picks up dust instead of water thereby creating little chances for rainfall.\n\nThe airmass makes life difficult as a result of low visibility which hampers transportation.\nThe dust haze creates an almost desert conditions in the country during the dominance of the Tropical continental airmass (the harmattan). But its coming brings some relief to farmers since the low humidity present in the air quickens the drying of their crops.\n\nNigeria's location in the tropics has given her a tropical hot climate. Temperatures in Nigeria vary according to the seasons of the year as with other lands found in the tropics. Nigeria's seasons are determined by rainfall with rainy season and dry season being the major seasons in Nigeria.\n\nThe rainy season of Nigeria brings in cooler weather to the country as a result of an increased cloud cover that acts as a blockage to the intense sunshine of the tropics by blocking much of the suns rays in the rainy season; this in turn cools the land, and the winds above the ground remains cool thereby making for cooler temperatures during the rainy season. But afternoons in the rainy season can be hot and humid, a feature of tropical climates. In the rainy season it is damp, and the rainfalls are usually abundant.\n\nThe dry season of Nigeria is a period of little cloud cover in the southern part of Nigeria to virtually no cloud cover in the northern part of Nigeria. The sun shines through the atmosphere with little obstructions from the clear skies making the dry season in Nigeria a period of warm weather conditions.In the middle of the dry season around December, a dusty wind from the Sahara Desert called the harmattan enters Nigeria from the northeastern part of the country blocking sun rays partially from shining and also creating haze in the atmosphere, this activities of the wind lowers temperatures considerably saving inhabitants for sometime, from the scorching heat that would have occurred as a result of clearer skies during the dry season. But with the withdrawal of this wind around March to April following the onset of the rainy season, temperatures can go as high as in some parts of Nigeria.\n\nSemi temperate weather conditions prevail on the highlands in central Nigeria above above sea level, namely the Jos Plateau. Temperatures on the Jos plateau ranges between 16 °C to 25 °C which are cool all year round.\n\nTemperate weather conditions occur on the highlands along the Nigeria Cameroon border, in the eastern part of Nigeria. Highlands in these region attain an average height of more than to some standing above above sea level. The climate on these highlands is temperate all year round. The major highlands in this region are the Obudu Plateau above , Mambilla Plateau above and Mt Chappal Waddi above .\n\nNigeria's most expansive topographical region is that of the valleys of the Niger and Benue River valleys (which merge into each other and form a \"y\" shaped confluence at Lokoja). Plains rise to the north of the valleys. To the southwest of the Niger there is \"rugged\" highland, and to the southeast of the Benue hills and mountains are found all the way to the border with Cameroon. Coastal plains are found in both the southwest and the southeast.\n\nThe Niger Delta is located in the southern part of Nigeria. It is one of the world's largest arcuate fan-shaped river deltas.\n\nThe riverine area of the Niger Delta is a coastal belt of swamps bordering the Atlantic ocean. The swamps are vegetated tidal flats formed by a reticulate pattern of interconnected meandering creeks and distributaries of the River Niger.\n\nThe vegetation of the Niger Delta consist mainly of forest swamps. The forest are of two types, nearest the sea is a belt of saline/brackish Mangrove swamp separated from the sea by sand beach ridges within the mangrove swamp. Numerous sandy islands occur with fresh water vegetation. Fresh water swamps gradually supersede the mangrove on the landward side. About 70% of Nigeria's crude oil and gas production is from the area.\n\nThe riverine area is home to a large population of people living mainly in small villages scattered along the banks of rivers and creeks.\n\nRainfall in the coastal belt of the Niger Delta is heavy due to the closeness of the Delta region to the equator. Annual rainfall totals vary from 2400 to over 4000 millimeters.\n\nNiger Delta cities and their annually rainfall totals in millimeters:\n\n\nNigeria is covered by three types of vegetation: forests (where there is significant tree cover), savannahs (insignificant tree cover, with grasses and flowers located between trees), and montane land. (The latter is the least common, and is mainly found in the mountains near the Cameroon border.) Both the forest zone and the savannah zone are divided into three parts.\n\nSome of the forest zone's most southerly portion, especially around the Niger River and Cross River deltas, is mangrove swamp (see Central African mangroves). North of this is fresh water swamp, containing different vegetation from the salt water mangrove swamps, and north of that is rain forest.\n\nThe savannah zone's three categories are divided into mm' Guinean forest-savanna mosaic, made up of plains of tall grass which are interrupted by trees, the most common across the country; Sudan savannah, similar but with shorter grasses and shorter trees; and Sahel savannah patches of grass and sand, found in the northeast.\n\nNigeria's natural resources include but are not limited to petroleum (see petroleum in Nigeria), tin, columbite, iron ore, coal, limestone, lead, zinc, natural gas, hydropower, and arable land.\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Nigeria, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n"}
{"id": "59012147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59012147", "title": "Geology of the Cayman Islands", "text": "Geology of the Cayman Islands\n\nThe geology of the Cayman Islands includes carbonates deposited and periodically eroded over the last 30 million years. The underlying Cayman Ridge is proposed as an uplifted fault block. The oldest rocks are believed to be granodiorite, followed by a cap of basalt. Situated near the Oriente Transform Fault and the Mid-Cayman Rise, the islands are tectonically active. Older Miocene and Pliocene crystalline limestone is overlain by the Pleistocene Ironshore Formation reef limestone and calcarenite.\n"}
{"id": "47262405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262405", "title": "Gornji Dragonožec", "text": "Gornji Dragonožec\n\nGornji Dragonožec is a village in Croatia.\n"}
{"id": "46235889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46235889", "title": "Greenstein Har-Gil, Landscape Architecture", "text": "Greenstein Har-Gil, Landscape Architecture\n\nGreenstein Har-Gil, Landscape Architecture Ltd is an Israeli landscape architecture firm.\nThe firm was established in 1988 and is located on Mount Carmel in Haifa. Greenstein Har-Gil is involved in a wide range of projects, among them: urban parks, promenades, urban renewal, \"nature in the city\", water sites, cultural landscapes and heritage sites, nature reserves, national parks, regional planning, master plans, landscape restoration of infrastructures such as roads, railways, gas lines and architectural design of bridges and road structures.\n\nGreenstein Har-Gil engages in a variety of planning and design aspects. Firm teams led, among others, landscape master plans of regions such as the Gilboa Mountains, Master plan for Taninim and Kziv rivers, The firm participated in preparing the master plans of cities such as Ashdod, Kiryat Bialik, Yokneam, Upper Nazareth, Umm Al-Fahm, Usfia, and Tamra.\n\nThe firm engages in landscape planning of national infrastructures such as sections of Cross Israel Highway, the new Acco- Karmiel and Haifa -Beit Shan rail ways, in restoration of quarries and landscape planning of power and energy stations, including Alternative and renewable energy.\n\nGreenstein Har-Gil was responsible for many urban projects among them neighborhoods, pedestrian streets and main Piazzas, such as the entrance square to the government buildings in Haifa. The firm specializes in planning projects of urban restoration, such as the development of the Haifa German Colony, Haifa Axis and landscape development of Wadi Salib in Haifa. The firm participated in planning archeological sites and natural reserves such as the Banias and Tel Dan Reserves, in planning parks and urban and coastal promenades, such as the Haifa Hecht Park and Shikmona promenade, the Zichron Ya'akov Moshava Park and the kiriat bialik Habanim Park.\n\nFirm teams participated in open and invited competitions in Israel and international, and were awarded first prizes and citations, among them The Azrieli prize for urban planning for the German Colony in Haifa and the Tel-Aviv Municipality Karavan Prize for Park Hecht in Haifa.\n\nArchitect Daphna Greenstein and Dr. Gil Har-Gil, the firm owners, hold a Bachelor, Master and Doctorate degrees in the various planning and design professions – urban and regional planning, architecture and landscape architecture. They have over twenty five years of professional experience in Israel and the United States. Landscape Architect Hila Rotem Halevy, Landscape Architect Tali Mark and Landscape Architect Ofer Mor are partners in the firm.\nIn addition to their professional work at the office, architect Daphna Greenstein and Dr. Gil Har-Gil teach courses in landscape architecture at the Faculty of Architecture and Town Planning at the Technion, they are active in professional associations and are executive members of the Israeli Association of Landscape Architects. Daphna served as chairperson of the Israeli Association of Landscape Architects in 2001 to 2004. Gil served as chairman of the Israeli Association of Landscape Architects in 2009 to 2012. In 2012 Dr. Gil Har-Gil was appointed Associate Professor at the Faculty of Architecture and Town Planning at the Technion.\n\n\"Hecht Park\" of about 75 dunam, is the largest intensive park in Haifa and is a component in the sequence of Haifa's coastal promenade. The park includes varied flora areas and emphasized the use of natural flora matching the existing coastal flora of the area. Furthermore, in the park there are wide lawns for public use.\nThe park addresses a diverse target of users: families, children, adults, open air sports, bicycle riders, joggers etc. \nThe park is located along the southern entry to the city and was built by the initiative of Haifa Municipality, in co-operation with Hecht Foundation.\n\nHaifa Shikmona coast is a narrow strip of about 80 dunam, divided by the rail way from park Hecht. Shikmona coast is a National Park and a Marine Nature Reserve. Tel Shikmona is located at the north end of the park.\nMuch effort was taken to preserve the existing coastal flora, as well as to reintroduce the local flora which had been typical of this area in the distant past.\nThe coastal complex of Hecht Park and Shikmona Coastal Park is designated to respond to the ever-growing needs for recreation activities, exposing the city residents and its visitors to the ecological, landscape and archaeological values of this unique shore. \nShikmona Coastal Park includes a pedestrian promenade of about 1 km and a bicycle path of 1.6 km. The park was erected by the initiative of Haifa Municipality, with the assistance of a contribution of the Electric Company.\n\nThis section of the Israel Cross Highway passes through a highly sensitive landscape of Oak hills. The road crosses also 11 river beds some of which are Nature Reserves.\nThe landscape restoration concept was of an ecological-landscape, reconstructing the landscape, which had existed prior to carrying out the road, and blended into the natural and agricultural landscapes around the road. The plant restoration complements the \"external\" landscape and \"interweaves\" the patterns of the landscape around. Seeds, and geophytes were gathered, prior to carrying out the works, for sprouting local habitats. The use of local flor enables to reduce the water quantity required for irrigation and emphasizes the seasonal change experience of the country's landscapes.\nGreenstein Har-Gil Firm \"accompanied\" the engineering planning from its early stages. The landscape design included a landscape analysis, participating in determining the horizontal and vertical road route in order to minimize the environmental damage, examining the various alternatives and determining the location and length of the bridges and tunnels as well as planning the interchanges. Due to the landscape sensitivity of the area and the nature of the planning process, the landscape and environmental aspects received particularly great emphasis and importance and affected significantly the engineering of the road. Erecting the road was managed by Cross Israel Highway Company.\n\nOver the years the firm staff has gained recognition and appreciation for many projects:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41125506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41125506", "title": "Gulistan, Dhaka", "text": "Gulistan, Dhaka\n\nGulistan is a very busy street of Dhaka city in Bangladesh. It means 'Flower Garden' in Persian, which lead to the speculation that in medieval times there might be prominent flower gardens. Several important streets are connected to Gulistan which makes it busy and crowded. The street is full of roadside shops. Thousands of people visit this place for their daily needs. The road is always occupied with traffic and passersby. One of the oldest transports of Dhaka City ‘Tom Tom’ can be seen in this street. There is a shrine right at the middle of the road. It is called “Golap Shah’s Shrine”. Thousands of people show their devotion to this shrine everyday and make donations so that their desire can be fulfilled.\n\nThere is one major bus stand situated in Gulistan, called the Gulistan (Fulbaria) Bus Station. Most of the buses here are public and the number of buses is very few according to the number of passengers. People often get on top of the bus as there are no longer spaces inside the bus. Some people can be seen hanging at the doorways. Banga (or Bango) Bazar is the prime shopping place here. New and fashionable clothes can be found here with reasonable price. There are hundreds of shops inside the place. The narrow pathways make it hard to roam inside the vicinity. The place is so congested and hot that it is hard to stay long time inside the complex. There used to be a Cinema complex (‘Gulistan Cinema Hall’) here which was one of the oldest architectural monuments. Even though the design was not eye catching and the structure was bizarre, it was one of the modern buildings in Dhaka city.\n\nThe 11-km-long Gulistan–Jatrabari Flyover was opened in October 2013 to ease traffic jams and reduce travel time from the usual one hour to just five minutes. Osmani Uddyan park, Dhaka City Corporation, Dhaka GPO, Bangabandhu National Stadium, Baitul Mukarram and many other important infrastructures are very close to this street.\n"}
{"id": "12385110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12385110", "title": "H. J. Fleure", "text": "H. J. Fleure\n\nHerbert John Fleure, FRS (6 June 1877 – 1 July 1969), was a zoologist and geographer. He was secretary of the Geographical Association, editor of \"Geography\", and President of the Cambrian Archaeological Association.\n\nFleure was born in Guernsey on 6 June 1877, the son of Jean Fleure and Marie Le Rougetel. He often astonished friends and relatives in the mid-twentieth century by recounting how his father had been taken to visit the battlefield of Waterloo shortly after the battle (his father was born in 1803 and died in 1889). In 1897, he attended the University of Wales, Aberystwyth, where he founded the Student Representative Council. He graduated B.Sc. with first-class honours in late 1901 and was offered a University Fellowship. He went on to study at the Zoological Institute in Zurich, Switzerland.\n\nReturning to Wales, he became Head of the Department of Zoology at Aberystwyth in 1908. In 1917, he became Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the university, holding the post until 1930, when he became Professor of Geography at Victoria University, Manchester. He was made a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1936. Following his retirement in 1944, he was President of the Royal Anthropological Institute from 1945 to 1947.\n\nHe was a founder member of the Guernsey Society, which was established in 1943 to represent the interests of the Nazi-occupied island to the British Authorities. After the war, he was a regular contributor to \"The Quarterly Review\", as well as to \"The Guernsey Farmhouse\", a book published by the Society in 1964 celebrating the ancient family houses in the island. He also authored biographies of several scientists including Arthur Robert Hinks, Alfred Cort Haddon, James George Frazer and Emmanuel de Margerie \n\nFrom 1927 through 1956 he was the co-author of the ten volumes of \"The Corridors of Time\" by Harold John Edward Peake.\n\nHe was awarded an Honorary Fellowship from the American Geographical Society in 1930, and its Daly Medal in 1939. He received the Victoria Medal of the Royal Geographical Society in 1946.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44054185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44054185", "title": "Hofland", "text": "Hofland\n\nHofland is a Dutch toponymic surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "868939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=868939", "title": "ISO 3166-2:IS", "text": "ISO 3166-2:IS\n\nISO 3166-2:IS is the entry for Iceland in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Iceland, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 8 regions.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Iceland and the second part is a digit (1–8).\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40200248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40200248", "title": "Juan Vespucio", "text": "Juan Vespucio\n\nJuan Vespucio (c. 1460after 1524) was an Italian-Spanish geographer, cartographer and cosmographer. He was born in Florence in around 1460. With his uncle Americo, he moved to Seville in Spain, where he was employed as a cartographer and cosmographer. In 1524, he was called upon as an expert to attend a board meeting between representatives of Spain and Portugal at the Old Town Hall in Badajoz to clarify the status of their territorial arrangements, attended by the likes of Hernando Colón, Sebastián Caboto, Juan Sebastián Elcano, Diego Ribeiro and Esteban Gómez.\n"}
{"id": "8494775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8494775", "title": "Karl Sapper", "text": "Karl Sapper\n\nKarl Theodor Sapper (6 February 1866 – 29 March 1945) was a German traveller, explorer, antiquarian and linguist, who is known for his research into the natural history, cultures and languages of Central America around the turn of the 20th century.\n\nSapper spent over twelve years (1888–95) traveling through much of Central America, and in the process published a number of scientific works on aspects from vulcanology to Mesoamerican languages to descriptions and maps of Maya archaeological sites.\n\nSapper's contributions to the study of Mesoamerican languages include his initial proposal, made in a 1912 paper, which surmised that the highland regions of Chiapas and Guatemala was the location from which the Mayan languages and the Maya peoples later diversified. The assessment of a number of modern linguists places the likely home of the Proto-Mayan language as being centered on the Cuchumatanes highlands of Guatemala, with a subsequent early occupancy of the Chiapas highlands proper.\n\nSapper is commemorated in the scientific names of two Central American snakes: \"Amastridium sapperi\" and \"Micrurus diastema sapperi\".\n\n \n"}
{"id": "18921470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18921470", "title": "Khachindorbatly", "text": "Khachindorbatly\n\nKhachindorbatly (, ) is a village in the Agdam Rayon of Azerbaijan. Since the Nagorno-Karabakh war the town has been administered by the \"de facto\" Republic of Artsakh as part of Askeran Province.\n"}
{"id": "1999081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1999081", "title": "Lipstick Jihad", "text": "Lipstick Jihad\n\nLipstick Jihad: A Memoir of Growing Up Iranian in America and American in Iran () is Iranian-American writer Azadeh Moaveni's first book, published on February 4, 2005.\n\nThe book tells the story of her first-person experiences in Iran where she worked as a reporter after living in the United States her entire life. The book is part of a growing movement of female writers within the Iranian diaspora, including such other authors as Marjane Satrapi, Firoozeh Dumas, Nahid Rachlin, and Azar Nafisi.\n"}
{"id": "12128887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12128887", "title": "List of Pixar awards and nominations", "text": "List of Pixar awards and nominations\n\nThis is a list of awards that Pixar has won, or were nominated for.\n\nPixar has released 20 feature films with 210 awards won and 211 awards nominated. The films released are: \"Toy Story\", \"A Bug's Life\", \"Toy Story 2\", \"Monsters, Inc.\", \"Finding Nemo\", \"The Incredibles\", \"Cars\", \"Ratatouille\", \"WALL-E\", \"Up\", \"Toy Story 3\", \"Cars 2\", \"Brave\", \"Monsters University\", \"Inside Out\", \"The Good Dinosaur\", \"Finding Dory\", \"Cars 3\", \"Coco\" and \"Incredibles 2\".\n\nWith each feature film released on DVD or Blu-ray, Pixar releases a short film. The shorts received many awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "3618663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3618663", "title": "List of airports by ICAO code: V", "text": "List of airports by ICAO code: V\n\nFormat of entries is:\n\n\"Note: ICAO codes for India start with VA, VE, VI and VO.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31953796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31953796", "title": "List of biblical place names in North America", "text": "List of biblical place names in North America\n\nNorth America has numerous places named after biblical towns and places. While most of them are in the eastern United States, very few are in the west and in Canada.\nAntioch on the Orontes (Greek Ἀντιόχεια ἡ ἐπὶ Ὀρόντου \"Antiocheia hē epi Orontou\") was a city on the eastern side of the Orontes River. It was visited by Saint Peter and Saint Paul.\n\nBethabara (Aramaic בית עברה \"Bēth‛ăbhārāh\") is a site where John the Baptist baptized.\n\nBethany (Aramaic: בית עניא, \"Beth Anya\", \"house of the figs\") was a village near Jerusalem and residence of the siblings Martha, Mary and Lazarus, and also Simon the Leper.\n\nBethel (Hebrew: בֵית אֵל \"bet el\", \"House of God\") was a border town between Benjamin and Ephraim.\n\nThe Pool of Bethesda (Aramaic בית חסדא \"Beth ḥesda\" \"House of Mercy\") is a healing pool in Jerusalem.\n\nBethlehem (בֵית לֶחֶם \"Beit Lehem\", Literally: \"House of the bread'\") was a town in the hill country of Judah and the birthplace of Jesus (according to Mark and Luke) and David, as well as the place of death of Rachel.\n\nBethpage or Bethphage (Aramaic בית פגי \"House of unripe figs\") is a town where Jesus asked the disciples to find a donkey and colt for his Entry into Jerusalem.\n\nCanaan (Phoenician: \"Kanaʻn\"; Hebrew: כְּנָעַן \"Kənáʻan\") was a region conquered by the Israelites as the Promised Land.\n\nMount Carmel (Hebrew הַר הַכַּרְמֶל, \"Har HaKarmel\", \"God's vineyard\") was a sacred mountain where Elijah defeated the prophets of a Ba'al in a contest. Carmel was a town in Judea mentioned as the residence of Nabal and Abigail.\n\nCorinth (Greek: Κόρινθος, \"Kórinthos\") was a city on the Isthmus of Corinth. Paul of Tarsus lived there for 18 months, and also wrote two epistles to the Corinthians.\n\nDamascus is a Syrian city. The Conversion of Paul the Apostle took place on the road to Damascus.\n\nEmmaus (Greek: Ἐμμαούς, \"Emmaous\"; Hebrew: חמת \"Hammat\", \"warm spring\") was a town near Jerusalem. Jesus appeared to two of the Apostles on the road between Jerusalem and Emmaus.\n\nEphesus (Greek: Ἔφεσος \"Ephesos\") was a Greek city on the west coast of Anatolia. Paul of Tarsus lived there for several years, and also wrote an Epistle to the Ephesians.\n\n\nThe Land of Goshen (Hebrew גֹּשֶׁן \"Gōšen\") was a place settled by the sons of Jacob.\n\nHebron (Hebrew חֶבְרוֹן \"Ḥeḇrôn\", \"friend\") was a city in Canaan mentioned in several parts of the Old Testament.\n\nHell is mentioned 54 times in the King James Version of the bible, representing a place of torment and punishment in the afterlife. \n\nJericho (Hebrew יְרִיחוֹ \"Yəriḥo\", \"fragrant\" or \"Moon\") was a city conquered in the battle of Jericho by Joshua and the Children of Israel.\nJerusalem (Hebrew יְרוּשָׁלַיִם \"Yerushaláyim\", \"Abode of Peace\" or \"Abode of Shalim\") was the traditional capital city of the Israelites and site of the Temple.\n\n\nThe Jordan River (Hebrew: נהר הירדן \"Nehar Hayarden\") forms the eastern border of Palestine and was the site of the baptism of Jesus.\n\n\n\nLebanon (Semitic root \"L-B-N\", \"white\") is a land to the north of the current state of Israel (Biblically; Canaan) and is mentioned 70 times in the Bible.\n\nMount Hermon (Hebrew הר חרמון \"Har Hermon\") was the northern limit of the Promised Land and possible site of the Transfiguration.\n\nMoab (Hebrew: מוֹאָב \"Môʼāḇ\", \"seed of father\") was a strip of land on the eastern shore of the Dead Sea. It was founded by a son of Lot.\n\n\nThe Mount of Olives or Mount Olivet (Hebrew: הַר הַזֵּיתִים \"Har HaZeitim\") is a mountain east of Jerusalem, most notable as the site of the Olivet discourse and the Ascension of Jesus.\n\n\nNazareth (Hebrew נָצְרַת \"Natzrat\" / \"Natzeret\") was a village in Galilee which was the childhood home of Jesus.\n\n\nNineveh (Hebrew: נינוה \"Nīnewē\") was an Assyrian city on the eastern bank of the Tigris. It is mentioned in several parts of the Bible.\n\n\nOphir is mentioned in the Bible as a source of King Solomon's wealth.\n\n\nPalestine is the region between the Mediterranean Sea and River Jordan, where most of the events described in the Bible take place.\n\n\nPatmos (Greek: Πάτμος) was the residence of John of Patmos, author of the Book of Revelation.\n\n\nRehoboth (Hebrew רְחוֹבוֹת \"Reḥovot\", \"broad place\") is the name of three places in the Bible.\n\n\nSalem (sha'lem) [Cana'anite patron god; son of 'Ashtar] is a city mentioned in the biblical Old Testament. It was the\nroyal city of Melchizedek and traditionally identified with Jerusalem.\n\n\nShiloh (Hebrew שילו \"Šîlô\" / שלו \"Šīlô\" / שלה \"Šīlōh\") was an assembly place for the people of Israel where there was a sanctuary containing the Ark of the Covenant.\n\nTyre (Hebrew צור \"Ṣōr\") is a city in the Lebanon mentioned many times in the Old Testament.\n\n\nMount Zion (Hebrew הר צִיּוֹן \"Har Tsion\") is an elevation west of the Mount of Olives outside Jerusalem and was used as a name for the Temple Mount or the City of David.\n"}
{"id": "53334972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53334972", "title": "List of countries and territories with the Union Jack displayed on their flag", "text": "List of countries and territories with the Union Jack displayed on their flag\n\nThis is a list of countries and territories with a flag that incorporates the Union Jack. Six Commonwealth nations have the Union Jack on their national flag. The first Commonwealth country to drop the Union Jack was Canada in 1965, after adopting a new national flag. The most recent country to drop the Union Jack from its flag was South Africa in 1994, after adopting a new national flag. The only overseas territory without the Union Jack on its current flag is Gibraltar.\n\nThe list also includes overseas territories, provinces and states.\n"}
{"id": "26067321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26067321", "title": "List of development projects in Tokyo", "text": "List of development projects in Tokyo\n\nThis is a list of major urban development projects in Tokyo, Japan.\n"}
{"id": "13366494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13366494", "title": "List of marine ecoregions", "text": "List of marine ecoregions\n\nThe following is a list of marine ecoregions, as defined by the WWF and The Nature Conservancy\n\nThe WWF/Nature Conservancy scheme groups the individual ecoregions into 12 marine realms, which represent the broad latitudinal divisions of polar, temperate, and tropical seas, with subdivisions based on ocean basins. The marine realms are subdivided into 62 marine provinces, which include one or more of the 232 marine ecoregions.\n\nThe WWF/Nature Conservancy scheme currently encompasses only coastal and continental shelf areas; ecoregions of the deep oceans have not yet been delineated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37031283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37031283", "title": "List of mountains named The Sleeping Lady", "text": "List of mountains named The Sleeping Lady\n\nThe Sleeping Woman, sometimes also The Dead Woman, is a name or nickname for certain mountain formations located in different places in the world that are said to look like a reclining or deceased woman in the local tradition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215789", "title": "Lists of country-related topics", "text": "Lists of country-related topics\n\nEach entry below presents a list of topics about a specific nation or state (country), followed by a link to the main article for that country. \"Entries for nations are in bold type, while those for subnational entities are in normal (unbolded) type.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52404285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52404285", "title": "Lost Library of Ivan the Terrible", "text": "Lost Library of Ivan the Terrible\n\nThe Lost Library of the Moscow Tsars also known as the \"Golden Library,\" is a library speculated to have been created by Ivan III (the Great) of Russia in the sixteenth century. It is also known as the Library of Ivan IV (Ivan the Terrible) to whom it is believed the disappearance of the library is attributed. The lost library is thought to contain rare Greek, Latin, and Egyptian works from the Libraries of Constantinople and Alexandria, as well as second century Chinese texts and manuscripts from Ivan IV's own era. The library has been historically placed as being underneath the Kremlin and has been a source of interest for researchers, archaeologists, treasure hunters, and historical figures like Peter the Great and Napoleon Bonaparte. Under Ivan IV's rule the library's legend had grown. Myths surrounding the library include Ivan cursing the library before his death, causing blindness to those that came close to locating the library, and Ivan attempting to have scholars translate the ancient texts in order to gain knowledge of black magic.\n\nThe earliest reference to the lost library was in 1518 when Michail Tripolis known widely as Maximus the Greek was sent to Russia and came into contact with Moscow Grand Prince Vasili III, the son of Ivan III. Tripolis' reputation as a scholar and translator of works like the Psalter into Russian brought him to the attention of Vasili III. It was in a meeting between Michail and Vasili wherein it is described that \"countless multitudes of Greek books\" were shown to Michail by Vasili III. A Russian contemporary of Michail wrote a biography of him called \"The Tale of Maxim the Philosopher.\" This biographer, Prince Kurbskii, a member of the Moscow nobility, detailed this meeting between Michail and Vasili III. Kurbskii wrote that \"Maxim was astounded and impressed, and assured the prince that even in Greece he had never seen so many Greek books.\"\n\nClose to eighty years after Kurbskii wrote Maximus the Greek's biography the next mention of the lost library as well as a location appeared. Livonian writer Franz Nyenstadt wrote about Johannes Wetterman, a German Protestant minister who established a church in Russia and met with Ivan IV. Ivan IV purportedly had been hiding multitudes of weapons underneath the Kremlin. Some of the weapons were actually discovered in 1978 by Soviet construction workers working on the subway. Wetterman was summoned by Ivan IV not to look at a weapons arsenal but to look at ancient books that had been secured in a locked storeroom somewhere inside the Kremlin for well over a hundred years. Wetterman and three other Germans and three Russian officials were told to conduct a survey of the works. Wetterman noted that there were many works present that were only referenced in passing by other scholars because they had been either destroyed in fires or lost during wars previously. Wetterman was offered the opportunity to work with and translate a book found in the survey. Wetterman however was afraid that taking such an assignment would lead to more work which would keep him in Moscow indefinitely. The works were then locked away again in the underground Kremlin perhaps to protect them from potential fires.\n\nA 1724 report of Moscow Petty Official Konon Osipov mentions a discovery made by V. Makariev in 1682. Makariev while being ordered to go into a Kremlin secret passage found a room full of trunks. When Makariev reported the find to Princess Sophia Alekseyevna she made it forbidden for anyone to access those rooms.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century, Professor Dabelov of the University of Dorpat (University of Tartu) found in the archives of the city of Pernau (Pärnu), a document called \"Manuscripts Held by the Tsar.\" Dabelov left Pernau to inform a university associate, Professor Clossius, of the find, yet when returning to the Pernau archives the document had seemingly vanished. The only information left on the document was some of what Dabelov had copied down on his first visit. This information detailed that the tsars had around 800 manuscripts and some of these were gifted to Russia from an unknown Byzantine emperor.\n\nIn 1834, Professor Clossius wrote on a collection of Russian history including the work of Nikolay Karamzin author of \"History of the Russian State.\" Karamzin mentions the meeting between Ivan IV and Protestant minister Wetterman. In Professor Clossius' article, he wrote that he believed the lost library had been destroyed by fires caused by the seventeenth century Polish invasion.\n\nIn the 1890s, Professor Thraemer of the University of Strasbourg located a manuscript of Homer's hymns that he believed was once a part of the collection of manuscripts brought to Moscow by Byzantine Princess Sophia Palaiologina when she married Ivan III. Ivan III and Sophia married in 1472 and her dowry included a rare collection of books from the Library of Constantinople and Library of Alexandria. For several months in 1891 Professor Thraemer lived in Moscow searching through all of the city's libraries and archives in the hopes of locating the lost library. Thraemer eventually decided that it must be located inside hidden subterranean rooms underneath the Kremlin. In 1893 Professor I.E. Zabelin wrote an article called \"The Underground Chambers of the Moscow Kremlin\" where he concluded that the library did exist there but that it was destroyed in the seventeenth century. Around this time some attempts were made at excavating underneath the Kremlin. The excavations found several underground chambers and tunnels but all were found empty.\nSeveral Russian scholars of the era also refuted the existence of the library. S.A. Belokurov in 1898 wrote that the \"Tale of Maxim the Philosopher\" was not written by Prince Kurbskii, but 75 years after the fact by another monk. Belokurov states that he found enough contradictions and inconsistencies in the Maximus the Greek biography that he believed Maximus never even saw the library. Belokurov also believed that Professor Dabelov's document was a forgery and he refuted other sources as well.\n\nIn the early twentieth century Archaeologist Ignatius Stelletskii became a seeker of the lost library. A 1929 article of The New York Times details Stelletskii's search. The article reports that Stelletskii found archives showing \"two large rooms filled with treasure chests and known to exist under the Kremlin\" half a century after the death of Ivan IV. Also reported is the fact that Protestant Minister Wetterman never returned home after being in Moscow. Ivan IV according to myth had the architect of Saint Basil's Cathedral blinded in order to never be able to recreate it, hiding its secrets. Therefore, Ivan IV involved in Wetterman's disappearance after seeing the library would seem standard protocol. Peter the Great also attempted to locate the library hoping to find treasures that would help the treasury after his several years involved in wars. Stelletskii's search however ended without ever finding the library.\n\nS.O. Shmidt in 1978 described an unpublished work by N.N. Zarubin from the 1930s called \"The Library of Ivan the Terrible and His Books.\" Zarubin argued that the work of S. Belokurov was not impartial when claiming that the library did not exist.\n\nBy the 1990s archaeologists broadened their search beyond the Kremlin into Sergiyev Posad, Alexandrov, Vladimir Oblast, and Dyakovo, all places under the influence of Ivan IV.\n\n"}
{"id": "19986122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19986122", "title": "Maliszewski", "text": "Maliszewski\n\nMaliszewski ( ; feminine: Maliszewska; plural: Maliszewscy) is a surname of Polish-language origin. It is a toponymic surname associated with one of the places in Poland named Maliszew, Maliszewo, or Maliszów. \n\nthe Lithuanianized version is Mališauskas. The Russian-language versions of the surnames are Malishevsky (masculine), Malishevskaya (feminine).\n\nNotable people with this surname include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19346572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19346572", "title": "Medveščak (stream)", "text": "Medveščak (stream)\n\nMedveščak (, also called \"Crikvenik\") is a creek in central Zagreb, Croatia. It flows from Kraljičin zdenac in Podsljeme down along the southern slopes of the Medvednica mountain to the Manduševac Fountain, its mouth. The creek was covered in 1898 and today forms part of the Zagreb sewer system. Medveščak has long served as an important geographical feature of historic Zagreb, delineating the border between the often warring twin cities of Gradec (Gornji Grad) and Kaptol between the 11th and the 19th century and causing many violent floods which often decimated houses on its banks. Most of the stream is located in the Gornji Grad - Medveščak city district, running underground under Tkalčićeva and Medvedgradska Streets.\n\nThe creek today plays a minor role in the Zagreb sewer system, having ceased powering the Manduševac Fountain in 1882. However, it gave its name to the Medveščak neighborhood.\n\nThe stream's source is located on the Medvednica mountain, near Kraljičin zdenac. Therefrom it flows through a flood retention dam near the Šestinski Lagvić restaurant, and onwards through the neighbourhood of Mlinovi (Croatian for \"mills\") in a concrete basin. It has a confluence with Gračanec stream near Okrugljak, which used to be responsible for a large part of its downstream water flow, and continues to Medveščak, where it joins the city's sewage system.\n\nThe banks of Medveščak stream have been inhabited since antiquity. Roman coins spanning the time from Germanicus (1st century BC/AD) to Crispus (early 4th century AD) have been found in Medveščak's riverbed.\n\nOne of today's best known roles of Medveščak is as the border between the two cores of modern downtown Zagreb, Gradec and Kaptol. The two cities often had disputes about the creek's sovereignty and the ownership of mills built on it. One of the relics remaining as the evidence of these tumultuous times is the Krvavi Most, a former bridge and currently a very short street in the Zagreb pedestrian zone, whose name literally means \"Bloody Bridge.\" It has been the site of several battles between the twin cities.\n\nMedveščak has been the center of Zagreb industry since the early days of the city, spawning numerous watermills. The watermills caused the development of Zagreb industry, easing the construction of Zagreb's first cloth, soap, paper and liquor factories and later animal skin industry. The watermills were often the subject of feuds between the twin cities, Kaptol and Gradec. A 1392 peace treaty forbade construction of new watermills along the shared city border, between today's southern end of Medvedgradska Street and Ban Jelačić Square, leaving only two mills within the city. Both mills were owned by a Cistercian monastery. However, they were both razed during the 1898 covering of the creek.\n\nThe creek often produced catastrophic floods until 1898, at which time it was covered by the Creek Road (, today Tkalčićeva Street) and became part of the new sewer system. The most tragic flood was the one in 1651, when 52 people were confirmed to have drowned in the creek. The creek thus earned the name \"Krvavi Potok\" (\"Bloody creek\"), as described by the notable Zagreb historian Baltazar Adam Krčelić in his work \"Annuae\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "423997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423997", "title": "Meherabad", "text": "Meherabad\n\nMeherabad (\"meher\" meaning \"friend\" from Iranian \"Mihir\", ultimately from Sanskrit \"Mithira\"; \"abad\" meaning a prosperous settlement, or a flourishing colony) was originally an ashram established by Meher Baba near Arangaon Village, India in 1923 about south of Ahmednagar. It is now the site of Meher Baba's samadhi (shrine/tomb) as well as facilities and accommodations for pilgrims. A large number of buildings mostly associated with the earlier decades of Baba’s work, the graves of disciples, and a range of pilgrim accommodation and charitable establishments are also there. Many Baba-lovers work or live in the vicinity.\n\nMeherabad is a popular place of pilgrimage for both Eastern and Western followers of Meher Baba, with reported numbers of around 30,000 annual pilgrims at Amartithi (the commemoration of his death each January 31). There is also a free dispensary and school.\n\nEstablished in May 1923, Meherabad was the first permanent residence of Meher Baba and his disciples in Ahmednagar district. In 1944, Meher Baba moved his residence north to Meherazad, located away on the other side of Ahmedagar.\n\nMeher Pilgrim Center (also spelled \"Centre\") is the central administrative facility for the Meher Baba pilgrim retreat.The Pilgrim Center and Pilgrim Retreat are closed during the hot Indian summer from 15 March to 15 June of each year.On 15 June 2006, new pilgrim facilities were established with the construction of Meher Pilgrim Retreat, an facility. Both the Pilgrim Center and Pilgrim Retreat were designed by architect Ted Judson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1040367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040367", "title": "Mineral spring", "text": "Mineral spring\n\nMineral springs are naturally occurring springs that produce water containing minerals, or other dissolved substances, that alter its taste or give it a purported therapeutic value. Salts, sulfur compounds, and gases are among the substances that can be dissolved in the spring water during its passage underground.\n\nMineral water obtained from mineral springs has long been an important commercial proposition.\n\nMineral spas are resorts that have developed around mineral springs, where (often wealthy) patrons would repair to “take the waters” — meaning that they would drink (see hydrotherapy and water cure) or bathe in (see balneotherapy) the mineral water.\n\nHistorical mineral springs were often outfitted with elaborate stone-works — including artificial pools, retaining walls, colonnades and roofs — sometimes in the form of fanciful \"Greek temples\", gazebos or pagodas. Others were entirely enclosed within spring houses.\n\nFor many centuries, in Europe, North America and elsewhere, commercial proponents of mineral springs classified them according to the chemical composition of the water produced and according to the medicinal benefits supposedly accruing from each:\n\n\nTypes of sedimentary rock - usually limestone (calcium carbonate) - are sometimes formed by the evaporation, or rapid precipitation, of mineral spring water, especially at the mouths of hot mineral springs. (These mineral deposits can also be found in dried lakebeds.) Spectacular formations, including terraces, stalactites, stalagmites and “frozen waterfalls” can result (see, for example, Mammoth Hot Springs). \n\nOne light-colored porous calcite of this type is known as travertine and has been used extensively in Italy and elsewhere as building material. Travertine can have a white, tan, or cream-colored appearance and often has a fibrous or concentric “grain”. \n\nAnother type of spring water deposit, containing siliceous as well as calcareous minerals, is known as tufa. Tufa is similar to travertine but is even softer and more porous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19499753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19499753", "title": "Morne Seychellois", "text": "Morne Seychellois\n\nMorne Seychellois is the highest peak in Seychelles. Morne Seychellois is located on the island of Mahé in the Morne Seychellois National Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "15369533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15369533", "title": "Nephanalysis", "text": "Nephanalysis\n\nA nephanalaysis is the analysis of a synoptic chart focusing on the types and amount of clouds and precipitation. A nephanalysis can be used to avoid hazardous weather areas, by ships preparing routes for cruises, and to locate good fishing areas. This technique is rarely performed in modern forecasting, due to the prevalence of worldwide satellite imagery.\n"}
{"id": "9311982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9311982", "title": "One China, Many Paths", "text": "One China, Many Paths\n\nOne China, Many Paths, edited by Chaohua Wang. A collection of essays by Chinese thinkers, reflecting the new thinking that developed in the 1990s. Both Chinese liberal and Chinese New Left views are represented, along with some views that do not fit either category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16278680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278680", "title": "Outline of Fiji", "text": "Outline of Fiji\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Fiji:\n\nRepublic of Fiji – sovereign island nation located in the South Pacific Ocean east of Vanuatu, west of Tonga and south of Tuvalu. The country occupies an archipelago of about 322 islands, of which 106 are permanently inhabited, and 522 islets. The two major islands, Viti Levu and Vanua Levu, account for 87% of the population.\n\n\nGeography of Fiji\n\n\n\nRegions of Fiji\n\nList of ecoregions in Fiji\n\nProvinces of Fiji\n\n\nDemographics of Fiji\n\nPolitics of Fiji\n\nGovernment of Fiji\n\n\n\nCourt system of Fiji\n\nForeign relations of Fiji\n\nThe Republic of the Fiji Islands is a member of:\n\nLaw of Fiji\n\n\nLocal government in Fiji\n\nHistory of Fiji\n\nCulture of Fiji\n\n\nSports in Fiji\n\nEconomy of Fiji\n\nEducation in Fiji\n\n\nFiji\n\n"}
{"id": "1632128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1632128", "title": "Pico do Fogo", "text": "Pico do Fogo\n\nPico do Fogo is the highest peak of Cape Verde, rising to above sea level. It is an active stratovolcano lying on the island of Fogo. The main cone last erupted in 1680, causing mass emigration from the island. A subsidiary vent erupted in 1995. The only deadly eruption was in 1847 when earthquakes killed several people.\n\nFogo is a hotspot volcanic island. Its most recent eruptions have occurred in 1951, 1995 and 2014. It is the youngest and most active volcano in the Cape Verde Islands, a short chain of volcanic islands that generally are younger at the western end, formed as the African Plate moved towards the east over the hotspot.\n\nFogo consists of a single volcano, so the island is nearly round and about in diameter. The large summit caldera (about 10 kilometers in the north-south direction and 7 kilometers in the east-west direction) is not located in the center of the island, but rather towards its northeastern corner. The caldera is bounded by steep near-vertical fault scarps on the north, west, and south sides but is breached to the east where lava can flow to the coast. North-northeast-trending eruptive fissures opened along the western flank of Pico, which formed inside the caldera between about 1500 and 1760. The last eruption from the top was in 1769. The current topography of Fogo, with the caldera open to the sea on the east side, results from the sliding of the east flank of the volcano towards the ocean.\n\nThe mountain's slopes are used to grow coffee, while its lava is used as building material. Near its peak is a caldera and a small village, Chã das Caldeiras, is inside this caldera. The crater rim, which reaches 2,700 m elevation, is known as Bordeira.\n\nThe eastern side of Fogo collapsed into the ocean 73,000 years ago, creating a tsunami 170 meters high which struck the nearby island of Santiago. The tsunami was dated by isotope analysis of boulders deposited on Santiago.\n\nIn 1680 AD, a major summit eruption of Pico do Fogo produced large ash falls over the whole island rendering agricultural lands temporarily unusable and triggering mass emigration from the island, to Brava in particular.\n\nThe 1995 eruption began on the night of 2–3 April, covering the island with a cloud of ash. Residents were evacuated from Chã das Caldeiras, as their homes were destroyed.\nResidents reported that the eruption was preceded by small earthquakes which began about six days prior to the first eruption of lava. These earthquakes increased in magnitude and frequency through April 2, and a particularly strong one was reported at about 8 p.m., four hours before the eruption apparently began. Just after midnight, fissures opened on the flank of Pico. One resident said it looked as if the cone had \"been cut by a knife.\" The eruption began with Strombolian activity, quickly followed by a 'curtain-of-fire' lava fountain that fed a flow which cut off the road to the village of Portela by 2 a.m. The 1,300 people living inside the caldera fled during the night to the safety of villages on the north coast. No one was killed, but about 20 people required medical attention.\n\nDuring the day on April 3, the island was engulfed by a thick cloud of dark ash that reached 2.5 to 5 kilometers high. The initial flows were pahoehoe lava, although their extent was apparently small. The violent eruption produced lava bombs up to 4 meters across that were ejected as far as 500 meters from the vents. On April 4, lava fountains reached 400 meters high beneath a cloud of ash about 2 kilometers high. A new scoria cone formed that was open to the southwest and fed a growing lava flow. On April 5, the new lava flow reached the western caldera wall and destroyed about five houses and the main water reservoir. During these first few days, civil authorities evacuated about 3,000 people.\nThe eruption became steadier after the first few days, and moderate, Hawaiian-style lava fountains about 100–120 meters high built a spatter cone more than 140 meters high. The flows were lava, and flowed towards the west to the caldera wall, then turned north. These flows advanced episodically as pressure built from ponding and thickening of the flows. On April 13, a second lava flow began to cover an earlier, stagnant lava flow, and was almost entirely on top of the earlier flow until April 15, when it spread out and destroyed another home. Cinder fell as far as two kilometers south of the vents on April 15. By the 17th, the flow had advanced to within 420 meters of the nearest house in the village of Portela.\n\nOn April 18, a portable seismometer began to record much stronger volcanic tremors that indicated a change in eruptive style from lava fountains back to Strombolian activity. Spatter was discharged every 3–8 seconds with loud gas bursts. In addition, the eruptive rate increased and the upper 300 meters of the channel was largely pahoehoe lava. The eruption rates, estimated from the dimensions and flow rates in the channel, were between 4 and 8.5 million cubic meters per day.\n\nDuring the night of April 18, a series of large, explosive bursts occurred that may have followed collapse of parts of the cone into the vents and subsequent explosive clearing of the debris. By morning, the activity had returned to lava fountaining, and the seismic record was much quieter. The lava flows continued to thicken, and lava ponded along the central channel.\n\nThe Fogo volcano returned to activity in 2014, having started erupting shortly after 10 a.m. of Sunday, 23 November 2014. There had been a few days of heightened seismic activity, but they worsened beginning at 8 p.m. on Saturday night.\n\nThe population of Chã das Caldeiras, totaling around 1,000 inhabitants, spent the night outside their homes due to the strong earthquakes, and started being evacuated when the eruption began. As in 1995, some people initially refused to abandon their homes, but eventually heeded the authorities' instructions.\n\nBruno Faria, a Cape Verdean vulcanologist, said the intensity of the eruption surpassed that of the 1995 eruption, and approached that of the 1951 eruption, one of the strongest ever recorded on the island. The eruption gained in intensity after 23 November 2014.The village of Portela in the Chã das Caldeiras is now covered by a lava stream which has completely destroyed the housing stock.\n\nAfter 77 days of activity, the eruption stopped on 8 February 2015. 75% of the buildings in Portela, Bangaeira and Ilhéu de Losna, sections of Chã das Caldeiras, had been destroyed. Most of these had been covered by lava.\n\nPico do Fogo consists of basanite, tephrite, phonotephrite, clinopyroxene, amphibole, magnetite, olivine, melilite and leucite. The main magma chamber is about 16-24 km deep, into the ocean crust and 10-12 km in the bottom of the crust.\n\nSince 2014, the peak along with the surrounding caldera were featured in a Capeverdean $200 escudo note. On the bottom left is the wine grape which is grown in the area and on the right Henrique Teixeira de Sousa, a native of the island, birthplace of an area that includes the peak.\n\n"}
{"id": "49354613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49354613", "title": "Portrait of Canada", "text": "Portrait of Canada\n\nPortrait of Canada is a 10-minute 1959 Canadian documentary film, made by the National Film Board of Canada (NFB) as part of the postwar \"Canada Carries On\" series. The film, directed by Guy Glover, described the creation of the \"All Canadian Atlas\". The film's French version title is \"L'Atlas du Canada\".\n\nCanadian mapmakers 400 years ago relied on hand-drawn maps derived from personal accounts by explorers, fur traders and settlers. These maps were limited to coastlines and partial interior views. Explorers like Samuel de Champlain, Jacques Cartier and David Thompson made their own maps. Later explorers and prospectors were often the first to go into uncharted regions, and their information on the land was invaluable in drawing up the maps of the time.\n\nIn 1959, the new \"All Canadian Atlas\" is a product of the joint efforts of geologists, meteorologists, prospectors, agronomists, draughtspersons, naturalists and especially, the Royal Canadian Air Force. Aerial photography was essential in mapping the vast north of Canada. In 1948, No. 413 RCAF Squadron/No. 13 (Photographic) Squadron flying specially converted Avro Lancaster 10P aircraft undertook the task of mapping Canada's Arctic. Three large islands were discovered and one island near Baffin Island was named \"Air Force\" in their honour.\n\nWith all the accumulated data from photographs, the mapmakers of the \"All Canadian Atlas\" consulted with interested parties from government, industry and academia to ensure that all relevant information is included. Each of the 500 maps contains a wealth of information, depicting Canada in a hundred different ways from political boundaries, settlement, urban development, habitats, mineral and agricultural areas, temperatures and climates, transportation and industry to provide an accurate portrait of Canada in the late 1950s.\n\n\"Portrait of Canada\" was a short informational documentary in the NFB's films \"Canada Carries On\" series (first created as a wartime series). The film was a compilation documentary that combined newsreel material with animated sequences and original footage, including aerial footage from the Royal Canadian Air Force.\n\n\"Portrait of Canada\" was produced for television broadcast on CBC Television. Individual films were distributed worldwide by the NFB and were also made available to film libraries operated by university and provincial authorities. A total of 199 films in the \"Canada Carries On\" series were produced before the series was canceled in 1959.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54238421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54238421", "title": "Quinta Santo António", "text": "Quinta Santo António\n\nQuinta Santo António is a suburb of the city São Tomé in the nation of São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 4,299 (2012 census).\n"}
{"id": "57068887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57068887", "title": "Roots and Shadows", "text": "Roots and Shadows\n\nRoots and Shadows is an Indian novel, written by Shashi Deshpande in 1983. The novel focuses on Indu's interactions with others in her large family and the manner in which this helps to resolve their future and her own personal crisis.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe work has been widely analysed and criticized for its feminist orientation. It has been a source for many thesis and papers on the role of women in society of today. The work is widely appreciated for bringing out the decaying joint family system in Indian society.\n"}
{"id": "21495178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21495178", "title": "Seismic inversion", "text": "Seismic inversion\n\nSeismic inversion, in geophysics (primarily in oil-and-gas exploration/development), is the process of transforming seismic reflection data into a quantitative rock-property description of a reservoir. Seismic inversion may be pre- or post-stack, deterministic, random or geostatistical; it typically includes other reservoir measurements such as well logs and cores .\n\nGeophysicists routinely perform seismic surveys to gather information about the geology of an oil or gas field. These surveys record sound waves which have traveled through the layers of rock and fluid in the earth. The amplitude and frequency of these waves can be estimated so that any side-lobe and tuning effects introduced by the wavelet may be removed.\n\nSeismic data may be inspected and interpreted on its own without inversion, but this does not provide the most detailed view of the subsurface and can be misleading under certain conditions. Because of its efficiency and quality, most oil and gas companies now use seismic inversion to increase the resolution and reliability of the data and to improve estimation of rock properties including porosity and net pay.\n\nThere are many different techniques used in seismic inversion. These can be roughly grouped into two categories:\n\n\nThe combination of these categories yields four technical approaches to the inversion problem, and the selection of a specific technique depends on the desired objective and the characteristics of the subsurface rocks. Although the order presented reflects advances in inversion techniques over the past 20 years, each grouping still has valid uses in particular projects or as part of a larger workflow.\n\nAll modern seismic inversion methods require seismic data and a wavelet estimated from the data. Typically, a reflection coefficient series from a well within the boundaries of the seismic survey is used to estimate the wavelet phase and frequency. Accurate wavelet estimation is critical to the success of any seismic inversion. The inferred shape of the seismic wavelet may strongly influence the seismic inversion results and, thus, subsequent assessments of the reservoir quality.\n\nWavelet amplitude and phase spectra are estimated statistically from either the seismic data alone or from a combination of seismic data and well control using wells with available sonic and density curves. After the seismic wavelet is estimated, it is used to estimate seismic reflection coefficients in the seismic inversion.\n\nWhen the estimated (constant) phase of the statistical wavelet is consistent with the final result, the wavelet estimation converges more quickly than when starting with a zero phase assumption. Minor edits and \"stretch and squeeze\" may be applied to the well to better align the events. Accurate wavelet estimation requires the accurate tie of the impedance log to the seismic. Errors in well tie can result in phase or frequency artifacts in the wavelet estimation. Once the wavelet is identified, seismic inversion computes a synthetic log for every seismic trace. To ensure quality, the inversion result is convolved with the wavelet to produce synthetic seismic traces which are compared to the original seismic.\n\nInversion includes both seismic field data and well data, where well data serves to add the high frequency below the seismic band and to constrain the inversion. Well logs are first conditioned and edited to ensure there is a suitable relationship between impedance logs and the desired properties. The logs are then converted to time, filtered to approximate the seismic bandwidth and edited for borehole effects, balanced and classified by quality.\n\nSeismic data is band-limited, reducing resolution and quality. To extend the frequency band available, low-frequency data is derived from log data, pre-stack depth or time migrated velocities and/or a regional gradient. High frequency can be derived from well control or geostatistical analysis.\n\nInitial inversions are often run with relaxed constraints, starting with the seismic and then adding limited-trend data from the wells. This provides a rough overview of the reservoir in an unbiased manner. It is critical at this point to evaluate the accuracy of the tie between the inversion results and the wells, and between the original seismic data and the derived synthetics. It is also important to ensure that the wavelet matches the phase and frequency of seismic data.\n\nWithout a wavelet, the solution is not unique. Deterministic inversions address this problem by constraining the answer in some way, usually to well log data. Stochastic inversions address this problem by generating a range of plausible solutions, which can then be narrowed through testing for best fit against various measurements (including production data).\n\nAn example of a post-stack seismic resolution inversion technique is the Constrained Sparse-Spike Inversion (CSSI). This assumes a limited number of reflection coefficients, with larger amplitude. The inversion results in acoustic impedance (AI), which is the product of rock density and p-wave velocity. Unlike seismic reflection data (which is an interface property) AI is a rock property. The model generated is of higher quality, and does not suffer from tuning and interference caused by the wavelet.\n\nCSSI transforms seismic data to a pseudo-acoustic impedance log at every trace. Acoustic impedance is used to produce more accurate and detailed structural and stratigraphic interpretations than can be obtained from seismic (or seismic attribute) interpretation. In many geological environments acoustic impedance has a strong relationship to petrophysical properties such as porosity, lithology, and fluid saturation.\n\nA good (CSSI) algorithm will produce four high-quality acoustic impedance volumes from full or post-stack seismic data: full-bandwidth impedance, bandlimited Impedance, reflectivity model, and low-frequency component. Each of these components can be inspected for its contribution to the solution and to check the results for quality. To further adapt the algorithm mathematics to the behavior of real rocks in the subsurface, some CSSI algorithms use a mixed-norm approach and allow a weighting factor between minimizing the sparsity of the solution and minimizing the misfit of the residual traces.\n\nPre-stack inversion is often used when post-stack inversion fails to sufficiently differentiate geologic features with similar P-impedance signatures. Simultaneous inversion solves for S-impedance and density, in addition to P-impedance. While many geologic features can express similar P-impedance characteristics, few will share combined P-impedance and S-impedance traits (allowing improved separation and clarity). Often a feasibility study using the wells logs will indicate whether separation of the desired lithotype can be achieved with P-impedance alone or whether S-impedance is also required. This will dictate whether a pre- or post-stack inversion is needed.\n\nSimultaneous Inversion (SI) is a pre-stack method that uses multiple offset or angle seismic sub-stacks and their associated wavelets as input; it generates P-impedance, S-impedance and density as outputs (although the density output resolution is rarely as high as the impedances). This helps improve discrimination between lithology, porosity and fluid effects. For each input partial stack, a unique wavelet is estimated. All models, partial stacks and wavelets are input to a single inversion algorithm —enabling inversion to effectively compensate for offset-dependent phase, bandwidth, tuning and NMO stretch effects.\n\nThe inversion algorithm works by first estimating angle-dependent P-wave reflectivities for the input-partial stacks. Next, these are used with the full Zoeppritz equations (or approximations, such as Aki-Richards, for some algorithms) to find band-limited elastic reflectivities. These are in turn merged with their low-frequency counterparts from the model and integrated to elastic properties. This approximate result is then improved in a final inversion for P-impedance, S-impedance and density, subject to various hard and soft constraints. One constraint can control the relation between density and compressional velocity; this is necessary when the range of angles is not great enough to be diagnostic of density.\n\nAn important part in the inversion procedure is the estimation of the seismic wavelets. This is accomplished by computing a filter that best shapes the angle-dependent well log reflection coefficients in the region of interest to the corresponding offset stack at the well locations. Reflection coefficients are calculated from P-sonic, S-sonic and density logs using the Zoeppritz equations. The wavelets, with amplitudes representative of each offset stack, are input directly into the inversion algorithm. Since a different wavelet is computed for each offset volume, compensation is automatically done for offset-dependent bandwidth, scaling and tuning effects. A near-stack wavelet can be used as the starting point for estimating the far-angle (or offset) wavelet.\n\nNo prior knowledge of the elastic parameters and density beyond the solution space defined by any hard constraints is provided at the well locations. This makes comparison of the filtered well logs and the inversion outputs at these locations a natural quality control. The lowest frequencies from the inversion are replaced with information from the geologic model since they are poorly constrained by the seismic data. When applied in global mode a spatial control term is added to the objective function and large subsets of traces are inverted simultaneously. The simultaneous inversion algorithm takes multiple angle-stacked seismic data sets and generates three elastic parameter volumes as output.\n\nThe resulting elastic parameters are real-rock properties that can be directly related to reservoir properties. The more advanced algorithms use the full Knott-Zoeppritz equations and there is full allowance for amplitude and phase variations with offset. This is done by deriving unique wavelets for each input-partial stack. The elastic parameters themselves can be directly constrained during the seismic inversion and rock-physics relationships can be applied, constraining pairs of elastic parameters to each other. Final elastic-parameter models optimally reproduce the input seismic, as this is part of the seismic inversion optimization.\n\nGeostatistical inversion integrates high resolution well data with low resolution 3-D seismic, and provides a model with high vertical detail near and away from well control. This generates reservoir models with geologically-plausible shapes, and provides a clear quantification of uncertainty to assess risk. Highly detailed petrophysical models are generated, ready for input to reservoir-flow simulation.\n\nGeostatistics differs from statistics in that it recognizes that only certain outcomes are geologically plausible. Geostatistical inversion integrates data from many sources and creates models that have greater resolution than the original seismic, match known geological patterns, and can be used for risk assessment and reduction.\n\nSeismic, well logs and other input data are each represented as a probability density function (PDF), which provides a geostatistical description based on histograms and variograms. Together these define the chances of a particular value at a particular location, and the expected geological scale and composition throughout the modeled area.\n\nUnlike conventional inversion and geomodeling algorithms, geostatistical inversion takes a one-step approach, solving for impedance and discrete property types or lithofacies at the same time. Taking this approach speeds the process and improves accuracy.\n\nIndividual PDFs are merged using bayesian inference techniques, resulting in a posterior PDF conditioned to the whole data set. The algorithm determines the weighting of each data source, eliminating potential bias. The posterior PDF is then input to a Markov Chain Monte Carlo algorithm to generate realistic models of impedance and lithofacies, which are then used to co-simulate rock properties such as porosity. These processes are typically iterated until a model emerges that matches all information. Even with the best model, some uncertainty remains. Uncertainty can be estimated using random seeds to generate a range of realizations. This is especially useful when dealing with parameters that are sensitive to change; an analysis of this sort enables greater understanding of development risk.\n\nAmplitude versus offset (AVO) (AVA) geostatistical inversion incorporates simultaneous AVO (AVA) inversion into the geostatistical inversion algorithm so high resolution, geostatistics, and AVO may be attained in a single method. The output model (realizations) are consistent with well log information, AVO seismic data, and honor rock property relationships found in the wells. The algorithm also simultaneously produces elastic properties (P-impedance, S-impedance and density) and lithology volumes, instead of sequentially solving for lithology first and then populating the cell with impedance and density values. Because all output models match all input data, uncertainty can be quantitatively assessed to determine the range of reservoir possibilities within the constraining data.\n\nAVA geostatistical inversion software uses leading-edge geostatistical techniques, including Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling and pluri-Gaussian lithology modeling. It is thus possible to exploit \"informational synergies\" to retrieve details that deterministic inversion techniques blur out or omit. As a result, geoscientists are more successful in reconstructing both the overall structure and the fine details of the reservoir. The use of multiple-angle-stack seismic volumes in AVA geostatistical inversion enables further evaluation of elastic rock properties and probable lithology or seismic facies and fluid distributions with greater accuracy.\n\nThe process begins with a detailed petrophysical analysis and well log calibration. The calibration process replaces unreliable and missing sonic and density measurements with synthesized values from calibrated petrophysical and rock-physics models. Well log information is used in the inversion process to derive wavelets, supply the low frequency component not present in the seismic data, and to verify and analyze the final results. Next, horizon and log data are used to construct the stratigraphic framework for the statistical information to build the models. In this way, the log data is only used for generating statistics within similar rock types within the stratigraphic layers of the earth.\n\nWavelet analysis is conducted by extracting a filter from each of the seismic volumes using the well elastic (angle or offset) impedance as the desired output. The quality of the inversion result is dependent upon the extracted seismic wavelets. This requires accurate p-sonic, s-sonic and density logs tied to the appropriate events on the seismic data. Wavelets are extracted individually for each well. A final \"multi-well\" wavelet is then extracted for each volume using the best individual well ties and used as input to the inversion.\n\nHistograms and variograms are generated for each stratigraphic layer and lithology, and preliminary simulations are run on small areas. The AVA geostatistical inversion is then run to generate the desired number of realizations, which match all the input data. The results are quality controlled by direct comparison of the inverted rock property volumes against the well logs. Further QC involves review by a multidisciplinary team of all input parameters and the results of the simulation. Analysis of multiple realizations produces mean (P50) property cubes or maps. Most often these are lithology or seismic facies cubes and predicted lithology or facies probabilities, but other outputs are also possible. Selected lithology and facies cubes are also generated for P15 and P85 probabilities (for example). Reservoir 3-D bodies of hydrocarbon-bearing units are captured with their corresponding rock properties, and the uncertainty in reservoir size and properties is quantified.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31168024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31168024", "title": "Shanghai Xianzhi", "text": "Shanghai Xianzhi\n\nThe Shanghai Xianzhi or \"Shanghai Gazetteer\" () is an ancient gazetteer for the city of Shanghai. It is one of the numerous \"xianzhi\" (, \"county gazetteers\") that were produced in China in ancient times.\n\nAn edition of the Shanghai Xianzhi is known from 1524.\n\nAnother such document at the municipal rather than city level is the \"Shanghai Zhi\" ().\n"}
{"id": "2060750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060750", "title": "Superimposition", "text": "Superimposition\n\nSuperimposition is the placement of one thing over another, typically so that both are still evident.\n\nIn graphics, superimposition is the placement of an image or video on top of an already-existing image or video, usually to add to the overall image effect, but also sometimes to conceal something (such as when a different face is superimposed over the original face in a photograph). \n\nThis technique is used in cartography to produce photomaps by superimposing grid lines, contour lines and other linear or textual mapping features over aerial photographs.\n\nSuperimposition of two-dimensional images containing correlated periodic grid structures may produce moiré patterns. Superimposition of two correlated layers comprising parallel lines or curves may give rise line moiré patterns. The movement of one of the layers results in a faster movement of the line moiré superimposition image. Such optical acceleration is known as moiré speedup (check for the formulas of optical speedup for curved patterns). When superimposing two identical layers comprising randomly spaced parallel lines, at a small angle or with a small scaling difference random line moiré patterns, namely line Glass patterns (after Leon Glass, 1969) appear. Similarly, when superimposing two identical layers of randomly scattered dots at a small angle or with a small scaling difference random dot Glass patterns, namely random dot moiré, appears. When one of the layers embeds complex shapes, such as sequences of symbols forming a text, and another layer contains parallel lines or curves, the superimposition image may give rise to magnified shapes, called shape moiré patterns.\n\nSuperimposition (SI) during sound recording and reproduction (commonly called overdubbing) is the process of adding new sounds over existing without completely erasing or masking the existing sound. Some reel-to-reel tape recorders of the mid 20th century provided crude superimposition facilities that were implemented by killing the high-frequency AC feed to the erase head while recording as normal via the read-write head.\n\n"}
{"id": "47525725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47525725", "title": "Time in Qatar", "text": "Time in Qatar\n\nTime in Qatar is given by Arabia Standard Time (AST) (). Qatar does not currently observe daylight saving time.\n"}
{"id": "30859262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30859262", "title": "Yazoo stream", "text": "Yazoo stream\n\nA Yazoo stream is a geologic and hydrologic term for any tributary stream that runs parallel to, and within the floodplain of a larger river for considerable distance, before eventually joining it. This is especially the characteristic when such a stream is forced to flow along the base of the main river's natural levee. Where the two meet is known as a \"belated confluence\" or a \"deferred junction\". The name is derived from a now vanished Native American tribe, the Yazoo Indians. The Choctaw word is translated to \"River of Death\" because of the strong flows under its bank full stage.\n\nRuns parallel to the Mississippi River for before converging, being constrained from doing so upstream by the river's natural and man-made levees.\n\nImportant salmonoid fish habitat and large spruce forests inhabit these streams which flow into the Mendehall River in Alaska.\n\nYazoo streams here drain the back swamps of the Wakarusa River Valley.\n\nOver time, the main river flows through the landscape, widening a valley and creating a floodplain. Sediment accumulates and creates a natural levee. Tributaries that want to enter the main channel are not allowed because of this levee. Instead, the water then enters the back swamps, or form a yazoo stream. Because yazoo streams are separated from the main river by natural levees, they flow and meander (streams and rivers rarely flow in straight lines) parallel to the main stream channel or river on the floodplain for a considerable distance. These series of smooth bends or curves flows with a slight gradient, usually south, and is normally blocked from entering by a natural levee along the larger stream. A yazoo stream will join the major river where it will eventually break through the natural levees and flow into the larger waterway at its belated confluence.\n\nYazoo stream formation can also be influenced by glacial processes. An example is the formation of the Montana Creek valley during the recent Little Ice Age. The Mendenhall Glacier carved out a wide floodplain that is domed in the center. High valley walls due to tectonic uplift and glacial outwash (the natural levee) create two yazoo streams that parallel the Mendenhall River.\n\nFloods are a major driving force for yazoo streams. In the Yazoo Basin, settlers were faced with high waters for most of the year, making it hard for building homes and maintaining agriculture. A few man-made levees were built to improve conditions. In 1927, large floods ravaged the area, allowing Congress to take action into building dams and more levees to reduce the risk of floods.\n\nHuman influence has damaged the natural order of things. Human alteration within wetlands and streams have resulted in a decrease in ecological functions and associated benefits to society. Miles of streams are in poor condition with high nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations. Yazoo streams have been altered through intense agricultural activities and flood control measures. Low water, excessive sedimentation, and the accumulation of pesticides such as DDT are the consequences of human disturbances.\n"}
