{"id": "24083066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24083066", "title": "-ism", "text": "-ism\n\n-ism is a suffix in many English words, originally derived from the Ancient Greek suffix -ισμός (\"-ismós\"), and reaching English through the Latin \"-ismus\", and the French \"-isme\". It means \"taking side with\" or \"imitation of\", and is often used to describe philosophies, theories, religions, social movements, artistic movements and behaviors. The suffix \"-ism\" is neutral and therefore bears no connotations associated with any of the many ideologies it identifies; such determinations can only be informed by public opinion regarding specific ideologies.\n\nThe concept of an -ism may resemble that of a grand narrative.\n\nThe first recorded usage of the suffix \"ism\" as a separate word in its own right was in 1680. By the nineteenth century it was being used by Thomas Carlyle to signify a pre-packaged ideology. It was later used in this sense by such writers as Julian Huxley and George Bernard Shaw. In the United States of the mid-nineteenth century, the phrase \"the isms\" was used as a collective derogatory term to lump together the radical social reform movements of the day (such as slavery abolitionism, feminism, alcohol prohibitionism, Fourierism, pacifism, early socialism, etc.) and various spiritual or religious movements considered non-mainstream by the standards of the time (such as Transcendentalism, spiritualism or \"spirit rapping\", Mormonism, the Oneida movement often accused of \"free love\", etc.). Southerners often prided themselves on the American South being free from all of these pernicious \"Isms\" (except for alcohol temperance campaigning, which was compatible with a traditional Protestant focus on individual morality). So on September 5 and 9, 1856, the \"Examiner\" newspaper of Richmond, Virginia ran editorials on \"Our Enemies, the Isms and their Purposes\", while in 1858 \"Parson\" Brownlow called for a \"Missionary Society of the South, for the Conversion of the Freedom Shriekers, Spiritualists, Free-lovers, Fourierites, and Infidel Reformers of the North\" (see \"The Freedom-of-thought Struggle in the Old South\" by Clement Eaton). In the present day, it appears in the title of a standard survey of political thought, \"Today's Isms\" by William Ebenstein, first published in the 1950s, and now in its 11th edition.\n\nMerriam-Webster Dictionary declared in December 2015, this word -ism to be the Word of the Year. A suffix is the Word of the Year because a small group of words that share this three-letter ending triggered both high volume and significant year-over-year increase in lookups at Merriam-Webster.com. Taken together, these seven words represent millions of individual dictionary lookups.\n\nFor examples of the use of -ism as a suffix:\n\n"}
{"id": "47213282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47213282", "title": "Abu Al Fazal Abdul Wahid Yemeni Tamimi", "text": "Abu Al Fazal Abdul Wahid Yemeni Tamimi\n\nAbu Al Fazal Abdul Wahid Yemeni Tamimi (227–425 AH / 842–1034 CE) Abul Fadl ‘Abdul Wāhid b. ‘Abdu-l ‘Azīz b. Hārith b. Asad at-Tamīmī or Abdul Wahid Tamimi () was a 9th century saint who belonged to the Junaidia order. He was the son and disciple of Abdul Aziz bin Hars bin Asad al-Tamimi. He was an ardent worshipper and ascetic.\n\nNot many details about his early life are known except that he was born in Yemen which is why he was often regarded as \"Yemeni\". His name was Abdul Wahid and he was the son of Shaikh Abdul Aziz Tamimi bin Haris bin Asad. ‘Tamimi’ was a part of his name as his family belonged to the tribe al-Tamimi of Arabia. He followed the Hanafi school of thought.\n\nAbu Al Fazal Abdul Wahid Yemeni Tamimi is often associated with Abu Bakr Shibli due to his character. This is probably because he gained beneficence from Abu Bakr Shibli although he took Bayatat the hands of his father Abdul Aziz bin Haris bin Asad al-Tamimi from whom he was given the Sufi khirqa. Muhaddith Shah Waliullah Dehlawi is reported to have said, “Abdul Wahid at-Tamimi wore the Khirqa from both ‘Abdul Aziz al-Tamimi and Abu Bakr Shibli. This is reflected in many of the authentic chains of spiritual transmission.” Abu Al Fazal Abdul Wahid Yemeni Tamimi spent most of his life guiding people often while travelling. Amongst his various disciples, his prominent khalifah was Mohammad Yousaf Abu-al-Farrah Turtoosi also noted in various books.\n\nAbu Al Fazal Abdul Wahid al-Tamimi‘s saintly lineage of Faqr was given to him through his father and Murshid Abdul Aziz bin Hars bin Asad al-Tamimi in the following order:\n\nAbdul Wahid Tamimi conferred upon his khilafat to Mohammad Yousaf Abu al-Farah Tartusi and he continued the order.\n\n\nAbu Al Fazal Abdul Wahid Yemeni Tamimi died on 26th Jamadi-ul-Akhir 425 AH which is 18 May 1034 CE. He was buried in the mausoleum of Imam Ahmad b. Hanbal in Baghdad. This was during the Abbasid Caliphate.\n"}
{"id": "19140750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19140750", "title": "Africana philosophy", "text": "Africana philosophy\n\nAfricana philosophy is the work of philosophers of African descent and others whose work deals with the subject matter of the African diaspora.\n\nAfricana philosophy includes the philosophical ideas, arguments and theories of particular concern to people of African descent. Some of the topics explored by Africana philosophy include pre-Socratic African philosophy and modern-day debates discussing the early history of Western philosophy, post-colonial writing in Africa and the Americas, black resistance to oppression, black existentialism in the United States, and the meaning of \"blackness\" in the modern world.\n\nLucius Outlaw writes:\nProfessional philosophers in the areas of ethics, social philosophy, political philosophy, philosophy of biology, semantics, critical race theory, and postcolonialism are currently exploring Africana philosophy. The American Philosophical Association has 10,000 members in North America. It is estimated that only 100 of its members in North America are of African descent.\n\nLewis Gordon writes:\nBranches include African philosophy, black existentialism, double consciousness, black theology, and womanism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38584387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38584387", "title": "Alexander Bogdanov", "text": "Alexander Bogdanov\n\nAlexander Aleksandrovich Bogdanov (; born Alyaksandr Alyaksandravich Malinovsky; ; – 7 April 1928) was a Russian and later Soviet physician, philosopher, science fiction writer, and revolutionary of Belarusian ethnicity.\n\nHe was a key figure in the early history of the Bolshevik majority faction of the Russian Social Democratic Labor Party, (RSDLP - later the Communist Party of the Soviet Union [CPSU]), originally established 1898, being one of its co-founders in 1903, after the split with the Mensheviks minority faction and a rival to Vladimir Lenin (1870-1924), until being expelled in 1909. Following the Russian Revolutions of 1917, when the Bolsheviks came to power in the collapsing Russian Empire, during the first decade of the subsequent Soviet Union in the 1920s, he was an influential opponent of the Bolshevik government and Lenin from a Marxist leftist perspective. Bogdanov received training in medicine and psychiatry. His wide various scientific and medical interests ranged from the universal systems theory to the possibility of human rejuvenation through blood transfusion. He invented an original philosophy called \"tectology\", now regarded as a forerunner of systems theory. He was also an economist, culture theorist, science fiction writer, and political activist. He was one of the Russian Machists.\n\nAlyaksandr Malinovsky was born in Sokółka, Grodno Governorate, Russian Empire (now Poland), into a rural teacher's family, the second of six children. He attended the Gymnasium at Tula, which he compared to a barracks or prison. He was awarded a gold medal when he graduated.\n\nUpon completion of the gymnasium, Bogdanov was admitted to the Natural Science Department of Moscow University. In his autobiography, Bogdanov reported that, while studying at Moscow University, he joined the Union Council of Regional Societies, and he was arrested and exiled to Tula because of it. \n\nThe occasion of his arrest and exile is as follows. The head of the Moscow Okhrana used an informant to acquire the names of members of the Union Council of Regional Societies, which included Bogdanov's name. on October 30, 1894, students rowdily demonstrated against a lecture by the famous history Professor Vasily Klyuchevsky who, despite being a well-known liberal, had written a favourable eulogy for the recently deceased Tsar Alexander III of Russia. Punishment of a few of the students was arbitrary and unfair that the Union Council requested a fair reexamination of the issue. That very night, the Okhrana arrested all the students on the list mentioned above - including Bogdanov - who were expelled from the university and banished to their hometowns. Expelled from Moscow State University, he moved to the University of Kharkov where he graduated as a physician in 1899. Bogdanov remained in Tula from 1894 to 1899, where - since his own family was living in Sokółka - he lodged with Alexander Rudnev, the father of Vladimir Bazarov, who became a close friend and collaborator in future years. Here he met and married Natalya Bogdanovna Korsak, who, as a woman, had been refused entrance to the university. She was eight years older than him and worked as a nurse for Rudnev. Malinovsky adopted the nom de plume that he used when he wrote his major theoretical works and his novels from her patronym.\nAlongside Bazarov and Ivan Skvortsov-Stepanov he became a tutor in a workers' study circle. This was organised in the Tula Armament Factory by Ivan Saveliev, whom Bogdanov credited with founding Social Democracy in Tula. During this period, he wrote his \"Brief course of economic science\" which was published – \"subject to many modifications made for the benefit of the censor\" – only in 1897. He later said that this experience of student-led education gave him his first lesson in proletarian culture. In autumn 1895, he resumed his medical studies at the University of Kharkiv (Ukraine) but still spent much time in Tula. He gained access to the works of Lenin in 1896, particularly the latter's critique of Peter Berngardovich Struve. In 1899, he graduated as a medical doctor and published his next work, \"Basic elements of the historical perspective on nature\". However, because of his political views, he was also arrested by the Tsar's police, spent six months in prison, and was exiled to Vologda.\n\nBogdanov dates his support for Bolshevism from autumn of 1903. Early in 1904, Martin Lyadov was sent by the Bolsheviks in Geneva to seek out supporters in Russia. He found a sympathetic group of revolutionaries in Tver. Bogdanov was then sent by the Tver Committee to Geneva, where he was greatly impressed by Lenin's \"One Step Forward, Two Steps Back\".\nBogdanov was arrested on 3 December 1905 and held in prison until 27 May 1906. Upon release, he was exiled to Bezhetsk for three years. However he obtained permission to spend his exile abroad, and joined Lenin in Kokkola, Finland.\nFor the next six years, Bogdanov was a major figure among the early Bolsheviks, second only to Vladimir Lenin in influence. In 1904-1906, he published three volumes of the philosophic treatise \"Empiriomonizm\" (\"Empiriomonism\"), in which he tried to merge Marxism with the philosophy of Ernst Mach, Wilhelm Ostwald, and Richard Avenarius. His work later affected a number of Russian Marxist theoreticians, including Nikolai Bukharin. In 1907, he helped organize the 1907 Tiflis bank robbery with both Lenin and Leonid Krasin.\n\nFor four years after the collapse of the Russian Revolution of 1905, Bogdanov led a group within the Bolsheviks (\"ultimatists\" and \"otzovists\" or \"recallists\"), who demanded a recall of Social Democratic deputies from the State Duma, and he vied with Lenin for the leadership of the Bolshevik faction. In 1908 he joined Bazarov, Lunacharsky, Berman, Helfond, Yushkevich and Suvorov in a symposium \"Studies in the Philosophy of Marxism\" which espoused the views of the Russian Marxists. By mid-1908, the factionalism with the Bolsheviks had become irreconcilable. A majority of Bolshevik leaders either supported Bogdanov or were undecided between him and Lenin. Lenin concentrated on undermining Bogdanov's reputation as a philosopher. In 1909 he published a scathing book of criticism entitled \"Materialism and Empiriocriticism\", assaulting Bogdanov's position and accusing him of philosophical idealism. In June 1909, Bogdanov was defeated by Lenin at a Bolshevik mini-conference in Paris organized by the editorial board of the Bolshevik magazine \"Proletary\" and was expelled from the Bolsheviks.\n\nHe joined his brother-in-law Anatoly Lunacharsky, Maxim Gorky, and other Vperedists on the island of Capri, where they started the Capri Party School for Russian factory workers. In 1910, Bogdanov, Lunacharsky, Mikhail Pokrovsky, and their supporters moved the school to Bologna, where they continued teaching classes through 1911, while Lenin and his allies soon started the Longjumeau Party School just outside of Paris.\n\nBogdanov broke with the \"Vpered\" in 1912 and abandoned revolutionary activities. After six years of his political exile in Europe, Bogdanov returned to Russia in 1914, following the political amnesty declared by Tsar Nicholas II as part of the festivities connected with the tercentenery of the Romanov Dynasty.\n\nBogdanov was drafted soon after the outbreak of World War I, and he was assigned as a junior regimental doctor with the 221st Smolensk infantry division in the Second Army commanded by General Alexander Samsonov. In the Battle of Tannenberg, August 26–30, the Second Army was surrounded and almost completely destroyed, but Bogdanov survived because he had been sent to accompany a seriously wounded officer to Moscow. However following the Second Battle of the Masurian Lakes, he succumbed to a nervous disorder, and subsequently became Junior house surgeon at an evacuation hospital. In 1916 he wrote four articles for Vpered which provided an analysis of the World War and the dynamics of war economies. He attributed a central role to the armed forces in the economic restructuring of the belligerent powers. He saw the army as creating a \"consumers' communism\" with the state taking over ever increasing parts of the economy. At the same time military authoritarianism was also spread to civil society. this created the conditions for two consequences: consumption-led war communism and the destruction of the means of production. He thus predicted that even after the war, the new system of state capitalism would replace that of finance capitalism even though the destruction of the forces of production would cease.\n\nBogdanov had no party-political involvement in the Russian Revolution of 1917, although he did publish a number of articles and books about the events that unfurled around him. He supported the Zimmerwaldist programme of \"peace without annexations or indemnities\". He deplored the Provisional Government's continued prosecution of the war. After the July Crisis, he advocated \"revolutionary democracy\" as he now considered the socialists capable of forming a government. However, he viewed this as a broad-based socialist provisional government that would convene a Constituent Assembly. In May 1917, he published \"Chto my svergli\" in \"Novaya Zhizn\". Here he argued that between 1904 and 1907, the Bolsheviks had been \"decidedly democratic\" and that there was no pronounced cult of leadership. However, following the decision of Lenin and the émigré group around him to break with \"Vpered\" in order to unify with the Mensheviks, the principle of leadership became more pronounced. After 1912, when Lenin insisted on splitting the Duma group of the RSDLP, the leadership principle became entrenched. However, he saw this problem as not being confined to the Bolsheviks, noting that similar authoritarian ways of thinking were shown in the Menshevik attitude to Plekhanov, or the cult of heroic individuals and leaders amongst the Narodniks.\n\nAt the beginning of February 1918, Bogdanov denied that the Bolsheviks' October rise to power had constituted a conspiracy. Rather, he explained that an explosive situation had arisen through the prolongation of the war. He pointed to a lack of cultural development in that all strata of society, whether the bourgeoisie, the intelligentsia, or the workers, had shown a failure to resolve conflicts through negotiation. He described the revolution as being a combination of a peasant revolution in the countryside and a soldier-worker revolution in the cities. He regarded it as paradoxical that the peasantry expressed itself through the Bolshevik party rather than through the Socialist Revolutionaries.\n\nHe analysed the effect of the First World War as creating 'War Communism' which he defined a 'consumer communism', which created the circumstances for the creation of state capitalism. He saw military state capitalism as temporary phenomenon in the West, lasting only as long as the war. However, thanks to the predominance of the soldiers in the Bolshevik Party, he regarded it as inevitable that their backwardness should predominate in the re-organisation of society. Instead of proceeding in a methodical fashion, the pre-existing state was simply uprooted. The military-consumerist approach of simply requisitioning what was required had predominated and could not cope with the more complex social relations necessitated by the market:\n\nHe refused multiple offers to rejoin the party and denounced the new regime as similar to Aleksey Arakcheyev's arbitrary and despotic rule in the early 1820s.\n\nIn 1918, Bogdanov became a professor of economics at the University of Moscow and director of the newly established Socialist Academy of Social Sciences.\n\nBetween 1918 and 1920, Bogdanov co-founded the proletarian art movement Proletkult and was its leading theoretician. In his lectures and articles, he called for the total destruction of the \"old bourgeois culture\" in favour of a \"pure proletarian culture\" of the future. It was also through Proletkult that Bogdanov's educational theories were given form with first the establishment of the Moscow Proletarian University. At first Proletkult, like other radical cultural movements of the era, received financial support from the Bolshevik government, but by 1920, the Bolshevik leadership grew hostile, and on December 1, 1920, \"Pravda\" published a decree denouncing Proletkult as a \"petit bourgeois\" organization operating outside of Soviet institutions and a haven for \"socially alien elements\". Later in that month, the president of Proletkult was removed, and Bogdanov lost his seat on its Central Committee. He withdrew from the organization completely in 1921-1922.\n\nBogdanov gave a lecture to a club at Moscow University, which, according to Yakov Yakovlev, included an account of the formation of Vpered and reiterated some of the criticisms Bogdanov had made at the time of the individualism of certain leaders. Yakovlev further claimed that Bogdanov discussed the development of the concept of proletarian culture up to the present day and discussed to what extent the Communist Party saw Proletkult as a rival. He further hinted at the prospect of a new International that might emerge if there were a revival of the socialist movement in the West. He said he envisaged such an International as merging political, trade union, and cultural activities into a single organisation. Yakovlev characterised these ideas as Menshevik, pointing to the refusal of \"Vpered\" to acknowledge the authority of the 1912 Prague Conference. He cited Bogdanov's characterization of the October revolution as \"soldiers'-peasants' revolt\", his criticisms of the New Economic Policy, and his description of the new regime as expressing the interests of a new class of technocratic and bureaucratic intelligentsia, as evidence that Bogdanov was involved in forming a new party.\n\nMeanwhile, Workers' Truth had received publicity in the Berlin-based Menshevik journal \"Sotsialisticheskii Vestnik\", and they also distributed a manifesto at the 12th Bolshevik Congress and were active in the industrial unrest which swept Moscow and Petrograd in July and August 1923. On 8 September 1923, Bogdanov was among a number of people arrested by the GPU (the Soviet secret police) on suspicion of being involved in them. He demanded to be interviewed by Felix Dzerzhinsky, to whom he explained that while he shared a range of views with Workers' Truth, he had no formal association with them. He was released after five weeks on 13 October; however, his file was not closed until a decree passed by the Supreme Soviet of the USSR on 16 January 1989. He wrote about his experiences under arrest in \"Five weeks with the GPU\".\n\nIn 1924, Bogdanov started his blood transfusion experiments, apparently hoping to achieve eternal youth or at least partial rejuvenation. Lenin's sister Maria Ulyanova was among many who volunteered to take part in Bogdanov's experiments. After undergoing 11 blood transfusions, he remarked with satisfaction on the improvement of his eyesight, suspension of balding, and other positive symptoms. His fellow revolutionary Leonid Krasin wrote to his wife that \"Bogdanov seems to have become 7, no, 10 years younger after the operation\". In 1925–1926, Bogdanov founded the Institute for Haemotology and Blood Transfusions, which was later named after him. But a later transfusion cost him his life, when he took the blood of a student suffering from malaria and tuberculosis. (Bogdanov died, but the student injected with his blood made a complete recovery.) Some scholars (e.g. Loren Graham) have speculated that his death may have been a suicide, because Bogdanov wrote a highly nervous political letter shortly beforehand. Others, however, attribute his death to blood type incompatibility, which was poorly understood at the time.\n\nBoth Bogdanov's fiction and his political writings imply that he expected the coming revolution against capitalism to lead to a technocratic society. This was because the workers lacked the knowledge and initiative to seize control of social affairs for themselves as a result of the hierarchical and authoritarian nature of the capitalist production process. However, Bogdanov also considered that the hierarchical and authoritarian mode of organization of the Bolshevik party was also partly to blame, although Bogdanov considered at least some such organization necessary and inevitable.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, Bogdanov's theorizing, being the product of a non-Leninist Bolshevik, became an important, though \"underground\", influence on certain dissident factions in the Soviet Union who turned against Bolshevik autocracy while accepting the necessity of the Revolution and wishing to preserve its achievements.\n\nIn 1908, Bogdanov published the novel \"Red Star\", about a utopia set on Mars. In it, he made predictions about future scientific and social developments. His utopia also dealt with feminist themes, which would become more common in later utopian science fiction, e.g., the two sexes becoming virtually identical in the future, or women escaping \"domestic slavery\" (one reason for physical changes) and being free to pursue relationships with the same freedom as men, without stigma. Other notable differences between the utopia of \"Red Star\" and present day society include workers having total control over their working hours, as well as more subtle differences in social behavior such as conversations being patiently \"set at the level of the person with whom they were speaking and with understanding for his personality although it might very much differ from their own\". The novel also gave a detailed description of blood transfusion in the Martian society.\n\nFrom 1913 until 1922, Bogdanov immersed himself in the writing of a lengthy philosophical treatise of original ideas, \"Tectology: Universal Organization Science\". \"Tectology\" anticipated many basic ideas of Systems Analysis, later explored by Cybernetics and Bogdanov attributed some of his ideas on the development of a monistic system to Ludwig Noire. In \"Tectology\", Bogdanov proposed to unify all social, biological, and physical sciences by considering them as systems of relationships and by seeking the organizational principles that underlie all systems. His three volume book anticipated many ideas later popularized by Norbert Wiener in \"Cybernetics\" and Ludwig von Bertalanffy in \"General Systems Theory\". Both Wiener and von Bertalanffy may have read the German translation of \"Tectology\", published in 1926, with a second edition published in 1928. In Russia, Vladimir Lenin (and later Joseph Stalin) considered Bogdanov's natural philosophy an ideological threat to dialectic materialism. The rediscovery of \"Tectology\" occurred only in the 1970s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21492554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21492554", "title": "Anselm of Canterbury", "text": "Anselm of Canterbury\n\nAnselm of Canterbury (; 1033/4–1109), also called () after his birthplace and () after his monastery, was an Italian Benedictine monk, abbot, philosopher and theologian of the Catholic Church, who held the office of archbishop of Canterbury from 1093 to 1109. After his death, he was canonized as a saint; his feast day is 21 April.\n\nBeginning at Bec, Anselm composed dialogues and treatises with a rational and philosophical approach, sometimes causing him to be credited as the founder of Scholasticism. Despite his lack of recognition in this field in his own time, Anselm is now famed as the originator of the ontological argument for the existence of God and of the satisfaction theory of atonement. He was proclaimed a Doctor of the Church by a bull of Pope Clement XI in 1720.\n\nAs archbishop, he defended the church's interests in England amid the Investiture Controversy. For his resistance to the English kings William II and Henry I, he was exiled twice: once from 1097 to 1100 and then from 1105 to 1107. While in exile, he helped guide the Greek bishops of southern Italy to adopt Roman rites at the Council of Bari. He worked for the primacy of Canterbury over the bishops of York and Wales but, though at his death he appeared to have been successful, Pope Paschal II later reversed himself and restored York's independence.\nAnselm was born in or around Aosta in Upper Burgundy sometime between April 1033 and April 1034. The area now forms part of the Republic of Italy, but Aosta had been part of the Carolingian Kingdom of Arles until the death of the childless Rudolph III in 1032. The Emperor and the Count of Blois then went to war over his succession. Humbert the White-Handed, count of Maurienne, so distinguished himself that he was granted a new county carved out of the secular holdings of the less helpful bishop of Aosta. Humbert's son Otto was subsequently permitted to inherit the extensive march of Susa through his wife Adelaide in preference to her uncle's families, who had supported the effort to establish an independent Kingdom of Italy under William the Great of Aquitaine. Otto and Adelaide's unified lands then controlled the most important passes in the western Alps and formed the county of Savoy whose dynasty would later rule the kingdoms of Sardinia and Italy.\n\nRecords during this period are scanty, but both sides of Anselm's immediate family appear to have been dispossessed by these decisions in favour of their extended relations. His father Gundulph or Gundulf was a Lombard noble, probably one of Adelaide's Arduinici uncles or cousins; his mother Ermenberga was almost certainly the granddaughter of Conrad the Peaceful, related both to the Anselmid bishops of Aosta and to the heirs of Henry II who had been passed over in favour of Conrad. The marriage was thus probably arranged for political reasons but was incapable of resisting Conrad's decrees after his successful annexation of Burgundy on 1 August 1034. (Bishop Burchard subsequently revolted against imperial control but was defeated; he was ultimately translated to Lyons.) Ermenberga appears to have been the wealthier of the two. Gundulph moved to his wife's town, where she held a palace, likely near the cathedral, along with a villa in the valley. Anselm's father is sometimes described as having a harsh and violent temper but contemporary accounts merely portray him as having been overgenerous or careless with his wealth; Anselm's patient and devoutly religious mother, meanwhile, made up for her husband's fault with her own prudent management of the family estates. In later life, there are records of three relations who visited Bec: Folceraldus, Haimo, and Rainaldus. The first repeatedly attempted to impose on Anselm's success but was rebuffed owing to his ties to another monastery; the latter two Anselm attempted in vain to persuade to join his community.\n\nAt the age of fifteen, Anselm desired to enter a monastery but, failing to obtain his father's consent, he was refused by the abbot. The illness he then suffered has been considered a psychosomatic effect of his disappointment, but upon his recovery he gave up his studies and for a time lived a carefree life.\n\nFollowing the death of his mother, probably at the birth of his sister Richera, Anselm's father repented his earlier lifestyle but professed his new faith with a severity that the boy found likewise unbearable. Once Gundulph had entered a convent, Anselm, at age 23, left home with a single attendant, crossed the Alps, and wandered through Burgundy and France for three years. His countryman Lanfranc of Pavia was then prior of the Benedictine abbey of Bec; attracted by the fame of his fellow countryman, Anselm reached Normandy in 1059. After spending some time in Avranches, he returned the next year. His father having died, he consulted with Lanfranc as to whether to return to his estates and employ their income in providing alms or to renounce them, becoming a hermit or a monk at Bec or Cluny. Professing to fear his own bias, Lanfranc sent him to Maurilius, the archbishop of Rouen, who convinced him to enter the abbey as a novice at the age of 27. Probably in his first year, he wrote his first work on philosophy, a treatment of Latin paradoxes called the \"Grammarian\". Over the next decade, the Rule of Saint Benedict reshaped his thought.\n\nThree years later, in 1063, Duke William II summoned Lanfranc to serve as the abbot of his new abbey of St Stephen at Caen and the monks of Bec—with some dissenters at first on account of his youth—elected Anselm as his replacement. A notable opponent was a young monk named Osborne. Anselm overcame his hostility first by praising, indulging, and privileging him in all things despite his hostility and then, when his affection and trust were gained, gradually withdrawing all preference until he upheld the strictest obedience. Along similar lines, he remonstrated a neighboring abbot who complained that his charges were incorrigible despite being beaten \"night and day\". After fifteen years, in 1078, Anselm was unanimously elected as Bec's abbot following the death of its founder, the warrior-monk Herluin. He was consecrated by the Bishop of Évreux on 22 February 1079.\nUnder Anselm's direction, Bec became the foremost seat of learning in Europe, attracting students from France, Italy, and elsewhere. During this time, he wrote the \"Monologion\" and \"Proslogion\". He then composed a series of dialogues on the nature of truth, free will, and the fall of Satan. When the nominalist Roscelin attempted to appeal to the authority of Lanfranc and Anselm at his trial for the heresy of tritheism at Soissons in 1092, Anselm composed the first draft of \"De Fide Trinitatis\" as a rebuttal and as a defence of Trinitarianism and universals. The fame of the monastery grew not only from his intellectual achievements, however, but also from his good example and his loving, kindly method of discipline—particularly with the younger monks—and from his spirited defence of the abbey's independence from lay and archiepiscopal control, protecting it from the influence of both the new Archbishop of Rouen and the Earl of Leicester.\nFollowing the Norman Conquest of England in 1066, devoted lords had given the abbey extensive lands across the Channel. Anselm occasionally visited to oversee the monastery's property, to wait upon his sovereign William I of England (formerly Duke William II of Normandy), and to visit Lanfranc, who had been installed as archbishop of Canterbury in 1070. He was respected by William I and the good impression he made while in Canterbury made him the favourite of its cathedral chapter as a future successor to Lanfranc. Instead, upon the archbishop's death in 1089, King William II—William Rufus or William the Red—refused the appointment of any successor and appropriated the see's lands and revenues for himself. Fearing the difficulties that would attend being named to the position in opposition to the king, Anselm avoided journeying to England during this time. The gravely ill Hugh, Earl of Chester, finally lured him over with three pressing messages in 1092, seeking advice on how best to handle the establishment of a new monastery at St Werburgh's. Hugh was recovered by the time of Anselm's arrival, but he was occupied four or five months by his assistance. He then travelled to his former pupil Gilbert Crispin, abbot of Westminster, and waited, apparently delayed by the need to assemble the donors of Bec's new lands in order to obtain royal approval of the grants.\nAt Christmas, William II pledged by the Holy Face of Lucca that neither Anselm nor any other would sit at Canterbury while he lived but in March he fell seriously ill at Alveston. Believing his sinful behavior was responsible, he summoned Anselm to hear his confession and administer last rites. He published a proclamation releasing his captives, discharging his debts, and promising to henceforth govern according to the law. On 6 March 1093, he further nominated Anselm to fill the vacancy at Canterbury; the clerics gathered at court acclaiming him, forcing the crozier into his hands, and bodily carrying him to a nearby church amid a \"Te Deum\". Anselm tried to refuse on the grounds of age and ill-health for months and the monks of Bec refused to give him permission to leave them. Negotiations were handled by the recently restored Bishop William of Durham and Robert, count of Meulan. On 24 August, Anselm gave King William the conditions under which he would accept the position, which amounted to the agenda of the Gregorian Reform: the king would have to return the church lands which had been seized, accept his spiritual counsel, and forswear the antipope Clement III in favour of Urban II. William Rufus was exceedingly reluctant to accept these conditions: he consented only to the first and, a few days afterwards, reneged on that, suspending preparations for Anselm's investiture. Public pressure forced William to return to Anselm and in the end they settled on a partial return of Canterbury's lands as his own concession. Anselm received dispensation from his duties in Normandy, did homage to William, and—on 25 September 1093—was enthroned at Canterbury Cathedral. The same day, William II finally returned the lands of the see.\n\nFrom the mid-8th century, it had become customary that metropolitan bishops could not be consecrated without a woolen pallium given or sent by the pope himself. Anselm insisted that he journey to Rome for this purpose but William would not permit it. Amid the Investiture Controversy, Pope Gregory VII and Emperor Henry IV had deposed each other twice; bishops loyal to Henry finally elected Guibert, archbishop of Ravenna, as a second pope. In France, Philip I had recognized Gregory and his successors Victor III and Urban II, but Guibert (as \"Clement III\") held Rome after 1084. William had not chosen a side and maintained his right to prevent the acknowledgement of either pope by an English subject prior to his choice. In the end, a ceremony was held to consecrate Anselm as archbishop on 4 December, without the pallium.\nIt has been argued whether Anselm's reluctance to take the see was sincere or not. Scholars such as Southern and Kent maintain Anselm's honest preference was to remain at Bec. Anselm had initially considered becoming a hermit and, naturally drawn to contemplation, he likely would have cared little for such a political office at the best of times and disliked it all the more amid his own troubled age. Against this, Vaughn notes that feigned reluctance to accept important positions was a common practice within the medieval church, as open eagerness risked earning a reputation as an ambitious careerist. She further notes that his approach improved his negotiating position and that he finally acted at the moment that gained him the greatest leverage in advancing the interests of his see and the reform movement within the church.\n\nAs archbishop, Anselm maintained his monastic ideals, including stewardship, prudence, and proper instruction, prayer and contemplation. Anselm continued to agitate for reform and the interests of Canterbury. As such, he repeatedly took advantage of expedient moments to press the English monarchy for concessions and support of the reform agenda. His principled opposition to royal prerogatives over the church, meanwhile, twice led to his exile from England.\n\nThe traditional view of historians has been to see Anselm as aligned with the papacy against lay authority and Anselm's term in office as the English theatre of the Investiture Controversy begun by Pope Gregory VII and the emperor Henry IV. Vaughn has argued against this and seen Anselm as primarily concerned with the dignity of Canterbury rather than the Church at large, thus acting as a third pole in the controversy. By the time of a charter of September 1101, he was styling himself \"Archbishop of Canterbury and primate of Great Britain and Ireland and vicar of the High Pontiff Paschal\". By the end of his life, he had proven successful, having freed Canterbury from submission to the English king, received papal recognition of the subservience of the wayward York and the Welsh bishops, and gained strong authority over the Irish bishops. He died before the Canterbury–York dispute was definitively settled, however, and Pope Honorius II finally found in favour of York instead.\nAlthough the work was largely handled by Christ Church's priors Ernulf (1096–1107) and Conrad (1108–1126), Anselm's episcopate also saw the expansion of Canterbury Cathedral from Lanfranc's initial plans. The eastern end was demolished and an expanded choir placed over a large and well-decorated crypt, doubling the cathedral's length. The new choir formed a church unto itself with its own transepts and a semicircular ambulatory opening into three chapels.\n\nAnselm's vision was of a universal Church with its own internal authority, which clashed with William II's desire for royal control over both church and state. One of Anselm's first conflicts with William came in the month he was consecrated. William II was preparing to wrest Normandy from his elder brother, Robert II, and needed funds. Anselm was among those expected to pay him. He offered £500 but William refused, encouraged by his courtiers to insist on 1000 as a kind of annates for Anselm's elevation to archbishop. Anselm not only refused, he further pressed the king to fill England's other vacant positions, permit bishops to meet freely in councils, and to allow Anselm to resume enforcement of canon law, particularly against incestuous marriages, until he was ordered to silence. When a group of bishops subsequently suggested that William might now settle for the original sum, Anselm replied that he had already given the money to the poor and \"that he disdained to purchase his master's favour as he would a horse or ass\". The king being told this, he replied Anselm's blessing for his invasion would not be needed as \"I hated him before, I hate him now, and shall hate him still more hereafter\". Withdrawing to Canterbury, Anselm began work on the \"Cur Deus Homo\".\nUpon William's return, Anselm insisted that he travel to the court of Urban II to secure the pallium that legitimized his office. On 25 February 1095, the Lords Spiritual and Temporal of England met in a council at Rockingham to discuss the issue. The next day, William ordered the bishops not to treat Anselm as their primate or as Canterbury's archbishop, as he openly adhered to Urban. The bishops sided with the king, the Bishop of Durham presenting his case and even advising William to depose and exile Anselm. The nobles siding with Anselm, the conference ended in deadlock and the matter was postponed. Immediately following this, William secretly sent William Warelwast and Gerard to Italy, prevailing on Urban to send a legate bearing Canterbury's pallium. Walter, bishop of Albano, was chosen and negotiated in secret with William's representative, the Bishop of Durham. The king agreed to publicly support Urban's cause in exchange for acknowledgement of his rights to accept no legates without invitation and to block clerics from receiving or obeying papal letters without his approval. William's greatest desire was for Anselm to be removed from office. Walter said that \"there was good reason to expect a successful issue in accordance with the king's wishes\" but, upon William's open acknowledgement of Urban as pope, Walter steadfastly refused to depose the archbishop. William then tried to sell the pallium to others, failed, tried to extract a payment from Anselm for the pallium, but was again refused. William then tried to personally bestow the pallium to Anselm, an act connoting the church's subservience to the throne, and was again refused. In the end, the pallium was laid on the altar at Canterbury, whence Anselm took it on 10 June 1095.\n\nThe First Crusade was declared at the Council of Clermont in November. Despite his service for the king which earned him rough treatment from Anselm's biographer Eadmer, upon the grave illness of the Bishop of Durham in December, Anselm journeyed to console and bless him on his deathbed. Over the next two years, William opposed several of Anselm's efforts at reform—including his right to convene a council—but no overt dispute is known. However, in 1094, the Welsh had begun to recover their lands from the Marcher Lords and William's 1095 invasion had accomplished little; two larger forays were made in 1097 against Cadwgan in Powys and Gruffudd in Gwynedd. These were also unsuccessful and William was compelled to erect a series of border fortresses. He charged Anselm with having given him insufficient knights for the campaign and tried to fine him. In the face of William's refusal to fulfill his promise of church reform, Anselm resolved to proceed to Rome—where an army of French crusaders had finally installed Urban—in order to seek the counsel of the pope. William again denied him permission. The negotiations ended with Anselm being \"given the choice of exile or total submission\": if he left, William declared he would seize Canterbury and never again receive Anselm as archbishop; if he were to stay, William would impose his fine and force him to swear never again to appeal to the papacy.\n\nAnselm chose to depart in October 1097. Although Anselm retained his nominal title, William immediately seized the revenues of his bishopric and retained them til death. From Lyons, Anselm wrote to Urban, requesting that he be permitted to resign his office. Urban refused but commissioned him to prepare a defence of the Western doctrine of the procession of the Holy Spirit against representatives from the Greek Church. Anselm arrived in Rome by April and, according to his biographer Eadmer, lived beside the pope during the Siege of Capua in May. Count Roger's Saracen troops supposedly offered him food and other gifts but the count actively resisted the clerics' attempts to convert them to Catholicism.\n\nAt the Council of Bari in October, Anselm delivered his defence of the \"Filioque\" and the use of unleavened bread in the Eucharist before 185 bishops. Although this is sometimes portrayed as a failed ecumenical dialogue, it is more likely that the \"Greeks\" present were the local bishops of Southern Italy, some of whom had been ruled by Constantinople as recently as 1071. The formal acts of the council have been lost and Eadmer's account of Anselm's speech principally consists of descriptions of the bishops' vestments, but Anselm later collected his arguments on the topic as . Under pressure from their Norman lords, the Italian Greeks seem to have accepted papal supremacy and Anselm's theology. The council also condemned William II. Eadmer credited Anselm with restraining the pope from excommunicating him, although others attribute Urban's politic nature.\n\nAnselm was present in a seat of honour at the Easter Council at St Peter's in Rome the next year. There, amid an outcry to address Anselm's situation, Urban renewed bans on lay investiture and on clerics doing homage. Anselm departed the next day, first for Schiavi—where he completed his work \"Cur Deus Homo\"—and then for Lyons.\n\nWilliam Rufus was killed hunting in the New Forest on 2 August 1100. His brother Henry was present and moved quickly to secure the throne before the return of his elder brother Robert, duke of Normandy, from the First Crusade. Henry invited Anselm to return, pledging in his letter to submit himself to the archbishop's counsel. The cleric's support of Robert would have caused great trouble but Anselm returned before establishing any other terms than those offered by Henry. Once in England, Anselm was ordered by Henry to do homage for his Canterbury estates and to receive his investiture by ring and crozier anew. Despite having done so under William, the bishop now refused to violate canon law. Henry for his part refused to relinquish a right possessed by his predecessors and even sent an embassy to Pope Paschal II to present his case. Paschal reaffirmed Urban's bans to that mission and the one that followed it.\n\nMeanwhile, Anselm publicly supported Henry against the claims and threatened invasion of his brother Robert Curthose. Anselm wooed wavering barons to the king's cause, emphasizing the religious nature of their oaths and duty of loyalty; he supported the deposition of Ranulf Flambard, the disloyal new bishop of Durham; and he threatened Robert with excommunication. The lack of popular support greeting his invasion near Portsmouth compelled Robert to accept the Treaty of Alton instead, renouncing his claims for an annual payment of 3000 marks.\n\nAnselm held a council at Lambeth Palace which found that Henry's beloved Matilda had not technically become a nun and was thus eligible to wed and become queen. On Michaelmas in 1102, Anselm was finally able to convene a general church council at London, establishing the Gregorian Reform within England. The council prohibited marriage, concubinage, and drunkenness to all those in holy orders, condemned sodomy and simony, and regulated clerical dress. Anselm also obtained a resolution against the British slave trade. Henry supported Anselm's reforms and his authority over the English church, but continued to assert his own authority over Anselm. Upon their return, the three bishops he had dispatched on his second delegation to the pope claimed—in defiance of Paschal's sealed letter to Anselm, his public acts, and the testimony of the two monks who had accompanied them—that the pontiff had been receptive to Henry's counsel and secretly approved of Anselm's submission to the crown. In 1103, then, Anselm consented to journey himself to Rome, along with the king's envoy William Warelwast. Anselm supposedly travelled in order to argue the king's case for a dispensation but, in response to this third mission, Paschal fully excommunicated the bishops who had accepted investment from Henry, though sparing the king himself.\n\nAfter this ruling, Anselm received a letter forbidding his return and withdrew to Lyons to await Paschal's response. On 26 March 1105, Paschal again excommunicated prelates who had accepted investment from Henry and the advisors responsible, this time including Robert de Beaumont, Henry's chief advisor. He further finally threatened Henry with the same; in April, Anselm sent messages to the king directly and through his sister Adela expressing his own willingness to excommunicate Henry. This was probably a negotiation tactic but it came at a critical period in Henry's reign and it worked: a meeting was arranged and a compromise concluded at Laigle on 22 July 1105. Henry would forsake lay investiture if Anselm obtained Paschal's permission for clerics to do homage for their lands; Henry's bishops' and counselors' excommunications were to be lifted provided they advise him to obey the papacy (Anselm performed this act on his own authority and latter had to answer for it to Paschal); the revenues of Canterbury would be returned to the archbishop; and priests would no longer be permitted to marry. Anselm insisted on the agreement's ratification by the pope before he would consent to return to England, but wrote to Paschal in favour of the deal, arguing that Henry's forsaking of lay investiture was a greater victory than the matter of homage. On 23 March 1106, Paschal wrote Anselm accepting the terms established at Laigle, although both clerics saw this as a temporary compromise and intended to continue pressing for reforms, including the ending of homage to lay authorities.\n\nEven after this, Anselm refused to return to England. Henry travelled to Bec and met with him on 15 August 1106. Henry was forced to make further concessions. He restored to Canterbury all the churches that had been seized by William or during Anselm's exile, promising that nothing more would be taken from them and even providing Anselm with a security payment. Henry had initially taxed married clergy and, when their situation had been outlawed, had made up the lost revenue by controversially extending the tax over all churchmen. He now agreed that any prelate who had paid this would be exempt from taxation for three years. These compromises on Henry's part strengthened the rights of the Church against the king. Anselm returned to England before the new year.\nIn 1107, the Concordat of London formalized the agreements between the king and archbishop, Henry formally renouncing the right of English kings to invest the bishops of the church. The remaining two years of Anselm's life were spent in the duties of his archbishopric. He succeeded in getting Paschal to send the pallium for the archbishop of York to Canterbury, so that future archbishops-elect would have to profess obedience before receiving it. The incumbent archbishop Thomas II had received his own pallium directly and insisted on York's independence. From his deathbed, Anselm anathematized all who failed to recognize Canterbury's primacy over all the English church. This ultimately forced Henry to order Thomas to confess his obedience to Anselm's successor. On his deathbed, he announced himself content, except that he had a treatise in mind on the origin of the soul and did not know, once he was gone, if another was likely to compose it.\n\nHe died on Holy Wednesday, 21 April 1109. His remains were translated to Canterbury Cathedral and laid at the head of Lanfranc at his initial resting place to the south of the Altar of the Holy Trinity (now St Thomas's Chapel). During the church's reconstruction after the disastrous fire of the 1170s, his remains were relocated, although it is now uncertain where.\n\nOn 23 December 1752, Archbishop Herring was contacted by Count Perron, the Sardinian ambassador, on behalf of King Charles Emmanuel, who requested permission to translate Anselm's relics to Italy. (Charles had been duke of Aosta during his minority.) Herring ordered his dean to look into the matter, saying that while \"the parting with the rotten Remains of a Rebel to his King, a Slave to the Popedom, and an Enemy to the married Clergy (all this Anselm was)\" would be no great matter, he likewise \"should make no Conscience of palming on the Simpletons any other old Bishop with the Name of Anselm\". The ambassador insisted on witnessing the excavation, however, and resistance on the part of the prebendaries seems to have quieted the matter. They considered the state of the cathedral's crypts would have offended the sensibilities of a Catholic and that it was probable that Anselm had been removed to near the altar of SS Peter and Paul, whose side chapel to the right (i.e., south) of the high altar took Anselm's name following his canonization. At that time, his relics would presumably have been placed in a shrine and its contents \"disposed of\" during the Reformation. The ambassador's own investigation was of the opinion that Anselm's body had been confused with Archbishop Theobald's and likely remained entombed near the altar of the Virgin Mary, but in the uncertainty nothing further seems to have been done then or when inquiries were renewed in 1841.\n\nAnselm has been called \"the most luminous and penetrating intellect between St Augustine and St Thomas Aquinas\" and \"the father of scholasticism\", Scotus Erigena having employed more mysticism in his arguments. Anselm's works are considered philosophical as well as theological since they endeavor to render Christian tenets of faith, traditionally taken as a revealed truth, as a rational system. Anselm also studiously analyzed the language used in his subjects, carefully distinguishing the meaning of the terms employed from the verbal forms, which he found at times wholly inadequate. His worldview was broadly Neoplatonic, as it was reconciled with Christianity in the works of St Augustine and Pseudo-Dionysius, with his understanding of Aristotelian logic gathered from the works of Boethius. He or the thinkers in northern France who shortly followed him—including Abelard, William of Conches, and Gilbert of Poitiers—inaugurated \"one of the most brilliant periods of Western philosophy\", innovating logic, semantics, ethics, metaphysics, and other areas of philosophical theology.\n\nAnselm held that faith necessarily precedes reason, but that reason can expand upon faith: \"And I do not seek to understand that I may believe but believe that I might understand. For this too I believe since, unless I first believe, I shall not understand\". This is possibly drawn from Tractate XXIX of St Augustine's \"Ten Homilies on the First Epistle of John\": regarding John 7:14–18, Augustine counseled \"Do not seek to understand in order to believe but believe that thou may understand\". Anselm rephrased the idea repeatedly and Thomas Williams considered that his aptest motto was the original title of the \"Proslogion\", \"faith seeking understanding\", which intended \"an active love of God seeking a deeper knowledge of God\". Once the faith is held fast, however, he argued an attempt \"must\" be made to demonstrate its truth by means of reason: \"To me, it seems to be negligence if, after confirmation in the faith, we do not study to understand that which we believe\". Merely rational proofs are always, however, to be tested by scripture and he employs Biblical passages and \"what we believe\" () at times to raise problems or to present erroneous understandings, whose inconsistencies are then resolved by reason.\n\nStylistically, Anselm's treatises take two basic forms, dialogues and sustained meditations. In both, he strove to state the rational grounds for central aspects of Christian doctrines as a pedagogical exercise for his initial audience of fellow monks and correspondents. The subjects of Anselm's works were sometimes dictated by contemporary events, such as his speech at the Council of Bari or the need to refute his association with the thinking of Roscelin, but he intended for his books to form a unity, with his letters and latter works advising the reader to consult his other books for the arguments supporting various points in his reasoning. It seems to have been a recurring problem that early drafts of his works were copied and circulated without his permission.\nWhile at Bec, Anselm composed:\n\nWhile archbishop of Canterbury, he composed:\n\nThe \"Monologion\" (, \"Monologue\"), originally entitled \"A Monologue on the Reason for Faith\" () and sometimes also known as \"An Example of Meditation on the Reason for Faith\" (), was written in 1075 and 1076. It follows St Augustine to such an extent that Gibson argues neither Boethius nor Anselm state anything which was not already dealt with in greater detail by Augustine's \"De Trinitate\"; Anselm even acknowledges his debt to that work in the \"Monologion\"'s prologue. However, he takes pains to present his reasons for belief in God without appeal to scriptural or patristic authority, using new and bold arguments. He attributes this style—and the book's existence—to the requests of his fellow monks that \"nothing whatsoever in these matters should be made convincing by the authority of Scripture, but whatsoever... the necessity of reason would concisely prove\".\n\nIn the first chapter, Anselm begins with a statement that anyone should be able to convince themselves of the existence of God through reason alone \"if he is even moderately intelligent\". He argues that many different things are known as \"good\", in many varying kinds and degrees. These must be understood as being judged relative to a single attribute of goodness. He then argues that goodness is itself very good and, further, is good through itself. As such, it must be the highest good and, further, \"that which is supremely good is also supremely great. There is, therefore, some one thing that is supremely good and supremely great—in other words, supreme among all existing things.\" Chapter 2 follows a similar argument, while Chapter 3 argues that the \"best and greatest and supreme among all existing things\" must be responsible for the existence of all other things. Chapter 4 argues that there must be a highest level of dignity among existing things and that highest level must have a single member. \"Therefore, there is a certain nature or substance or essence who through himself is good and great and through himself is what he is; through whom exists whatever truly is good or great or anything at all; and who is the supreme good, the supreme great thing, the supreme being or subsistent, that is, supreme among all existing things.\" The remaining chapters of the book are devoted to consideration of the attributes necessary to such a being. The Euthyphro dilemma, although not addressed by that name, is dealt with as a false dichotomy. God is taken to neither conform to nor invent the moral order but to embody it: in each case of his attributes, \"God \"having\" that attribute \"is precisely\" that attribute itself\".\n\nA letter survives of Anselm responding to Lanfranc's criticism of the work. The elder cleric took exception to its lack of appeals to scripture and authority. The preface of the \"Proslogion\" records his own dissatisfaction with the \"Monologion\"'s arguments, since they are rooted in \"a posteriori\" evidence and inductive reasoning.\n\nThe \"Proslogion\" (, \"Discourse\"), originally entitled \"Faith Seeking Understanding\" () and then \"An Address on God's Existence\" (), was written over the next two years (1077–1078). It is written in the form of an extended direct address to God. It grew out of his dissatisfaction with the Monologion's interlinking and contingent arguments. His \"single argument that needed nothing but itself alone for proof, that would by itself be enough to show that God really exists\" is commonly taken to be merely the second chapter of the work. In it, Anselm reasoned that even atheists can imagine a greatest being, having such attributes that nothing greater could exist (). However, if such a being's attributes did not include existence, a still greater being could be imagined: one with all of the attributes of the first \"and\" existence. Therefore, the truly greatest possible being must necessarily exist. Further, this necessarily-existing greatest being must be God, who therefore necessarily exists. This reasoning was known to the Scholastics as \"Anselm's argument\" () but it became known as the ontological argument for the existence of God following Kant's treatment of it.\nMore probably, Anselm intended his \"single argument\" to include most of the rest of the work as well, wherein he establishes the attributes of God and their compatibility with one another. Continuing to construct a being greater than which nothing else can be conceived, Anselm proposes such a being must be \"just, truthful, happy, and whatever it is better to be than not to be\". Chapter 6 specifically enumerates the additional qualities of awareness, omnipotence, mercifulness, impassibility (inability to suffer), and immateriality; Chapter 11, self-existent, wisdom, goodness, happiness, and permanence; and Chapter 18, unity. Anselm addresses the question-begging nature of \"greatness\" in this formula partially by appeal to intuition and partially by independent consideration of the attributes being examined. The incompatibility of, e.g., omnipotence, justness, and mercifulness are addressed in the abstract by reason, although Anselm concedes that specific acts of God are a matter of revelation beyond the scope of reasoning. At one point during the 15th chapter, he reaches the conclusion that God is \"not only that than which nothing greater can be thought but something greater than can be thought\". In any case, God's unity is such that all of his attributes are to be understood as facets of a single nature: \"all of them are one and each of them is entirely what [God is] and what the other[s] are\". This is then used to argue for the triune nature of the God, Jesus, and \"the one love common to [God] and [his] Son, that is, the Holy Spirit who proceeds from both\". The last three chapters are a digression on what God's goodness might entail. Extracts from the work were later compiled under the name \"Meditations\" or \"The Manual of St Austin\".\n\nThe argument presented in the \"Proslogion\" has rarely seemed satisfactory and was swiftly opposed by Gaunilo, a monk from the abbey of Marmoutier in Tours. His book \"for the fool\" () argues that we cannot arbitrarily pass from idea to reality (). The most famous of Gaunilo's objections is a parody of Anselm's argument involving an island greater than which nothing can be conceived. Since we can conceive of such an island, it exists in our understanding and so must exist in reality. This is, however, absurd, since its shore might arbitrarily be increased and in any case varies with the tide.\n\nAnselm's reply () or apology () does not address this argument directly, which has led Klima, Grzesik, and others to construct replies for him and led Wolterstorff and others to conclude that Gaunilo's attack is definitive. Anselm, however, considered that Gaunilo had misunderstood his argument. In each of Gaunilo's four arguments, he takes Anselm's description of \"that than which nothing greater can be thought\" to be equivalent to \"that which is greater than everything else that can be thought\". Anselm countered that anything which does not actually exist is necessarily excluded from his reasoning and anything which might or probably does not exist is likewise aside the point. The \"Proslogion\" had already stated \"anything else whatsoever other than [God] can be thought not to exist\". The \"Proslogion\"'s argument concerns and can only concern the \"single\" greatest entity out of all existing things. That entity both must exist and must be God.\n\nAll of Anselm's dialogues take the form of a lesson between a gifted and inquisitive student and a knowledgeable teacher. Except for in \"Cur Deus Homo\", the student is not identified but the teacher is always recognizably Anselm himself.\n\nAnselm's (\"On the Grammarian\"), of uncertain date, deals with eliminating various paradoxes arising from the grammar of Latin nouns and adjectives by examining the syllogisms involved to ensure the terms in the premises agree in meaning and not merely expression. The treatment shows a clear debt to Boethius's treatment of Aristotle.\n\nBetween 1080 and 1086, while still at Bec, Anselm composed the dialogues (\"On Truth\"), (\"On the Freedom of Choice\"), and (\"On the Devil's Fall\"). is concerned not merely with the truth of statements but with correctness in will, action, and essence as well. Correctness in such matters is understood as doing what a thing ought or was designed to do. Anselm employs Aristotelian logic to affirm the existence of an absolute truth of which all other truth forms separate kinds. He identifies this absolute truth with God, who therefore forms the fundamental principle both in the existence of things and the correctness of thought. As a corollary, he affirms that \"everything that is, is rightly\". elaborates Anselm's reasoning on correctness with regard to free will. He does not consider this a capacity to \"'sin\" but a capacity to \"do good\" for its own sake (as opposed to owing to coercion or for self-interest). God and the good angels therefore have free will despite being incapable of sinning; similarly, the non-coercive aspect of free will enabled man and the rebel angels to sin, despite this not being a necessary element of free will itself. In , Anselm further considers the case of the fallen angels, which serves to discuss the case of rational agents in general. The teacher argues that there are two forms of good—justice () and benefit ()—and two forms of evil: injustice and harm (). All rational beings seek benefit and shun harm on their own account but independent choice permits them to abandon bounds imposed by justice. Some angels chose their own happiness in preference to justice and were punished by God for their injustice with less happiness. The angels who upheld justice were rewarded with such happiness that they are now incapable of sin, there being no happiness left for them to seek in opposition to the bounds of justice. Humans, meanwhile, retain the theoretical capacity to will justly but, owing to the Fall, they are incapable of doing so in practice except by divine grace.\n\n (\"Why God was a Man\") was written from 1095 to 1098 once Anselm was already archbishop of Canterbury as a response for requests to discuss the Incarnation. It takes the form of a dialogue between Anselm and Boso, one of his students. Its core is a purely rational argument for the necessity of the Christian mystery of atonement, the belief that Jesus's crucifixion was necessary to atone for mankind's sin. Anselm argues that, owing to the Fall and mankind's fallen nature ever since, humanity has offended God. Divine justice demands restitution for sin but human beings are incapable of providing it, as all the actions of men are already obligated to the furtherance of God's glory. Further, God's infinite justice demands infinite restitution for the impairment of his infinite dignity. The enormity of the offence led Anselm to reject personal acts of atonement, even Peter Damian's flagellation, as inadequate and ultimately vain. Instead, full recompense could only be made by God, which His infinite mercy inclines Him to provide. Atonement for humanity, however, could only be made through the figure of Jesus, as a sinless being both fully divine and fully human. Taking it upon himself to offer his own life on our behalf, his crucifixion accrues infinite worth, more than redeeming mankind and permitting it to enjoy a just will in accord with its intended nature. This interpretation is notable for permitting divine justice and mercy to be entirely compatible and has exercised immense influence over church doctrine, largely supplanting the earlier theory developed by Origen and Gregory of Nyssa that had focused primarily on Satan's power over fallen man. is often accounted Anselm's greatest work, but the legalist and amoral nature of the argument, along with its neglect of the individuals actually being redeemed, has been criticized both by comparison with the treatment by Abelard and for its subsequent development in Protestant theology.\n\nAnselm's (\"On Faith in the Trinity and on the Incarnation of the Word Against the Blasphemies of Roscelin\"), also known as (\"Letters on the Incarnation of the Word\"), was written in two drafts in 1092 and 1094. It defended Lanfranc and Anselm from association with the supposedly tritheist heresy espoused by Roscelin of Compiègne, as well as arguing in favour of Trinitarianism and universals.\n\nFragments survive of the work Anselm left unfinished at his death, which would have been a dialogue concerning certain pairs of opposites, including ability/inability, possibility/impossibility, and necessity/freedom. It is thus sometimes cited under the name . Another work, probably left unfinished by Anselm and subsequently revised and expanded, was (\"On Mankind's Morals, Told Through Likenesses\") or (\"On Likenesses\"). A collection of his sayings () was compiled, probably by the monk Alexander. He also composed prayers to various saints.\n\nAnselm wrote nearly 500 surviving letters () to clerics, monks, relatives, and others, the earliest being those written to the Norman monks who followed Lanfranc to England in 1070. Southern asserts that all of Anselm's letters \"even the most intimate\" are statements of his religious beliefs, consciously composed so as to be read by many others. His long letters to Waltram, bishop of Naumberg in Germany () (\"On Unleavened and Leavened Sacrifice\") and (\"On the Church's Sacraments\") were both written between 1106 and 1107 and are sometimes bound as separate books. Although he seldom asked others to pray for him, two of his letters to hermits do so, \"evidence of his belief in their spiritual prowess\". His letters of guidance—one to Hugh, a hermit near Caen, and two to a community of lay nuns—endorse their lives as a refuge from the difficulties of the political world with which Anselm had to contend.\nMany of Anselm's letters contain passionate expressions of attachment and affection, often addressed \"to the beloved lover\" (). While there is wide agreement that Anselm was personally committed to the monastic ideal of celibacy, some academics such as McGuire and Boswell have characterized these writings as expressions of a homosexual inclination. The general view, expressed by Olsen and Southern, sees the expressions as representing a \"wholly spiritual\" affection \"nourished by an incorporeal ideal\".\n\nTwo biographies of Saint Anselm were written shortly after his death by his chaplain and secretary Eadmer () and the monk Alexander (). Eadmer also detailed Anselm's struggles with the English monarchs in his history (). Another was compiled about fifty years later by John of Salisbury at the behest of Thomas Becket. The historians William of Malmesbury, Orderic Vitalis, and Matthew Paris all left full accounts of his struggles against the second and third Norman kings.\n\nAnselm's students included Eadmer, Alexander, Gilbert Crispin, Honorius Augustodunensis, and Anselm of Laon. His works were copied and disseminated in his lifetime and exercised an influence on the Scholastics, including Bonaventure, Thomas Aquinas, Duns Scotus, and William of Ockham. His thoughts have guided much subsequent discussion on the procession of the Holy Spirit and the atonement. His work also anticipates much of the later controversies over free will and predestination. An extensive debate occurred—primarily among French scholars—in the early 1930s about \"nature and possibility\" of Christian philosophy, which drew strongly on Anselm's work.\n\nModern scholarship remains sharply divided over the nature of Anselm's episcopal leadership. Some, including Fröhlich and Schmitt, argue for Anselm's attempts to manage his reputation as a devout scholar and cleric, minimizing the worldly conflicts he found himself forced into. Vaughn and others argue that the \"carefully nurtured image of simple holiness and profound thinking\" was precisely employed as a tool by an adept, disingenuous political operator, while the traditional view of the pious and reluctant church leader recorded by Eadmer—one who genuinely \"nursed a deep-seated horror of worldly advancement\"—is upheld by Southern among others.\n\nAnselm's hagiography records that, when a child, he had a miraculous vision of God on the summit of the Becca di Nona near his home, with God asking his name, his home, and his quest before sharing bread with him. Anselm then slept, awoke returned to Aosta, and then retraced his steps before returning to speak to his mother.\n\nAnselm's canonization was requested of Pope Alexander III by Thomas Becket at the Council of Tours in 1163. He may have been formally canonized before Becket's murder in 1170: no record of this has survived but he was subsequently listed among the saints at Canterbury and elsewhere. It is usually reckoned, however, that his cult was only formally sanctioned by Pope Alexander VI in 1494 or 1497 at the request of Archbishop Morton. His feast day is commemorated on the day of his death, 21 April, by the Roman Catholic Church, much of Anglican Communion, and some forms of High Church Lutheranism. The location of his relics is uncertain. His most common attribute is a ship, representing the spiritual independence of the church.\n\nAnselm was proclaimed a Doctor of the Church by Pope Clement XI in 1720; he is known as the (\"Magnificent Doctor\") or the (\"Marian doctor\"). A chapel of Canterbury Cathedral south of the high altar is dedicated to him; it includes a modern stained-glass representation of the saint, flanked by his mentor Lanfranc and his steward Baldwin and by kings William II and Henry I. The Pontifical Atheneum of St. Anselm, named in his honor, was established in Rome by Pope Leo XIII in 1887. The adjacent Sant'Anselmo all'Aventino, the seat of the Abbot Primate of the Federation of Black Monks (all the monks under the Rule of St Benedict except the Cistercians and the Trappists), was dedicated to him in 1900. 800 years after his death, on 21 April 1909, Pope Pius X issued the encyclical \"Communium Rerum\" praising Anselm, his ecclesiastical career, and his writings. In the United States, the Saint Anselm Abbey and its associated college are located in New Hampshire; they held a celebration in 2009 commemorating the 900th anniversary of Anselm's death. In 2015, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, created the Community of Saint Anselm, an Anglican religious order that resides at Lambeth Palace and is devoted to \"prayer and service to the poor\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4468", "title": "Buddhist philosophy", "text": "Buddhist philosophy\n\nBuddhist philosophy refers to the philosophical investigations and systems of inquiry that developed among various Buddhist schools in India following the death of the Buddha and later spread throughout Asia. The Buddhist path combines both philosophical reasoning and meditation. The Buddhist traditions present a multitude of Buddhist paths to liberation, and Buddhist thinkers in India and subsequently in East Asia have covered topics as varied as phenomenology, ethics, ontology, epistemology, logic and philosophy of time in their analysis of these paths.\n\nEarly Buddhism was based on empirical evidence gained by the sense organs (\"ayatana\") and the Buddha seems to have retained a skeptical distance from certain metaphysical questions, refusing to answer them because they were not conducive to liberation but led instead to further speculation. A recurrent theme in Buddhist philosophy has been the reification of concepts, and the subsequent return to the Buddhist Middle Way.\n\nParticular points of Buddhist philosophy have often been the subject of disputes between different schools of Buddhism. These elaborations and disputes gave rise to various schools in early Buddhism of Abhidharma, and to the Mahayana traditions and schools of the prajnaparamita, Madhyamaka, Buddha-nature and Yogacara.\n\nEdward Conze splits the development of Indian Buddhist philosophy into three phases. The first phase concerns questions of the original doctrines derived from oral traditions that originated during the life of the Buddha, and are common to all later sects of Buddhism. The second phase concerns Hinayana \"scholastic\" Buddhism, as evident in the Abhidharma texts beginning in the third century BCE that feature scholastic reworking and schematic classification of material in the sutras. The third phase of development of Indian Buddhist philosophy concerns Mahayana \"metaphysical\" Buddhism, beginning in the late first century CE, which emphasizes monastic life and the path of a bodhisattva. Various elements of these three phases are incorporated and/or further developed in the philosophy and world view of the various sects of Buddhism that then emerged.\n\nPhilosophy in India was aimed mainly at spiritual liberation and had soteriological goals. In his study of Mādhyamaka Buddhist philosophy in India, Peter Deller Santina writes:\n\nFor the Indian Buddhist philosophers, the teachings of the Buddha were not meant to be taken on faith alone, but to be confirmed by logical analysis (\"pramana\") of the world. The early Buddhist texts mention that a person becomes a follower of the Buddha's teachings after having pondered them over with wisdom and the gradual training also requires that a disciple “investigate” (\"upaparikkhati\") and “scrutinize” (\"tuleti\") the teachings. The Buddha also expected his disciples to approach him as a teacher in a critical fashion and scrutinize his actions and words, as shown in the Vīmaṃsaka Sutta.\n\nScholarly opinion varies as to whether the Buddha himself was engaged in philosophical inquiry. The Buddha (circa 5th century BC) was a north Indian sramana from Magadha. He cultivated various yogic techniques and ascetic practices and taught throughout north India, where his teachings took hold. These teachings are preserved in the Pali Nikayas and in the Agamas as well as in other surviving fragmentary textual collections. Dating these texts is difficult, and there is disagreement on how much of this material goes back to a single religious founder. While the focus of the Buddha's teachings are about attaining the highest good of nirvana, they also contain an analysis of the source of human suffering, the nature of personal identity, and the process of acquiring knowledge about the world.\n\nThe Buddha defined his teaching as \"the middle way\". In the Dhammacakkappavattana Sutta, this is used to refer to the fact that his teachings steer a middle course between the extremes of asceticism and bodily denial (as practiced by the Jains and other sramanas) and sensual hedonism or indulgence. Many sramanas of the Buddha's time placed much emphasis on a denial of the body, using practices such as fasting, to liberate the mind from the body. The Buddha however, realized that the mind was embodied and causally dependent on the body, and therefore that a malnourished body did not allow the mind to be trained and developed. Thus, Buddhism's main concern is not with luxury or poverty, but instead with the human response to circumstances.\n\nCertain basic teachings appear in many places throughout these early texts, so older studies by various scholars conclude that the Buddha must at least have taught some of these key teachings:\n\nCritical studies by Schmithausen, Vetter, Bronkhorst, Gombrich and others have adjusted this list of basic teachings, and revealed a more nuanced genesis of the Buddhist teachings. According to Vetter, the description of the Buddhist path may initially have been as simple as the term \"the middle way\". In time, this short description was elaborated, resulting in the description of the eightfold path. Vetter argues that the eightfold path constitutes a body of practices which prepare one, and lead up to, the practice of \"dhyana\". According to Vetter and Bronkhorst, \"dhyāna\" constituted the original \"liberating practice\", while discriminating insight into transiency as a separate path to liberation was a later development.\n\nAccording to Bronkhorst, the four truths may not have been formulated in earliest Buddhism, and did not serve in earliest Buddhism as a description of \"liberating insight\". Lambert Schmithausen concluded that the four truths were a later development in early Buddhism. Carol Anderson, following Lambert Schmithausen and K.R. Norman, notes that the four truths are missing in critical passages in the canon, and states:\nAccording to both Bronkhorst and Anderson, the four truths became a substitution for prajna, or \"liberating insight\", in the suttas in those texts where \"liberating insight\" was preceded by the four jhanas.\n\nAccording to some scholars, the philosophical outlook of earliest Buddhism was primarily negative, in the sense that it focused on what doctrines to \"reject\" more than on what doctrines to \"accept\". Only knowledge that is useful in achieving enlightenment is valued. According to this theory, the cycle of philosophical upheavals that in part drove the diversification of Buddhism into its many schools and sects only began once Buddhists began attempting to make explicit the implicit philosophy of the Buddha and the early texts.\n\nThe four noble truths or \"truths of the noble one\" are a central feature of the teachings and are put forth in the Dhammacakkappavattana Sutta. The first truth of Dukkha, often translated as \"suffering\", is the inherent unsatisfactoriness of life. This unpleasantness is said to be not just physical pain, but also a kind of existential unease caused by the inevitable facts of our mortality and ultimately by the impermanence of all phenomena. It also arises because of contact with unpleasant events, and due to not getting what one desires. The second truth is that this unease arises out of conditions, mainly 'craving' (tanha) and ignorance (avidya). The third truth is then the fact that if you let go of craving and remove ignorance through knowledge, dukkha ceases (nirodha). The fourth is the eightfold path which are eight practices that end suffering, they are: right view, right intention, right speech, right action, right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness and right samadhi (mental unification, meditation). The goal taught by the Buddha, nirvana, literally means 'extinguishing' and signified \"the complete extinguishing of greed, hatred, and delusion (i.e. ignorance), the forces which power samsara\". Nirvana also means that after an enlightened being's death, there is no further rebirth. In early Buddhism, the concept of dependent origination was most likely limited to processes of mental conditioning and not to all physical phenomena. The Buddha understood the world in procedural terms, not in terms of things or substances. His theory posits a flux of events arising under certain conditions which are interconnected and dependent, such that the processes in question at no time, are considered to be static or independent. Craving, for example, is always dependent on, and caused by sensations. Sensations are always dependent on contact with our surroundings. Buddha's causal theory is simply descriptive: ‘This existing, that exists; this arising, that arises; this not existing, that does not exist; this ceasing, that ceases.’ This understanding of causation as 'impersonal lawlike causal ordering' is important because it shows how the processes that give rise to suffering work, and also how they can be reversed.\n\nThe removal of suffering then, requires a deep understanding of the nature of reality (prajña). While philosophical analysis of arguments and concepts is clearly necessary to develop this understanding, it is not enough to remove our unskillful mental habits and deeply ingrained prejudices, which require meditation, paired with understanding. According to the Buddha, we need to train the mind in meditation to be able to truly see the nature of reality, which is said to have the marks of suffering, impermanence and not-self. Understanding and meditation are said to work together to 'clearly see' (vipassana) the nature of human experience and this is said to lead to liberation.\n\nThe Buddha argued that there is no permanent self, no 'essence of a person' or 'what makes me, me'. This means there is no part of a person which is unchanging and essential for continuity, it means that there is no individual \"part of the person that accounts for the identity of that person over time\". This is in opposition to the Upanishadic concept of an unchanging ultimate self and any view of an eternal soul. The Buddha held that attachment to the appearance of a permanent self in this world of change is the cause of suffering, and the main obstacle to liberation.\n\nThe most widely used argument that the Buddha employed against the idea of an unchanging ego is an empiricist one, based on the observation of the five aggregates that make up a person and the fact that these are always changing. This argument can be put in this way:\n\n\nThis argument requires the implied premise that the five aggregates are an exhaustive account of what makes up a person, or else the self could exist outside of these aggregates.\n\nThis argument is famously expounded in the Anattalakkhana Sutta. According to this argument, the apparently fixed self is merely the result of identification with the temporary aggregates, the changing processes making up an individual human being. In this view a 'person' is only a convenient nominal designation on a certain grouping of processes and characteristics, an 'individual' is a conceptual construction overlaid upon a stream of experiences just like a chariot is merely a conventional designation for the parts of a chariot and how they are put together. The foundation of this argument is empiricist, for it is based on the fact that all we observe is subject to change, especially everything observed when looking inwardly in meditation.\n\nAnother argument for 'non-self', the 'argument from lack of control' and it is based on the fact that we often seek to change certain parts of ourselves, that the 'executive function' of the mind is that which finds certain things unsatisfactory and attempts to alter them. Furthermore, it is also based on the Indian 'Anti Reflexivity Principle' which states an entity cannot operate on or control itself (a knife can cut other things but not itself, a finger can point at other things but not at itself, etc.). This means then, that the self could never desire to change itself and could not do so, the Buddha uses this idea to attack the concept of self. This argument could be structured thus:\n\n\nThis argument then denies that there is one permanent \"controller\" in the person. Instead it views the person as a set of constantly changing processes which include volitional events seeking change and an awareness of that desire for change. According to Mark Siderits:\n\n\"What the Buddhist has in mind is that on one occasion one part of the person might perform the executive function, on another occasion another part might do so. This would make it possible for every part to be subject to control without there being any part that always fills the role of controller (and so is the self). On some occasions a given part might fall on the controller side, while on other occasions it might fall on the side of the controlled. This would explain how it's possible for us to seek to change any of the skandhas while there is nothing more to us than just those skandhas.\"\n\nAs noted by K.R. Norman and Richard Gombrich, the Buddha extended his anatta critique to the Brahmanical belief expounded in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad that the Self (Atman) was indeed the whole world, or Brahman. This is shown by the Alagaddūpama-sutta, where the Buddha argues that an individual cannot experience the suffering of the entire world. He used the example of someone carrying off and burning grass and sticks from the Jeta grove and how a monk would not sense or consider themselves harmed by that action. In this example the Buddha is arguing that we do not have direct experience of the entire world, and hence the Self cannot be the whole world. In this sutta (as well as in the Soattā Sutta) the Buddha outlines six wrong views about Self:\n\n\"There are six wrong views: An unwise, untrained person may think of the body, ‘This is mine, this is me, this is my self’; he may think that of feelings; of perceptions; of volitions; or of what has been seen, heard, thought, cognized, reached, sought or considered by the mind. The sixth is to identify the world and self, to believe: ‘At death I shall become permanent, eternal, unchanging, and so remain forever the same; and that is mine, that is me, that is my self.’ A wise and well-trained person sees that all these positions are wrong, and so he is not worried about something that does not exist.\"\n\nFurthermore, the Buddha argues that the world can be observed to be a cause of suffering (Brahman was held to be ultimately blissful) and that since we cannot control the world as we wish, the world cannot be the Self. The idea that \"this cosmos is the self\" is one of the views rejected by the Buddha along with the related Monistic theory that held that \"everything is a Oneness\" (SN 12.48 Lokayatika Sutta). The Buddha also held that understanding and seeing the truth of not-self led to un-attachment, and hence to the cessation of suffering, while ignorance about the true nature of personality led to further suffering.\n\nAll schools of Indian philosophy recognize various sets of valid justifications for knowledge, or \"pramāṇa\" and many see the Vedas as providing access to truth. The Buddha denied the authority of the Vedas, though like his contemporaries, he affirmed the soteriological importance of having a proper understanding of reality ('right view'). However, this understanding was not conceived primarily as metaphysical and cosmological knowledge, but as a knowledge into the arising and cessation of suffering in human experience. Therefore, the Buddha's epistemic project is different than that of modern philosophy, it is primarily a solution to the fundamental human spiritual/existential problem.\n\nThe Buddha's epistemology has been compared to empiricism, in the sense that it was based on experience of the world through the senses. The Buddha taught that empirical observation through the six sense fields (ayatanas) was the proper way of verifying any knowledge claims. Some suttas go further, stating that \"the All\", or everything that exists (\"sabbam\"), are these six sense spheres (SN 35.23, Sabba Sutta) and that anyone who attempts to describe another \"All\" will be unable to do so because \"it lies beyond range\". This sutta seems to indicate that for the Buddha, things in themselves or noumena, are beyond our epistemological reach (\"avisaya\").\n\nFurthermore, in the Kalama sutta the Buddha tells a group of confused villagers that the only proper reason for one's beliefs is verification in one’s own personal experience (and the experience of the wise) and denies any verification which stems from personal authority, sacred tradition (\"anussava\") or any kind of rationalism which constructs metaphysical theories (\"takka\"). In the Tevijja Sutta (DN 13), the Buddha rejects the personal authority of Brahmins because none of them can prove they have had personal experience of Brahman. The Buddha also stressed that experience is the only criterion for verification of the truth in this passage from the Majjhima Nikaya (MN.I.265):\n\nFurthermore, the Buddha's standard for personal verification was a pragmatic and salvific one, for the Buddha a belief counts as truth only if it leads to successful Buddhist practice (and hence, to the destruction of craving). In the \"Discourse to Prince Abhaya\" (MN.I.392–4) the Buddha states this pragmatic maxim by saying that a belief should only be accepted if it leads to wholesome consequences. This tendency of the Buddha to see what is true as what was useful or 'what works' has been called by scholars such as Mrs Rhys Davids and Vallée-Poussin a form of Pragmatism. However, K. N. Jayatilleke argues the Buddha's epistemology can also be taken to be a form of correspondence theory (as per the 'Apannaka Sutta') with elements of Coherentism and that for the Buddha, it is causally impossible for something which is false to lead to cessation of suffering and evil.\n\nThe Buddha discouraged his followers from indulging in intellectual disputation for its own sake, which is fruitless, and distracts one from the goal of awakening. Only philosophy and discussion which has pragmatic value for liberation from suffering is seen as important. According to the scriptures, during his lifetime the Buddha remained silent when asked several metaphysical questions which he regarded as the basis for \"unwise reflection\". These 'unanswered questions' (avyākata) regarded issues such as whether the universe is eternal or non-eternal (or whether it is finite or infinite), the unity or separation of the body and the self, the complete inexistence of a person after Nirvana and death, and others. The Buddha stated that thinking about these imponderable (Acinteyya) issues led to \"a thicket of views, a wilderness of views, a contortion of views, a writhing of views, a fetter of views\" (Aggi-Vacchagotta Sutta).\n\nOne explanation for this pragmatic suspension of judgment or epistemic Epoché is that such questions distract from activity that is practical to realizing enlightenment and bring about the danger of substituting the experience of liberation by conceptual understanding of the doctrine or by religious faith. According to the Buddha, the Dharma is not an ultimate end in itself or an explanation of all metaphysical reality, but a pragmatic set of teachings. The Buddha used two parables to clarify this point, the 'Parable of the raft' and the Parable of the Poisoned Arrow. The Dharma is a like a raft in the sense that it is only a pragmatic tool for attaining nirvana (\"for the purpose of crossing over, not for the purpose of holding onto\", MN 22) once one has done this, one can discard the raft. It is also like medicine, in that, the particulars of how one was injured by a poisoned arrow (i.e. metaphysics, etc.) do not matter in the act of removing and curing the arrow wound itself (removing suffering). In this sense the Buddha was often called 'the great physician' because his goal was to cure the human condition of suffering first and foremost, not to speculate about metaphysics.\n\nHaving said this, it is still clear that resisting (even, refuting) a false or slanted doctrine can be useful to extricate the interlocutor, or oneself, from error; hence, to advance in the way of liberation. Witness the Buddha's confutation of several doctrines by Nigantha Nataputta and other purported sages which sometimes had large followings (e.g., Kula Sutta, Sankha Sutta, Brahmana Sutta). This shows that a virtuous and appropriate use of dialectics can take place. By implication, reasoning and argument shouldn't be disparaged by buddhists.\n\nAfter the Buddha's death, some Buddhists such as Dharmakirti went on to use the sayings of the Buddha as sound evidence equal to perception and inference.)\n\nAnother possible reason why the Buddha refused to engage in metaphysics is that he saw ultimate reality and nirvana as devoid of sensory mediation and conception and therefore language itself is \"a priori\" inadequate to explain it. Thus, the Buddha's silence does not indicate misology or disdain for philosophy. Rather, it indicates that he viewed the answers to these questions as not understandable by the unenlightened. Dependent arising provides a framework for analysis of reality that is not based on metaphysical assumptions regarding existence or non-existence, but instead on imagining direct cognition of phenomena as they are presented to the mind in yogic meditation.\n\nThe Buddha of the earliest Buddhists texts describes Dharma (in the sense of \"truth\") as \"beyond reasoning\" or \"transcending logic\", in the sense that reasoning is a subjectively introduced aspect of the way unenlightened humans perceive things, and the conceptual framework which underpins their cognitive process, rather than a feature of things as they really are. Going \"beyond reasoning\" means in this context penetrating the nature of reasoning from the inside, and removing the causes for experiencing any future stress as a result of it, rather than functioning outside the system as a whole.\n\nThe Buddha's ethics are based on the soteriological need to eliminate suffering and on the premise of the law of karma. Buddhist ethics have been termed eudaimonic (with their goal being well-being) and also compared to virtue ethics (this approach began with Damien Keown). Keown writes that Buddhist Nirvana is analogous to the Aristotelian Eudaimonia, and that Buddhist moral acts and virtues derive their value from how they lead us to or act as an aspect of the nirvanic life.\n\nThe Buddha outlined five precepts (no killing, stealing, sexual misconduct, lying, or drinking alcohol) which were to be followed by his disciples, lay and monastic. There are various reasons the Buddha gave as to why someone should be ethical.\n\nFirst, the universe is structured in such a way that if someone intentionally commits a misdeed, a bad karmic fruit will be the result (and vice versa). Hence, from a pragmatic point of view, it is best to abstain from these negative actions which bring forth negative results. However the important word here is \"intentionally\", for the Buddha, karma is nothing else but intention/volition, and hence unintentionally harming someone does not create bad karmic results. Unlike the Jains who believed that karma was a quasi-physical element, for the Buddha karma was a volitional mental event, what Richard Gombrich calls ‘an ethicised consciousness’.\n\nThis idea leads into the second moral justification of the Buddha; intentionally performing negative actions reinforces and propagates mental defilements which keep persons bound to the cycle of rebirth and interfere with the process of liberation, and hence intentionally performing good karmic actions is participating in mental purification which leads to nirvana, the highest happiness. This perspective sees immoral acts as unskillful (\"akusala\") in our quest for happiness, and hence it is pragmatic to do good.\n\nThe third meta-ethical consideration takes the view of not-self and our natural desire to end our suffering to its logical conclusion. Since there is no self, there is no reason to prefer our own welfare over that of others because there is no ultimate grounding for the differentiation of \"my\" suffering and someone else's. Instead an enlightened person would just work to end suffering \"tout court\", without thinking of the conventional concept of persons. According to this argument, anyone who is selfish does so out of ignorance of the true nature of personal identity and irrationality.\n\nThe main Indian Buddhist philosophical schools practiced a form of analysis termed \"Abhidharma\" which sought to systematize the teachings of the early Buddhist discourses (sutras). Abhidharma analysis broke down human experience into momentary phenomenal events or occurrences called \"dharmas\". Dharmas are impermanent and dependent on other causal factors, they arise and pass as part of a web of other interconnected dharmas, and are never found alone. The Abhidharmic schools held that the teachings of the Buddha in the sutras were merely conventional, while the Abhidharma analysis was ultimate truth (paramattha sacca), the way things really are when seen by an enlightened being. The Abhidharmic project has been likened as a form of phenomenology or process philosophy. Abhidharma philosophers not only outlined what they believed to be an exhaustive listing of \"dharmas\", or phenomenal events, but also the causal relations between them. In the Abhidharmic analysis, the only thing which is ultimately real is the interplay of dharmas in a causal stream, everything else is merely conceptual (\"paññatti\") and nominal.\n\nThis view has been termed \"mereological reductionism\" by Mark Siderits because it holds that only impartite entities are real, not wholes. Abhidharmikas such as Vasubandhu argued that conventional things (tables, persons, etc.), \"disappear under analysis\" and that this analysis reveals only a causal stream of phenomenal events and their relations. The mainstream Abhidharmikas defended this view against their main Hindu rivals, the Nyaya school, who were substance theorists and posited the existence of universals. Some Abhidharmikas such as the Prajñaptivāda were also strict nominalists, and held that all things - even dharmas - were merely conceptual.\n\nAn important Abhidhamma work from the Theravāda school is the Kathāvatthu (\"Points of controversy\"), by the scholar-monk Moggaliputta-Tissa (ca.327–247 BCE). This text is important because it attempts to refute several philosophical views which had developed after the death of the Buddha, especially the theory that 'all exists' (sarvāstivāda), the theory of momentariness (khāṇavāda) and the personalist view (pudgalavada) These were the major philosophical theories which divided the Buddhist Abhidharma schools in India. After being brought to Sri Lanka in the first century BCE, the Theravada Pali language Abhidhamma tradition was heavily influenced by the works of Buddhaghosa (4-5th century AD), the most important philosopher and commentator of the Theravada school. The Theravada philosophical enterprise was mostly carried out in the genre of Atthakatha, commentaries (as well as sub-commentaries) on the Pali Abhidhamma, but also included short summaries and compendiums.\n\nThe Sarvāstivāda was one of the major Buddhist philosophical schools in India, and they were so named because of their belief that dharmas exist in all three times: past, present and future. Though the Sarvāstivāda Abhidharma system began as a mere categorization of mental events, their philosophers and exegetes such as Dharmatrata and Katyāyāniputra (the compiler of the Mahavibhasa, a central text of the school) eventually refined this system into a robust realism, which also included a type of essentialism. This realism was based on a quality of dharmas, which was called svabhava or 'intrinsic existence'. Svabhava is a sort of essence, though it is not a completely independent essence, since all dharmas were said to be causally dependent. The Sarvāstivāda system extended this realism across time, effectively positing a type of eternalism with regards to time, hence the name of their school means \"the view that everything exists\".\n\nOther Buddhist schools such as the Prajñaptivadins ('nominalists'), the Purvasailas and the Vainasikas refused to accept the concept of svabhava. The main topic of the Tattvasiddhi Śāstra by Harivarman (3-4th century AD), an influential Abhidharma text, is the emptiness (shunyata) of dharmas.\n\nThe Theravādins and other schools such as the Sautrāntikas attacked the realism of the Sarvāstivādins, especially their theory of time. A major figure in this argument was the scholar Vasubandhu, an ex-Sarvāstivādin, who critiqued the theory of all exists and argued for philosophical presentism in his comprehensive treatise, the Abhidharmakosa. This work is the major Abhidharma text used in Tibetan and East Asian Buddhism today. The Theravāda also holds that dharmas only exist in the present, and are thus also presentists. The Theravādin presentation of Abhidharma is also not as concerned with ontology as the Sarvāstivādin view, but is more of a phenomenology and hence the concept of svabhava for the Theravādins is more of a certain characteristic or dependent feature of a dharma, than any sort of essence or metaphysical grounding. According to Y Karunadasa:\n\nIn the Pali tradition it is only for the sake of definition and description that each dhamma is postulated as if it were a separate entity; but in reality it is by no means a solitary phenomenon having an existence of its own...If this Abhidhammic view of existence, as seen from its doctrine of dhammas, cannot be interpreted as a radical pluralism, neither can it be interpreted as an out-and-out monism. For what are called dhammas -- the component factors of the universe, both within us and outside us -- are not fractions of an absolute unity but a multiplicity of co-ordinate factors. They are not reducible to, nor do they emerge from, a single reality, the fundamental postulate of monistic metaphysics. If they are to be interpreted as phenomena, this should be done with the proviso that they are phenomena with no corresponding noumena, no hidden underlying ground. For they are not manifestations of some mysterious metaphysical substratum, but processes taking place due to the interplay of a multitude of conditions.\n\nAn important theory held by some Sarvāstivādins, Theravādins and Sautrāntikas was the theory of \"momentariness\" (Skt., kṣāṇavāda, Pali, khāṇavāda). This theory held that dhammas only last for a minute moment (\"ksana\") after they arise. The Sarvāstivādins saw these 'moments' in an atomistic way, as the smallest length of time possible (they also developed a material atomism). Reconciling this theory with their eternalism regarding time was a major philosophical project of the Sarvāstivāda. The Theravādins initially rejected this theory, as evidenced by the Khaṇikakathā of the Kathavatthu which attempts to refute the doctrine that \"all phenomena (dhamma) are\nas momentary as a single mental entity.\" However momentariness was later adopted by the Sri Lankan Theravādins, and it is possible that it was first introduced by the scholar Buddhagosa.\n\nAll Abhidharma schools also developed complex theories of causation and conditionality to explain how dharmas interacted with each other. Another major philosophical project of the Abhidharma schools was the explanation of perception. Some schools such as the Sarvastivadins explained perception as a type of phenomenalist realism while others such as the Sautrantikas preferred representationalism and held that we only perceive objects indirectly. The major argument used for this view by the Sautrāntikas was the \"time lag argument.\" According to Mark Siderits: \"The basic idea behind the argument is that since there is always a tiny gap between when the sense comes in contact with the external object and when there is sensory awareness, what we are aware of can't be the external object that the senses were in contact with, since it no longer exists.\" This is related to the theory of extreme momentariness.\n\nOne major philosophical view which was rejected by all the schools mentioned above was the view held by the Pudgalavadin or 'personalist' schools. They seemed to have held that there was a sort of 'personhood' in some ultimately real sense which was not reducible to the five aggregates. This controversial claim was in contrast to the other Buddhists of the time who held that a personality was a mere conceptual construction (prajñapti) and only conventionally real.\n\nFrom about the 1st century BCE, a new textual tradition began to arise in Indian Buddhist thought called Mahāyāna (Great Vehicle), which would slowly come to dominate Indian Buddhist philosophy. Buddhist philosophy thrived in large monastery-university complexes such as Nalanda and Vikramasila, which became centres of learning in North India. Mahāyāna philosophers continued the philosophical projects of Abhidharma while at the same time critiquing them and introducing new concepts and ideas. Since the Mahāyāna held to the pragmatic concept of truth which states that doctrines are regarded as conditionally \"true\" in the sense of being spiritually beneficial, the new theories and practices were seen as 'skillful means' (Upaya). The Mahayana also promoted the Bodhisattva ideal, which included an attitude of compassion for all sentient beings. The Bodhisattva is someone who chooses to remain in samsara (the cycle of birth and death) to benefit all other beings who are suffering.\n\nMajor Mahayana philosophical schools and traditions include the Prajnaparamita, Madhyamaka, Tathagatagarbha, the Epistemological school of Dignaga, Yogācāra, Huayan, Tiantai and the Chan/Zen schools.\n\nThe earliest Prajñāpāramitā-sutras (1st century BC) emphasize the emptiness (Shunyata) of phenomena or dhammas. The 'perfection of insight' (Prajñāpāramitā) is said to be true knowledge of the nature of ultimate reality, which is illusory and empty of essence. The \"Diamond Sutra\" states that: \nThe \"Heart Sutra\" famously affirms the emptiness or voidness (shunyata) of phenomena:\nThe Prajñāpāramitā teachings are associated with the work of the Buddhist philosopher Nāgārjuna (c. AD 150 – c. 250) and the Madhyamaka (Middle way) school. Nāgārjuna was one of the most influential Indian Buddhist thinkers; he gave the classical arguments for the empty nature of phenomena and attacked the Sarvāstivāda and Pudgalavada schools' essentialism in his magnum opus, \"The Fundamental Verses on the Middle Way\" (\"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\"). In the \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\", Nagarjuna relies on reductio ad absurdum arguments to refute various theories which assume an inherent essence or \"own being\" (svabhava). In this work, he covers topics such as causation, motion, and the sense faculties.\n\nNagarjuna asserted a direct connection between, even identity of, dependent origination, selflessness (\"anatta\"), and emptiness (\"śūnyatā\"). He pointed out that implicit in the early Buddhist concept of dependent origination is the lack of any substantial being (\"anatta\") underlying the participants in origination, so that they have no independent existence, a state identified as emptiness (\"śūnyatā\"), or emptiness of a nature or essence (\"svabhāva sunyam\").\n\nLater philosophers of the Madhyamaka school built upon Nagarjuna's analysis and defended Madhyamaka against their opponents. These included Āryadeva (3rd century CE), Nāgārjuna's pupil; Candrakīrti (600–c. 650), who wrote an important commentary on the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā; and Shantideva (8th century). Buddhapālita (470–550) has been understood as the originator of the 'prāsaṅgika' approach which is based on critiquing essentialism only through \"reductio ad absurdum\" arguments. He was criticized by Bhāvaviveka (c. 500 – c. 578), who argued for the use of syllogisms \"to set one's own doctrinal stance\". These two approaches were later termed the Prāsaṅgika and the Svātantrika approaches to Madhyamaka by Tibetan philosophers and commentators.\n\nInfluenced by the work of Dignaga, Bhāvaviveka's Madhyamika philosophy makes use of Buddhist epistemology. Candrakīrti on the other hand, critiqued Bhāvaviveka's adoption of the epistemological (\"pramana\") tradition on the grounds that it contained a subtle essentialism. He quotes Nagarjuna's famous statement in the \"Vigrahavyavartani\" which says \"I have no thesis\" for his rejection of positive epistemic Madhyamaka statements. Candrakīrti held that a true Madhyamika could only use \"consequence\" (\"prasanga\") in which one points out the inconsistencies of their opponents position without asserting an \"autonomous inference\" (\"svatantra\"), for no such inference can be ultimately true from the point of view of Madhyamaka.\n\nIn China, the Madhyamaka school (known as Sānlùn) was founded by Kumārajīva (344–413 CE) who translated the works of Nagarjuna to Chinese. Other Chinese Madhymakas include Kumārajīva 's pupil Sengzhao, Jizang (549–623), who wrote over 50 works on Madhyamaka and Hyegwan, a Korean monk who brought Madhyamaka teachings to Japan.\n\nThe Yogācāra school (\"Yoga practice\") was a Buddhist philosophical tradition which arose in between the 2nd century CE and the 4th century CE and is associated with the philosophers Asanga and Vasubandhu and with various sutras such as the Sandhinirmocana Sutra and the Lankavatara Sutra. The central feature of Yogācāra thought is the concept of \"Vijñapti-mātra\", often translated as \"impressions only\" or \"appearance only\" and this has been interpreted as a form of Idealism or as a form of Phenomenology. Other names for the Yogacara school are 'Vijñanavada' (the doctrine of consciousness) and 'Cittamatra' (mind-only).\n\nYogacara thinkers like Vasubandhu argued against the existence of external objects by pointing out that we only ever have access to our own mental impressions, and hence our inference of the existence of external objects is based on faulty logic. Vasubandhu's \"Vijnaptimatratasiddhi\", or 'The Proof that There Are Only Impressions' (20 verses) begins thus:\n\n\"I. This [world] is nothing but impressions, since it manifests itself as an unreal object, \nJust like the case of those with cataracts seeing unreal hairs in the moon and the like.\" \n\nAccording to Vasubandhu then, all our experiences are like seeing hairs on the moon when we have cataracts, that is, we project our mental images into something \"out there\" when there are no such things. Vasubandhu then goes on to use the dream argument to argue that mental impressions do not require external objects to (1) seem to be spatio-temporally located, (2) to seem to have an inter-subjective quality, and (3) to seem to operate by causal laws. The fact that purely mental events can have causal efficacy and be intersubjective is proved by the event of a wet dream and by the mass or shared hallucinations created by the karma of certain types of beings.\n\nAfter having argued that impressions only is a theory which can explain our everyday experience, Vasubandhu then appeals to parsimony - since we do not need the concept of external objects to explain reality, then we can do away with those superfluous concepts altogether as they are most likely just mentally superimposed on our concepts of reality by the mind. Inter-subjective reality for Vasubandhu is then the causal interaction between various mental streams and their karma, and does not include any external physical objects. The soteriological importance of this theory is that by removing the concept of an external world, it also weakens the 'internal' sense of self as observer which is supposed to be separate from the external world. To dissolve the dualism of inner and outer is also to dissolve the sense of self and other. The later Yogacara commentator Sthiramati explains this thus:\n\n\"There is a grasper if there is something to be grasped, but not in the absence of what is to be grasped. Where there is no thing to be grasped, the absence of a grasper also follows, there is not just the absence of the thing to be grasped. Thus there arises the extra-mundane non-conceptual cognition that is alike without object and without cognizer.\"\n\nVasubandhu also attacked the realist theories of Buddhist atomism and the Abhidharma theory of svabhava. He argued that atoms as conceived by the atomists (un-divisible entities) would not be able to come together to form larger aggregate entities, and hence that they were illogical concepts.\n\nLater Yogacara thinkers include Dharmapala of Nalanda, Sthiramati, Chandragomin (who debated Candrakirti), and Śīlabhadra. Yogacarins such as Paramartha and Guṇabhadra brought the school to China and translated Yogacara works there, where it is known as Wéishí-zōng or Fǎxiàng-zōng. As an important contribution to East Asian Yogācāra is Xuanzang's \"Cheng Weishi Lun\", or \"Discourse on the Establishment of Consciousness Only.\n\nJñānagarbha (8th century) and his student Śāntarakṣita (725–788) brought together Yogacara, Madhyamaka and the Dignaga school of epistemology into a philosophical synthesis known as the \"Yogācāra-Svatantrika-Mādhyamika\". Śāntarakṣita was also instrumental in the introduction of Buddhism and the Sarvastivadin monastic ordination lineage to Tibet which was conducted at Samye. Śāntarakṣita's disciples included Haribhadra and Kamalaśīla. This philosophical tradition is influential in Tibetan Buddhist thought.\n\nThe \"tathāgathagarbha sutras\", in a departure from mainstream Buddhist language, insist that the potential for awakening is inherent to every sentient being. They marked a shift from a largely apophatic (negative) philosophical trend within Buddhism to a decidedly more cataphatic (positive) modus.\n\nPrior to the period of these scriptures, Mahāyāna metaphysics had been dominated by teachings on emptiness in the form of Madhyamaka philosophy. The language used by this approach is primarily negative, and the \"tathāgatagarbha\" genre of sutras can be seen as an attempt to state orthodox Buddhist teachings of dependent origination using positive language instead, to prevent people from being turned away from Buddhism by a false impression of nihilism.\n\nIn these sutras the perfection of the wisdom of not-self is stated to be the true self; the ultimate goal of the path is then characterized using a range of positive language that had been used previously in Indian philosophy by essentialist philosophers, but which was now transmuted into a new Buddhist vocabulary to describe a being who has successfully completed the Buddhist path.\n\nThe word \"self\" (\"atman\") is used in a way idiosyncratic to these sutras; the \"true self\" is described as the perfection of the wisdom of not-self in the \"Buddha-Nature Treatise\", for example. Language that had previously been used by essentialist non-Buddhist philosophers was now adopted, with new definitions, by Buddhists to promote orthodox teachings.\n\nThe \"tathāgatagarbha\" does not, according to some scholars, represent a substantial self; rather, it is a positive language expression of emptiness and represents the potentiality to realize Buddhahood through Buddhist practices. In this interpretation, the intention of the teaching of \"tathāgatagarbha\" is soteriological rather than theoretical.\n\nThe \"tathāgathagarbha\", the Theravāda doctrine of \"bhavaṅga\", and the Yogācāra store consciousness were all identified at some point with the luminous mind of the Nikāyas.\n\nIn the Mahayana \"Mahaparinirvana Sutra\", the Buddha insists that while pondering upon Dharma is vital, one must then relinquish fixation on words and letters, as these are utterly divorced from liberation and the Buddha-nature.\n\nDignāga (c. 480–540) and Dharmakīrti (c. 6-7th century) were Buddhist philosophers who developed a system of epistemology (Pramāṇa) and logic in their debates with the Brahminical philosophers in order to defend Buddhist doctrine. This tradition is called “those who follow reasoning” (Tibetan: rigs pa rjes su ‘brang ba); in modern literature it is sometimes known by the Sanskrit 'pramāṇavāda', or “the Epistemological School.” They were associated with the Yogacara and Sautrantika schools, and defended theories held by both of these schools. Dignaga's influence was profound and led to an “epistemological turn” among all Buddhist and also all Sanskrit philosophers in India after his death. In the centuries following Dignaga's work, Sanskrit philosophers became much more focused on defending all of their propositions with fully developed theories of knowledge.\n\nThe \"School of Dignāga\" includes later philosophers and commentators like Santabhadra, Dharmottara (8th century), Jñanasrimitra (975–1025), Ratnakīrti (11th century) and Samkarananda. \nThe epistemology they developed defends the view that there are only two 'instruments of knowledge' or 'valid cognitions' (\"pramāṇa\"); \"perception\" (pratyaksa) and \"inference\" (anumāṇa). Perception is a non-conceptual awareness of particulars which is bound by causality, while inference is reasonable, linguistic and conceptual.\n\nThese Buddhist philosophers argued in favor of the theory of momentariness, the Yogacara \"awareness only\" view, the reality of particulars (svalakṣaṇa), atomism, nominalism and the self-reflexive nature of consciousness (svasaṃvedana). They attacked Hindu theories of God, universals, the authority of the Vedas, and the existence of a permanent soul (\"atman\").\n\nThe tradition associated with a group of texts known as the Buddhist Tantras, known as Vajrayana, developed by the eighth century in North India. By this time Tantra was a key feature of Indian Buddhism, and Indian Tantric scholars developed philosophical defenses, hermeneutics and explanations of the Buddhist tantric systems, especially through commentaries on key tantras such as the Guhyasamāja Tantra and the Guhyagarbha Tantra.\n\nWhile the view of the Vajrayana was based on Madhyamaka, Yogacara and Buddha-nature theories, it saw itself as being a faster vehicle to liberation containing many skillful methods (upaya) of tantric ritual. The need for an explication and defense of the Tantras arose out of the unusual nature of the rituals associated with them, which included the use of secret mantras, alcohol, sexual yoga, complex visualizations of mandalas filled with wrathful deities and other practices and injunctions which were discordant with or at least novel in comparison to traditional Buddhist thought. The Guhyasamāja Tantra for example, states \"you should kill living beings, speak lying words, take things that are not given and have sex with many women\". Other features of tantra included a focus on the physical body as the means to liberation and a reaffirmation of feminine elements, feminine deities and sexuality.\n\nThe defense of these practices is based on the theory of transformation which states that negative mental factors and physical actions can be cultivated and transformed in a ritual setting, the Hevajra tantra states:\n\nThose things by which evil men are bound, others turn into means and gain thereby release from the bonds of existence. By passion the world is bound, by passion too it is released, but by heretical Buddhists this practice of reversals is not known.\n\nAnother hermeneutic of Buddhist Tantric commentaries such as the Vimalaprabha of Pundarika (a commentary on the Kalacakra Tantra) is one of interpreting taboo or unethical statements in the Tantras as metaphorical statements about tantric practice. For example, in the Vimalaprabha, \"killing living beings\" refers to stopping the prana at the top of the head. In the Tantric Candrakirti's \"Pradipoddyotana\", a commentary to the Guhyasamaja Tantra, killing living beings is glossed as \"making them void\" by means of a \"special samadhi\" which according to Bus-ton is associated with completion stage tantric practice.\n\nDouglas Duckworth notes that Vajrayana philosophical outlook is one of embodiment, which sees the physical and cosmological body as already containing wisdom and divinity. Liberation (nirvana) and Buddhahood is not seen as something outside or an event in the future, but as imminently present and accessible right now through unique tantric practices like deity yoga, and hence Vajrayana is also called the \"resultant vehicle\". Duckworth names the philosophical view of Vajrayana as a form of pantheism, by which he means the belief that every existing entity is in some sense divine and that all things express some form of unity.\n\nMajor Indian Tantric Buddhist philosophers such as Buddhaguhya, Padmavajra (author of the \"Guhyasiddhi\"), Nagarjuna (7th century disciple of Saraha), Indrabhuti (author of the \"Jñānasiddhi\"), Anangavajra, Dombiheruka, Durjayacandra, Ratnākaraśānti and Abhayakaragupta wrote tantric texts and commentaries systematizing the tradition. Others such as Vajrabodhi and Śubhakarasiṃha brought Tantra to Tang China (716 to 720), tantric philosophy continued to be developed in Chinese and Japanese by thinkers such as Yi Xing and Kūkai. In Tibet, philosophers such as Sakya Pandita (1182-28 – 1251), Longchenpa (1308–1364) and Tsongkhapa (1357–1419) continued the tradition of Buddhist Tantric philosophy in Tibetan.\n\nTibetan Buddhist philosophy is mainly a continuation and refinement of the Indian traditions of Madhyamaka, Yogacara and the Dignaga-Dharmakīrti school of epistemology or \"reliable cognition\" (Sanskrit: \"Pramana\", Tib. \"tshad ma\"). The initial efforts of Śāntarakṣita and Kamalaśīla brought their eclectic scholarly tradition to Tibet. Other influences include Buddhist Tantras and the Buddha nature texts.\n\nThe initial work of early Tibetan Buddhist philosophers was in translation of classical Indian philosophical treatises and the writing of commentaries, this initial period is from the 8th to the 10th century. Early Tibetan commentator philosophers were heavily influenced by the work of Dharmakirti and these include Ngok Lo-dza-wa (1059-1109) and Cha-ba (1182-1251). Their works are now lost. The 12th and 13th centuries saw the translation of the works of Chandrakirti, the promulgation of his views in Tibet by scholars such as Patsab Nyima Drakpa, Kanakavarman and Jayananda (12th century) and the development of the Tibetan debate between the prasangika and svatantrika views which continues to this day among Tibetan Buddhist schools. The main disagreement between these views is the use of reasoned argument. For Śāntarakṣita, Kamalaśīla and their defenders, reason is useful is establishing arguments that lead one to a correct understanding of emptiness, then, through the use of meditation, one can reach non-conceptual gnosis that does not rely on reason. For Chandrakirti however, this is wrong, because meditation on emptiness cannot possibly involve any object. Reason's role here is to negate any essence or essentialist views, and then eventually negate itself along with any Conceptual proliferation.\n\nThere are various Tibetan Buddhist schools or monastic orders. According to Georges B.J. Dreyfus, within Tibetan thought, the Sakya school holds a mostly anti-realist philosophical position, while the Gelug school tends to defend a form of realism. The Kagyu and Nyingma schools also tend to follow Sakya anti-realism (with some differences).\n\nThe 14th century saw increasing interest in the Buddha nature texts and doctrines. This can be seen in the work of the third Kagyu Karmapa Rangjung Dorje (1284-1339), especially his treatise \"Profound Inner Meaning\". This treatise describes ultimate nature or suchness as Buddha nature which is the basis for nirvana and samsara, radiant in nature and empty in essence, surpassing thought.\n\nDolpopa (\"Dol-bo-ba\", 1292–1361), founder of the Jonang school, developed a view called shentong (Wylie: gzhan ) (other empty), which is closely tied to Yogacara and Buddha-nature theories. This view holds that the qualities of Buddhahood or Buddha nature are already present in the mind, and that it is empty of all conventional reality which occludes its own nature as Buddhahood or Dharmakaya. According to Dolpopa all beings are said to have Buddha nature which is real, unchanging, permanent, non-conditioned, eternal, blissful and compassionate. Dolpopa's shentong view taught that ultimate reality was truly a \"Great Self\" or \"Supreme Self\" referring to works such as the \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\", the \"Aṅgulimālīya Sūtra\" and the \"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra.\" This view had an influence on philosophers of other schools, such as Nyingma and Kagyu thinkers and was also widely criticized in some circles as being similar to the Hindu notions of Atman. The Shentong philosophy was also expounded in Tibet and Mongolia by the later Jonang scholar Tāranātha (1575–1634).\n\nIn the late 17th century the Jonang order and its teachings came under attack by the 5th Dalai Lama, who converted the majority of their monasteries in Tibet to the Gelug order, although several survived in secret.\n\nJe Tsongkhapa (Dzong-ka-ba) (1357–1419) founded the Gelug school of Tibetan Buddhism which came to dominate the country through the office of the Dalai Lama and is the major defender of the Prasaṅgika Madhyamaka view, his work is influenced by the philosophy of Candrakirti and Dharmakirti. Tsongkhapa's magnum opus is \"The Ocean of Reasoning\", a Commentary on Nagarjuna’s Mulamadhyamakakarika. Gelug philosophy is based upon study of Madhyamaka texts and Tsongkhapa's works as well as formal debate (rtsod pa).\n\nTsongkhapa defended Prasangika Madhyamaka as the highest view and critiqued the Svatantrika. Tsongkhapa argued that because the Svatantrika conventionally establish things by their own characteristics, they fail to completely understand the emptiness of phenomena and hence do not achieve the same realization. Drawing on Chandrakirti, Tsongkhapa rejected the Yogacara teachings, even as a provisional stepping point to the Madhyamaka view. Tsongkhapa was also critical of the Shengtong view of Dolpopa, which he saw as dangerously absolutist and hence outside the middle way. Tsongkhapa identified two major flaws in interpretations of Madhyamika, under-negation (of svabhava or own essence) which could lead to Absolutism and over-negation which could lead to Nihilism. Tsongkhapa's solution to this dilemma was the promotion of the use of inferential reasoning only within the conventional realm of the two truths framework, allowing for the use of reason for ethics, conventional monastic rules and promoting a conventional epistemic realism while holding that from the view of ultimate truth (\"paramarthika satya\"), all things (including Buddha nature and Nirvana) are empty of inherent existence (svabhava) and true enlightenment is this realization of emptiness.\n\nSakya scholars such as Rongtön and Gorampa disagreed with Tsongkhapa, and argued that the prasangika svatantrika distinction was merely pedagogical. Gorampa also critiqued Tsongkhapa's realism, arguing that the structures which allow an empty object to be presented as conventionally real eventually dissolve under analysis and are thus unstructured and non-conceptual (spros bral). Tsongkhapa's students Gyel-tsap, Kay-drup, and Ge-dun-drup set forth an epistemological realism against the Sakya scholars' anti-realism.\n\nSakya Pandita (1182–1251) was a 13th-century head of the Sakya school and ruler of Tibet. He was also one of the most important Buddhist philosophers in the Tibetan tradition, writing works on logic and epistemology and promoting Dharmakirti's \"Pramanavarttika\" (Commentary on Valid Cognition) as central to scholastic study. Sakya Pandita's 'Treasury of Logic on Valid Cognition' (\"Tshad ma rigs pa'i gter\") set forth the classic Sakya epistemic anti-realist position, arguing that concepts such as universals are not known through valid cognition and hence are not real objects of knowledge. Sakya Pandita was also critical of theories of sudden enlightenment which was held by some teachers of the \"Chinese Great Perfection\" in Tibet.\n\nLater Sakyas such as Gorampa (1429–1489) and Sakya Chokden (1428–1507) would develop and defend Sakya anti-realism, and they are seen as the major interpreters and critics of Sakya Pandita's philosophy. Sakya Chokden also critiqued Tsongkhapa's interpretation of Madhyamaka and Dolpopa's Shentong. In his \"Definite ascertainment of the middle way\", Chokden criticized Tsongkhapa's view as being too logo-centric and still caught up in conceptualization about the ultimate reality which is beyond language. Sakya Chokden's philosophy attempted to reconcile the views of the Yogacara and Madhyamaka, seeing them both as valid and complementary perspectives on ultimate truth. Madhyamaka is seen by Chokden as removing the fault of taking the unreal as being real, and Yogacara removes the fault of the denial of Reality. Likewise, the Shentong and Rangtong views are seen as complementary by Sakya Chokden; Rangtong negation is effective in cutting through all clinging to wrong views and conceptual rectification while Shentong is more amenable for describing and enhancing meditative experience and realization. Therefore, for Sakya Chokden, the same realization of ultimate reality can be accessed and described in two different but compatible ways.\n\nThe Nyingma school is strongly influenced by the view of Dzogchen (Great Perfection) and the Dzogchen Tantric literature. Longchenpa (1308–1364) was a major philosopher of the Nyingma school and wrote an extensive number of works on the Tibetan practice of Dzogchen and on Buddhist Tantra. These include the \"Seven Treasures\", the \"Trilogy of Natural Ease\", and his \"Trilogy of Dispelling Darkness\". Longchenpa's works provide a philosophical understanding of Dzogchen, a defense of Dzogchen in light of the sutras, as well as practical instructions. For Longchenpa, the ground of reality is luminous clarity, rigpa, or Buddha nature and this ground is also the bridge between sutra and tantra. Longchenpa's philosophy sought to establish the positive aspects of Buddha nature thought against the totally negative theology of Madhyamika without straying into the absolutism of Dolpopa. For Longchenpa, the basis for Dzogchen and Tantric practice in Vajrayana is the \"Ground\" (\"gzhi\"), the immanent Buddha nature, \"the primordially luminous reality that is unconditioned and spontaneously present\" which is \"free from all elaborated extremes\".\n\nThe 19th century saw the rise of the Rimé movement (non-sectarian, unbiased) which sought to push back against the politically dominant Gelug school's criticisms of the Sakya, Kagyu, Nyingma and Bon philosophical views and develop a more eclectic or universal system of textual study. Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo (1820-1892) and Jamgön Kongtrül (1813-1899) were the founders of Rimé. The Rimé movement came to prominence at a point in Tibetan history when the religious climate had become partisan. The aim of the movement was \"a push towards a middle ground where the various views and styles of the different traditions were appreciated for their individual contributions rather than being refuted, marginalized, or banned.\" Philosophically, Jamgön Kongtrül defended Shentong as being compatible with Madhyamaka while another Rimé scholar Jamgon Ju Mipham Gyatso (1846–1912) criticized Tsongkhapa from a Nyingma perspective. Mipham argued that the view of the middle way is Unity (zung 'jug), meaning that from the ultimate perspective the duality of sentient beings and Buddhas is also dissolved. Mipham also affirmed the view of \"rangtong\" (self emptiness). The later Nyingma scholar Botrul (1894–1959) classified the major Tibetan Madhyamaka positions as shentong (other emptiness), Nyingma rangtong (self emptiness) and Gelug bdentong (emptiness of true existence). The main difference between them is their \"object of negation\"; shengtong states that inauthentic experience is empty, rangtong negates any conceptual reference and bdentong negates any true existence.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama was also influenced by this eclectic approach. Having studied under teachers from all major Tibetan Buddhist schools, his philosophical position tends to be that the different perspectives on emptiness are complementary:\n\nThere is a tradition of making a distinction between two different perspectives on the nature of emptiness: one is when emptiness is presented within a philosophical analysis of the ultimate reality of things, in which case it ought to be understood in terms of a non-affirming negative phenomena. On the other hand, when it is discussed from the point of view of experience, it should be understood more in terms of an affirming negation – 14th Dalai Lama\n\nThe schools of Buddhism that had existed in China prior to the emergence of the Tiantai are generally believed to represent direct transplantations from India, with little modification to their basic doctrines and methods. The Tiantai school, founded by Zhiyi (538–597), was the first truly unique Chinese Buddhist philosophical school. The doctrine of Tiantai was based on the ekayana or \"one vehicle\" doctrine taught in the Lotus sutra and sought to bring together all Buddhist teachings and texts into a comprehensively inclusive hierarchical system, which placed the Lotus sutra at the top of this hierarchy.\n\nTiantai's metaphysics is an immanent holism, which sees every phenomenon, moment or event as conditioned and manifested by the whole of reality. Every instant of experience is a reflection of every other, and hence, suffering and nirvana, good and bad, Buddhahood and evildoing, are all “inherently entailed” within each other. Each moment of consciousness is simply the Absolute itself, infinitely immanent and self reflecting.\n\nThis metaphysics is entailed in the Tiantai teaching of the \"three truths\" which is an extension of the Mādhyamaka two truths doctrine. The three truths are: the conventional truth of appearance, the truth of emptiness (shunyata) and the third truth of 'the exclusive Center' (但中 \"danzhong\") or middle way, which is beyond conventional truth and emptiness. This third truth is the Absolute and expressed by the claim that nothing is “Neither-Same-Nor-Different” than anything else, but rather each 'thing' is the absolute totality of all things manifesting as a particular, everything is mutually contained within each thing. Everything is a reflection of 'The Ultimate Reality of All Appearances'(諸法實相 zhufashixiang) and each thought \"contains three thousand worlds\". This perspective allows the Tiantai school to state such seemingly paradoxical things as \"evil is ineradicable from the highest good, Buddhahood.\" Moreover, in Tiantai, nirvana and samsara are the ultimately the same, as Zhiyi writes \"A single, unalloyed reality is all there is – no entities whatever exist outside of it.\"\n\nThough Zhiyi did write \"One thought contains three thousand worlds\", this does not entail idealism. According to Zhiyi, \"The objects of the [true] aspects of reality are not something produced by Buddhas, gods, or men. They exist inherently on their own and have no beginning\" (The Esoteric Meaning, 210). This is then a form of realism, which sees the mind as real as the world, interconnected with and inseparable from it. In Tiantai thought, ultimate reality is simply the phenomenal world of interconnected events or dharmas.\n\nOther key figures of Tiantai thought are Zhanran (711–782) and Siming Zhili (960–1028). Zhanran developed the idea that non-sentient beings have Buddha nature, since they are also a reflection of the Absolute. In Japan, this school was known as Tendai and was first brought to the island by Saicho.\n\nThe Huayan developed the doctrine of \"interpenetration\" or \"coalescence\" (Wylie: \"zung-'jug\"; Sanskrit: \"yuganaddha\"), based on the \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\" (Flower Garland sutra), a Mahāyāna scripture. Huayan holds that all phenomena (Sanskrit: \"dharmas\") are deeply interconnected, mutually arising and that every phenomena contains every other phenomena. Various metaphors and images are used to illustrate this idea. The first is known as Indra's net. The net is set with jewels which have the extraordinary property that they reflect all of the other jewels, while the reflections also contain every other reflection, ad infinitum. The second image is that of the world text. This image portrays the world as consisting of an enormous text which is as large as the universe itself. The words of the text are composed of the phenomena that make up the world. However, every atom of the world contains the whole text within it. It is the work of a Buddha to let out the text so that beings can be liberated from suffering.\n\nFazang (Fa-tsang, 643–712), one of the most important Huayan thinkers, wrote 'Essay on the Golden Lion' and 'Treatise on the Five Teachings', which contain other metaphors for the interpenetration of reality. He also used the metaphor of a House of mirrors. Fazang introduced the distinction of \"the Realm of Principle\" and \"the Realm of Things\". This theory was further developed by Cheng-guan (738–839) into the major Huayan thesis of \"the fourfold Dharmadhatu\" (dharma realm): the Realm of Principle, the Realm of Things, the Realm of the Noninterference between Principle and Things, and the Realm of the Noninterference of All Things. The first two are the universal and the particular, the third is the interpenetration of universal and particular, and the fourth is the interpenetration of all particulars. The third truth was explained by the metaphor of a golden lion, the gold is the universal and the particular is the shape and features of the lion. \nWhile both Tiantai and Huayan hold to the interpenetration and interconnection of all things, their metaphysics have some differences. Huayan metaphysics is influenced by Yogacara thought and is closer to idealism. The Avatamsaka sutra compares the phenomenal world to a dream, an illusion, and a magician’s conjuring. The sutra states nothing has true reality, location, beginning and end, or substantial nature. The Avatamsaka also states that \"The triple world is illusory – it is only made by one mind\" and Fazang echoes this by writing \"outside of mind there is not a single thing that can be apprehended.\" Furthermore, according to Huayan thought, each mind creates its own world \"according to their mental patterns\", and \"these worlds are infinite in kind\" and constantly arising and passing away. However, in Huayan, mind is not real either, but also empty. The true reality in Huayan, the noumenon, or \"Principle\" is likened to a mirror, while phenomena are compared to reflections in the mirror. It is also compared to the ocean, and phenomena to waves.\n\nIn Korea, this school was known as Hwaeom and is represented in the work of Wonhyo (617–686), who also wrote about the idea of essence-function, a central theme in Korean Buddhist thought. In Japan, Huayan is known as Kegon and one of its major proponents was Myōe, who also introduced Tantric practices.\n\nThe philosophy of Chinese Chan Buddhism and Japanese Zen is based on various sources, these include Madhyamaka, Yogacara, the Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra, Huayan and the Buddha nature texts. An important issue in Chan is that of subitism or \"sudden enlightenment\", the idea that enlightenment happens all at once in a flash of insight. This view was promoted by Shenhui and is a central issue discussed in the Platform Sutra, a key Chan scripture composed in China.\n\nHuayan philosophy also had an influence on Chan. The theory of the Fourfold Dharmadhatu influenced the Five Ranks of Dongshan Liangjie (806-869), the founder of the Caodong Chan lineage. Guifeng Zongmi, who was also a patriarch of Huayan Buddhism, wrote extensively on the philosophy of Chan and on the Avatamsaka sutra. \n\nJapanese Buddhism during the 6th and 7th centuries saw an increase in the proliferation of new schools and forms of thought, a period known as the six schools of Nara (\"Nanto Rokushū\"). The Kamakura Period (1185–1333) also saw another flurry of intellectual activity. During this period, the influential figure of Nichiren (1222–1282) made the practice and universal message of the Lotus Sutra more readily available to the population. He is of particular importance in the history of thought and religion as his teachings constitute a separate sect of Buddhism, one of the only major sects to have originated in Japan \n\nAlso during the Kamakura period, the founder of Soto Zen, Dogen (1200–1253), wrote many works on the philosophy of Zen, and the Shobogenzo is his magnum opus. In Korea, Chinul was an important exponent of Seon Buddhism at around the same time.\n\nTantric Buddhism arrived in China in the 7th century, during the Tang Dynasty. In China, this form of Buddhism is known as Mìzōng (密宗), or \"Esoteric School\" and \"Zhenyan\" (true word, Sanskrit: Mantrayana). Kūkai (AD774–835) is a major Japanese Buddhist philosopher and the founder of the Tantric Shingon (true word) school in Japan. He wrote on a wide variety of topics such as public policy, language, the arts, literature, music and religion. After studying in China under Huiguo, Kūkai brought together various elements into a cohesive philosophical system of Shingon.\n\nKūkai's philosophy is based on the Mahavairocana Tantra and the Vajrasekhara Sutra (both from the seventh century). His \"Benkenmitsu nikkyôron\" (Treatise on the Differences Between Esoteric and Exoteric Teachings) outlines the difference between exoteric, mainstream Mahayana Buddhism (kengyô) and esoteric Tantric Buddhism (mikkyô). Kūkai provided the theoretical framework for the esoteric Buddhist practices of Mantrayana, bringing the gap between the doctrine of the sutras and tantric practices. At the foundation of Kūkai's thought is the Trikaya doctrine, which holds there are three \"bodies of the Buddha\".\n\nAccording to Kūkai, esoteric Buddhism has the Dharmakaya (Jpn: \"hosshin\", embodiment of truth) as its source, which is associated with Vairocana Buddha (Dainichi). Hosshin is embodied absolute reality and truth. Hosshin is mostly ineffable but can be experienced through esoteric practices such as mudras and mantras. While Mahayana is taught by the historical Buddha (nirmankaya), it does not have ultimate reality as its source or the practices to experience the esoteric truth. For Shingon, from an enlightened perspective, the whole phenomenal world itself is also the teaching of Vairocana. The body of the world, its sounds and movements, is the body of truth (dharma) and furthermore it is also identical with the personal body of the cosmic Buddha. For Kūkai, world, actions, persons and Buddhas are all part of the cosmic monologue of Vairocana, they are the truth being preached, to its own self manifestations. This is \"hosshin seppô\" (literally: “the dharmakâya's expounding of the Dharma”) which can be accessed through mantra which is the cosmic language of Vairocana emanating through cosmic vibration concentrated in sound. In a broad sense, the universe itself a huge text expressing ultimate truth (Dharma) which must be \"read\".\n\nDainichi means \"Great Sun\" and Kūkai uses this as a metaphor for the great primordial Buddha, whose teaching and presence illuminates and pervades all, like the light of the sun. This immanent presence also means that every being already has access to enlightenment (hongaku) and Buddha nature, and that because of this, there is the possibility of \"becoming Buddha in this very embodied existence\" (\"sokushinjôbutsu\"). This is achieved because of the non-dual relationship between the macrocosm of Hosshin and the microcosm of the Shingon practitioner.\n\nKūkai's exposition of what has been called Shingon's \"metaphysics\", is based on the three aspects of the cosmic truth or Hosshin - body, appearance and function. The body is the physical and mental elements, which are the body and mind of the cosmic Buddha and which is also empty (Shunyata) The physical universe for Shingon, contains the interconnected mental and physical events. The appearance aspect is the form of the world, which appears as mandalas of interconnected realms and is depicted in mandala art such the Womb Realm mandala. The function is the movement and change which happens in the world, which includes change in forms, sounds and thought. These forms, sounds and thoughts are expressed by the Shingon practitioner in various rituals and tantric practices which allow them to connect with and inter-resonate with Dainichi and hence reach enlightenment here and now.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, Buddhist modernists such as Anagarika Dharmapala (1864-1933) and the American convert Henry Steel Olcott sought to show that Buddhism was rational and compatible with modern Scientific ideas such as the theory of evolution. Dharmapala also argued that Buddhism included a strong social element, interpreting it as liberal, altruistic and democratic. K. N. Jayatilleke wrote the classic modern account of Buddhist epistemology (\"Early Buddhist Theory of Knowledge\", 1963) and his student David Kalupahana wrote on the history of Buddhist thought and psychology. Other important Sri Lankan Buddhist thinkers include Ven Ñāṇananda (\"Concept and Reality\"), Walpola Rahula, Hammalawa Saddhatissa (\"Buddhist Ethics\", 1987), Gunapala Dharmasiri (\"A Buddhist critique of the Christian concept of God\", 1988), P. D. Premasiri and R. G. de S. Wettimuny.\n\nIn 20th-century China, the modernist Taixu (1890-1947) advocated a reform and revival of Buddhism. His promoted an idea of a Buddhist Pure Land, not as a metaphysical place in Buddhist cosmology but as something possible to create here and now in this very world which could be achieved through a \"Buddhism for Human Life\" (Chinese: 人生佛教; pinyin: rénshēng fójiào) which was free of supernatural beliefs. Taixu also wrote on the connections between modern science and Buddhism, ultimately holding that “scientific methods can only corroborate the Buddhist doctrine, they can never advance beyond it”. Like Taixu, Yin Shun (1906–2005) advocated a form of Humanistic Buddhism grounded in concern for humanitarian issues and his students and followers have been influential in promoting Humanistic Buddhism in Taiwan. This period also saw a revival of the study of Weishi (Yogachara), by Yang Rensan (1837-1911), Ouyang Jinwu (1871-1943) and Liang Shuming (1893–1988).\n\nOne of Tibetan Buddhism's most influential modernist thinkers is Gendün Chöphel (1903–1951), who, according to Donald S. Lopez Jr. “was arguably the most important Tibetan intellectual of the twentieth century.” Gendün Chöphel traveled throughout India with the Indian Buddhist Rahul Sankrityayan and wrote a wide variety of material, including works promoting the importance of modern science to his Tibetan countrymen and also Buddhist philosophical texts such as \"Adornment for Nagarjuna’s Thought\". Another very influential Tibetan Buddhist modernist was Chögyam Trungpa, whose Shambhala Training was meant to be more suitable to modern Western sensitivities by offering a vision of \"secular enlightenment\".\n\nIn Southeast Asia, thinkers such as Buddhadasa, Thích Nhất Hạnh, Sulak Sivaraksa and Aung San Suu Kyi have promoted a philosophy of socially Engaged Buddhism and have written on the socio-political application of Buddhism. Likewise, Buddhist approaches to economic ethics (Buddhist economics) have been explored in the works of E. F. Schumacher, Prayudh Payutto, Neville Karunatilake and Padmasiri de Silva. The study of the Pali Abhidhamma tradition continued to be influential in Myanmar, where it was developed by monks such as Ledi Sayadaw and Mahasi Sayadaw.\n\nJapanese Buddhist philosophy was heavily influenced by the work of the Kyoto School which included Kitaro Nishida, Keiji Nishitani, Hajime Tanabe and Masao Abe. These thinkers brought Buddhist ideas in dialogue with Western philosophy, especially European phenomenologists and existentialists. The most important trend in Japanese Buddhist thought after the formation of the Kyoto school is Critical Buddhism, which argues against several Mahayana concepts such as Buddha nature and original enlightenment. In Nichiren Buddhism, the work of Daisaku Ikeda has also been popular.\n\nThe Japanese Zen Buddhist D.T. Suzuki (1870–1966) was instrumental in bringing Zen Buddhism to the West and his Buddhist modernist works were very influential in the United States. Suzuki's worldview was a Zen Buddhism influenced by Romanticism and Transcendentalism, which promoted a spiritual freedom as \"a spontaneous, emancipatory consciousness that transcends rational intellect and social convention.\" This idea of Buddhism influenced the Beat writers and a contemporary representative of Western Buddhist Romanticism is Gary Snyder. The American Theravada Buddhist monk Thanissaro Bhikkhu has critiqued 'Buddhist Romanticism' in his writings.\n\nWestern Buddhist monastics and priests such as Nanavira Thera, Bhikkhu Bodhi, Nyanaponika Thera, Robert Aitken, Taigen Dan Leighton, Matthieu Ricard have written texts on Buddhist philosophy. A feature of Buddhist thought in the West has been a desire for dialogue and integration with modern science and psychology, and various modern Buddhists such as Alan Wallace, James H. Austin, Mark Epstein and the 14th Dalai Lama have worked and written on this issue. Another area of convergence has been Buddhism and environmentalism, which is explored in the work of Joanna Macy. Another Western Buddhist philosophical trend has been the project to secularize Buddhism, as seen in the works of Stephen Batchelor.\n\nIn the West, Comparative philosophy between Buddhist and Western thought began with the work of Charles A. Moore who founded the journal Philosophy East and West. Contemporary Western Academics such as Mark Siderits, Jan Westerhoff, Jonardon Ganeri, Miri Albahari, Owen Flanagan, Damien Keown, Tom Tillemans, David Loy, Evan Thompson and Jay Garfield have written various works which interpret Buddhist ideas through Western philosophy.\n\nBaruch Spinoza, though he argued for the existence of a permanent reality, asserts that all phenomenal existence is transitory. In his opinion sorrow is conquered \"by finding an object of knowledge which is not transient, not ephemeral, but is immutable, permanent, everlasting.\" The Buddha taught that the only thing which is eternal is Nirvana. David Hume, after a relentless analysis of the mind, concluded that consciousness consists of fleeting mental states. Hume's Bundle theory is a very similar concept to the Buddhist \"skandhas\", though his skepticism about causation lead him to opposite conclusions in other areas. Arthur Schopenhauer's philosophy parallels Buddhism in his affirmation of asceticism and renunciation as a response to suffering and desire.\n\nLudwig Wittgenstein's \"language-game\" closely parallel the warning that intellectual speculation or papañca is an impediment to understanding, as found in the Buddhist \"Parable of the Poison Arrow\". Friedrich Nietzsche, although himself dismissive of Buddhism as yet another nihilism, had a similar impermanent view of the self. Heidegger's ideas on being and nothingness have been held by some to be similar to Buddhism today.\n\nAn alternative approach to the comparison of Buddhist thought with Western philosophy is to use the concept of the Middle Way in Buddhism as a critical tool for the assessment of Western philosophies. In this way Western philosophies can be classified in Buddhist terms as eternalist or nihilist. In a Buddhist view all philosophies are considered non-essential views (ditthis) and not to be clung to.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8180185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8180185", "title": "Charles Bally", "text": "Charles Bally\n\nCharles Bally (; 4 February 1865, Geneva – 10 April 1947, Geneva) was a Swiss linguist from the Geneva School. He lived from 1865 to 1947 and was, like Ferdinand de Saussure, from Switzerland. His parents were Jean Gabriel, a teacher, and Henriette, the owner of a cloth store. Bally was married three times: first to Valentine Leirens, followed by Irma Baptistine Doutre, who was sent into a mental institution in 1915, and finally with Alice Bellicot. In addition to his edition of de Saussure's lectures, \"Course in General Linguistics\" (co-edited by Albert Sechehaye), Charles Bally also played an important role in linguistics.\n\nFrom 1883 to 1885 he studied classical languages and literature in Geneva. He continued his studies from 1886 to 1889 in Berlin where he was awarded a Ph.D. After his studies he worked as a private teacher for the royal family of Greece from 1889 to 1893. Bally returned to Geneva and taught at a business school from 1893 on and moved to the Progymnasium, a grammar school, from 1913 to 1939. He also worked as PD at the university from 1893 to 1913. From 1913 to 1939 he had a professorship for general linguistic and comparative Indo-European studies which he took over from Ferdinand de Saussure.\n\nBesides his works about subjecthood in the French language he also wrote about the crisis in French language and language classes. He was active in interlinguistics, serving as a consultant to the research association that presented Interlingua in 1951. Today Charles Bally is regarded as the founding-father of linguistic theories of style and much honored for his theories of phraseology. In terms of modern stylistics he dealt with the expressive function of signs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47602576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47602576", "title": "Conjugated estrogens", "text": "Conjugated estrogens\n\nConjugated estrogens (CEs), or conjugated equine estrogens (CEEs), sold under the brand name Premarin (a contraction of \"pregnant mares' urine\") among others, is an estrogen medication which is used in menopausal hormone therapy and for various other indications. It is a mixture of the sodium salts of estrogen conjugates found in horses, such as estrone sulfate and equilin sulfate. CEEs are available in the form of both natural preparations manufactured from the urine of pregnant mares and fully synthetic replications of the natural preparations. They are formulated both alone and in combination with progestins such as medroxyprogesterone acetate. CEEs are usually taken by mouth, but can also be given by application to the skin or vagina as a cream or by injection into a blood vessel or muscle.\nSide effects of CEEs include breast tenderness and enlargement, headache, fluid retention, and nausea among others. It may increase the risk of endometrial hyperplasia and endometrial cancer in women with an intact uterus if it is not taken together with a progestogen like progesterone. The medication may also increase the risk of blood clots, cardiovascular disease, and, when combined with most progestogens, breast cancer. CEEs are estrogens, or agonists of the estrogen receptor, the biological target of estrogens like estradiol. Compared to estradiol, certain estrogens in CEEs are more resistant to metabolism, and the medication shows relatively increased effects in certain parts of the body like the liver. This results in an increased risk of blood clots and cardiovascular disease with CEEs relative to estradiol.\nPremarin, the major brand of CEEs in use, is manufactured by Wyeth and was first marketed in 1941 in Canada and in 1942 in the United States. It is the most commonly used form of estrogen in menopausal hormone therapy in the United States. However, it has begun to fall out of favor relative to bioidentical estradiol, which is the most widely used form of estrogen in Europe for menopausal hormone therapy. CEEs are available widely throughout the world. An estrogen preparation very similar to CEEs but differing in source and composition is esterified estrogens.\n\nCEEs are a form of hormone therapy used in women. It is used most commonly in postmenopausal women who have had a hysterectomy to treat hot flashes, and burning, itching, and dryness of the vagina and surrounding areas. It must be used in combination with a progestogen in women who have not had a hysterectomy. For women already taking the medication, it can be used to treat osteoporosis, although it is not recommended solely for this use. Some lesser known uses are as a means of high-dose estrogen therapy in the treatment of breast cancer in both women and men and in the treatment of prostate cancer in men. It has been used at a dosage of 2.5 mg three times per day (7.5 mg/day total) for prostate cancer.\n\nCEEs are specifically approved in countries such as the United States and Canada for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms (hot flashes) and vulvovaginal atrophy (atrophic vaginitis, atrophic urethritis) associated with menopause, hypoestrogenism due to hypogonadism, ovariectomy, or primary ovarian failure, abnormal uterine bleeding, the palliative treatment of metastatic breast cancer in women, the palliative treatment of advanced androgen-dependent prostate cancer in men, and the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis.\n\nNatural CEEs, as Premarin, are available in the form of oral tablets (0.3 mg, 0.625 mg, 0.9 mg, 1.25 mg, or 2.5 mg), creams for topical or vaginal administration (0.625 mg/g), and vials for intravenous or intramuscular injection (25 mg/vial). Synthetic CEEs, such as Cenestin, Enjuvia, and generic formulations, are available in the form of oral tablets (0.3 mg, 0.45 mg, 0.625 mg, 0.9 mg, or 1.25 mg) and creams for topical or vaginal administration (0.625 mg/g).\n\nContraindications of CEEs include breast cancer and a history of venous thromboembolism, among others.\n\nThe most common side effects associated with CEEs are vaginal yeast infections, vaginal spotting or bleeding, painful menses, and cramping of the legs. While there are some contradictory data, estrogen alone does not appear to increase the risk of coronary heart disease or breast cancer, unlike the case of estrogen in combination with certain progestins such as levonorgestrel or medroxyprogesterone acetate. Only a few clinical studies have assessed differences between oral CEEs and oral estradiol in terms of health parameters. Oral CEEs have been found to possess a significantly greater risk of thromboembolic and cardiovascular complications than oral estradiol ( = 2.08) and oral esterified estrogens ( = 1.78). However, in another study, the increase in venous thromboembolism risk with oral CEEs plus medroxyprogesterone acetate and oral estradiol plus norethisterone acetate was found to be equivalent ( = 4.0 and 3.9, respectively). As of present, there are no randomized controlled trials that would allow for unambiguous conclusions.\n\nEstrogens, including CEEs, are relatively safe in acute overdose.\n\nInhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 enzymes may interact with CEEs.\n\nCEEs are a combination of estrogens, or agonists of the estrogen receptors. The major estrogen in CEEs, sodium estrone sulfate, itself is inactive, and rather serves as a prodrug of estrone and then of estradiol. The transformation of estrone sulfate to estrone is catalyzed by steroid sulfatase, and of estrone into estradiol by 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. CEEs (as Premarin) and estrone have been found to be equivalent in potency in an animal model of estrogenic activity. On the other hand, the active forms of the equine estrogens in CEEs, such as equilin and 17β-dihydroequilin, have greater potency in the liver relative to bioidentical estradiol, similarly to synthetic estrogens like ethinylestradiol and diethylstilbestrol. This results in disproportionate effects on liver protein production compared to estradiol, although to a lesser extent than ethinylestradiol and diethylstilbestrol. In addition, 17β-dihydroequilenin has shown a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM)-like profile of estrogenic activity in studies with monkeys, in which beneficial effects on bone and the cardiovascular system were observed but proliferative responses in breast or endometrium were not seen, although the clinical significance of this is unknown.\n\nCEEs consists of the sodium salts of the sulfate esters of equine estrogens in a specific and consistent composition (see the table). The major estrogens in CEEs are sodium estrone sulfate and sodium equilin sulfate, which together account for approximately 71.5 to 92.0% of the total content of CEEs. CEEs are prodrugs of the active forms of the estrogens. Sodium estrone sulfate is a prodrug of estrone, which in turn is a prodrug of estradiol, while sodium equilin sulfate is a prodrug of equilin and then of 17β-dihydroequilin. As such, the major active estrogens with CEEs are estradiol and 17β-dihydroequilin, which have potent estrogenic activity and account for most of the effects of CEEs. The 17α-estrogens in CEEs such as 17α-estradiol and 17α-dihydroequilin have low estrogenicity and are thought to contribute minimally to its effects. There are many different steroids in natural CEE products like Premarin, as many as 230 compounds and including even androgens and progestogens, but only the estrogens are present in sufficient amounts to produce clinically-relevant effects.\n\nA dosage of 0.625 mg/day oral CEEs has been found to increase SHBG levels by 100%. For comparison, 1 mg/day oral estradiol increased SHBG levels by 45%, while 50 µg/day transdermal estradiol increased SHBG levels by 12%. Ethinylestradiol is more potent in its effects on liver protein synthesis than either CEEs or estradiol, with 10 µg/day oral ethinylestradiol having been found to be approximately equivalent to 1.25 mg/day CEEs.\n\nCEEs are hydrolyzed in the intestines during first-pass metabolism upon oral administration. Following their absorption, they are resulfated mainly in the liver also during the first pass. Following this, they serve as a circulating reservoir and are slowly rehydrolyzed into their unconjugated active forms.\n\nOral CEEs, at a daily dosage of 0.625 mg, achieve estrone and estradiol levels of 150 pg/mL and 30–50 pg/mL, respectively, while a daily oral dosage of 1.25 mg achieves levels of 120–200 pg/mL and 40–60 pg/mL of estrone and estradiol, respectively. The oral ingestion of 10 mg CEEs, which contains about 4.5 mg sodium estrone sulfate and 2.5 mg sodium equilin sulfate, produces maximal plasma concentrations of estrone and equilin of 1,400 pg/mL and 560 pg/mL within 3 and 5 hours, respectively. By 24 hours post-dose of 10 mg, the levels of estrone and equilin fall to 280 pg/mL and 125 pg/mL, respectively. Oral CEEs 1.25 mg/daily and oral micronized estradiol 1 mg/daily result in similar plasma concentrations of estrone and estradiol (150–300 pg/mL and 30–50 pg/mL for micronized estradiol, respectively) (oral estradiol is extensively metabolized into estrone during hepatic first-pass metabolism), although this does not account for equilin and other equine estrogens involved in the effects of CEEs, which may be significantly more potent in comparison to estrone.\n\nThe active forms are metabolized primarily in the liver. There is some enterohepatic recirculation of CEEs. Following a single oral dose of 0.625 CEEs, the biological half-life of estrone was 26.7 hours, of baseline-adjusted estrone was 14.8 hours, and of equilin was 11.4 hours.\n\nCEEs are naturally occurring estrane steroids. They are in conjugate form, as the sodium salts of the C17β sulfate esters. The estrogens in CEEs, in their unconjugated active forms, include bioidentical human estrogens like estradiol and estrone as well as equine-specific estrogens such as equilin and 17β-dihydroequilin. The equine estrogens differ from human estrogens in that they have additional double bonds in the B ring of the steroid nucleus. CEEs contain both 17β-estrogens like estradiol and 17β-dihydroequilin and the C17α epimers like 17α-estradiol and 17α-dihydroequilin.\nEmmenin, which was an extract of the urine of pregnant women, was the predecessor of Premarin, and Progynon was a very similar competing product. Both of these products contained conjugated estrogens similarly to Premarin, but the estrogens were human estrogens as opposed to equine estrogens and the composition differed. The major active ingredient in Emmenin and Progynon was estriol glucuronide.\n\nEstrone sulfate was first isolated from the urine of pregnant mares in the late 1930s by researchers in the Department of Biochemistry at University of Toronto. Premarin was first introduced in 1941 by Wyeth Ayerst as a treatment for hot flushes and other symptoms of menopause; at that time, Wyeth Ayerst only had to prove its safety, and not its efficacy. In response to the 1962 Kefauver Harris Amendment the FDA had its efficacy reviewed, and in 1972 found it effective for menopausal symptoms and probably effective for osteoporosis. The review also determined that two estrogens – estrone sulfate and equilin sulfate – were primarily responsible for the activity of Premarin, and it laid the groundwork for Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) submissions of generic versions. In 1984 an NIH consensus panel found that estrogens were effective for preventing osteoporosis and 1986 the FDA announced in the Federal Register that Premarin was effective for preventing osteoporosis. This announcement led to a rapid growth in sales, and interest from generic manufacturers to introduce generic versions.\n\n\"Estrogens, conjugated\" is the generic name of the drug and its and . It is also known as \"conjugated estrogens\" or as \"conjugated equine estrogens\".\n\nCEEs are marketed under a large number of brand names throughout the world. The major brand name of the natural form of CEEs manufactured from the urine of pregnant mares is Premarin. Major brand names of fully synthetic versions of CEEs include Cenestin and Enjuvia in the United States and C.E.S. and Congest in Canada. CEEs are also formulated in combination with progestins. Major brand names of CEEs in combination with medroxyprogesterone acetate include Prempro and Premphase in the United States, Premplus in Canada, Premique in the United Kingdom and Ireland, Premia in Australia and New Zealand, and Premelle in South Africa. Prempak-C is a combination of CEEs and norgestrel which is used in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and Prempak N is a combination of CEEs and medrogestone which is used in South Africa. Many of the aforementioned brand names are also used in other, non-English-speaking countries.\n\nCEEs are marketed and available widely throughout the world. This includes in all English-speaking countries, throughout Europe, Latin America, Asia, and elsewhere in the world.\n\nResearch starting in 1975 showed substantially increased risk of endometrial cancer. Since 1976 the drug has carried a label warning about the risk. As part of the Women's Health Initiative sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, a large-scale clinical trial of menopausal HRT showed that long-term use of estrogen and a progestin may increase the risk of strokes, heart attacks, blood clots, and breast cancer. Following these results, Wyeth experienced a significant decline in its sales of Premarin, Prempro (CEEs and medroxyprogesterone acetate), and related products, from over $2 billion in 2002 to just over $1 billion in 2006.\n\nThis drug has been the subject of litigation; more than 13,000 people have sued Wyeth between 2002 and 2009. Wyeth and Pharmacia & Upjohn prevailed in the vast majority of hormone therapy cases previously set for trial through a combination of rulings by judges, verdicts by juries, and dismissals by plaintiffs themselves. Of the company’s losses, two of the jury verdicts were reversed post-trial and others are being challenged on appeal. Wyeth also won five summary judgments on Prempro cases and had 15 cases voluntarily dismissed by plaintiffs. The company won dismissals in another 3,000 cases. In 2006, Mary Daniel, in a trial in Philadelphia, was awarded $1.5 million in compensatory damages as well as undisclosed punitive damages. As of 2010, Wyeth had won the last four of five cases, most recently in Virginia, finding that they were not responsible for the breast cancer of plaintiff Georgia Torkie-Tork. Wyeth has been quoted as saying \"many risk factors associated with breast cancer have been identified, but science cannot establish what role any particular risk factor or combination play in any individual woman's breast cancer.\" Wyeth's counsel in the case also noted that in the WHI trial, 99.62% of women took the drug and \"did not get breast cancer.\"\n\nAnimal welfare groups claim that animal husbandry and urine collection methods used in the production of CEEs cause undue stress and suffering to the mares involved. Animal activists have made claims of abuses ranging from inadequate stall size, long periods of confinement, cumbersome urine collection, and continuous breeding cycles. After reaching advanced age, many of the mares are adopted for recreation use, while some are sent to feed lots for slaughter. Despite the controversy, the USDA called the CEEs HRT industry a model of self-regulation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1116542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1116542", "title": "Damon and Pythias", "text": "Damon and Pythias\n\nIn Greek historic writings, Damon and Pythias (or Phintias; (gen.: Δάμωνος), Πυθίας, Φιντίας) is a legend illustrating the Pythagorean ideal of friendship. Pythias is accused of and charged with plotting against the tyrannical Dionysius I of Syracuse. Pythias requests of Dionysius to be allowed to settle his affairs on the condition that his friend, Damon, be held hostage and, should he, Pythias, not return, be executed in his stead. Eventually, Pythias does return, and the amazed Dionysius, impressed by the love and trust in their friendship, frees him and Damon.\n\nAs told by Aristoxenus, and after him Cicero (\"De Offic.\" 3.45), Diodorus Siculus (10.4), and others, Pythias and his friend Damon, both followers of the philosopher Pythagoras, traveled to Syracuse during the reign of the tyrannical Dionysius I (r. 405–367 BC). Pythias was accused of plotting against the tyrant and sentenced to death.\n\nAccepting his sentence, Pythias asked to be allowed to return home one last time to settle his affairs and bid his family farewell. Not wanting to be taken for a fool, the king refused, believing that, once released, Pythias would flee and never return. Damon offered himself as a hostage in Pythias' absence, and when the king insisted that, should Pythias not return by an appointed time, Damon would be executed in his stead, Damon agreed and Pythias was released.\n\nDionysius was convinced that Pythias would never return, and as the day Pythias promised to return came and went, he called for Damon's execution—but just as the executioner was about to kill Damon, Pythias returned.\n\nApologizing to his friend for the delay, Pythias explained that on the passage back to Syracuse pirates had captured his ship and thrown him overboard, but that he swam to shore and made his way back to Syracuse as quickly as possible, arriving just in time to save his friend. \n\nSo astonished by and pleased with their friendship, Dionysius pardoned both men. It was also said that the tyrant then sought to become their third friend, but was denied.\n\nAnother version says that it was a test planned by Dionysius and his courtiers. The Pythagoreans were renowned for their moral strength and superiority, but some Syracusan courtiers argued the claim was false, and others disagreed, so with their king they devised a test—a crisis that would show whether two Pythagoreans lived up to that reputation. \n\n\n\"Damon and Pythias\" came to be an idiomatic expression for \"true friendship.\" Thus, Denis Diderot's short story, \"The Two Friends from Bourbonne\" (1770), begins \"There used to be two men here who might be called the Damon and Pythias of Bourbonne.\" \n\nThe canines Bummer and Lazarus were eulogized as \"the Damon and Pythias of San Francisco\" upon Bummer's death in 1865.\n\nIn Robert Louis Stevenson's novella \"The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\", Henry Jekyll's two oldest friends, Dr. Lanyon and Mr. Utterson (a lawyer), have the following exchange while discussing Dr. Jekyll's apparent self-imposed isolation:\n\n...said Utterson. “I thought you had a common bond of interest.”\n\n“We had,” was the reply. “But it is more than ten years since Henry Jekyll became too fanciful for me. He began to go wrong, wrong in the mind… Such unscientific balderdash,” said the doctor, flushing suddenly purple, “would have estranged Damon and Pythias.”\n\nThis little spirit of temper was somewhat of a relief to Mr. Utterson. “They have only differed on some point of science,” he thought…\n\nThe use of the Damon-and-Pythias idiom would seem to indicate that, whether the difference was on a point of science or something else, it was not \"only\" some trivial difference.\n\nChapter Two (entitled \"Damon and Pythias\") of Gustave Flaubert's 1869 novel Sentimental Education tells of the friendship of Frederick Moreau and Charles Deslauriers.\n\nThe 1889 novel \"A Marriage Below Zero\" by Alfred J. Cohen (pen name: Alan Dale) has a young gay couple continually referring to themselves as Damon and Pythias. Soon the upscale social world that they try pass in begins to refer to them with the same term, but as derogatory codeword for 'gay couple.'\n\nShakespeare's Hamlet addresses his close friend Horatio as \"O Damon dear.\"\n\nIn the novel \"Little Men\" by Louisa M. Alcott (1871), Chapter 14 is entitled 'Damon and Pythias.' This is a reference to two of the characters, Nat and Dan. Early in the book, Nat is responsible for introducing Dan to the school which is the setting of the novel. Later, when Nat is falsely accused of theft, Dan stands by him and then later takes responsibility for the theft himself, saying that he could bear the mistrust and anger of the other boys more easily than his weaker friend. In fact, neither boy is guilty, and they are later cleared of involvement.\n\nTwo clerks arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct in Charles Dickens's story \"Making a Night of It\" (in \"Sketches by Boz\") allude to Damon and Pythias.\n\nIn \"A Bell for Adano\", by John Hersey, Captain Purvis's and Mayor Joppolo's friendship is compared to the friendship of Damon and Pythias because they dated sisters.\n\nIn 1895, Jack London used Damon and Pythias as the nicknames of the two main characters in \"Who Believes in Ghosts!\" \n\nDuring World War II, P-51 fighter pilots Major Dominic Salvatore \"Don\" Gentile (December 6, 1920 – January 28, 1951) and his wingman Captain John Trevor Godfrey (1922–1958) both of the 4th Fighter Group were referred to as \"Damon and Pythias\" This remarkable team destroyed over 50 German aircraft.\n\nIn a 1997 episode of the TV series \"\" entitled \"A Modern Prometheus,\" a character portraying Lord Byron mentions Damon and Pythias before he jumps with another man to their \"death.\"\n\nIn the 1940 movie \"The Philadelphia Story\", Tracy Lord (Katharine Hepburn) remarks that C. K. Dexter Haven (Cary Grant) and George Kittredge (John Howard) are just like Damon and Pythias.\n\nIn the 1950 Bowery Boys movie \"Blonde Dynamite\", the boys establish a male escort service out of their foil Louie's ice cream parlor while they have conveniently sent him to Coney Island on vacation; Slip Mahoney (Leo Gorcey) tells the other boys to \"Let Damon and Pythias fight it out!\"—meaning to let Sach (Huntz Hall) and Whitey (Billy Benedict) fight to see which would be included in a group date with a bevy of femmes fatale.\n\nIn the 1971 PG Wodehouse novel \"Much Obliged, Jeeves\", Bertie Wooster tells his Aunt Dahlia that at Oxford, his friendship with Ginger Winship was comparable to that of Damon and Pythias.\n\nIn Episode 8, season 1 of \"Peter Gunn\", a character describes his friendship for the murder victim by saying that people referred to them as \"Damon and what's-his-name.\"\n"}
{"id": "48171826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48171826", "title": "Deepa Devasena", "text": "Deepa Devasena\n\nDeepa Devasena (born Chidambaram, Tamil Nadu, India) is a popular Kathak guru of the Lucknow Gharana style in the Greater Milwaukee Area, practicing since 2003. She is the artistic director of the \"Arabhi School of Indian Dance\".\n\nDevasena is a trained BharatNatyam and Kathak dancer and teacher. She has studied under several prominent Kathak gurus, including Birju Maharaj, Saswati Didi, and gurus Nirupama and Rajendra. In August 2015 she successfully conducted a two-week Kathak workshop for her students under the guidance of Nirupama and Rajendra, and showcased it through the recital \"Jhoom 2015\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27126008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27126008", "title": "Dokhyon", "text": "Dokhyon\n\nDok Hyon Sunim () is a Korean Zen monk ordained in Jogye order and the foremost disciple of Bop Jong Sunim.\nSunim spent more than 16 years in seclusion intensely practicing Zen meditation and currently acts as the abbot of Kilsangsa temple in Seoul, taking care of Bop Jong Sunim's teaching and disciples.\n\nDok Hyon Sunim was born on 25 December 1963. He grew up in a rural area of Korean south in Jeollanam-do province.\nSunim met Buddhism in the 1980s while studying at the university. At that time South Korea was under a strong military government control. Many students, scholars and generally all educated people were concerned about their country and tried to fight the government to achieve justice, democracy and prosperity.\nAfter graduating in the university, Sunim entered military service. For two years he was fulfilling his duties as a soldier and than supported himself as a worker at various construction sites. While working, he had many doubts about life, so started to practice Buddhism and finally decided to become a monk.\nIn 1989 entered Songgwangsa temple at Jogye mountain.\nIn 1990 obtained novice monk precepts and became disciple of venerable master Bop Jong Sunim (), who was at that time practicing at Puril hermitage above Songgwangsa. While attending his teacher, he entered Songgwangsa Kangwon seminary.\nBetween the years 1992 to 2008 Sunim practiced Zen meditation in various Zen meditation halls, hermitages and other secluded places.\nSince March 2009 Sunim acts as an abbot of Kilsangsa temple in Seoul.\nFrom March 2010 Sunim also serves as a successor of venerable Bop Jong Sunim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "184182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184182", "title": "Draize test", "text": "Draize test\n\nThe Draize Test is an acute toxicity test devised in 1944 by Food and Drug Administration (FDA) toxicologists John H. Draize and Jacob M. Spines. Initially used for testing cosmetics, the procedure involves applying 0.5mL or 0.5g of a test substance to the eye or skin of a restrained, conscious animal, and then leaving it for set amount of time before rinsing it out and recording its effects. The animals are observed for up to 14 days for signs of erythema and edema in the skin test, and redness, swelling, discharge, ulceration, hemorrhaging, cloudiness, or blindness in the tested eye. The test subject is commonly an albino rabbit, though other species are used too, including dogs. The animals are euthanized after testing if the test renders irreversible damage to the eye or skin. Animals may be re-used for testing purposes if the product tested causes no permanent damage. Animals are typically reused after a \"wash out\" period during which all traces of the tested product are allowed to disperse from the test site.\n\nThe tests are controversial. They are viewed as cruel as well as unscientific by critics because of the differences between rabbit and human eyes, and the subjective nature of the visual evaluations. The FDA supports the test, stating that \"to date, no single test, or battery of tests, has been accepted by the scientific community as a replacement [for] ... the Draize test\". Because of its controversial nature, the use of the Draize test in the U.S. and Europe has declined in recent years and is sometimes modified so that anaesthetics are administered and lower doses of the test substances used. Chemicals already shown to have adverse effects \"in vitro\" are not currently used in a Draize test, thereby reducing the number and severity of tests that are carried out.\n\nJohn Henry Draize (1900–1992) obtained a BSc in chemistry then a PhD in pharmacology, studying hyperthyroidism. He then joined the University of Wyoming and investigated plants poisonous to cattle, other livestock, and people. The U.S. Army recruited Draize in 1935 to investigate the effects of mustard gas and other chemical agents.\n\nIn 1938, after a number of reports of coal tar in mascara leading to blindness, the U.S. Congress passed the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, placing cosmetics under regulatory control. The following year Draize joined the FDA, and was soon promoted to head of the Dermal and Ocular Toxicity Branch where he was charged with developing methods for testing the side effects of cosmetic products. This work culminated in a report by Draize, his laboratory assistant, Geoffrey Woodard, and division chief, Herbert Calvery, describing how to assess acute, intermediate, and chronic exposure to cosmetics by applying compounds to the skin, penis, and eyes of rabbits.\n\nFollowing this report, the techniques were used by the FDA to evaluate the safety of substances such as insecticides and sunscreens and later adopted to screen many other compounds. By Draize's retirement in 1963, and despite never having personally attached his name to any technique, irritancy procedures were commonly known as \"the Draize test\" To distinguish the target organ, the tests are now often referred to as \"the Draize eye test\" and \"the Draize skin test\".\n\nIn 1971, before the implementation in 1981 of the modern Draize protocol, toxicologists Carrol Weil and Robert Scala of Carnegie Mellon University distributed three test substances for comparative analysis to 24 different university and state laboratories. The laboratories returned significantly different evaluations, from non-irritating to severely irritating, for the same substances. A 2004 study by the U.S. Scientific Advisory Committee on Alternative Toxicological Methods analyzed the modern Draize skin test. They found that tests would:\n\nAccording to the American National Anti-Vivisection Society, solutions of products are applied directly into the animals' eyes, which can cause \"intense burning, itching and pain.\" Clips are placed on the rabbits' eyelids to hold them open during the test period, which can last several days, during which time the rabbits are placed in restraining stocks. The chemicals often leave the eyes \"ulcerated and bleeding.\" In the Draize test for skin irritancy, the test substances are applied to skin that is shaved and abraded (several layers of skin are removed with sticky tape), then covered with plastic sheeting.\n\nAccording to the British Research Defence Society, the Draize eye test is now a \"very mild test,\" in which small amounts of substances are used and are washed out of the eye at the first sign of irritation. In a letter to \"Nature\", written to refute an article saying that the Draize test had not changed much since the 1940s, Andrew Huxley wrote: \"A substance expected from its chemical nature to be seriously painful must not be tested in this way; the test is permissible only if the substance has already been shown not to cause pain when applied to skin, and \"in vitro\" pre-screening tests are recommended, such as a test on an isolated and perfused eye. Permission to carry out the test on several animals is given only if the test has been performed on a single animal and a period of 24 hours has been allowed for injury to become evident.\" \n\nKirk Wilhelmus, professor in the Department of Ophthalmology at Baylor College of Medicine, conducted a comprehensive review of the Draize eye test in 2001. He also reported that differences in anatomy and biochemistry between the rabbit and human eye indicate that testing substances on rabbits might not predict the effects on humans. However, he noted \"that eyes of rabbits are generally more susceptible to irritating substances than the eyes of humans\" making them a conservative model of the human eye. Wilhelmus concluded \"The Draize eye test ... has assuredly prevented harm\" to humans, but predicts it will be \"supplanted as \"in vitro\" and clinical alternatives emerge for assessing irritancy of the ocular surface\" \n\nIndustry and regulatory bodies responsible for public health are actively assessing animal-free tests to reduce the requirement for Draize testing. Before 2009 the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) had not validated any alternative methods for testing eye or skin irritation potential. However, since 2000 OECD had validated alternative tests for corrosivity, meaning acids, bases and other corrosive substances are no longer required to be Draize tested on animals. The alternative tests include a human skin equivalent model and the transepicutaneous resistance test (TER). In addition, the use of human corneal cell line (HCE-T cells) is also another good alternative method to test eye irritation on potential chemicals \n\nIn September 2009 the OECD validated two alternatives to the Draize Eye Test: the Bovine Cornea Opacity Test (BCOP) and Isolated chicken eye test (ICE). A 1995 study funded by the European Commission and British Home Office evaluated these among nine potential replacements, including the hens' egg chorioallantoic membrane (HET-CAM) assay and an epithelial model cultivated from human corneal cells, in comparison with Draize test data. The study found that none of the alternative tests, taken alone, proved to be a reliable replacement for the animal test, however a \"post hoc\" analysis of the data found that in certain combinations of tests, an \"excellent performance\" was observed.\n\nPositive results from some of these tests have been accepted by regulatory bodies, such as the British Health and Safety Executive and US Department of Health and Human Services, without testing on live animals, but negative results (no irritation) required further \"in vivo\" testing. Regulatory bodies have therefore begun to adopt a tiered testing strategy for skin and eye irritation, using alternatives to reduce Draize testing of substances with the most severe effects.\n\nIn Britain, the Home Office publishes guideline for eye irritancy tests, with the aim of reducing suffering to the animals. In its 2006 guidelines, it \"strongly encourages\" \"in vitro\" screening of all compounds before testing on animals, and mandates the use of validated alternatives when available. It requires that the test solution's \"physical and chemical properties are not such that a severe adverse reaction could be predicted\"; therefore \"known corrosive substances or those with a high oxidation or reduction potential must not be tested.\" \n\nThe test design requires that the substance be tested on one rabbit initially, and the effect of the substance on the skin must be ascertained before it can be introduced into the eye. If a rabbit shows signs of \"severe pain\" or distress it must be immediately killed, the study terminated and the compound may not be tested on other animals. In tests where severe eye irritancy is considered likely, a washout should closely follow testing in the eye of the first rabbit. In the UK, any departure from these guidelines requires prior approval from the Secretary of State.\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "11847004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11847004", "title": "Enrique Dussel", "text": "Enrique Dussel\n\nEnrique Domingo Dussel Ambrosini (born December 24, 1934) is an Argentine and Mexican academic, philosopher, historian, and theologian. He served as the interim rector of the Universidad Autónoma de la Ciudad de México from 2013 to 2014.\n\nEnrique Dussel was born on December 24, 1934 in La Paz, Argentina. He studied at the Universidad Nacional de Cuyo in Mendoza from 1953 to 1957, receiving an undergraduate degree in Philosophy, after which he travelled to Europe to continue his studies. He then received a Doctorate from the Complutense University of Madrid, a Doctorate in History from the Sorbonne in Paris, and an undergraduate degree in Theology obtained through studies in Paris and Münster. Between 1959 and 1961 he lived in Israel learning Arabic and Hebrew and working manual jobs at a cooperative led by French Jesuit Paul Gauthier. He returned to Argentina in 1969 and became influenced by Dependency Theory and the writings of Emmanuel Levinas, both of which were to become major influences on his thinking. In the events leading up to the military dictatorship in Argentina of 1976-1983, he was increasingly the target of violence, including death threats, the bombing of his house, and sacking from the university. He escaped to Mexico in 1975 as a political exile, where he continued his work as a Professor of Philosophy at the Iztapalapa campus of the Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana (Autonomous Metropolitan University, UAM) and in a teaching position at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (National Autonomous University of Mexico, UNAM).\n\nDussel received an honorary doctorate from the University of Fribourg in 1981, the University of San Andrés in 1995, the University of Buenos Aires in 2012, the Universidad Santo Tomás in 2015, the National University of San Martín in 2015, and the University of Chile in 2017. He has produced an expansive body of work numbering some forty books on a range of subjects including the philosophy of liberation, ethics, political economy, theology, history and modernity/postmodernity. Much of his work is so far only limitedly available in English, and some contend that his work has not received the broader attention it warrants. \n\nAdditionally, he has been visiting professor for one semester at Frankfurt University, Notre Dame University, California State University, Los Angeles, Union Theological Seminary (New York), Loyola University Chicago, Vanderbilt University, Duke University, Harvard University, and others. In March 2013 he was named the interim rector of the Autonomous University of Mexico City for a period of one year.\n\nDussel has maintained dialogue with philosophers such as Karl-Otto Apel, Gianni Vattimo, Jürgen Habermas, Richard Rorty and Emmanuel Lévinas Author of more than 50 books, his thoughts cover many themes including: theology, politics, philosophy, ethics, political philosophy, aesthetics, and ontology. He has been a critic of postmodernity, preferring instead the term \"transmodernity.\"\n\nEnrique Dussel is one of the primary figures along with others such as Rodolfo Kusch, Arturo Roig, and Leopoldo Zea, in the philosophical movement referred to as the Philosophy of Liberation. The philosophical content is heterogenous but arises from and responds to the particular historical/socio-political context of Latin America as part of a global periphery (see Dependency Theory). The movement originated in Argentina in the early 1970s but during the period of military dictatorship it dispersed across Latin America as many intellectuals were forced into exile. Subsequently, the Philosophy of Liberation has been highly influential both in Latin America and beyond. The philosophy of liberation seeks to critique structures of colonialism, imperialism, globalization, racism, and sexism, from the particular experience of exploitation and alienation of the global periphery. It poses a direct challenge to the discourses of Euro-American philosophy, and emphasizes the socio-political responsibilities of Latin American philosophy towards the project of historical liberation.\n\nThis work consists of edited versions of six lectures given by Dussel in 1972. Intended to sketch ideas later developed in a second volume entitled \"Ethics and the Theology of Liberation\", the text gives a wide-ranging account, focused on the history of the church and its role in Latin America, with the overarching goal of elaborating a distinctly Latin American Theology, centered around a liberatory politics. Dussel is concerned primarily with history, particularly in constructing a sense of the history of Latin America, and a sense of participation in a historical process towards liberation. His account reaches back to human origins, and includes topics ranging from Aztec and Inca belief systems and worldviews to the origins of Christianity, to the Byzantine Empire, to the role of the church in Spanish conquest. The second half of the book covers the 20th century, addressing the political upheavals of the 1960s, the violence and oppression endured under military regimes, the response of the church, and the question of violent and non-violent resistance in Christian thinking. Dussel also explores the compatibility of socialism with Christian doctrine, and the possibility of a uniquely Latin American socialism. The single thread which runs most prominently through each section is the question of resistance to oppression. Dussel explores through exegesis the Christian obligation to overcome the sin of oppression through commitment to selfless action towards the goal of historical liberation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5689287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5689287", "title": "Ernst Simon", "text": "Ernst Simon\n\nErnst Akiba/Akiva Simon (, 'aqibhah Ernst Simon; March 15, 1900 in Berlin – August 18, 1988 in Jerusalem) was a German-Jewish educator and religious philosopher. \nAlong with Martin Buber, he founded in the 1920s one of the earliest Israeli peace groups, Brit Shalom, which advocated for a binational state including Jews and Arabs. From 1930 to 1933 he taught at the Hebrew Reali School Haifa, headed by Arthur Biram. In 1942, he was one of the founders of the binationalist Ihud party.\n\n\nIn 1967, Simon was awarded the Israel Prize, for education.\n\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "12345804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12345804", "title": "Extrinsic finality", "text": "Extrinsic finality\n\nExtrinsic finality is a principle of the philosophy of teleology that holds that a being has a final cause or purpose external to that being itself, in contrast to an intrinsic finality, or self-contained purpose.\nOne example is the view that minerals are \"designed\" to be used by plants that are in turn \"designed\" to be used by animals.\n\nOver-emphasizing extrinsic finality is often criticized as leading to the anthropic attribution of every event to a divine purpose, or superstition. For instance, \"If I hadn't been at the store today, I wouldn't have found that $100 on the ground. God must have intended for me to go to the store so I would find that money.\" or \"We won the game today because of my lucky socks.\" Such abuses were criticized by Francis Bacon, Descartes, and Spinoza.\n"}
{"id": "50768589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50768589", "title": "François-Rodolphe de Weiss", "text": "François-Rodolphe de Weiss\n\nFrançois-Rodolphe de Weiss (von Weiss, also von Weiß, surname at birth Wyss) (1751–1818) was a Swiss political and military leader, writer and philosopher, a follower of Jean-Jacques Rousseau.\n\nHe was born at Yverdon, son of François Rodolphe, seigneur de Daillens, and Henriette Russillon. He entered the French military service in 1766, and the Prussian in 1777. In 1785 he became a member of the Grand Conseil at Berne.\n\nA supporter of the ideas of the French Revolution, de Weiss was sent to Paris as an envoy in 1792, and maintained a peace between France and the Swiss confederation. In 1794 he attributed the Revolution to ideas emanating from Geneva.\n\nIn 1798 the Bernese bailiwick at Lucens Castle was ended by a popular uprising, with Weiss defending the castle.\n\nWeiss then went into exile, in Germany. He died by suicide at Coppet on 21 July 1818.\n\n"}
{"id": "15777640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15777640", "title": "Gyokuko Carlson", "text": "Gyokuko Carlson\n\nGyokuko Carlson (born Andrea Gass) is a Soto Zen roshi and abbess of Dharma Rain Zen Center in Portland, Oregon, United States. She was formerly the co-abbot along with her husband, the late Kyogen Carlson. Carlson and her husband practiced at Shasta Abbey when Jiyu Kennett was the abbess (and from whom she received Dharma transmission), leaving to found their own center in 1986 when celibacy became a requirement at Shasta Abbey. She has been a practitioner of Zen Buddhism for more than thirty years, and is a member of the American Zen Teachers Association.\n\nGyokuko and Kyogen Carlson have come to be known as the major non-Shasta Abbey line in succession to Jiyu Kennett; their Zen center has become the largest Zen congregation in Oregon. Carlson's main teaching emphasis is the implementation of spiritual practice into daily life. Her family religious education program was developed from Unitarian Universalist practices, transformed by Buddhist principles. It is the largest Buddhist child education program in Oregon, and one of the largest and oldest in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "40852244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40852244", "title": "HKA test", "text": "HKA test\n\nThe HKA Test, named after Richard R. Hudson, Martin Kreitman, and Montserrat Aguadé, is a statistical test used in genetics to evaluate the predictions of the Neutral Theory of molecular evolution. By comparing the polymorphism within each species and the divergence observed between two species at two or more loci, the test can determine whether the observed difference is likely due to neutral evolution or rather due to adaptive evolution. Developed in 1987, the HKA test is a precursor to the McDonald-Kreitman test, which was derived in 1991. The HKA test is best used to look for balancing selection, recent selective sweeps or other variation-reducing forces.\n\nNeutral Evolution Theory, first proposed by Kimura in a 1968 paper, and later fully defined and published in 1983, is the basis for many statistical tests that detect selection at the molecular level. Kimura noted that there was much too high of a rate of mutation within the genome (i.e. high polymorphism) to be strictly under directional evolution. Furthermore, functionally less important regions of the genome evolve at a faster rate. Kimura then postulated that most of the modifications to the genome are neutral or nearly neutral, and evolve by random genetic drift. Therefore, under the neutral model, polymorphism within a species and divergence between related species at homologous sites will be highly correlated. The Neutral Evolution theory has become the null model against which tests for selection are based, and divergence from this model can be explained by directional or selective evolution.\n\nThe rate of mutation within a population can be estimated using the Watterson estimator formula: θ=4Νμ, where Ν is the effective population size and μ is the mutation rate (substitutions per site per unit of time). Hudson et al. proposed applying these variables to a chi-squared, goodness-of-fit test.\n\nThe test statistic proposed by Hudson et al., Χ, is:\n\nThis states that, for each locus (\"L\") (for which there must be at least two) the sum of the difference in number of observed polymorphic sites in sample A minus the estimate of expected polymorphism squared, all of which is divided by the variance. Similarly, this formula is then applied to Sample B (from another species) and then can be applied to the divergence between two sample species. The sum of these three variables is the test statistic (X). If the polymorphism within species A, and B, and the divergence between them are all independent, then the test statistic should fall approximately onto a chi-squared distribution.\n\nFor a simple explanation, let D = divergence between species, or the number of fixed differences in locus one. Similarly D = divergence in locus two. Let P and P = the number of polymorphic sites in loci one and two, respectively (a measure of polymorphism within species). If there is no directional evolution, then D/D = P/P.\n\nFor these examples, the distance between two species’ loci is determined by measuring the number of substitutions per site when comparing the two species. We can then calculate the rate of mutation (changes to the DNA sequence pre unit of time) if we know the time since the two species diverged from the common ancestor.\n\nA test that suggests neutral evolution:\nSuppose that you have data from two loci (1 and 2) in two species (A and B). Locus 1 shows high divergence and high polymorphism in both species. Locus 2 shows low divergence and low polymorphism. This can be explained by a neutral difference in the rate of mutations in each loci.\n\nA test that suggests selection:\nAgain suppose you have data as in the last example, only this time locus 2 has equal divergence to locus 1 and yet lower polymorphism in species B. In this case the rate of mutation in each loci is equal, so this can only be explained by a reduction in the effective population size Ne of species B, which is inferred as an act of selection.\n"}
{"id": "15271339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15271339", "title": "Hegel Society of Great Britain", "text": "Hegel Society of Great Britain\n\nThe Hegel Society of Great Britain (HSGB) is an English-speaking forum for scholars and students interested in the writings of the philosopher GWF Hegel (1770–1831). Such scholastic interest may extend to Hegel's predecessors, contemporaries, followers and critics.\n\nThe HSGB was founded in 1979, has over 200 members, and holds an annual conference. Its bi-annual journal is the \"Hegel Bulletin\", published by Cambridge University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "25515344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25515344", "title": "Iain McGilchrist", "text": "Iain McGilchrist\n\nIain McGilchrist is a psychiatrist, writer, and former Oxford literary scholar. McGilchrist came to prominence after the publication of his book \"The Master and His Emissary\", subtitled \"The Divided Brain and the Making of the Western World\".\n\nMcGilchrist read English at New College, Oxford, but having published \"Against Criticism\" in 1982, he later retrained in medicine and has been a neuroimaging researcher at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and a Consultant Psychiatrist at the Maudsley Hospital in south London. McGilchrist is a Fellow of the Royal College of Psychiatrists, and has three times been elected a Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford.\n\nAccording to his web site, McGilchrist currently works privately as a consultant psychiatrist in London, and otherwise lives on the Isle of Skye, off the coast of Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32766639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32766639", "title": "Isaac ibn Latif", "text": "Isaac ibn Latif\n\nIsaac ibn Latif (c. 1210-1280) was a Jewish neoplatonist philosopher, who lived most of his life in Toledo, the capital of the Christian kingdom of Castile. In 1238 he published the treatise \"schaar ha-schamajim\" (\"heaven's gate\").\n\n"}
{"id": "7473816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7473816", "title": "Isshō Fujita", "text": "Isshō Fujita\n\nIn 1987, Fujita assumed the role of abbot at Valley Zendo, where he lived until his return to Japan in 2005.\n\nIn 2010, he was elected Director of the Soto Zen International Center.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20494884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20494884", "title": "Jakugo", "text": "Jakugo\n\n, or of a kōan is a proof of solution of the case riddle, but not the solution itself. In Zen Buddhism, kōan is used both as a meditation device and as an expression of – a radical experiential insight into the nature of things and the self alike. A capping phrase is supposedly an articulation of such enlightening experience, most of the time in verse. According to Victor Sōgen Hori the use of jakugo dates to the Song dynasty (AD 960 - 1270) and was developed from classical Chinese \"literary games\".\n\nV. Sōgen Hori describes the process of the kōan training as follows:\n\"Rinzai monasteries in Japan vary in the way they conduct kōan practice, but in the Myōshin-ji–Daitoku-ji branch, when a monk has passed a kōan the Zen teacher will instruct him to bring a “capping phrase” ... The monk selects a verse or phrase that expresses the insight he has had while meditating on the kōan. He searches for this capping phrase in one of the several Zen phrase books that have been especially compiled for this purpose. If the monk continues into advanced stages of the Rinzai Zen kōan curriculum, he will receive further literary assignments: the writing of explanations in Japanese, called \"kakiwake\" 書き分け, and the composition of Chinese-style poetry, called \"nenrō\"　拈弄 ... The research and writing required to complete \"kakiwake\" and \"nenrō\" writing assignments can consume considerable amounts of time during the later stages of a monk’s stay in the monastery.\" (pp. 3–4.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15870242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15870242", "title": "Jeff Malpas", "text": "Jeff Malpas\n\nJeff Malpas (born 1958) is an Australian philosopher, currently Distinguished Professor at the University of Tasmania in Hobart, Tasmania. Known for his work across the analytic and continental traditions, Malpas has also been at the forefront of contemporary philosophical research on the concept of place. Malpas is also active in commenting on issues of contemporary ethics and politics in the Tasmanian and Australian media.\n\nMalpas is one of a handful of contemporary philosophers who have addressed the nature and philosophical significance of the concept of place. While Malpas draws on phenomenological and hermeneutic resources, his work in what he has termed ‘philosophical topography’ is also heavily indebted to analytic approaches in philosophy of mind and language. Malpas’ work is distinctive in its detailed conceptual analysis of topographical and spatial notions, for the methodological implications that it associates with the focus on place, and for its topographical analysis of self and identity (Malpas argues for an ‘externalist’ conception of self and mind, according to which human lives are indissolubly linked to the places in which those lives are lived). Malpas’s topographical approach has been developed in two volumes, \"Place and Experience\" (1999) and \"Heidegger’s Topology\" (2006) – the latter providing an analysis of the thought of German philosopher Martin Heidegger that is centred on the ideas of place and ‘topology’ (Heidegger himself talks of his thinking as a ‘topology of being’).\n\nMalpas has devoted considerable attention to the idea of the transcendental, particularly as it connects with hermeneutic themes, with special emphasis on notions of ground and limit. He sees the transcendental as providing an important point of connection between philosophers such as Donald Davidson, Hans-Georg Gadamer and Martin Heidegger, while the focus on the transcendental also connects with Malpas’s methodological development of the idea of philosophical topography.\n\nInasmuch as it draws heavily on both the analytic and continental traditions, so Malpas’s work can also be seen as providing something of a bridge between them. His readings of Heidegger and Gadamer are characterised by an emphasis on argumentative reconstruction and clarity of exposition, while his interpretation and development of Davidson’s thought emphasises the broader philosophical and meta-philosophical elements of the Davidsonian position (and so places greater emphasis on Davidson’s later writings as providing the framework for reading Davidson’s work as a whole).\n\nIn November 2018 Malpas was elected Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities.\n\n"}
{"id": "230154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230154", "title": "Johann Eduard Erdmann", "text": "Johann Eduard Erdmann\n\nJohann Eduard Erdmann (13 June 1805 – 12 June 1892) was a German religious pastor, historian of philosophy, and philosopher of religion, of which he wrote on the mediation of faith and knowledge. He was known to be a follower of Friedrich Schleiermacher, whom he studied under August Carlblom, and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel whom he considered as mentor. He also studied the works of Karl Daub and was to become known as a right-wing member of Hegelianism.\n\nErdmann was born on 13 June 1805 in Wolmar, Livonia, where his father was a pastor. His was a cousin of Julius Walter. He studied theology at Dorpat (Tartu) and afterwards at Berlin, where he fell under the influence of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, and was known never to miss his lectures. Then, from 1829 to 1832 he was a minister of religion in his native town of Wolmar. Afterwards he resigned from his position as pastor to devote himself to education and philosophy, but continued to minister throughout his life. He obtained a doctoral degree in from the University of Kiel with the treatise, \"Quidnam sit discrimen philosophiam inter et theologiam\" (What is the Distinction between Philosophy and Theology?), written in 1830, in which he argued that philosophy and religion converge to a common truth, even though they differ in form of approach. In 1834 he began writing his \"Habilitation\" thesis to qualify in Berlin. This would eventually become the first volume of \"Versuch einer wissenschaftlichen Darstellung der Geschichte der neuern Philosophie\" (Attempt at a Scientific Presentation of the History of Modern Philosophy). In 1836 he was professor-extraordinary at Halle, became full professor in 1839, and remained there until his death. He died on June 12, 1892 in Halle.\n\nHe published many philosophical text-books and treatises, and a number of sermons; but his chief claim to remembrance rests on his elaborate \"Grundriss der Geschichte der Philosophie\" (Outline the History of Philosophy, 2 vols, 1866), the 4th edition of which has been translated into English. Erdmann's special merit is that he does not rest content with being a mere summarizer of opinions, but tries to exhibit the history of human thought as a continuous and ever-developing effort to solve the great speculative problems with which man has been confronted in all ages. His chief other works were: \"Leib und Seele\" (Body and Soul, 1837), \"Grundriss der Psychologie\" (Outline of Psychology, 1840), \"Grundriss der Logik und Metaphysik\" (Outline of Logic and Metaphysics, 1841), and \"Psychologische Briefe\" (Psychological Letters, 1851).\n\nErdmann had many readers, students and followers, and influenced many intellectuals of his time. Some of these include Niels Thulstrup, his student Albrecht Ritschl, his colleague Martin Kähler, and members the Hegelian school, such as Kuno Fischer, Bruno Bauer, Ludwig Feuerbach and Karl Ludwig Michelet. Søren Kierkegaard studied and was inspired in his early studies by Erdmann's works, in particular his \"Vorlesungen über Glauben und Wissen als Einleitung in die Dogmatic und Religionphilosophie\" (Lectures on Faith and Knowledge as an Introduction to Dogma the Philosophy of Religion). Although Kierkegaard integrated much of Erdmann's work into his own, the only work in which Erdmann was cited by him was his dissertation \"On the Concept of Irony with Continual Reference to Socrates\".\n\nJohn Dewey wrote in the \"Andover Review\":\n\nThe combination of qualities necessary to produce a work of the scope and grade of Erdmann's is rare. ...Erdmann wrote his book [\"A History of Philosophy: Ancient and Mediaeval Philosophy\"], not as a reference book... but as a genuine history of philosophy, tracing in a genetic way the development of thought in its treatment of philosophic problems. Its purpose is to develop philosophic intelligence rather than to furnish information. ...Erdmann unites a minute and exhaustive knowledge of philosophic sources at first hand, equalled over the entire field of philosophy probably by no other one man... To the student who wishes... a somewhat detailed knowledge of the evolution of thought, and of what this and the other writers have contributed to it, Erdmann is indispensable; there is no substitute.\n\n"}
{"id": "39846987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39846987", "title": "Jonathan Balcombe", "text": "Jonathan Balcombe\n\nJonathan Balcombe (born 28 February 1959) is an ethologist and author. He currently serves as Director of Animal Sentience with the Humane Society Institute for Science and Policy, and Department Chair for Animal Studies with Humane Society University, in Washington, DC. He lectures internationally on animal behavior and the human-animal relationship. He is Associate Editor of the journal Animal Sentience.\n\nBalcombe was born in Hornchurch, England. He grew up in New Zealand and Canada before settling in the United States in 1987.\n\nBalcombe earned a Bachelor of Science degree in biology in 1983 from York University in Toronto, then a Master of Science in biology from Carleton University in Ottawa in 1987. In 1991, he completed a Ph.D in ethology (animal behavior) at the University of Tennessee, where he studied mother-pup vocal communication in the Mexican free-tailed bat.\n\nBalcombe has worked for several animal protection organizations, including The Humane Society of the United States, Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. He also worked as a research coordinator and grant writer for Immersion Medical, a for-profit company that makes virtual reality training simulators for minimally-invasive surgery.\n\nIn 2009, Balcombe was hired to teach a course in animal behavior for Humane Society University. Two years later, he assumed the role of Department Chair for Animal Studies. He developed and taught a course in Animal Sentience, and commissioned the development of courses in Evolution, Food Choice and Animal Protection, and Gender and Animals.\n\nBalcombe's first book, \"The Use of Animals in Higher Education: Problems, Alternatives, and Recommendations\", was published by Humane Society Press in 2000. His trade book, \"Pleasurable Kingdom: Animals and the Nature of Feeling Good\", was released by Macmillan in 2006. The book details Balcombe's positions on the sentience of animals, and the existence of pleasure seeking behavior, in contrast with the behavioralist mainstream, which rejects anthropomorphism of animals. Deutschlandradio called the book a \"convincing and a fun read.\"\n\nIn 2010, Balcombe published \"Second Nature: The Inner Lives of Animals\", in which he surveys recent scientific discoveries about animal cognition, emotion, and virtue, and aims to \"protest against what he sees as an unbroken tradition of human cruelty and indifference.\"\n\n\"The Exultant Ark: A Pictorial Tour of Animal Pleasure\" was released in 2011 by the University of California Press. Using images of contented animals in their natural environment, Balcombe \"proves that animals aren’t always engaged in a battle for survival but will frequently do things for nothing more than the feeling of satisfaction.\" Balcombe disputes the mainstream scientific community's belief that the animal kingdom is an unforgiving struggle for survival. The book briefly broke into the top 100 on Amazon.com following favorable reviews in \"The New York Times\" and the \"New York Post.\"\n\nBalcombe's 2016 book, \"What A Fish Knows\", combines science and story-telling to examine the inner lives of the world's most diverse group of vertebrates. \"What A Fish Knows\" has a release date of June 7, 2016, from Scientific American/Farrar, Straus and Giroux.\n\nBalcombe has published over 50 scholarly articles and book chapters on various topics, including animal behavior, animal research, animal dissection, medical simulation, and veganism. His essay titled \"After Meat\" appears in the 2016 book \"Impact of Meat Consumption on Health and Environmental Sustainability,\" edited by Dora Marinova and Talia Raphaely.\n\nBalcombe uses a variety of platforms to advocate for a sea-change in the human-animal relationship. In addition to his books and journal papers, he is a regular speaker at conferences, campuses, public schools and other venues. He is interviewed often in the media, and he has written blogs for \"Psychology Today\", One Green Planet, Secretary of Innovation, and Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine. He is a manuscript reviewer for scholarly journals such as \"Animal Behaviour\", the \"Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science\", and the \"Journal of Consciousness Studies\".\n\nBalcombe expressed his views on the use of battery hens in industrial agriculture during a New Zealand conference. Balcombe stated that our moral obligation to the hens is greater due to their ability to suffer, saying \"it's not about how their intelligence compares to ours, it's about how much they can feel pain, suffering, joy and pleasure.\"\n\nBalcombe commented on a Tufts University report about the decline of vivisection. He maintains that reliable tests require better care for the animals involved. He referenced a 1990 study on lab mice that revealed that inconsistencies in test results can arise based on the stress level of each rat.\n\nBalcombe also has served as an expert witness for undercover investigations by several organizations, most notably by the organization Mercy for Animals documenting cruelty to pigs, cattle, turkeys, and fish. In his 2011 response to an exposé by the animal protection organization Mercy for Animals of animal abuse on a pig farm, Balcombe described the farm's conditions as \"an unremitting hell on earth,\" adding that \"these intelligent animals endure awful physical and psychological suffering.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6022243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6022243", "title": "János Apáczai Csere", "text": "János Apáczai Csere\n\nJános Apáczai Csere (June 10, 1625 – December 31, 1659) was a Transylvanian Hungarian polyglot and mathematician, famous for his work \"The Hungarian Encyclopedia\", the first textbook to be written in Hungarian. The \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" calls him \"the leading Protestant scholar and writer\" of 17th-century Hungary.\n\nHe was born in Apața (today in Braşov County, Romania) on June 10, 1625; the \"Apáczai\" in his name is an indication of his birthplace. The Csere family into which he was born were of the minor nobility, but his parents died when he was young and he was brought up an orphan. After college studies in Gyulafehérvár (Alba Iulia), one of Csere's teachers there, Johann Heinrich Bisterfeld, persuaded the local bishop, István Katona, to fund a scholarship for Apáczai to continue his education in the Netherlands. He began these studies at the University of Franeker and later went to Leiden University and Utrecht University; in 1651 he earned a doctorate in theology from the University of Harderwijk. He married a Dutch woman, Aletta van der Maet, in the same year, but returned with her to Gyulafehérvár in 1652 at the request of Prince George II Rákóczi. At this time, Bisterfeld was still head of the school in Gyulafehérvár, but on his death in 1655 Apáczai fell out of favor and lost his position; in 1656 he was sent instead to what is now Cluj-Napoca to become head of the Kolozsvár (Cluj-Napoca) School there. He died in 1659 at the age of 34.\n\nApáczai wrote his encyclopedia while he was in Utrecht, and it was in Utrecht that it was published, in 1655 (with the year of 1653 printed on the frontispiece), after he had returned to Transylvania. The first part of the encyclopedia consisted of a translation of the philosophy of Descartes, and the second and third covered logic following the earlier treatments of Petrus Ramus and his student Amesius. The fourth part concerned arithmetic, and the fifth part geometry, again based on the work of Ramus. The sixth part covered astronomy, and was notable for including controversial heliocentric theories of cosmology. The remaining parts of the encyclopedia concerned natural history, technology, history, social institutions, and theology. Apáczai's work fell into disfavor and neglect in the late 17th and early 18th centuries, after the Hungarian Counter-Reformation led to a return of Catholicism in that country. However, in 1803, a second edition was published, and it was republished again as recently as 1977 by Kriterion. Due to this work, Apáczai is now considered a national cultural hero.\n\nThe Apáczai Csere János High School in Budapest, one of the most reputed high schools in Hungary, is named after Apáczai, as are the Apáczai Csere János High School in Cluj, the Apáczai Csere János Teacher-Training College in Győr, and Apáczai Csere János utca (a street in Budapest). In 1998, the Hungarian government established the Apáczai Public Foundation for the education of Hungarians living in other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "43206259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43206259", "title": "Kasr al-asnam al-jahiliyyah", "text": "Kasr al-asnam al-jahiliyyah\n\nKasr al-asnam al-jahiliyyah fi dhamm al-mutasawwifin (\"Demolition of the Idols of Ignorance in Blaming those who Pretend to Sufism\") (A.27; C.16; D.P.28). The word \"mutasawwifin\" referred to here is not used according to its usual meaning of one who follows Sufism but means one who pretends tofollow it. In this treatise, Mulla Sadra criticizes the excesses of those in his day who, pretending to be Sufis, disregarded the Shari'ah and its teachings.\nThis book is one of the Molla Sadra’s works and writings, in Arabic. As the name of this treatise shows, had been written about the rejecting of false “Sufism”(tasavoof) and blaming the ignorant and hypocrite “Sufis”(Motesawefän). The content of the book, contrary to its new name, is old, and in it, the new word or subject that has not been related in Sadra’s former works are not seen. The basis of the Sadra’s action in this treatise is the criticism of false Sufis that have long precedente.\n\nMuhamrnad ibn Ibrahim ibn Yahya Oawarni Shirazi, entitled Sadr al-Din and also Mulla Sadra (in the Indo-Pakistani subcontinent simply Sadra) as well as Sadr al-muta'allihin, \"foremost among the theosophers\", or called simply Akhund by his disciples, was born in Shiraz in 979-980/1571-72 into an influential and well known family, his father having been the governor of the province of Fars. The date of his birth has not been specified in any of the traditional sources devoted to him 1and in fact it was discovered only a few years ago when'Allamah Sayyid Muhammad Husayn Tabatabaei, a foremost contemporary sage or hakim of Iran, was correcting the new edition of the Asfar and preparing it for publication. On the margin of a manuscript copied in 1197/1703 but based on acopy autographed by Mulla Sadra and with certain marginal notes by the author himself, Muhammad Husayn Tabatabaei discovered the following sentence in the section devoted to the question of the unity of the intellect and the intelligible: \"1 received this inspiration at the time of sunrise of Friday the seventh of Jumadi al-ula of the year 1037 A.H. [corresponding to January 14, 1628] when already 58 lunar years had passed from the life\nof the author.\"? Since then other sources have confirmed this information. But because it is not possible to know whether the58years is a period of between 57 and 58 years or 58 complete years, one cannot determine the exact date of his birth beyond setting it between the years 979/1571 and 980/1572. He was wealthy and influential and with great effort trained his son. Mullah Sadra’s life can be divided into three periods:\n\nThis book contains one introduction and four articles, each consisting of chapters, and a conclusion:\n\n\nThis book has been printed and published by \"Jame'e Tehran\" publishers in Tehran in 1961 A.D: Edited in a critical edition by M.T.Danechepazhuh, Tehran, 1340 (A.H. solar) and also has been published by \"Sadra Islamic Philosophy Research Institute\" in Tehran in 2002 A.D. (1381). Its correction, research and introduction has been done by Dr. Hossein Jahangiri. In the end of the book, has been related the list of quranic verses, Persian and Arabic poems, persons' name, places, groups, books' name, terminology and explanations and the list of references. It has also appendixes, traditions, resources and explanations. (This book has been translated by Mohsen Bidarfar that has been published by the name of “mysticism”(Gnosticism) and \"Gnostic pretenders\" (who pretend to be Gnostic) in 1961 A.D. (1340) and 1992 A.D. (1371).\n\n"}
{"id": "52410875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52410875", "title": "Katherine Hawley", "text": "Katherine Hawley\n\nKatherine Hawley is a British philosopher specialising in metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, and philosophy of physics. Hawley is a Professor of Philosophy at the University of St Andrews. She is the author of \"How Things Persist\" (OUP 2002), and \"Trust: a Very Short Introduction\" (OUP 2012), as well as numerous publications on testimony and knowledge-how. She is the Fellow of Royal Society of Edinburgh and the recipient of Philip Leverhulme Prize..\n\nHawley was born in Stoke-on-Trent, England. She did her undergraduate degree in Physics and Philosophy at Balliol College, Oxford and lived in France for a short while afterwards. She then went on to receive her M.Phil and Ph.D. in the Department of History and Philosophy of Science at the University of Cambridge under the supervision of Peter Lipton. Prior to becoming a Senior Lecturer at the University of St Andrews in 1999, Hawley had been Henry Sidgwick Research Fellow of Newnham College, Cambridge , where she had taught a variety of subjects, \"inter alia\", political philosophy, critical thinking, epistemology, formal logic, and metaphysics. She currently lives in Anstruther in Fife . She served as an Editorial Chair of The Philosophical Quarterly (2005-2010), in addition to being a Deputy (1999-2001) and an Associate Editor (2011-2012) of the British Journal for the Philosophy of Science.\n\nIn \"How Things Persist\" (2002), Hawley defends a stage-theory of persistence that combines the four-dimensionalism of perdurantists with the endurantist account of predication. Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews praised the book for offering a new formulation of endurance theory as “the claim that ordinary objects are such that (i) they exist at more than one time and (ii) statements about what parts they have must be made relative to some time or other” (Hawley, p. 30, cited in Dyke, 2013). According to Dyke (2013), this characterisation captures the fundamental notion that ordinary objects exist at more than one time without being temporally extended in addition to simplifying cross-comparisons with the perdurance theory, which accepts (i) but rejects (ii).\n\nRecently, Hawley's research interests shifted from persistence, parthood and identity to (un)trustworthiness and competence in ethics and epistemology. She cites the metametaphysical turn in analytic philosophy coupled with her deflationary intuitions about the possibility of methodology of metaphysics as a reason for moving away from metaphysics to ethics and epistemology.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183652", "title": "Ken Wilber", "text": "Ken Wilber\n\nKenneth Earl Wilber II (born January 31, 1949) is an American writer on transpersonal psychology and his own integral theory, a systematic philosophy which suggests the synthesis of all human knowledge and experience.\n\nWilber was born in 1949 in Oklahoma City. In 1967 he enrolled as a pre-med student at Duke University. He became inspired, like many of his generation, by Eastern literature, particularly the Tao Te Ching. He left Duke and enrolled at the University of Nebraska at Lincoln, but after a few years dropped out of university to devote all his time to studying his own curriculum and writing books.\n\nWilber stated in 2011 that he has long suffered from chronic fatigue syndrome, possibly caused by RNase enzyme deficiency disease.\n\nIn 1973 Wilber completed his first book, \"The Spectrum of Consciousness\", in which he sought to integrate knowledge from disparate fields. After rejections by more than twenty publishers it was finally accepted in 1977 by Quest Books, and he spent a year giving lectures and workshops before going back to writing. He also helped to launch the journal \"ReVision\" in 1978.\n\nIn 1982 New Science Library published his anthology \"The Holographic Paradigm and Other Paradoxes\", a collection of essays and interviews, including one by David Bohm. The essays, including one of his own, looked at how holography and the holographic paradigm relate to the fields of consciousness, mysticism, and science.\n\nIn 1983 Wilber married Terry \"Treya\" Killam who was shortly thereafter diagnosed with breast cancer. From 1984 until 1987, Wilber gave up most of his writing to care for her. Killam died in January 1989; their joint experience was recorded in the 1991 book \"Grace and Grit\".\n\nIn 1987 Wilber moved to Boulder, Colorado, where he worked on his Kosmos trilogy and oversaw the work of the Integral Institute. Wilber now lives in Denver, Colorado.\n\nSubsequently, Wilber wrote \"Sex, Ecology, Spirituality\" (1995), the first volume of his \"Kosmos Trilogy\". \"A Brief History of Everything\" (1996) was the popularised summary of \"Sex, Ecology, Spirituality\" in interview format. \"The Eye of Spirit\" (1997) was a compilation of articles he had written for the journal \"ReVision\" on the relationship between science and religion. Throughout 1997, he had kept journals of his personal experiences, which were published in 1999 as \"One Taste\", a term for unitary consciousness. Over the next two years his publisher, Shambhala Publications, released eight re-edited volumes of his \"Collected Works\". In 1999, he finished \"Integral Psychology\" and wrote \"A Theory of Everything\" (2000). In \"A Theory of Everything\" Wilber attempts to bridge business, politics, science and spirituality and show how they integrate with theories of developmental psychology, such as Spiral Dynamics. His novel, \"Boomeritis\" (2002), attempts to expose what he perceives as the egotism of the baby boom generation.\n\nIn 2012 Wilber joined the Advisory Board of International Simultaneous Policy Organization which seeks to end the usual deadlock in tackling global issues through an international simultaneous policy.\n\nAll Quadrants All Levels (AQAL), pronounced \"ah-qwul\", is the basic framework of integral theory. It models human knowledge and experience with a four-quadrant grid, along the axes of \"interior-exterior\" and \"individual-collective\". According to Wilber, it is a comprehensive approach to reality, a metatheory that attempts to explain how academic disciplines and every form of knowledge and experience fit together coherently.\n\nAQAL is based on four fundamental concepts and a rest-category: four quadrants, several levels and lines of development, several states of consciousness, and \"types\", topics which do not fit into these four concepts. \"Levels\" are the stages of development, from pre-personal through personal to transpersonal. \"Lines\" of development are various domains which may progress unevenly through different stages . \"States\" are states of consciousness; according to Wilber persons may have a temporal experience of a higher developmental stage. \"Types\" is a rest-category, for phenomena which do not fit in the other four concepts. In order for an account of the Kosmos to be complete, Wilber believes that it must include each of these five categories. For Wilber, only such an account can be accurately called \"integral\". In the essay, \"Excerpt C: The Ways We Are in This Together\", Wilber describes AQAL as \"one suggested architecture of the Kosmos\".\n\nThe model's apex is formless awareness, \"the simple feeling of being\", which is equated with a range of \"ultimates\" from a variety of eastern traditions. This formless awareness transcends the phenomenal world, which is ultimately only an appearance of some transcendental reality. According to Wilber, the AQAL categories — quadrants, lines, levels, states, and types – describe the relative truth of the two truths doctrine of Buddhism. According to Wilber, none of them are true in an absolute sense. Only formless awareness, \"the simple feeling of being\", exists absolutely.\n\nOne of Wilber's main interests is in mapping what he calls the \"neo-perennial philosophy\", an integration of some of the views of mysticism typified by Aldous Huxley's \"The Perennial Philosophy\" with an account of cosmic evolution akin to that of the Indian mystic Sri Aurobindo. He rejects most of the tenets of Perennialism and the associated anti-evolutionary view of history as a regression from past ages or yugas. Instead, he embraces a more traditionally Western notion of the great chain of being. As in the work of Jean Gebser, this great chain (or \"nest\") is ever-present while relatively unfolding throughout this material manifestation, although to Wilber \"... the 'Great Nest' is actually just a vast morphogenetic field of potentials ...\" In agreement with Mahayana Buddhism, and Advaita Vedanta, he believes that reality is ultimately a nondual union of emptiness and form, with form being innately subject to development over time.\n\nWilber believes that the mystical traditions of the world provide access to, and knowledge of, a transcendental reality which is perennial, being the same throughout all times and cultures. This proposition underlies the whole of his conceptual edifice, and is an unquestioned assumption. Wilber juxtaposites this generalisation to plain materialism, presenting this as the main paradigma of regular science.\n\nIn his later works, Wilber argues that manifest reality is composed of four domains, and that each domain, or \"quadrant\", has its own truth-standard, or test for validity:\n\nWilber believes that many claims about non-rational states make a mistake he calls the pre/trans fallacy. According to Wilber, the non-rational stages of consciousness (what Wilber calls \"pre-rational\" and \"trans-rational\" stages) can be easily confused with one another. In Wilber's view, one can reduce trans-rational spiritual realization to pre-rational regression, or one can elevate pre-rational states to the trans-rational domain. For example, Wilber claims that Freud and Jung commit this fallacy. Freud considered mystical realization to be a regression to infantile oceanic states. Wilber alleges that Freud thus commits a fallacy of reduction. Wilber thinks that Jung commits the converse form of the same mistake by considering pre-rational myths to reflect divine realizations. Likewise, pre-rational states may be misidentified as post-rational states. Wilber characterizes himself as having fallen victim to the pre/trans fallacy in his early work.\n\nWilber describes the current state of the \"hard\" sciences as limited to \"narrow science\", which only allows evidence from the lowest realm of consciousness, the sensorimotor (the five senses and their extensions). Wilber sees science in the broad sense as characterized by involving three steps:\nHe has presented these as \"three strands of valid knowledge\" in Part III of his book \"The Marriage of Sense and Soul\".\n\nWhat Wilber calls \"broad science\" would include evidence from logic, mathematics, and from the symbolic, hermeneutical, and other realms of consciousness. Ultimately and ideally, broad science would include the testimony of meditators and spiritual practitioners. Wilber's own conception of science includes both narrow science and broad science, e.g., using electroencephalogram machines and other technologies to test the experiences of meditators and other spiritual practitioners, creating what Wilber calls \"integral science\".\n\nAccording to Wilber's theory, narrow science trumps narrow religion, but broad science trumps narrow science. That is, the natural sciences provide a more inclusive, accurate account of reality than any of the particular exoteric religious traditions. But an integral approach that uses intersubjectivity to evaluate both religious claims and scientific claims will give a more complete account of reality than narrow science.\n\nWilber has referred to Stuart Kauffman, Ilya Prigogine, Alfred North Whitehead, and others in order to articulate his vitalistic and teleological understanding of reality, which is deeply at odds with the modern evolutionary synthesis.\n\nIn 2005, at the launch of the Integral Spiritual Center, a branch of the Integral Institute, Wilber presented a 118-page rough draft summary of his two forthcoming books. The essay is entitled \"What is Integral Spirituality?\", and contains several new ideas, including Integral post-metaphysics and the Wilber-Combs lattice. In 2006, he published \"Integral Spirituality\", in which he elaborated on these ideas, as well as others such as Integral Methodological Pluralism and the developmental conveyor belt of religion.\n\n\"Integral post-metaphysics\" is the term Wilber has given to his attempts to reconstruct the world's spiritual-religious traditions in a way that accounts for the modern and post-modern criticisms of those traditions.\n\nThe Wilber-Combs Lattice is a conceptual model of consciousness developed by Wilber and Allan Combs. It is a grid with sequential states of consciousness on the x axis (from left to right) and with developmental structures, or levels, of consciousness on the y axis (from bottom to top). This lattice illustrates how each structure of consciousness interprets experiences of different states of consciousness, including mystical states, in different ways.\n\nSince then, Wilber has drawn back from public life, due to a severe illness.\n\nWilber attracted a lot of controversy from 2011 to the present day by supporting Marc Gafni. Gafni was accused in the media of sexually assaulting a minor. Wilber has in fact publicly supported Gafni on his blog. A petition begun by a group of Rabbis has called for Wilber to publicly dissociate from Gafni.\n\nWilber is on the advisory board of Mariana Bozesan's AQAL Capital GmbH, Munich-based company specialising in integral impact investing using a model based on Wilber's Integral Theory.\n\nWilber's philosophy has been influenced by Madhyamaka Buddhism, particularly as articulated in the philosophy of Nagarjuna. Wilber has practiced various forms of Buddhist meditation, studying (however briefly) with a number of teachers, including Dainin Katagiri, Taizan Maezumi, Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche, Kalu Rinpoche, Alan Watts, Penor Rinpoche and Chagdud Tulku Rinpoche. Advaita Vedanta, Trika (Kashmir) Shaivism, Tibetan Buddhism, Zen Buddhism, Ramana Maharshi, and Andrew Cohen can be mentioned as further influences. Wilber has on several occasions singled out Adi Da's work for the highest praise while expressing reservations about Adi Da as a teacher. In \"Sex, Ecology, Spirituality\", Wilber refers extensively to Plotinus' philosophy, which he sees as nondual. While Wilber has practised Buddhist meditation methods, he does not identify himself as a Buddhist. There is a growing movement that considers Wilber as following a long tradition of western psychologists that have liberally appropriated and repackaged Eastern, especially Hindu, thought.\n\nAccording to Frank Visser, Wilber's conception of four quadrants, or dimensions of existence is very similar to E. F. Schumacher's conception of four fields of knowledge. Visser finds Wilber's conception of levels, as well as Wilber's critique of science as one-dimensional, to be very similar to that in Huston Smith's \"Forgotten Truth\". Visser also writes that the esoteric aspects of Wilber's theory are based on the philosophy of Sri Aurobindo as well as other theorists including Adi Da.\n\nWilber has been categorized as New Age due to his emphasis on a transpersonal view and, more recently, as a philosopher. \"Publishers Weekly\" has called him \"the Hegel of Eastern spirituality\".\n\nWilber is credited with broadening the appeal of a \"perennial philosophy\" to a much wider audience. Cultural figures as varied as Bill Clinton, Al Gore, Deepak Chopra, Richard Rohr, and musician Billy Corgan have mentioned his influence. However, Wilber's approach has been criticized as excessively categorizing and objectifying, masculinist, commercializing spirituality, and denigrating of emotion. Numerous critics cite problems with Wilber's interpretations and inaccurate citations of his wide ranging sources, as well as stylistic issues with gratuitous repetition, excessive book length, and hyperbole.\n\nSteve McIntosh praises Wilber's work but also argues that Wilber fails to distinguish \"philosophy\" from his own Vedantic and Buddhist religion. Christopher Bache is complimentary of some aspects of Wilber's work, but calls Wilber's writing style glib.\n\nPsychiatrist Stanislav Grof has praised Wilber's knowledge and work in the highest terms; however, Grof has criticized the omission of the pre- and peri-natal domains from Wilber's spectrum of consciousness, and Wilber's neglect of the psychological importance of biological birth and death. Grof has described Wilber's writings as having an \"often aggressive polemical style that includes strongly worded \"ad personam\" attacks and is not conducive to personal dialogue.\" Wilber's response is that the world religious traditions do not attest to the importance that Grof assigns to the perinatal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38678028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38678028", "title": "Louise-Anastasia Serment", "text": "Louise-Anastasia Serment\n\nLouise-Anastasia Serment (Grenoble, 1642 - Paris, 1692) was a French natural philosopher and poet. Born in Grenoble, she spent most of her life in Paris. She was a disciple of Descartes. She was a member of the Ricovrati Academy. Serment reputedly collaborated as an author with Philippe Quinault in his operas.\n\n"}
{"id": "49046195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49046195", "title": "Luiz Felipe Pondé", "text": "Luiz Felipe Pondé\n\nLuiz Felipe de Cerqueira e Silva Pondé (born 1959) is a Brazilian writer and professor of philosophy.\n\nHe has graduated a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy and was awarded a Doctor's Degree by the University of Sao Paulo, together with an exchange program with the University of Paris. He finished his Post-Doctorate at the University of Tel Aviv. Currently, he works as a professor in the Brazilian Educational Institution Fundação Armando Alvares Penteado and Pontifícia Universidade Católica de São Paulo.\n\nHe writes weekly for the Brazilian Newspaper Folha de S.Paulo and is the author of many works, being most famous for his book, \"The Politically Incorrect Guide of Philosophy\". He appears often on Jornal da Cultura, on TV Cultura.\n\n\nHe has also co-authored other books with notable Brazilian figures.\n"}
{"id": "1419359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1419359", "title": "Martin of Dacia", "text": "Martin of Dacia\n\nMartin of Dacia (Martinus Dacus, Martinus de Dacia, Martin de Dacie, Morten Mogensen, 1220-1304) was a Danish scholar, master of arts and theology at the University of Paris around 1250–88. He authored \"Modi significandi\", an influential treatise on grammar. He held a prebendary as canon of the Ribe Cathedral in the Ribe diocese. Later he became Rector of the University of Paris.\n\nIn the dispute between Jens Grand, Archbishop of Lund, and King Eric VI Menved Martin arranged a royal rapprochement to Pope Boniface VIII in 1302, resulting in a settlement of the dispute.\n\nThe rendering of his name into Medieval Latin as \"Martinus de Dacia\" stems from the fact that, during the Middle Ages, the toponym \"Dania\", meaning Denmark, was occasionally confused with \"Dacia\".\n\nDanicorum Medii Aevi, 11. G.E.C. Gad, Copenhagen (this volume\nconsists of Martin’s De modi significandi and his Questions on the\nworks of the Logica vetus)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16430729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16430729", "title": "Miranda Fricker", "text": "Miranda Fricker\n\nMiranda Fricker, FBA (born 12 March 1966) is an English philosopher who is currently Presidential Professor of Philosophy at the City University of New York Graduate Center. She is also a Research Professor of Philosophy part-time at the University of Sheffield.\n\nShe received her DPhil from the University of Oxford before taking up a Jacobsen Research Fellowship and later a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship at the University of London. Until 2012 she was Reader in Philosophy and Head of the Philosophy Department at Birkbeck, University of London. Her research interests include ethics, epistemology, and feminist philosophy. She was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA) in 2016.\n\nFricker is most well known for her exploration of \"epistemic injustice,\" the act of wronging someone \"in their capacity as a knower.\" In her 2007 book \"Epistemic Injustice\", Fricker argues that in addition to social or political injustices faced by women (and minority groups), there can be \"epistemic\" injustices as well. She identifies two forms of epistemic injustice: testimonial injustice and hermeneutical injustice.\n\nTestimonial injustice consists in prejudices that cause one to \"give a deflated level of credibility to a speaker's word\": Fricker gives the example of a woman who due to her gender is not believed in a business meeting. She may make a good case, but prejudice causes the listeners to believe her arguments to be less competent or sincere and thus less believable. In this kind of case, Fricker argues that as well as there being an injustice caused by possible outcomes (such as the speaker missing a promotion at work), there is a testimonial injustice: \"a kind of injustice in which someone is \"wronged specifically in her capacity as a knower\"\".\n\nHermeneutical injustice is the kind of injustice experienced by groups who, because due to prejudice they have been less able to participate in the practices that generate new concepts (e.g. writing popular books and newspaper articles), lack the shared social resources to make sense of their experiences. One consequence of such injustice is that such individuals might be less inclined to believe their own testimony. For example, Fricker describes a woman attending a meeting in the late 1960s at which post-partum depression was discussed; in this case, the shared social resource - a linguistic label and sharing of experiences - enabled an understanding of a condition she had experienced and was previously blamed for.\n\nPrior to writing \"Epistemic Injustice,\" Fricker co-edited \"The Cambridge Companion to Feminism in Philosophy\" (2000) with Jennifer Hornsby.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31582262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31582262", "title": "Morality and religion", "text": "Morality and religion\n\nMorality and religion is the relationship between religious views and morals. Many religions have value frameworks regarding personal behavior meant to guide adherents in determining between right and wrong. These include the Triple Gems of Jainism, Judaism's Halacha, Islam's Sharia, Catholicism's Canon Law, Buddhism's Eightfold Path, and Zoroastrianism's \"good thoughts, good words, and good deeds\" concept, among others. These frameworks are outlined and interpreted by various sources such as holy books, oral and written traditions, and religious leaders. Many of these share tenets with secular value frameworks such as consequentialism, freethought, and utilitarianism.\n\nReligion and morality are not synonymous. Morality does not necessarily depend upon religion, though for some, this is \"an almost automatic assumption.\" According to \"The Westminster Dictionary of Christian Ethics\", religion and morality \"are to be defined differently and have no definitional connections with each other. Conceptually and in principle, morality and a religious value system are two distinct kinds of value systems or action guides.\" In the views of others, the two can overlap. According to one definition, morality is an active process which is, \"at the very least, the effort to guide one's conduct by reason, that is, doing what there are the best reasons for doing, while giving equal consideration to the interests of all those affected by what one does.\"\n\nValue judgments can vary greatly between religions, past and present. People in various religious traditions, such as Christianity, may derive ideas of right and wrong from the rules and laws set forth in their respective authoritative guides and by their religious leaders. Equating morality to adherence to authoritative commands in a holy book is the Divine Command Theory. Polytheistic religions such as Buddhism and Hinduism generally draw from some of the broadest canons of religious works. There has been interest in the relationship between religion and crime and other behavior that does not adhere to contemporary laws and social norms in various countries. Studies conducted in recent years have explored these relationships, but the results have been mixed and sometimes contradictory. The ability of religious faiths to provide value frameworks that are seen as useful is a debated matter. Religious commentators have asserted that a moral life cannot be led without an absolute lawgiver as a guide. Other observers assert that moral behavior does not rely on religious tenets, and secular commentators point to ethical challenges within various religions that conflict with contemporary social norms.\n\nWithin the wide range of ethical traditions, religious traditions co-exist with secular value frameworks such as humanism, utilitarianism, and others. There are many types of religious values. Modern monotheistic religions, such as Islam, Judaism, Christianity (and to a certain degree others such as Sikhism) define right and wrong by the laws and rules set forth by their respective gods and as interpreted by religious leaders within the respective faith. Polytheistic religious traditions tend to be less absolute. For example, within Buddhism, the intention of the individual and the circumstances play roles in determining whether an action is right or wrong. Barbara Stoler Miller points out a further disparity between the morals of religious traditions, stating that in Hinduism, \"practically, right and wrong are decided according to the categories of social rank, kinship, and stages of life. For modern Westerners, who have been raised on ideals of universality and egalitarianism, this relativity of values and obligations is the aspect of Hinduism most difficult to understand.\"\n\nAccording to Stephen Gaukroger: \"It was generally assumed in the 17th century that religion provided the unique basis for morality, and that without religion, there could be no morality.\" This view slowly shifted over time. In 1690, Pierre Bayle asserted that religion \"is neither necessary nor sufficient for morality\". Modern sources separate the two concepts. For example, \"The Westminster Dictionary of Christian Ethics\" says that, For many religious people, morality and religion are the same or inseparable; for them either morality is part of religion or their religion is their morality. For others, especially for nonreligious people, morality and religion are distinct and separable; religion may be immoral or nonmoral, and morality may or should be nonreligious. Even for some religious people the two are different and separable; they may hold that religion should be moral and morality should be, but they agree that they may not be.\n\nRichard Paula and Linda Elder of the Foundation for Critical Thinking assert that, \"Most people confuse ethics with behaving in accordance with social conventions, religious beliefs, and the law.\" They separate the concept of ethics from these topics, stating: The proper role of ethical reasoning is to highlight acts of two kinds: those which enhance the well-being of others—that warrant our praise—and those that harm or diminish the well-being of others—and thus warrant our criticism. They note problems that could arise if religions defined ethics, such as:\n\n\nThey further note that various documents, such as the UN Declaration of Human Rights lay out \"transcultural\" and \"trans-religious\" ethical concepts and principles—such as slavery, genocide, torture, sexism, racism, murder, assault, fraud, deceit, and intimidation—which require no reliance on religion (or social convention) for us to understand they are \"ethically wrong\".\n\nArmin Geertz suggests that \"the age-old assumption that religion produces morals and values is neither the only, nor the most parsimonious, hypothesis for religion\".\n\nReligions provide different ways of dealing with moral dilemmas. For example, there is no absolute prohibition on killing in Hinduism, which recognizes that it \"may be inevitable and indeed necessary\" in certain circumstances. In Christian traditions, certain acts are viewed in more absolute terms, such as abortion or divorce. In the latter case, a 2008 study by the Barna Group found that some denominations have a significantly higher divorce rate than those in non-religious demographic groups (atheists and agnostics). However Catholics and Evangelical Christians had the lowest divorce rates and the agnostic/atheist group had by far the lowest number of married couples to begin with.\n\nAccording to Thomas Dixon, \"Many today ... argue that religious beliefs are necessary to provide moral guidance and standards of virtuous conduct in an otherwise corrupt, materialistic, and degenerate world.\" In the same vein, Christian theologian Ron Rhodes has remarked that \"it is impossible to distinguish evil from good unless one has an infinite reference point which is absolutely good.\" Thomas Dixon states, \"Religions certainly do provide a framework within which people can learn the difference between right and wrong.\"\n\nThe study of religion and morality is contentious due to conceptual differences. The ethnocentric views on morality, failure to distinguish between in group and out group altruism, and inconsistent definition of religiosity all contribute to conflicting findings. Membership of a religious group can accentuate biases in behavior toward in group versus out group members, which may explain the lower number of interracial friends and greater approval of torture among church members. Furthermore, some studies have shown that religious prosociality is primarily motivated by wanting to appear prosocial, which may be related to the desire to further ones religious group. The egoistically motivated prosociality may also affect self-reports, resulting in biased results. Peer ratings can be biased by stereotypes, and indications of a persons group affiliation are sufficient to bias reporting.\n\nIn line with other findings suggesting that religious humanitarianism is largely directed at in-group members, greater religious identification, greater extrinsic religiosity and greater religious fundamentalism were associated with racial prejudice. This is congruent with the fact that 50% of religious congregations in the US are racially segregated, and only 12% have a degree of diversity.\n\nAccording to global research done by Gallup on people from 145 countries, adherents of all the major world religions who attended religious services in the past week reported higher rates of generosity such as donating money, volunteering, and helping a stranger than do their coreligionists who did not attend services (non-attenders). Even for people who were nonreligious, those who said they attended religious services in the past week exhibited more generous behaviors. Another global study by Gallup on people from 140 countries showed that highly religious people are more likely to help others in terms of donating money, volunteering, and helping strangers despite them having, on average, lower incomes than those who are less religious or nonreligious.\n\nOne study on pro-social sentiments showed that non-religious people were more inclined to show generosity in random acts of kindness, such as lending their possessions and offering a seat on a crowded bus or train. Religious people were less inclined when it came to seeing how much compassion motivated participants to be charitable in other ways, such as in giving money or food to a homeless person and to non-believers. A study on altruistic behavior in children across multiple nations demonstrated a negative effect of religion on altruism measured with a game, although the parent reported altruism was associated with religiosity.\n\nA study by Harvard University professor Robert Putnam found that religious people were more charitable than their irreligious counterparts. The study revealed that forty percent of worship service attending Americans volunteered regularly to help the poor and elderly as opposed to 15% of Americans who never attend services. Moreover, religious individuals were more likely than non-religious individuals to volunteer for school and youth programs (36% vs. 15%), a neighborhood or civic group (26% vs. 13%), and for health care (21% vs. 13%). Other research has shown similar correlations between religiosity and giving.\n\nSome scientific studies show that the degree of religiosity is generally associated with higher ethical attitudes — for example, surveys suggesting a positive connection between faith and altruism.\n\nThe overall relationship between faith and crime is unclear. A 2001 review of studies on this topic found \"The existing evidence surrounding the effect of religion on crime is varied, contested, and inconclusive, and currently no persuasive answer exists as to the empirical relationship between religion and crime.\" Dozens of studies have been conducted on this topic since the twentieth century. A 2005 study by Gregory S. Paul argues for a positive correlation between the degree of public religiosity in a society and certain measures of dysfunction, however, an analysis published later in the same journal contends that a number of methodological and theoretical problems undermine any findings or conclusions taken from Paul's research. In another response, Gary Jensen builds on and refines Paul's study. His conclusion is that a \"complex relationship\" exists between religiosity and homicide \"with some dimensions of religiosity encouraging homicide and other dimensions discouraging it\".\n\nSome works indicate that some societies with lower religiosity have lower crime rates—especially violent crime, compared to some societies with higher religiosity. Phil Zuckerman notes that Denmark and Sweden, \"which are probably the least religious countries in the world, and possibly in the history of the world,\" enjoy \"among the lowest violent crime rates in the world [and] the lowest levels of corruption in the world.\" However, Zuckerman noted that none of these correlations mean that atheism and non-religiosity cause social well-being, instead existential security is what allows for atheism and non-religion to thrive in these societies.\n\nModern research in criminology also acknowledges an inverse relationship between religion and crime, with some studies establishing this connection. A meta-analysis of 60 studies on religion and crime concluded, \"religious behaviors and beliefs exert a moderate deterrent effect on individuals' criminal behavior\". However, in his books about the materialism in Americas Evangelical Churches Ron Sider accuses fellow Christians of failing to do better than their secular counterparts in the percentage adhering to widely held moral standards (e.g., lying, theft and sexual infidelity).\n\nA Georgia State University study published in the academic journal \"Theoretical Criminology\" suggests that religion helps criminals to justify their crimes and might \"encourage\" it. The research concluded that \"many street offenders anticipate an early death, making them less prone to delay gratification, more likely to discount the future costs of crime, and thus more likely to offend\".\n\nReligious values can diverge from commonly-held contemporary moral positions, such as those on murder, mass atrocities, and slavery. For example, Simon Blackburn states that \"apologists for Hinduism defend or explain away its involvement with the caste system, and apologists for Islam defend or explain away its harsh penal code or its attitude to women and infidels\". In regard to Christianity, he states that the \"Bible can be read as giving us a carte blanche for harsh attitudes to children, the mentally handicapped, animals, the environment, the divorced, unbelievers, people with various sexual habits, and elderly women\". He provides examples such as the phrase in Exodus 22:18 that has \"helped to burn alive tens or hundreds of thousands of women in Europe and America\": \"Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live,\" and notes that the Old Testament God apparently has \"no problems with a slave-owning society\", considers birth control a crime punishable by death, and \"is keen on child abuse\". Blackburn notes morally suspect themes in the Bible's New Testament as well.\n\nPhilosopher David Hume stated that, \"The greatest crimes have been found, in many instances, to be compatible with a superstitious piety and devotion; Hence it is justly regarded as unsafe to draw any inference in favor of a man's morals, from the fervor or strictness of his religious exercises, even though he himself believe them sincere.\"\n\nBertrand Russell said, \"There are also, in most religions, specific ethical tenets which do definite harm. The Catholic condemnation of birth control, if it could prevail, would make the mitigation of poverty and the abolition of war impossible. The Hindu beliefs that the cow is a sacred animal and that it is wicked for widows to remarry cause quite needless suffering.\" He asserts that You find this curious fact, that the more intense has been the religion of any period and the more profound has been the dogmatic belief, the greater has been the cruelty and the worse has been the state of affairs...You find as you look around the world that every single bit of progress in humane feeling, every improvement in the criminal law, every step toward the diminution of war, every step toward better treatment of the colored races, or every mitigation of slavery, every moral progress that there has been in the world, has been consistently opposed by the organized churches of the world.\nAccording to Paul Copan, Jewish laws in the bible show an evolution of moral standards towards protecting the vulnerable, imposing a death penalty on those pursuing forced slavery and identifying slaves as persons and not property.\n\nAccording to Bertrand Russell, \"Clergymen almost necessarily fail in two ways as teachers of morals. They condemn acts which do no harm and they condone acts which do great harm.\" He cites an example of a clergyman who was warned by a physician that his wife would die if she had another (her tenth) child, but impregnated her regardless, which resulted in her death. \"No one condemned him; he retained his benefice and married again. So long as clergymen continue to condone cruelty and condemn 'innocent' pleasure, they can only do harm as guardians of the morals of the young.\"\n\nRussell further states that, \"The sense of sin which dominates many children and young people and often lasts on into later life is a misery and a source of distortion that serves no useful purpose of any sort or kind.\" Russel allows that religious sentiments have, historically, sometimes led to morally acceptable behavior, but asserts that, \"in the present day, [1954] such good as might be done by imputing a theological origin to morals is inextricably bound up with such grave evils that the good becomes insignificant in comparison.\"\n\nThere are number of secular value frameworks, such as consequentialism, freethought, humanism, and utilitarianism. Yet, there have been opposing views about the ability of both religious and secular moral frameworks to provide useful guides to right and wrong actions.\n\nVarious non-religious commentators have supported the ability of secular value frameworks to provide useful guides. Bernard Williams argued that, \"Either one's motives for following the moral word of God are moral motives, or they are not. If they are, then one is already equipped with moral motivations, and the introduction of God adds nothing extra. But if they are not moral motives, then they will be motives of such a kind that they cannot appropriately motivate \"morality\" at all ... we reach the conclusion that any appeal to God in this connection either adds to nothing at all, or it adds the wrong sort of thing.\" Other observers criticize religious morals as incompatible with modern social norms. For example, popular atheist Richard Dawkins, writing in \"The God Delusion\", has stated that religious people have committed a wide variety of acts and held certain beliefs through history that we now consider morally repugnant. He has stated that Adolf Hitler and the Nazis held broadly Christian religious beliefs that inspired the Holocaust on account of antisemitic Christian doctrine, that Christians have traditionally imposed unfair restrictions on the legal and civil rights of women, and that Christians have condoned slavery of some form or description throughout most of Christianity's history. According to Paul Copan, the position of the Bible to slaves is a positive one for the slaves in that Jewish laws imposed a death penalty on those pursuing slavery and treated slaves as persons, not property.\n\n"}
{"id": "217422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217422", "title": "Omega Point", "text": "Omega Point\n\nThe Omega Point is a spiritual belief and a scientific speculation that everything in the universe is fated to spiral towards a final point of divine unification. The term was coined by the French Jesuit Catholic priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin (1881–1955). Teilhard argued that the Omega Point resembles the Christian Logos, namely Christ, who draws all things into himself, who in the words of the Nicene Creed, is \"God from God\", \"Light from Light\", \"True God from true God\", and \"through him all things were made\". In the Book of Revelation, Christ describes himself thrice as \"the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end.\" The idea of the Omega Point is developed in later writings, such as those of John David Garcia (1971), Paolo Soleri (1981), Frank Tipler (1994), and David Deutsch (1997).\n\nTeilhard de Chardin was a paleontologist and Roman Catholic priest in the Jesuit order. In France in the 1920s, he began incorporating his theories of the universe into lectures that placed Catholicism and evolution in the same conversation. Because of these lectures, he was suspected by the Holy Office of denying the doctrine of original sin. This caused Teilhard to be exiled to China and banned from publication by Church authorities. It was not until one year after his death, in 1955, that his writings were published for the world to read. His book, \"The Phenomenon of Man\", has been dissected by astrophysicists and cosmologists to be a theological or philosophical theory that cannot be scientifically proven. Teilhard, who was not a cosmologist, opens his books with the statement: \n\nEvolution does not end with mankind: \nEarth's biosphere evolved before humans existed. Teilhard describes evolution as earth's \"hominization\" in which one-cell organisms develop into metazoans, or animals, but some of the members of this classification develop organisms with complex nervous systems. This group has the capability to acquire intelligence. When \"Homo sapiens\" inhabited Earth through evolution, a noosphere, the cognitive layer of existence, was created. As evolution continues, the noosphere gains coherence. Teilhard refers to this process as \"planetization\". Eventually, the noosphere gains total dominance over the biosphere and reaches a point of complete independence from tangential energy forming a metaphysical being, coined the Omega Point.\n\nEnergy exists in two basic modes:\n\nTeilhard's misunderstanding of the second law of thermodynamics to not allow the evolution of energy into higher orders was the motivation for identifying a new realm of spiritual energy. He defines Radial Energy as becoming more concentrated and available as it is a critical element in man's evolution. The theory applies to all forms of matter, concluding that everything with existence has some sort of life. Modern scientists criticize this vitalism ideology as unscientific. In regard to Teilhard's \"The Phenomenon of Man\", Peter Medawar wrote, \"Teilhard's radial, spiritual, or psychic energy may be equated to 'information' or 'information content' in the sense that has been made reasonably precise by communication engineers.\"\n\nTeilhard's theory is maintained by four formal properties:\n\nTeilhard calls the contributing universal energy that generates the Omega Point \"forces of compression\". Unlike the scientific definition, which incorporates gravity and mass, Teilhard's forces of compression sources from communication and contact between human beings. This value is limitless and directly correlated with entropy. It suggests that as humans continue to interact, consciousness evolves and grows. For the theory to occur, humans must also be bound to the finite earth. Creation of this boundary forces the world's convergence upon itself which he theorizes to result in time ending in communion with the Omega Point-God. This portion of Teilhard's thinking shows his lack of expectation for humans to engage in space travel and transcend past the borders of the planet.\n\nMathematical physicist Frank Tipler generalizes Teilhard's term \"Omega Point\" to describe what he maintains is the ultimate fate of the universe required by the laws of physics: roughly, Tipler argues that quantum mechanics is inconsistent unless the future of every point in spacetime contains an intelligent observer to collapse the wavefunction, and that the only way for this to happen is if the Universe is closed (that is, it will collapse to a single point) and yet contains observers with a \"God-like\" ability to perform an unbounded series of observations in finite time. However, scientists such as Lawrence Krauss have stated that Tipler's reasoning is erroneous on multiple levels, possibly to the point of being nonsensical pseudoscience.\n\nPierre Teilhard de Chardin's life (1881–1955) falls directly in between Vatican Council I (1869) and Vatican Council 2 (1965), a time period where increasing global acceptance of evolution was forming a disconnect between modern humanity and the Roman Catholic Church. His time came shortly after Charles Darwin's 1859 book, \"On the Origin of Species\", a time when the intersection between the claims of scientific theories and the claims of traditional theological teachings became an enormous focus of the Vatican's agenda.\n\nPope Pius XII stated his concern on the theory of evolution, albeit without condemning it:\nTeilhard's theory was a personal attempt in creating a new Christianity in which science and theology coexist. The outcome was that his theory of the Omega Point was not perfectly scientific as examined by physicists, and not perfectly Christian either. By 1962, The Society of Jesus had strayed from Spanish Jesuit Priest Francisco Suarez's philosophies on Man in favor of \"Teilhardian evolutionary cosmogenesis\". Teilhard's Christ is the \"Cosmic Christ\" or the \"Omega\" of revelation. He is an emanation of God which is made of matter, and experienced the nature of evolution by being born into this world and dying. His resurrection from the dead was not to heaven, but to the noosphere, the area of convergence of all spirituality and spiritual beings, where Christ will be waiting at the end of time. When the earth reaches its Omega Point, everything that exists will become one with divinity.\n\nTeilhard reaffirms the role of the Church in the following letter to Auguste Valensin. It is important to note that he defines evolution as a scientific phenomenon set in motion by God – that science and the divine are interconnected and acting through one another:\n\nIn 1998, a value measured from observations of Type 1a supernovae seemed to indicate that what was once assumed to be temporary cosmological expansion was actually accelerating. The apparent acceleration has caused many to dismiss Tipler's Omega Point out of hand, since the necessity of a final big crunch singularity is key to the Omega Point's workability. However, Tipler himself believes that the Omega Point is still workable and has explained on multiple occasions why a big crunch/ final singularity is still required under many current universal models.\n\nThe technological singularity is the hypothetical advent of artificial general intelligence theoretically capable of recursive self-improvement, resulting in a runaway effect to an intelligence explosion. Eric Steinhart, a proponent of \"Christian transhumanism\", argues there is significant overlap of ideas between the secular singularity and Teilhard's religious Omega Point. Steinhart quotes Ray Kurzweil, one of the most prominent singularitarians, who stated that \"evolution moves inexorably toward our conception of God, albeit never reaching this ideal.\" Like Kurzweil, Teilhard predicts a period of rapid technological change that results in a merger of humanity and technology. He believes that this marks the birth of the noosphere and the emergence of the \"spirit of the Earth,\" but the Teilhardian Singularity comes later. Unlike Kurzweil, Teilhard's singularity is marked by the evolution of human intelligence reaching a critical point in which humans ascend from \"transhuman\" to \"posthuman\". He identifies this with the Christian parousia.\n\nThe Spanish painter Salvador Dali was fascinated by Teilhard de Chardin and the Omega Point theory. His 1959 painting \"The Ecumenical Council\" is said to represent the \"interconnectedness\" of the Omega Point.\nPoint Omega by Don DeLillo takes its name from the theory and involves a character who is studying Teilhard de Chardin Flannery O'Connor's acclaimed collection of short stories taps the Omega Point theory in its title, \"Everything That Rises Must Converge\" and science fiction writer Frederik Pohl references Frank Tipler and the Omega Point in his 1998 short story \"The Siege of Eternity\". Scottish writer/ counterculture figure Grant Morrison has used the Omega Point as a plot line in several of his Justice League of America and Batman stories. Arthur C. Clarke and Stephen Baxter's \"The Light of Other Days\" references Teilhard de Chardin and includes a brief explanation of the Omega Point.\n\n"}
{"id": "22500921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22500921", "title": "Outline of knowledge", "text": "Outline of knowledge\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to knowledge:\n\nKnowledge – familiarity with someone or something, which can include facts, information, descriptions, and/or skills acquired through experience or education. It can refer to the theoretical or practical understanding of a subject. It can be implicit (as with practical skill or expertise) or explicit (as with the theoretical understanding of a subject); and it can be more or less formal or systematic.\n\n\n\nTaxonomies –\n\n\n\nEpistemology – philosophy of knowledge. It is the study of knowledge and justified belief. It questions what knowledge is and how it can be acquired, and the extent to which knowledge pertinent to any given subject or entity can be acquired. Much of the debate in this field has focused on the philosophical analysis of the nature of knowledge and how it relates to connected notions such as truth, belief, and justification.\n\nKnowledge management – \n\nMethods of obtaining knowledge –\n\nKnowledge can be stored in:\n\n\nKnowledge retrieval – Stored knowledge can be retrieved by:\n\nImparting knowledge means spreading or disseminating knowledge to others.\n\n\n\n\nSociology of knowledge –\n\n\nThe world's knowledge (knowledge possessed by human civilization)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38154704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38154704", "title": "Panchikarana", "text": "Panchikarana\n\nPanchikarana is the Vedantic theory of how matter came into existent originating from the primordial five subtle elements.\n\nPanchikarana is the method and process of the subtle matter (or the prior stage of matter) to transform itself into gross matter. Intelligence is the subtle manifestation of consciousness and matter its gross manifestation. Adi Shankara wrote a treatise on this theory, titled – \"Panchikaranam\", which was elaborated by his disciple Sureshvaracharya, and later on commented upon in 2400 slokas by Ramananda Saraswati, disciple of Ramabhadra, and in 160 slokas by Ananda Giri, disciple of Suddhananda Yati.\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad teaches the \"Doctrine of Trivirtkarana\" from which developed the \"Vedantic Theory of Panchikarana\" with regard to the creation of the transformed evolutes of the original elements. This theory is also found narrated to Narada in the \"Srimad Devi Bhagavatam\".\n\nPanchikarana is based on the assumed quintuplication of the basic/primordial five subtle elements, the \"Panchbhootas\". The Vedic seers believed that the \"Panchbhootas\" firstly divided themselves in two parts one part of which was further divided into four parts, which 1/8th parts of each subtle element then combined with other halves. It was also assumed that this process of division and combination goes on till the gross elements are produced as a continuous unending process. They believed that at the very beginning of creation \"Mahat\", on account of disturbance of the three gunas, gave rise to Ahamkara from which were produced in their subtle states Akasa, Vayu, Agni, \"Apah\" and Prithvi.(seven stages). Primary creation took place in three parts, a) Creation of Mahat, 2) Creation of \"Tanmatras\" (\"Bhoota sarga\") and 3) Creation of Indriyas (\"Vaikarika sarga\"). For purpose of creation Brahman divided itself into Prakrti, the combination of three gunas, the word also meaning before creation or primary factor/female form for creation, and representing matter, and Purusa (spirit), the male factor that has no \"tanmatras\" (subtle elements) attached to it. They also believed that the process of \"Srishti\" (\"creation\"), \"Stithi\" (\"sustenance\") and \"Samhara\" (\"dissolution\") continues without any change or interruption.\n\nPanchikarana involves one half of the original subtle element to be mixed up with 1/8th part each of the other original subtle elements to produce the gross element of the subtle element contributing its own one half. When gross elements are produced then consciousness enters into these elements as their presiding deities, then comes the feeling of egoism (I-ness) identifying with the body. Gross elements solidify and assume forms as per their fundamental qualities.\n"}
{"id": "39581103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39581103", "title": "Pedro Pablo Caro", "text": "Pedro Pablo Caro\n\nPedro Pablo Caro Rodríguez (12 May 1875 – 3 July 1959) was a Chilean lawyer. After obtaining the degree of law and political sciences from the University of Chile, he worked as an independent lawyer in Rancagua, and served as acting judges in several communes and departments in Chile, including San Carlos, Curicó, Nacimiento, among others. He was also a secretary and treasurer of the municipality of Buin. Caro Rodríguez was member of the Conservative Party of Chile, and later of the Christian Democrat Party of Chile.\n\nPedro Pablo was born on 12 May 1875, to José María Caro Martínez (1830–1916), the first Mayor of Pichilemu, and Rita Rodríguez Cornejo (1834–1932), in the village of San Antonio de Petrel, Pichilemu, in current Cardenal Caro Province, Region of O'Higgins. He was the seventh child of the Caro Rodríguez marriage; among his siblings were José María (1866–1958), the first Chilean Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church, and Francisco Adriano, the eighth Mayor of Pichilemu.\n\nCaro Rodríguez completed his secondary studies at Colegio Santo Tomás de Aquino. He obtained a bachelor's degree in philosophy and humanities from the University of Chile. In 1900, he obtained a bachelor's degree in Law and Political Sciences from the same university, and in the following year, he became a graduate in the same faculty. His thesis was titled \"Deficiencias de nuestras actuales leyes sobre bosques y utilidad de su reforma\". He was sworn in as a lawyer on 28 August 1901.\n\nLater in 1901, Caro Rodríguez became secretary and treasurer of the municipality of Buin, in current Santiago Metropolitan Region. He married Clementina Leiva Espinoza in that city, on 7 June 1902. They had no children. Caro Rodríguez later married Elena Salinas Monzón, with whom he had six children.\n\nPedro Pablo Caro worked as an independent lawyer in Rancagua, current capital of the Region of O'Higgins, where he also served as dean lawyer, and as property tax promoter for the department of Rancagua between 12 June 1913 and the office's suppression in 1927. As a lawyer, he served as acting judge in several communes and departments: Castro Department (16 February – 1 April 1904), Cachapoal (Peumo) (1905), Lontué (1906), San Carlos (1907), Los Andes (1908), Nacimiento (1912), Curicó (Second Court) (1913), Cachapoal (1915), Rancagua (January 1918), and Caupolicán (Rengo) (1920). In 1952, he celebrated the \"golden anniversary\" of his professional career in that city.\n\nCaro Rodríguez became a member of the Conservative Youth of Chile in 1913, and attended that year's convention as a delegate for Rengo. He became later a regular member of the Conservative Party of Chile. In his later years, in 1956, he became a member of the Christian Democrat Party of Chile.\n\nPedro Pablo Caro Rodríguez died in Rancagua on 3 July 1959, at age 84.\n"}
{"id": "1872910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1872910", "title": "Performative contradiction", "text": "Performative contradiction\n\nA performative contradiction () arises when the propositional content of a statement contradicts the presuppositions of asserting it. An example of a performative contradiction is the statement \"I am dead\" because the very act of proposing it presupposes the actor is alive.\n\nSolipsism is often held to be a performative contradiction if stated. If not stated it is usually considered an example of the normative application of \"qui tacet consentire videtur carborundum\" (He who remains silent vigorously consents).\nJürgen Habermas and related philosophers point out that statements spoken during justificatory argumentation carry additional presuppositions and so certain statements are performative contradictions in this context. Habermas claims that post-modernism's epistemological relativism suffers from a performative contradiction. Hans-Hermann Hoppe claims in his theory of argumentation ethics that arguing for any political position other than free-market anarchism results in a performative contradiction.\n\nJaakko Hintikka more rigorously fleshed out the notion of performative contradiction in analyzing Descartes' famous \"cogito ergo sum\" argument, concluding that \"cogito ergo sum\" relies on performance rather than logical inference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6761691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6761691", "title": "Raili Kauppi", "text": "Raili Kauppi\n\nRaili Kauppi (1920–1995), professor of philosophy at the University of Tampere. She was an internationally recognized scholar of Leibniz and intensional logic.\n\nMain publications:\n"}
{"id": "11880429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11880429", "title": "Ranipokhari", "text": "Ranipokhari\n\nRani Pokhari () meaning queen's pond, originally known as Nhu Pukhu () meaning new pond, is a historic artificial pond located in the heart of Kathmandu. The square-shaped tank dates from the 17th century, and was built on the eastern side of the then city limits. It lies just outside a former city gate. The pond is one of Kathmandu's most famous landmarks and is known for its religious and aesthetic significance. Its dimensions are 180m by 140m. It was damaged by the earthquake of 2015 AD at Nepal and is currently under construction.\n\nRani Pokhari was built in 1670 AD by King Pratap Malla, one of the most illustrious monarchs of the Malla dynasty that ruled Nepal for more than 600 years. Pratap Malla had the tank constructed to console his queen who was distraught with grief after their son was trampled to death by an elephant. He had water collected from various holy places and river confluences in Nepal and India like Gosaikunda, Muktinath, Badrinath, Kedarnath and poured into the pond to sanctify it.\n\nA temple dedicated to Matrikeshwor Mahadev, a form of the Hindu deity Shiva, stands at the center of the pond. It is reached from the street by a causeway. A large stone statue of an elephant bearing the images of Pratap Malla and his two sons Chakravartendra Malla and Mahipatendra Malla is situated on the tank's southern embankment. The pond is recharged by water flowing in through an underground channel.\n\nThere are four smaller temples situated at the four corners of the pond: Bhairava temples in the northwest and northeast, Mahalaxmi Temple in the southeast and Ganesh Temple in the southwest. The temples on the eastern side now lie within the compounds of Tri Chandra College and a police station which has undermined their cultural importance.\nRani Pokhari is fenced with iron bars and opened once a year during Bhai Tika, the fifth and final day of the Tihar, and Chhath festival.\nThe world's largest Chhath festival takes place every year in RaniPokhari.\nRani is also dedicated to (Nepalese Maithil) Women who go into the cold water and pray to the Sun God.\nThe famed Rani Pokhari inscription of King Pratap Malla installed here is a stone slab with writings in three languages: Sanskrit, Nepali and Nepal Bhasa. It is dated Nepal Sambat 790 (1670 AD) and describes the construction of Rani Pokhari and its religious significance. It also mentions five Brahmins, five Pradhans (Chief-ministers) and five Khas Magars as being witnesses.\n\nAmong the earliest references to Rani Pokhari is an account by Italian Jesuit Ippolito Desideri who visited Kathmandu in 1721 when Nepal was ruled by the Malla kings. He was travelling from Tibet to India, and has mentioned in his travelogue seeing a large pond outside the main city gate with flights of steps and banks sloping down to the water. The father has also written that there was a tall column at the center resting on a magnificent pedestal.\n\nEnglishman William Kirkpatrick, who visited Kathmandu in 1793, has written that there was a quadrangular reservoir of water situated near the northeastern part of the city. He also noted the existence of many temples on the sides of Rani Pokhari, some of which were of considerable height and size.\n\nRani Pokhari is surrounded by historical buildings and famous structures. The clock tower Ghantaghar is situated across the road on the eastern side of the pond. The original clock tower, which had a more elaborate architecture, was destroyed during the Great earthquake of 1934. The present clock tower was built after the earthquake. It stands on the premises of Tri Chandra College, the first college in the country which was established in 1918 AD.\n\nOn the western side of Rani Pokhari stands another historical building, Durbar High School, built in 1854 AD. It is the first school in Nepal providing education along with modern lines. In the beginning, Durbar High School only admitted the children of the ruling classes. It was opened to the general public in 1902 AD.\n\nTundikhel, a parade ground and ceremonial grass field and a Kathmandu landmark, formerly extended from the southern side of Rani Pokhari. A section next to the pond was fenced off and converted into a public park and flower garden in the mid-1960s.\n"}
{"id": "70707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70707", "title": "Retreat (spiritual)", "text": "Retreat (spiritual)\n\nThe meaning of a spiritual retreat can be different for different religious communities. Spiritual retreats are an integral part of many Hindu, Buddhist, Christian and Sufi (Islamic) communities.\n\nIn Hinduism and Buddhism, meditative retreats are seen by some as an intimate way of deepening powers of concentration and insight.\n\nRetreats are also popular in Christian churches, and were established in today's form by St. Ignatius of Loyola (1491-1556), in his Spiritual Exercises. Ignatius was later to be made patron saint of spiritual retreats by Pope Pius XI in 1922. Many Protestants, Catholics and Orthodox Christians partake in and organize spiritual retreats each year.\n\nMeditative retreats are an important practice in Sufism, the mystical path of Islam. The Sufi teacher Ibn Arabi's book \"Journey to the Lord of Power (Risālat al-Anwār)\" is a guide to the inner journey that was published over 700 years ago.\n\nA retreat can either be a time of solitude or a community experience. Some retreats are held in silence, and on others there may be a great deal of conversation, depending on the understanding and accepted practices of the host facility and/or the participant(s). Retreats are often conducted at rural or remote locations, either privately, or at a retreat centre such as a monastery. Some retreats for advanced practitioners may be undertaken in darkness, a form of retreat that is common as an advanced Dzogchen practice in the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nSpiritual retreats allow time for reflection, prayer, or meditation. They are considered essential in Buddhism, having been a common practice since the Vassa, or rainy season retreat, was established by the founder of Buddhism, Gotama Buddha. In Zen Buddhism retreats are known as sesshin.\n\nThe Christian retreat can be defined in the most simplest of terms as a definite time (from a few hours in length to a month) spent away from one's normal life for the purpose of reconnecting, usually in prayer, with God. Although the practice of leaving one's everyday life to connect on a deeper level with God, be that in the desert (as with the Desert Fathers), or in a monastery, is as old as Christianity itself, the practice of spending a specific time away with God is a more modern phenomenon, dating from the 1520s and St. Ignatius of Loyola's composition of the Spiritual Exercises. Jesus fasting in the desert for forty days is used as a biblical justification of retreats.\n\nSpiritual retreats may have various themes that reinforce Christian values, principles, and scriptural understanding. They may be individual or involve a group. Retreats for Christian youth groups are common, as are getaways for Sunday School classes, men's and women's Bible study groups, and Christian school field trips. Common locations for Christian retreats include churches and retreat centers. Retreat centers typically offer overnight accommodations (such as in a cabin or dormitory), meals, activities, meeting rooms, and chapel space.\n\nIn the 20th Century, three-day retreats were popularised by the Cursillo movement, based on Ignatian spirituality.\n\nThe retreat was popularised in Roman Catholicism by the Society of Jesus (Jesuits), whose founder, St. Ignatius of Loyola, as a layman began, in the 1520s, directing others in making (participating in) the exercises. Another form the Exercises came in, which became known as the nineteenth \"Observation\", 'allowed continuing one's ordinary occupations with the proviso of setting aside a few hours a day for this special purpose.' The spiritual exercises were intended for people wanting to live closer to God's will for their life.\n\nFollowing the growth of the Cursillo movement in Spain, similar retreats have become popular, either using licensed Cursillo material or independent material loosely based on its concepts, leading to the development of the three day movement.\n\nThe translation of khalwa from Arabic is seclusion or separation, but it has a different connotation in Sufi terminology. In Sufi terminology, khalwa is the act of total self-abandonment in desire for the Divine Presence. In complete seclusion, the Sufi continuously repeats the name of God as a highest form of dhikr (remembrance of God meditation). In his book, Journey to the Lord of Power, Muhiyid-Did ibn Arabi (1165-1240 A.D.) discussed the stages through which the Sufi passes in his khalwa.\n\nIbn Arabi suggested: \"The Sufi should shut his door against the world for forty days and occupy himself with remembrance of Allah, that is to keep repeating, \"Allah, Allah...\" Then, \"Almighty God will spread before him the degrees of the kingdom as a test. First, He will discover the secrets of the mineral world. If he occupies himself with dthikr, He (God) will unveil to the secrets of the vegetable world, then the secrets of the animal world, then the infusion of the world of life-force into lives, then the \"surface sign\" (the light of the Divine Names, according to Abdul-Karim al-Jeeli, the book's translator), then the degrees of speculative sciences, then the world of formation and adornment and beauty, then the degrees of the qutb (the soul or pivot of the universe-see #16) Then he will be given the divine wisdom and the power of symbols and authority over the veil and the unveiling. The degree of the Divine Presence is made clear to him, the garden (of Eden) and Hell are revealed to him, then the original forms of the son of Adam, the Throne of Mercy. If it is appropriate, he will know his destination. Then he will reveal to him the Pen, the First Intellect (as it is called by Sufi philosophers), then the Mover of the Pen, the right hand of the Truth. (The \"Truth\" as defined by al-Jeeli is that by which everything is created, none other than God most High.)\n\nThe practice of khalwah is regularly followed by the Sufis, with the permission and the supervision of a Sufi authority.\n\nThe Sufis base the assigning of forty days of khalwa period on the forty days Allah had appointed for Musa (Moses) as a fasting period before speaking to him, as mentioned in different chapters in the Qur'an. One of them is from surat al-Baqarah.\n\nKhalwa is still practiced today amongst authorized Sheikhs, such as Mawlana Sheikh Nazim Al-Haqqani, Lefka, Cyprus.\n\nMeditation courses or retreats, either in a group or solo, are a common part of many meditation traditions.\n\nIn modern Yoga a retreat is often a recreational holiday, where everyday business is left for a few days (weekend-retreat) up to weeks. The goal is to let go of daily stress and problems by doing Asanas rather than pure meditation. Sometimes retreats are offered as organised travels abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "1685868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1685868", "title": "Richard of Middleton", "text": "Richard of Middleton\n\nRichard of Middleton (Medieval Latin: Richardus de Mediavilla) (c.1249–c.1308) was a member of the Franciscan Order, a theologian, and scholastic philosopher.\n\nRichard's origins are unclear: he was either Norman French (from Menneville or Moyenneville) or English (from Middletown). As a Bachelor of the \"Sentences\" of Peter Lombard at the University of Paris in 1283, he played a part in the Franciscan commission examining Peter Olivi. He was regent master of the Franciscan studium in Paris from 1284 to 1287, and, on 20 September 1295 in Metz, he was elected Franciscan provincial master of France. He was also subsequently tutor to Louis of Toulouse, son of Charles II of Anjou. He died sometime between 1300 and 1308.\n\nHis extant theological output is mainly contained in his two commentaries on the \"Sentences\" of Peter Lombard, which he edited between 1285 and 1295, three sets of Quodlibetal Disputations and some 45 disputed questions. His work is heavily influenced by his predecessors at Paris, including Bonaventure, Henry of Ghent and Thomas Aquinas. Although his philosophy owes much to the Franciscan school of thought, with regard to the plurality of forms in a single substance, for example, he also affirmed universal hylomorphism, thus following Aquinas. In this regard, he did not shy away from synthesizing Aristotelian thought into his own philosophical reasoning, in spite of the hostility surrounding the Averroist doctrines that were condemned at the University of Paris in 1270 and 1277. Along with other masters of theology, his quodlibetal disputations had resonance beyond the immediate milieu of the University. For example, in 1285, he was one of the masters who debated whether annuities were licit or illicit as a form of contract.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57809177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57809177", "title": "Rousseau on Women, Love, and Family", "text": "Rousseau on Women, Love, and Family\n\nRousseau on Women, Love, and Family is an anthology of works by French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau covering five themes: women and politics, gender identity, women, love, and family. The volume was edited by Christopher Kelly and Eve Grace. It includes four passages from Rousseau's \"Emile\", and excerpts from his \"Letter to d'Alembert\", \"Levite of Ephraim\" and Émile et Sophie. Two of the letters to \"Henriette\" were translated for the first time by the editors for inclusion in this volume.\n"}
{"id": "2239911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239911", "title": "Talib Jauhari", "text": "Talib Jauhari\n\nTalib Jauhari () (born 27 August 1939) is a Pakistani Islamic scholar, religious leader, public speaker, Qur'anic interpreter, Urdu poet, historian and philosopher of the Shia Sect of Islam.\n\nTafseer-e-Quran:\n\nMaqtal:\n\nReligion:\n\nPhilosophy:\n\nPoetry:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "157720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157720", "title": "The Logic of Scientific Discovery", "text": "The Logic of Scientific Discovery\n\nThe Logic of Scientific Discovery is a 1959 book about the philosophy of science by Karl Popper. Popper rewrote his book in English from the 1934 German original, titled \"Logik der Forschung. Zur Erkenntnistheorie der modernen Naturwissenschaft\", which literally translates as, \"Logic of Research: On the Epistemology of Modern Natural Science\"'.\n\nPopper argues that science should adopt a methodology based on falsifiability, because no number of experiments can ever prove a theory, but a reproducible experiment or observation can refute one. According to Popper: \"non-reproducible single occurrences are of no significance to science. Thus a few stray basic statements contradicting a theory will hardly induce us to reject it as falsified. We shall take it as falsified only if we discover a reproducible effect which refutes the theory\". Popper argues that science should adopt a methodology based on \"an \"asymmetry\" between verifiability and falsifiability; an asymmetry which results from the logical form of universal statements. For these are never derivable from singular statements, but can be contradicted by singular statements\".\n\n\"The Logic of Scientific Discovery\" is famous. The psychologist Harry Guntrip wrote that its publication \"greatly stimulated the discussion of the nature of scientific knowledge\", including by philosophers who did not completely agree with Popper, such as Thomas Kuhn and Horace Romano Harré. Carl Jung, founder of analytical psychology, valued the work. The biographer Vincent Brome recalls Jung remarking in 1938 that it exposed \"some of the shortcomings of science\". The historian Peter Gay described Popper's work as \"an important treatise in epistemology\". The philosopher Bryan Magee wrote that Popper's criticisms of logical positivism were \"devastating\". In his view, Popper's most important argument against logical positivism is that, while it claimed to be a scientific theory of the world, its central tenet, the verification principle, effectively destroyed all of science. The physicists Alan Sokal and Jean Bricmont argued that critiques of Popper's work have provoked an \"irrationalist drift\", and that a significant part of the problems that currently affect the philosophy of science \"can be traced to ambiguities or inadequacies\" in Popper's book.\n\n"}
{"id": "1780163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780163", "title": "The Souls of Black Folk", "text": "The Souls of Black Folk\n\nThe Souls of Black Folk is a classic work of American literature by W. E. B. Du Bois. It is a seminal work in the history of sociology, and a cornerstone of African-American literary history.\n\nThe book, published in 1903, contains several essays on race, some of which the magazine \"Atlantic Monthly\" had previously published. To develop this work, Du Bois drew from his own experiences as an African American in the American society. Outside of its notable relevance in African-American history, \"The Souls of Black Folk\" also holds an important place in social science as one of the early works in the field of sociology.\n\nIn \"The Souls of Black Folk\", Du Bois used the term \"double consciousness\", perhaps taken from Emerson (\"The Transcendentalist\" and \"Fate\"), applying it to the idea that black people must have two fields of vision at all times. They must be conscious of how they view themselves, as well as being conscious of how the world views them.\n\nEach chapter in \"The Souls of Black Folk\" begins with a pair of epigraphs: text from a poem, usually by a European poet, and the musical score of a spiritual, which Du Bois describes in his foreword as \"some echo of haunting melody from the only American music which welled up from black souls in the dark past\". Columbia University English and comparative literature professor Brent Hayes Edwards writes:\nIt is crucial to recognize that Du Bois ... chooses \"not\" to include the lyrics to the spirituals, which often serve to underline the arguments of the chapters: Booker T. Washington's idealism is echoed in the otherworldly salvation hoped for in \"A Great Camp-Meeting in the Promised Land\", for example; likewise the determined call for education in \"Of the Training of Black Men\" is matched by the strident words of \"March On\".\n\nEdwards adds that Du Bois may have withheld the lyrics to mark a barrier for the reader, to suggest that black culture—life \"within the veil\"—remains inaccessible to white people.\n\nIn his The Forethought, Du Bois states, \"Leaving, then, the world of the white man, I have stepped within the Veil, raising it that you may view faintly its deeper recesses, - the meaning of its religion, the passion of its human sorrow, and the struggle of its greater souls.\" He concludes with, \"need I add that I who speak here am bone of the bone and flesh of the flesh of them that live within the Veil?\"\n\nChapter I, \"Of Our Spiritual Strivings\", lays out an overview of Du Bois's thesis for the book. It says that the blacks of the South need the right to vote, the right to a good education, and to be treated with equality and justice. Here, he also coined \"double-consciousness\", which he defined as a \"sense of always looking at one's self through the eyes of others, of measuring one's soul by the tape of a world that looks on in amused contempt and pity.\"\n\n\"One ever feels his twoness, - an American, a Negro; two souls, two thoughts, two unreconciled strivings; two warring ideals in one dark body, whose dogged strength alone keeps it from being torn asunder. The History of the American Negro is the history of this strive-this longing to attain self-conscious manhood, to merge his double self into a better and truer self. He simply wishes to make it possible for a man to be both a Negro and an American, without being cursed and spit upon by his fellows, without having the doors of Opportunity closed roughly in his face.\"\n\nThe first chapter also introduces Du Bois's famous metaphor of the veil. According to Du Bois, this veil is worn by all African-Americans because their view of the world and its potential economic, political, and social opportunities are so vastly different from those of white people. The veil is a visual manifestation of the color line, a problem Du Bois worked his whole life to remedy. Du Bois sublimates the function of the veil when he refers to it as a gift of second sight for African-Americans, thus simultaneously characterizing the veil as both a blessing and a curse.\n\n\"In those sombre forests of his striving his own soul rose before him, and he saw himself,-darkly as through a veil; and yet he saw in himself some faint revelation of his power, of his mission.\"\n\nThe second chapter, \"Of the Dawn of Freedom\", covers the period of history from 1861 to 1872 and the Freedmen's Bureau. Du Bois also introduces the problem of the color-line.\n\n\"The Problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the color-line,-the relation of the darker to the lighter races of men in Asia and Africa, in America and the islands of the sea.\n\nDu Bois calls the Freedmen's Burueau, \"one of the most singular and interesting of the attempts made by a great nation to grapple with vast problems of race and social condition.\" Du Bois goes on to quote the bureau as \"one of the great landmarks of political and social progress.\" After a year's work, Du Bois states, \"it relieved a vast amount of physical suffering; it transported seven thousand fugitives from congested centres back to the farm; and, best of all, it inaugurated the crusade of the New England school-ma'am.\"\n\n\"The greatest success of the Freedmen's Bureau lay in the planting of the free school among Negroes, and the idea of free elementary education among all classes in the South.\"\n\nDu Bois goes on to credit the creation of Fisk University, Clark Atlanta University, Howard University, and Hampton University and acknowledged the \"apostles of human culture\" Edmund Asa Ware, Samuel C. Armstrong, and Erastus Cravath. Yet the demise of the Freedman's Savings Bank he attributes to the loss of \"all the faith in savings.\"\n\nFinally, Du Bois argued that, \"if we cannot peacefully reconstruct the South with white votes, we certainly can with black votes.\"\n\n\"...the granting of the ballot to the black man was a necessity, the very least a guilty nation could grant a wronged race, and the only method of compelling the South to accept the results of the war. Thus Negro suffrage ended a civil war by beginning a race feud.\"\n\nChapters III and VI deal with education and progress. It is here that Du Bois argues against Booker T. Washington's idea of focusing solely on industrial education for black men. He also advocates the addition of a classical education to establish leaders and educators in the black community.\n\nDu Bois refers to the Atlanta Compromise as the \"most notable of Mr. Washington's career,\" and \"the old attitude of adjustment and submission.\" Du Bois claims Washington wants black people to give up three things, political power, insistence on civil rights, and higher education. That, if black people \"concentrate all their energies on industrial education, the accumulation of wealth, and the conciliation of the South,\" this will lead to 1) The disenfranchisement of the Negro, 2) The legal creation of a distinct status of civil inferiority for the Negro, and 3) The steady withdrawal of aid from institutions for the higher training of the Negro.\" By Washington focusing on \"common-school and industrial training,\" he \"depreciates institutions of higher learning,\" where \"teachers, professional men, and leaders\" are trained.\n\"But so far as Mr. Washington apologizes for injustice, North or South, does not rightly value the privilege and duty of voting, opposes the higher training and ambition of our brighter minds, -so far as he, the South, or the Nation, does this,- we must unceasingly and firmly oppose them.\"\n\nIn the fourth chapter, \"Of the Meaning of Progress\", Du Bois dwells upon a time when he was teaching in Tennessee and then, after leaving, goes back 10 years later to a town that suffered many unpleasant changes. Du Bois states, \"My log schoolhouse was gone. In it place stood Progress; and Progress, I understand, is necessarily ugly.\"\n\"I was a Fisk student then, and all Fisk me thought that Tennessee-beyond the Veil- was theirs alone, and in vacation time they sallied forth in lusty bands to meet the county school-commissioners.\"\nYet, Du Bois states, after meeting with the commissioner, \"but even then fell the awful shadow of the Veil, for they ate first, then I-alone.\"\n\"I have called my tiny community a world, and so its isolation made it; and yet there was among us but a half-awakened common consciousness, sprung from common joy and grief, at burial, birth, or wedding; from a common hardship in poverty, poor land, and low wages; and, above all, from the sight of the Veil that hung between us and Opportunity.\"\nThe fifth chapter is a meditation on the necessity of widespread higher education in the South.\n\nDu Bois compares Atlanta, the City of a Hundred Hills, to Atalanta, and warns against the \"greed of gold,\" or \"interpreting the world in dollars.\" The \"Black World beyond the Veil\", should not succumb \"Truth, Beauty, and Goodness,\" to the ideal of wealth attainment in public schools.\n\n\"...beyond the Veil are smaller but like problems of ideals, of leaders and the led, of serfdom, of poverty, of order and subordination, and, through all, the Veil of Race.\"\n\nHe admonishes us to \"Teach workers to work, and Teach thinkers to think.\" \"The need of the South is knowledge and culture,\" states Du Bois.\n\n\"And to make men, we must have ideals, broad, pure, and inspiring ends of living,-not sordid money-getting, not apples of gold.\"\n\nDu Bois discusses how \"to solve the problem of training men for life,\" especially as it relates to the Negro, who \"hang between them and a light a veil so thick, that they shall not even think of breaking through.\" Du Bois cites the progress of Southern education, consisting of army schools, mission schools, and schools of the Freedman's Bureau, from the end of the Civil War until 1876. Then complete school systems were established including Normal schools and colleges, followed by the industrial revolution in the South from 1885 to 1895, and its industrial schools. Yet, Du Bois asks, \"Is Not life more than meat, and the body more than raiment?\"\n\nDu Bois asserts \"education that encourages aspiration, that sets the loftiest of ideals and seeks as an end culture and character rather than bread-winning,\" is the right of the black as well as the white. He goes on to state, \"If the Negro was to learn, he must teach himself,\" and cites the 30,000 black teachers created in one generation who \"wiped out the illiteracy of the majority of the black people of the land, and they made Tuskegee possible.\" \nAdditionally, 2500 Negroes had received a bachelor's degree, of whom 53% became teachers or leaders of educational systems, 17% became clergymen, 17% mainly physicians, 6% merchants, farmers and artisans, and 4% in government service. From 1875 to 1880, there were 22 Negro graduates from Northern colleges and 143 from Southern Negro colleges. In From 1895 to 1900, Northern colleges graduated 100 Negros and over 500 from Southern Negro colleges. He concludes by stating that the \"...inevitable problems of civilization the Negro must meet and solve largely for himself.\"\n\n\"The function of the Negro college, then, is clear: it must maintain the standards of popular education, it must seek the social regeneration of the Negro, and it must help in the solution of problems of race contact and co-operation. And finally, beyond all this, it must develop men.\"\n\nDu Bois calls Albany, Georgia, in Dougherty County, the \"heart of the Black Belt.\" He goes on to say \"Here are the remnants of the vast plantations.\"\n\nDu Bois states, \"How curious a land is this,- how full of untold story, of tragedy and laughter, and the rich legacy of human life; shadowed with a tragic past, and big with future promise!\"\n\nYet, Du Bois states, it is not far from \"where Sam Hose was crucified,\" \"to-day the centre of the Negro problem,-the centre of those nine million men who are America's dark heritage from slavery and the slave-trade.\" He goes on to state, \"Careless ignorance and laziness here, fierce hate and vindictiveness there,-these are the extremes of the Negro problem which we met that day, and we scarce knew which we preferred.\"\n\nSpeaking of the cotton fields from \"Carolina to Texas\", Du Bois claims an analogy between the \"ancient and modern \"Quest of the Golden Fleece in the Black Sea.\" Continuing his discussion of Dougherty County, Du Bois explains of the 1500 Negro families around Albany in 1898, many families have 8-10 individuals in 1-2 room homes. These families are plagued with \"easy marriage and easy separation,\" a vestige of slavery, which the Negro church has done much to prevent \"a broken household.\" He claims most of the black population is \"poor and ignorant,\" over 80%, though \"fairly honest and well meaning.\" \"Two-thirds of them cannot read or write,\" and 80% of the men, women and children are farmers.\n\nEconomically, the Negro has become a slave of debt, says Du Bois. He goes on to describe the economic classes consist of the \"submerged tenth\" of croppers, 40% are metayers or \"tenant on shares\" with a chattel mortgage, 39% are semi-metayers and wage-laborers, while 5% are money-renters, and 6% freeholders. Finally, du Bois states only 6% \"have succeeded in emerging into peasant proprietorship,\" leading to a \"migration to town,\" the \"buying of small homesteads near town.\"\n\nIn this chapter, Du Bois discusses \"race-contact\", specifically as it relates to physical proximity, economic and political relations, intellectual contact, social contact, and religious enterprise. As for physical proximity,\nDu Bois states there is an obvious \"physical color-line\" in Southern communities separating whites from Negroes, and a Black Belt in larger areas of the country. He goes on to state the need for \"Negro leaders of character and intelligence\" to help guide Negro communities along the path out of the current economic situation. The power of the ballot is necessary, Du Bois states, as \"in every state the best arbiters of their own welfare are the persons directly affected.\" Du Bois goes on to claim that \"the police system of the South was primarily designed to control slaves,\" and Negroes viewed its \"courts as a means of reenslaving the blacks.\" Regarding social contact, Du Bois states \"there is almost no community of intellectual life or point of transference where the thoughts and feelings of one race can come into direct contact and sympathy with thoughts and feelings of the other.\" Finally,\nDu Bois states, \"the future of the South depends on the ability of the representatives of these opposing views to see and appreciate and sympathize with each other's position.\"\n\nIn Chapter X, \"Of the Faith of the Fathers\", Du Bois describes the rise of the black church and examines the history and contemporary state of religion and spiritualism among African-Americans.\n\nDu Bois starts by recounting his first exposure to the Southern Negro revival, and notes three things characterize this religion, the Preacher, the Music, and the Frenzy. He states the Frenzy or Shouting is \"when the Spirit of the Lord passed by, and, seizing the devotee, made him mad with supernatural joy.\" He goes on to state the Negro church is the social center of Negro life. Predominately Methodists or Baptists after Emancipation, when Emancipation finally, came Du Bois states, it seemed to the freedman a literal Coming of the Lord.\n\nThe final chapters of the book are devoted to narratives of individuals. Chapter XI, \"Of the Passing of the First-Born\", tells the story of Du Bois's own son and his untimely death.\n\nDu Bois comments, \"Why was his hair tinted with gold? An evil omen was golden hair in my life.\" He goes on to state, \"I saw his breath beat quicker and quicker, pause, and then his little soul leapt like a star that travels in the night and left a world of darkness in its train.\n\nDu Bois ends with, \"Sleep, then, child, - sleep till I sleep and waken to a baby voice and the ceaseless patter of little feet-above the Veil.\"\n\nIn this chapter, the life of Alexander Crummell is a short biography of a black priest in the Episcopal Church.\n\nDu Bois starts with \"This is the history of a human heart,\" and notes that Crummell faced three temptations, the temptation of Hate, the temptation of Despair, and the temptation of Doubt, while crossing two vales, the Valley of Humiliation and the Valley of the Shadow of Death.\n\nDu Bois ends with, \"And now that he is gone, I sweep the Veil away and cry, Lo! the soul to whose dear memory I bring this little tribute.\"\n\nThe penultimate chapter, \"Of the Coming of John\", is a work of fiction. It is the story of John from Altamaha, Georgia, sent off to a well-off school only to return to his place, where \"[l]ittle had they understood of what he said, for he spoke an unknown tongue\" (Du Bois 170). The first John's return to the South has made him a foreigner in his own home. After attempting to teach a class for the local children that is deemed critical of Johns's life is compared to that of a different John, the son of the wealthy Judge Henderson. John Henderson has become bored after his own return from college and begins to sexually assault the black John's sister Jennie when he sees her outside his home. John kills the white John and then bids his mother goodbye. In the final part of the story, with the implication that he is about to be lynched by a gathering mob, he \"softly hum[s] the 'Song of the Bride in German, (Du Bois 176).\n\nChapter XIV, \"The Sorrow Songs\", is about Negro music and makes reference to the short musical passages at the beginning of each of the other chapters. Du Bois mentions that the music was so powerful and meaningful, regardless of the people's appearance and teaching, \"their hearts were human and their singing stirred men with a mighty power.\" Du Bois concludes the chapter by bringing up inequality, race and discrimination. \"\"Your country? How came it yours?..we were here\".\"\n\nDu Bois heralds the \"melody of the slave songs\", or the negro spirituals, as the \"articulate message of the slave to the world.\" They are the music, he contends, not of the joyous black slave, as a good many whites had misread them, but \"of an unhappy people, of the children of disappointment; they tell of death and suffering and unvoiced longing toward a truer world, of misty wanderings and hidden ways.\" For Du Bois, the sorrow songs represented a black folk culture—with its origins in slavery—unadulterated by the civilizing impulses of a northern black church, increasingly obsessed with respectability and with Western aesthetic criteria. Rather than vestiges of a backward time that should be purged from black repertoires and isolated from what Alain Locke called the \"modernization of the negro\" (coincident, for Locke, with urbanization), negro spirituals are—for Du Bois—where the souls of black folk past and present are found.\n\nDu Bois passionately advocated for the preservation of the spiritual, along with Antonín Dvořák and contemporary black aestheticians, including Harry Burleigh, Robert Nathaniel Dett, Alain Locke and Zora Neale Hurston. It is in the retrieval of black cultural folkways—particularly \"The Sorrow Songs\"—that one of the major complications of Du Bois's project and, later, the Harlem Renaissance (where Hurston and Locke debut their own retrievals) surfaces. For Du Bois's contention that the sorrow songs contain a notative excess, and untranscribable element Yolanda Pierce identifies as the \"soul\" of the sorrow songs. The mappings of sound and signs that make up the languages of the white Western culture would prove insufficient to many black literary critics of the 1920s and beyond, and the debates over the abilities to retrieve and preserve black folkways find their roots in Du Bois's treatment of the sorrow songs and in his call for their rescue.\n\nIn \"Living Black History\", Du Bois's biographer Manning Marable observes:\nFew books make history and fewer still become foundational texts for the movements and struggles of an entire people. \"The Souls of Black Folk\" occupies this rare position. It helped to create the intellectual argument for the black freedom struggle in the twentieth century. \"Souls\" justified the pursuit of higher education for Negroes and thus contributed to the rise of the black middle class. By describing a global color-line, Du Bois anticipated pan-Africanism and colonial revolutions in the Third World. Moreover, this stunning critique of how 'race' is lived through the normal aspects of daily life is central to what would become known as 'whiteness studies' a century later.At the time of its publication, the \"Nashville Banner\" warned of \"The Souls of Black Folk\", \"This book is dangerous for the Negro to read, for it will only incite discontent and fill his imagination with things that do not exist, or things that should not bear upon his mind.\" \"The New York Times\" said, \"A review of [the work of the Freedmen's Bureau] from the negro point of view, even the Northern negro's point of view, must have its value to any unprejudiced student—still more, perhaps, for the prejudiced who is yet willing to be a student.\"\n\nIn his introduction to the 1961 edition, writer Saunders Redding observed, \"The boycott of the buses in Montgomery had many roots . . . but none more important than this little book of essays published more than half a century ago.\"\n\nAs Yale professor Hazel Carby points out, it was impossible for black writers before the abolition of slavery in 1865 \"even to imagine the option of returning to the South once black humanity and freedom had been gained in the North\" and it was rarely found in later literature as well. While the narratives of Frederick Douglass and Harriet Ann Jacobs move towards the North and freedom, Du Bois reverses \"the direction of the archetypal journey of these original narratives\" and focuses on the Black Belt of the South. Although the text \"consistently shifts between a predominantly white and a predominantly black world\" in line with Du Bois's concept of double consciousness, \"its overall narrative impulse gradually moves the focus from a white terrain to an autonomous black one.\"\n\nCarby traces the ways in which Du Bois gendered his narrative of black folk, but also how Du Bois's conceptual framework is gendered as well. In \"The Souls of Black Folk\", according to Carby, it seems that Du Bois is most concerned with how race and nation intersect, and how such an intersection is based on particular masculine notions of progress. According to Carby, Du Bois \"exposes and exploits the tension that exists between the internal egalitarianism of the nation and the relations of domination and subordination embodied in a racially encoded social hierarchy.\" So Du Bois makes a conceptual argument that racialization is actually compatible with the nation in so far as it creates unified races. However, this unified race is only possible through the gendered narrative that he constructs throughout \"Souls\", which renders black male intellectuals (himself) as the (only possible) leader(s) of the unified race. Carby explains that \"in order to retain his credentials for leadership, Du Bois had to situate himself as both an exceptional and a representative individual... The terms and conditions of his exceptionalism, Du Bois argues, have their source in his formation as a gendered intellectual.\"\n\nAccording to Carby, Du Bois was concerned with \"the reproduction of Race Men\". In other words, \"the figure of the intellectual and race leader is born of and engendered by other males.\" Such a reading of Du Bois calls attention to \"queer meanings\" that, according to Charles Nero, are inherent in \"Souls\". Nero, who employs Anne Herrmann's definition of queer, conceptualizes queerness as the \"recognition on the part of others that one is not like others, a subject out of order, not in sequence, not working.\" Foundational to Nero's argument is the understanding that men have the authority to exchange women among one another in order to form a \"homosocial contract\". Nero analyzes Du Bois's discussion on the Teutonic and Submissive Man to conclude that such a contract would lead to a \"round and full development\" to produce a \"great civilization\". However, Nero is concerned with violence and the \"rigid policing of sexual identity categories at the turn of the century\" which ultimately made such a homosocial, biracial contract impossible.\n\nNero marks \"Of the Coming of John\" as a central chapter that demonstrates his queer reading of \"Souls\". Nero argues that John Jones's absence of masculinity is a sign of his queerness and that the killing of his \"double\" represents Du Bois's disillusionment that there can exist a biracial and homosocial society.\n\nGiven Du Bois's transdisciplinary training and pivotal point of historicizing much of what we can say about black religion and culture, it is no surprise that many in black religious and cultural studies have used Du Bois's concept of \"double-consciousness\" or other concepts from \"Souls\" in their interpretations of black culture and religion. Cheryl Sanders, a professor of Christian ethics at Howard University School of Divinity, in her scholarly work lists a who's who of Du Bois progeny, including Paul Gilroy, C. Eric Lincoln, Lawrence Mamiya, Peter Paris, Emilie Townes and Cornel West, who take up themes or concepts found in \"Souls\" for their own work in religious and theological studies or cultural criticism. Additionally, Victor Anderson, a philosophical theologian and cultural critic at Vanderbilt University Divinity School and the author of \"Beyond Ontological Blackness: An Essay on African American Religious and Cultural Criticism\", links concepts from \"Souls\" to much of the work in black religious studies.\n\nIn \"Beyond Ontological Blackness\", Anderson seeks to critique a trope of \"black heroic genius\" articulated within the logics of ontological blackness as a philosophy of racial consciousness. At the center of this conception is Du Bois. \"W. E. B. Du Bois's double-consciousness depiction of black existence has come to epitomize the existential determinants of black self-consciousness. These alienated forms of black consciousness have been categorically defined in African-American cultural studies as: The Negro Problem, The Color Line, Black Experience, Black Power, The Veil of Blackness, Black Radicalism, and most recently, The Black Sacred Cosmos.\" Anderson's critique of black heroic genius and a move towards black cultural fulfillment is an attempt to move beyond the categories deployed by Du Bois in \"Souls\".\n\nLikewise, Sanders, who in interpreting black black holiness-Pentecostalism specifically, also critiques Du Bois's concept of double-consciousness. In Sanders's work, \"Saints in Exile: The Holiness-Pentecostal Experience in African American Religion and Culture\", Sanders deploys a dialectical understanding of exile, which she characterizes in black holiness-Pentecostal terms as \"Being in the world, but not of it.\" At the same time, Sanders wishes to contrast this from the double-consciousness dialect of Du Bois, at least as she understands it. For Sanders, \"exilic dialectics\" is \"hoped to represent a progressive step beyond the 'double-consciousness' described by W. E. B. Du Bois in 1903, which persists as the dominant paradigm in African American religious and cultural thought.\"\n\nDescribing double-consciousness as \"either-or\" and exilic consciousness as between \"both-and\", Sanders contrasts that those who live in exile \"can find equilibrium and fulfillment between extremes, whereas adherents to the latter either demand resolution or suffer greatly in the tension, as is the case with Du Bois's description of the agony of 'double-consciousness,' as 'two warring ideals in one dark body, whose dogged strength alone keeps it from being torn asunder.'\"\n\nIn 1953, \"The Souls of Black Folk\" was published in a special \"Fiftieth Anniversary Jubilee Edition\". In his introduction, Du Bois wrote that in the 50 years since its publication, he occasionally had the inclination to revise the book but ultimately decided to leave it as it was, \"as a monument to what I thought and felt in 1903\". While he stuck by his decision, he wrote, in the new edition he had made \"less than a half-dozen alterations in word or phrase and then not to change my thoughts as previously set down but to avoid any possible misunderstanding today of what I meant to say yesterday.\" In 1973, historian Herbert Aptheker identified seven changes. Historian and literary critic Henry Louis Gates Jr. and a team of readers performed a line-by-line comparison of the two editions during the 1980s and identified two more changes. All the changes are minor; the longest was to change \"nephews and poor whites and the Jews\" to \"poor relations and foreign immigrants\". In six of the nine changes, Du Bois changed references to Jews to refer to immigrants or foreigners. Two of the other changes also involved references to Jews.\n\nDu Bois wrote to Aptheker in February 1953 about concerns he had with his references to Jews in the book:\nI have had a chance to read [\"The Souls of Black Folk\"] in part for the first time in years. I find in chapters VII, VII and IX, five incidental references to Jews. I recall that years ago, Jacob Schiff wrote me criticising these references and that I denied any thought of race or religious prejudice and promised to go over the passages in future editions. These editions succeeded each other without any consultation with me, and evidently the matter slipped out of my mind.<br>As I re-read these words today, I see that harm might come if they were allowed to stand as they are. First of all, I am not at all sure that the foreign exploiters to whom I referred ... were in fact Jews... But even if they were, what I was condemning was the exploitation and not the race nor religion. And I did not, when writing, realize that by stressing the name of the group instead of what some members of the [group] may have done, I was unjustly maligning a people in exactly the same way my folk were then and are now falsely accused.<br>In view of this and because of the even greater danger of injustice now than then, I want in the event of re-publication [to] change those passages.\n\nIn a March 1953 letter to Blue Heron Press, Du Bois asked that the following paragraph be added to the end of \"Of the Black Belt\":\nIn the foregoing chapter, \"Jews\" have been mentioned five times, and the late Jacob Schiff once complained that this gave an impression of anti-Semitism. This at the time I stoutly denied; but as I read the passages again in the light of subsequent history, I see how I laid myself open to this possible misapprehension. What, of course, I meant to condemn was the exploitation of black labor and that it was in this country and at that time in part a matter of immigrant Jews, was incidental and not essential. My inner sympathy with the Jewish people was expressed better in the last paragraph of page 152. But this illustrates how easily one slips into unconscious condemnation of a whole group.\n\nThe publisher did not add the paragraph, perhaps because Du Bois changed the text instead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2251072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2251072", "title": "The Thunder, Perfect Mind", "text": "The Thunder, Perfect Mind\n\nThe Thunder, Perfect Mind is an exhortatory poem discovered among the Gnostic manuscripts at Nag Hammadi in 1945.\n\"The Thunder, Perfect Mind\" (the title may alternately be translated \"The Thunder, Perfect Intellect\") takes the form of an extended, riddling monologue, in which an immanent divine saviour speaks a series of paradoxical statements alternating between first-person assertions of identity and direct address to the audience. These paradoxical utterances echo Greek identity riddles, a common poetic form in the Mediterranean. Moreover, it is a non-epistolic, non-narrative unmediated divine speech. There are some translations to the right from the same section of the poem. Line numbering is different in different translations.\n\nAs to dating, Anne McGuire writes: \"\"Thunder, Perfect Mind\" exists only in the Coptic version found at Nag Hammadi (NHC VI,2:13,1-21,32). The author, date, and place of composition are unknown, but a cultural milieu like that of second- or third-century Alexandria is plausible. In any case, it is clear that the text was originally composed in Greek well before 350 C.E., the approximate date of the Coptic manuscript.\"\n\nThe work as a whole takes the form of a poem in parallel strophes, and the author, it may be surmised, has drawn on a tradition of such poems in both Egyptian and Jewish communities, in which a similarly female divinity (Isis or aspect of the divine Sophia respectively) expounds her virtues unto an attentive audience, and exhorts them to strive to attain her. Patricia Cox Miller suggests that it is the \"self-revelation of a powerful goddess\" \n\nSome examples of the genre may be found in Old Testament and apocryphal literature such as Proverbs and Wisdom (Ecclesiasticus).\n\nThe riddles of the poem may presuppose a classical Gnostic myth, such as the one found in the Reality of the Rulers, or in the Secret Book of John.\n\nThe original language of the poem was Greek, though only a Coptic version survives in the Nag Hammadi library; the manuscript resides in the Cairo Coptic museum.\n"}
{"id": "495185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495185", "title": "Western esotericism", "text": "Western esotericism\n\nWestern esotericism, also called esotericism, esoterism, and sometimes the Western mystery tradition, is a term under which scholars have categorised a wide range of loosely related ideas and movements which have developed within Western society. These ideas and currents are united by the fact that they are largely distinct both from orthodox Judeo-Christian religion and from Enlightenment rationalism. Esotericism has pervaded various forms of Western philosophy, religion, pseudoscience, art, literature, and music, continuing to affect intellectual ideas and popular culture.\nThe idea of grouping a wide range of Western traditions and philosophies together under the category that is now termed \"esotericism\" developed in Europe during the late seventeenth century. Various academics have debated how to define Western esotericism, with a number of different options proposed. One scholarly model adopts its definition of \"esotericism\" from certain esotericist schools of thought themselves, treating \"esotericism\" as a perennialist hidden, inner tradition. A second perspective sees esotericism as a category that encompasses movements which embrace an \"enchanted\" world-view in the face of increasing disenchantment. A third views Western esotericism as a category encompassing all of Western culture's \"rejected knowledge\" that is accepted neither by the scientific establishment nor by orthodox religious authorities.\nThe earliest traditions which later analysis would label as forms of Western esotericism emerged in the Eastern Mediterranean during Late Antiquity, where Hermetism, Gnosticism, and Neoplatonism developed as schools of thought distinct from what became mainstream Christianity. Renaissance Europe saw increasing interest in many of these older ideas, with various intellectuals combining \"pagan\" philosophies with the Kabbalah and Christian philosophy, resulting in the emergence of esoteric movements like Christian theosophy. The seventeenth century saw the development of initiatory societies professing esoteric knowledge such as Rosicrucianism and Freemasonry, while the Age of Enlightenment of the eighteenth century led to the development of new forms of esoteric thought. The nineteenth century saw the emergence of new trends of esoteric thought that have come to be known as occultism. Prominent groups in this century included the Theosophical Society and the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. Modern Paganism developed within occultism, and includes religious movements such as Wicca. Esoteric ideas permeated the counterculture of the 1960s and later cultural tendencies, from which emerged the New Age phenomenon in the 1970s.\nAlthough the idea that these varying movements could be categorised together under the rubric of \"Western esotericism\" developed in the late eighteenth century, these esoteric currents were largely ignored as a subject of academic enquiry. The academic study of Western esotericism only emerged in the late twentieth-century, pioneered by scholars like Frances Yates and Antoine Faivre.\nEsoteric ideas have meanwhile also exerted an influence in popular culture, appearing in art, literature, film, and music.\n\nThe concept of the \"esoteric\" originated in the second century AD\nwith the coining of the Ancient Greek adjective \"esôterikós\" (\"belonging to an inner circle\"); the earliest known example of the word appeared in a satire authored by Lucian of Samosata ( 125 – after 180)\n\nThe noun \"esotericism\", in its French form \"ésotérisme\", first appeared in 1828 in the work by (1791-1864), \"Histoire critique du gnosticisme\" (3 vols.).\nThe term \"esotericism\" thus came into use in the wake of the Age of Enlightenment and of its critique of institutionalised religion, during which time alternative religious groups began to disassociate themselves from the dominant Christianity in Western Europe. During the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the term \"esotericism\" came to commonly be seen as something which was distinct from Christianity, and which had formed a subculture that had been at odds with the Christian mainstream from at least the time of the Renaissance. The French occultist and ceremonial magician Eliphas Lévi (1810-1875) popularized the term in the 1850s, and Theosophist Alfred Percy Sinnett (1840-1921) introduced it into the English language in his book \"Esoteric Buddhism\" (1883). Lévi also introduced the term \"l'occultisme\", a notion that he developed against the background of contemporary socialist and Catholic discourses. \"Esotericism\" and \"occultism\" were often employed as synonyms until later scholars distinguished the concepts.\n\nThe concept of \"Western esotericism\" is a modern scholarly construct rather than a pre-existing, self-defined tradition of thought. In the late seventeenth century, several European Christian thinkers presented the argument that certain traditions of Western philosophy and thought could be categorised together, thus establishing the category that is now called \"Western esotericism\". The first to do so was (1659–1698), a German Lutheran who wrote \"Platonisch-Hermetisches Christianity\" (1690–91). A hostile critic of various currents of Western thought that had emerged since the Renaissance—among them Paracelsianism, Weigelianism, and Christian theosophy—in his book he labelled all of these traditions under the category of \"Platonic–Hermetic Christianity\", arguing that they were heretical to what he saw as true Christianity. Despite his hostile attitude toward these traditions of thought, he was the first to connect these disparate philosophies and study them under one rubric, also recognising that these ideas linked back to earlier philosophies from late antiquity.\n\nIn Europe during the eighteenth century, amid the Age of Enlightenment, these esoteric traditions came to be regularly categorised under the labels of \"superstition\", \"magic\", and \"the occult\", terms which were often used interchangeably. The modern academy, which was then in the process of developing, consistently rejected and ignored topics coming under \"the occult\" and thus research into them was largely left to enthusiasts outside of academia. Indeed, according to historian of esotericism Wouter J. Hanegraaff (born 1961), rejection of \"occult\" topics was seen as a \"crucial identity marker\" for any intellectuals seeking to affiliate themselves with the academy.\n\nScholars established this category in the late 18th century after identifying \"structural similarities\" between \"the ideas and world views of a wide variety of thinkers and movements\" which prior to this had not been placed in the same analytical grouping. According to the scholar of esotericism Wouter J. Hanegraaff, the term provided a \"useful generic label\" for \"a large and complicated group of historical phenomena that had long been perceived as sharing an \"air de famille\".\"\n\nVarious academics have emphasised the idea that esotericism is a phenomenon unique to the Western world; as Faivre stated, an \"empirical perspective\" would hold that \"esotericism is a Western notion\". As scholars such as Faivre and Hanegraaff have pointed out, there is no comparable category of \"Eastern\" or \"Oriental\" esotericism. The emphasis on \"Western\" esotericism was nevertheless primarily devised to distinguish the field from a \"universal\" esotericism. Hanegraaff has characterised these as \"recognisable world views and approaches to knowledge that have played an important although always controversial role in the history of Western culture.\" Historian of religion Henrik Bogdan asserted that Western esotericism constituted \"a third pillar of Western culture\" alongside \"doctrinal faith and rationality\", being deemed heretical by the former and irrational by the latter. Scholars nevertheless recognise that various non-Western traditions have exerted \"a profound influence\" over Western esotericism, citing the prominent example of the Theosophical Society's incorporation of Hindu and Buddhist concepts into its doctrines. Given these influences and the imprecise nature of the term \"Western\", the scholar of esotericism Kennet Granholm has argued that academics should cease referring to \"\"Western\" esotericism\" altogether, instead simply favouring \"esotericism\" as a descriptor of this phenomenon. This attitude was endorsed by Egil Asprem.\n\nThe historian of esotericism Antoine Faivre noted that \"never a precise term, [esotericism] has begun to overflow its boundaries on all sides\", with both Faivre and Karen-Claire Voss stating that Western esotericism consists of \"a vast spectrum of authors, trends, works of philosophy, religion, art, literature, and music\".\nThere is broad agreement among scholars as to which currents of thought can be placed within a category of \"esotericism\", ranging from ancient Gnosticism and Hermetism through to Rosicrucianism and the Kabbalah and on to more recent phenomenon such as the New Age movement. Nevertheless, \"esotericism\" itself remains a controversial term, with scholars specialising in the subject disagreeing as to how it can best be defined.\n\nA definition adopted by some scholars has used \"Western esotericism\" in reference to \"inner traditions\" which are concerned with a \"universal spiritual dimension of reality, as opposed to the merely external ('exoteric') religious institutions and dogmatic systems of established religions.\" According to this approach, \"Western esotericism\" is viewed as just one variant of a worldwide \"esotericism\" which can be found at the heart of all world religions and cultures, reflecting a hidden esoteric reality. This usage of the term \"esotericism\" is closest to the original meaning of the word as it was used in late antiquity, where it was applied to secret spiritual teachings which were reserved for a specific elite and hidden from the masses. This definition was popularised in the published work of nineteenth-century esotericists like A. E. Waite, who sought to combine their own mystical beliefs with a historical interpretation of esotericism. It subsequently became a popular approach within several esoteric movements, most notably Martinism and Traditionalism.\n\nThis definition—originally developed by esotericists themselves—became popular among French academics during the 1980s, exerting a strong influence over the scholars Mircea Eliade, Henry Corbin, and the early work of Faivre. Within the academic field of religious studies, those who study different religions in search of an inner, universal dimension to them all are termed \"religionists\". Such religionist ideas also exerted an influence on more recent scholars like Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke and Arthur Versluis.\nVersluis for instance defined \"Western esotericism\" as \"inner or hidden spiritual knowledge transmitted through Western European historical currents that in turn feed into North American and other non-European settings\". He added that these Western esoteric currents all shared a core characteristic, \"a claim to gnosis, or direct spiritual insight into cosmology or spiritual insight\", and accordingly he suggested that these currents could be referred to as \"Western gnostic\" just as much as \"Western esoteric\".\n\nThere are various problems with this model for understanding Western esotericism. The most significant is that it rests upon the conviction that there really is a \"universal, hidden, esoteric dimension of reality\" that objectively exists. The existence of this universal inner tradition has not been discovered through scientific or scholarly enquiry; this had led some to claim that it does not exist, although Hanegraaff thought it better to adopt a view based in methodological agnosticism by stating that \"we simply do not know - and cannot know\" if it exists or not. He noted that, even if such a true and absolute nature of reality really existed, it would only be accessible through 'esoteric' spiritual practices, and could not be discovered or measured by the 'exoteric' tools of scientific and scholarly enquiry. Hanegraaff also highlighted that an attitude which seeks to uncover an inner hidden core of all esoteric currents masks the fact that such groups often contain significant differences from one another, being rooted in their own historical and social contexts, and expressing ideas and agendas which are mutually exclusive. A third issue was that many of those currents widely recognised as esoteric never concealed their teachings, and in the twentieth century came to permeate popular culture, thus problematizing the claim that esotericism could be defined by its hidden and secretive nature. Moreover, Hanegraaff noted that when scholars adopt this definition, it shows that they subscribe to the religious doctrines which are espoused by the very groups that they are studying.\n\nAnother approach to Western esotericism has treated it as a world view that embraces 'enchantment' in contrast to world views influenced by post-Cartesian, post-Newtonian, and positivist science which have sought to 'dis-enchant' the world. Esotericism is therefore understood as comprising those world views which eschew a belief in instrumental causality and instead adopt a belief that all parts of the universe are interrelated without a need for causal chains. It therefore stands as a radical alternative to the disenchanted world views which have dominated Western culture since the scientific revolution, and must therefore always be at odds with secular culture.\n\nAn early exponent of this definition was the historian of Renaissance thought Frances Yates in her discussions of a \"Hermetic Tradition\", which she saw as an 'enchanted' alternative to established religion and rationalistic science. However, the primary exponent of this view was Faivre, who published a series of criteria for how to define \"Western esotericism\" in 1992. Faivre claimed that esotericism was \"identifiable by the presence of six fundamental characteristics or components\", four of which were \"intrinsic\" and thus vital to defining something as being esoteric, while the other two were \"secondary\" and thus not necessarily present in every form of esotericism. He listed these characteristics as follows:\n\n\nFaivre's form of categorisation has been endorsed by scholars like Goodrick-Clarke, and by 2007 Bogdan could note that Faivre's had become \"the standard definition\" of Western esotericism in use among scholars. However, in 2013 the scholar Kennet Granholm stated only that Faivre's definition had been \"the dominating paradigm for a long while\" and that it \"still exerts influence among scholars outside the study of Western esotericism\". The advantage of Faivre's system is that it allows varying esoteric traditions to be compared \"with one another in a systematic fashion\". However, criticisms have also been expressed of Faivre's theory, pointing out its various weaknesses. Hanegraaff claimed that Faivre's approach entailed \"reasoning by prototype\" in that it relied upon already having a \"best example\" of what Western esotericism should look like, against which other phenomenon then had to be compared. The scholar of esotericism (born 1966) noted that Faivre's taxonomy was based on his own areas of specialism – Renaissance Hermeticism, Christian Kabbalah, and Protestant Theosophy – and that it was thus not based on a wider understanding of esotericism as it has existed throughout history, from the ancient world to the contemporary period. Accordingly, Von Stuckrad suggested that it was a good typology for understanding \"Christian esotericism in the early modern period\" but lacked utility beyond that.\n\nAs an alternative to Faivre's framework, Von Stuckrad developed his own variant, although argued that this did not represent a \"definition\" but rather a \"a framework of analysis\" for scholarly usage. He stated that \"on the most general level of analysis\", esotericism represented \"the claim of higher knowledge\", a claim to possessing \"wisdom that is superior to other interpretations of cosmos and history\" and which serves as a \"master key for answering all questions of humankind\". Accordingly, he believed that esoteric groups placed a great emphasis on secrecy, not because they were inherently rooted in elite groups but because the idea of concealed secrets that can be revealed was central to their discourse. Examining the means of accessing higher knowledge, he highlighted two themes that he believed could be found within esotericism, that of mediation through contact with non-human entities, and individual experience. Accordingly, for Von Stuckrad, esotericism could be best understood as \"a structural element of Western culture\" rather than as a selection of different schools of thought.\n\nAn additional definition was proposed by Hanegraaff, and holds that \"Western esotericism\" is a category representing \"the academy's dustbin of rejected knowledge.\" In this respect, it contains all of the theories and world views that have been rejected by the mainstream intellectual community because they do not accord with \"normative conceptions of religion, rationality and science\". His approach is rooted within the field of the history of ideas, and stresses the role of change and transformation over time.\n\nGoodrick-Clarke was critical of this approach, believing that it relegated Western esotericism to the position of \"a casualty of positivist and materialist perspectives in the nineteenth-century\" and thus reinforces the idea that Western esoteric traditions were of little historical importance. Bogdan similarly expressed concern regarding Hanegraaff's definition, believing that it made the category of Western esotericism \"all inclusive\" and thus analytically useless.\n\nThe origins of Western esotericism are in the Hellenistic Eastern Mediterranean, then part of the Roman Empire, during Late Antiquity, a period encompassing the first centuries of the Common Era. This was a milieu in which there was a mix of religious and intellectual traditions from Greece, Egypt, the Levant, Babylon, and Persia, and in which globalisation, urbanisation, and multiculturalism were bringing about socio-cultural change.\n\nOne component of this was Hermetism, an Egyptian Hellenistic school of thought that takes its name from the legendary Egyptian wise man, Hermes Trismegistus. In the 2nd and 3rd centuries CE, a number of texts appeared which were attributed to Hermes Trismegistus, including the \"Corpus Hermeticum\", \"Asclepius\", and \"The Discourse on the Eighth and Ninth\". Although it is still debated as to whether Hermetism was a purely literary phenomenon, or whether there were communities of practitioners who acted on these ideas, it has been established that these texts discuss the true nature of God, emphasising that humans must transcend rational thought and worldly desires in order to find salvation and be reborn into a spiritual body of immaterial light, thereby achieving spiritual unity with divinity.\n\nAnother tradition of esoteric thought in Late Antiquity was Gnosticism, which had a complex relationship with Christianity. Various Gnostic sects existed, and they broadly believed that the divine light had been imprisoned within the material world by a malevolent entity known as the Demiurge, who was served by demonic helpers, the Archons. It was the Gnostic belief that humans, who were imbued with the divine light, should seek to attain gnosis and thus escape from the world of matter and rejoin the divine source.\n\nA third form of esotericism in Late Antiquity was Neoplatonism, a school of thought influenced by the ideas of the philosopher Plato. Advocated by such figures as Plotinus, Porphyry, Iamblichus, and Proclus, Neoplatonism held that the human soul had fallen from its divine origins into the material world, but that it could progress, through a number of hierarchical spheres of being, to return to its divine origins once more. The later Neoplatonists performed theurgy, a ritual practice attested in such sources as the \"Chaldean Oracles\". Scholars are still unsure of precisely what theurgy involved, although it is known that it involved a practice designed to make gods appear, who could then raise the theurgist's mind to the reality of the divine.\n\nAfter the fall of Rome, alchemy and philosophy and other aspects of the tradition were largely preserved in the Arab and Near Eastern world and reintroduced into Western Europe by Jews and by the cultural contact between Christians and Muslims in Sicily and southern Italy. The 12th century saw the development of the Kabbalah in southern Italy and medieval Spain.\n\nThe medieval period also saw the publication of grimoires, which offered often elaborate formulas for theurgy and thaumaturgy. Many of the grimoires seem to have kabbalistic influence. Figures in alchemy from this period seem to also have authored or used grimoires.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, a number of European thinkers began to synthesize \"pagan\" (that is, not Christian) philosophies, which were then being made available through Arabic translations, with Christian thought and the Jewish kabbalah. The earliest of these individuals was the Byzantine philosopher Plethon (1355/60–1452?), who argued that the \"Chaldean Oracles\" represented an example of a superior religion of ancient humanity which had been passed down by the Platonists.\n\nPlethon's ideas interested the ruler of Florence, Cosimo de Medici, who employed Florentine thinker Marsilio Ficino (1433–1499) to translate Plato's works into Latin. Ficino went on to translate and publish the works of various Platonic figures, arguing that their philosophies were compatible with Christianity, and allowing for the emergence of a wider movement in Renaissance Platonism, or Platonic Orientalism. Ficino also translated part of the \"Corpus Hermeticum\", although the rest would be translated by his contemporary, Lodovico Lazzarelli (1447–1500).\n\nAnother core figure in this intellectual milieu was Giovanni Pico della Mirandola (1463–1494), who achieved notability in 1486 by inviting scholars from across Europe to come and debate the 900 theses that Pico della Mirandola argued that all of these philosophies reflected a grand universal wisdom, however Pope Innocent VIII condemned these actions, criticising him for attempting to mix pagan and Jewish ideas with Christianity.\n\nPico della Mirandola's increased interest in Jewish kabbalah led to his development of a distinct form of Christian Kabbalah. His work was built on by the German Johannes Reuchlin (1455–1522) who authored a prominent text on the subject, \"De Arte Cabbalistica\". Christian Kabbalah was expanded in the work of the German Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa (1486–1535/36), who used it as a framework through which to explore the philosophical and scientific traditions of Antiquity in his work \"De occulta philosophia libri tres\". The work of Agrippa and other esoteric philosophers had been based in a pre-Copernican worldview, but following the arguments of Copernicus, a more accurate understanding of the cosmos was established. Copernicus' theories were adopted into esoteric strains of thought by Giordano Bruno (1548–1600), whose ideas would be deemed heresy by the Roman Catholic Church, eventually resulting in his public execution.\nA distinct strain of esoteric thought developed in Germany, where it came to be known as \"Naturphilosophie\"; although influenced by traditions from Late Antiquity and Medieval Kabbalah, it only acknowledged two main sources of authority: Biblical scripture and the natural world. The primary exponent of this approach was Paracelsus (1493/94–1541), who took inspiration from alchemy and folk magic to argue against the mainstream medical establishment of his time which, as in Antiquity, still based its approach on the ideas of the second-century physician and philosopher, Galen, a Greek in the Roman Empire. Instead, Paracelsus urged doctors to learn medicine through an observation of the natural world, although in later work he also began to focus on overtly religious questions. His work would gain significant support in both areas over the following centuries.\n\nOne of those influenced by Paracelsus was the German cobbler Jacob Böhme (1575–1624), who sparked the Christian theosophy movement through his attempts to solve the problem of evil. Böhme argued that God had been created out of an unfathomable mystery, the \"Ungrud\", and that God himself composed of a wrathful core, surrounded by the forces of light and love. Although condemned by Germany's Lutheran authorities, Böhme's ideas spread and formed the basis for a number of small religious communities, such as Johann Georg Gichtel's Angelic Brethren in Amsterdam, and John Pordage and Jane Leade's Philadelphian Society in England.\n\nFrom 1614 to 1616, the three \"Rosicrucian Manifestos\" were published in Germany; these texts purported to represent a secret, initiatory brotherhood which had been founded centuries before by a German adept named Christian Rosenkreutz. There is no evidence that Rosenkreutz was a genuine historical figure, nor that a Rosicrucian Order had ever existed up to that point. Instead, the manifestos are likely literary creations of Lutheran theologian Johann Valentin Andreae (1586–1654). However, they inspired much public interest, with various individuals coming to describe themselves as \"Rosicrucian\" and claiming that they had access to secret, esoteric knowledge as a result.\n\nA real initiatory brotherhood was established in late 16th-century Scotland through the transformation of Medieval stonemason guilds to include non-craftsman: Freemasonry. Soon spreading into other parts of Europe, in England it largely rejected its esoteric character and embraced humanism and rationalism, while in France it embraced new esoteric concepts, particularly those from Christian theosophy.\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment witnessed a process of increasing secularisation of European governments and an embrace of modern science and rationality within intellectual circles. In turn, a \"modernist occult\" emerged that reflected varied ways in which esoteric thinkers came to terms with these developments. One of the most prominent esotericists of this period was the Swedish naturalist Emanuel Swedenborg (1688–1772), who attempted to reconcile science and religion after experiencing a vision of Jesus Christ. His writings focused on his visionary travels to heaven and hell and his communications with angels, claiming that the visible, materialist world parallels an invisible spiritual world, with correspondences between the two that do not reflect causal relations. Following his death, followers would found the Swedenborgian New Church, although his writings would influence a far wider array of esoteric philosophies. Another major figure within the esoteric movement of this period was the German physician Franz Anton Mesmer (1734–1814), who developed the theory of Animal Magnetism, which later came to be known more commonly as \"Mesmerism\". Mesmer claimed that a universal life force permeated everything, including the human body, and that illnesses were caused by a disturbance or block in this force's flow; he developed techniques which he claimed cleansed such blockages and restored the patient to full health. One of Mesmer's followers, the Marquis de Puységur, discovered that mesmeric treatment could induce a state of somnumbulic trance in which they claimed to enter visionary states and communicate with spirit beings.\n\nThese somnumbulic trance-states would heavily influence the esoteric religion of Spiritualism, which emerged from the United States in the 1840s and spread throughout North American and Europe. Spiritualism was based on the concept that individuals could communicate with spirits of the deceased during séances. Although most forms of Spiritualism had little theoretical depth, being largely practical affairs, full theological worldviews based on the movement would be articulated by Andrew Jackson Davis (1826–1910) and Allan Kardec (1804–1869). Scientific interest in the claims of Spiritualism resulted in the development of the field of psychical research. Somnambulism also exerted a strong influence on the early disciplines of psychology and psychiatry; esoteric ideas purvey the work of many early figures in this field, most notably Carl Gustav Jung, although with the rise of psychoanalysis and behaviourism in the 20th century, these disciplines distanced themselves from esotericism. Also influenced by artificial somnambulism was the religion of New Thought, founded by the American Mesmerist Phineas P. Quimby (1802–1866) and which revolved around the concept of \"mind over matter\", believing that illness and other negative conditions could be cured through the power of belief.\nIn Europe, a movement usually termed \"occultism\" emerged as various figures attempted to find a \"third way\" between Christianity and positivist science while building on the ancient, medieval, and Renaissance traditions of esoteric thought. In France, following the social upheaval of the 1789 Revolution, various figures emerged in this occultist milieu who were heavily influenced by traditional Catholicism, the most notable of whom were Eliphas Lévi (1810–1875) and Papus (1865–1916). Also significant was René Guénon (1886–1951), whose concern with tradition led him to develop an occult viewpoint termed Traditionalism; it espoused the idea of an original, universal tradition, and thus a rejection of modernity. His Traditionalist ideas would have a strong influence on later esotericists like Julius Evola (1898–1974) and Frithjof Schuon (1907–1998).\n\nIn the Anglophone world, the burgeoning occult movement owed more to Enlightenment libertines, and thus was more often of an anti-Christian bent that saw wisdom as emanating from the pre-Christian pagan religions of Europe. Various Spiritualist mediums came to be disillusioned with the esoteric thought available, and sought inspiration in pre-Swedenborgian currents; the most prominent of these were Emma Hardinge Britten (1823–1899) and Helena Blavatsky (1831–1891), the latter of whom called for the revival of the \"occult science\" of the ancients, which could be found in both the East and West. Authoring the influential \"Isis Unveiled\" (1877) and \"The Secret Doctrine\" (1888), she co-founded the Theosophical Society in 1875. Subsequent leaders of the Society, namely Annie Besant (1847–1933) and Charles Webster Leadbeater (1854–1934) interpreted modern theosophy as a form of ecumenical esoteric Christianity, resulting in their proclamation of Indian Jiddu Krishnamurti (1895–1986) as world messiah. In rejection of this was the breakaway Anthroposophical Society founded by Rudolf Steiner (1861–1925).\n\nNew esoteric understandings of magic also developed in the latter part of the 19th century. One of the pioneers of this was American Paschal Beverly Randolph (1825–1875), who argued that sexual energy and psychoactive drugs could be used for magical purposes. In England, the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, an initiatory order devoted to magic which based itself on an understanding of kabbalah, was founded in the latter years of the century. One of the most prominent members of that order was Aleister Crowley (1875–1947), who went on to proclaim the religion of Thelema and become a prominent member of the Ordo Templi Orientis. Some of their contemporaries developed esoteric schools of thought that did not entail magic, namely the Greco-Armenian teacher George Gurdjieff (1866–1949) and his Russian pupil P. D. Ouspensky (1878–1947).\n\nEmergent occult and esoteric systems found increasing popularity in the early 20th century, especially in Western Europe. Occult lodges and secret societies flowered among European intellectuals of this era who had largely abandoned traditional forms of Christianity. The spreading of secret teachings and magic practices found enthusiastic adherents in the chaos of Germany during the interwar years. Notable writers such as Guido von List spread neo-pagan, nationalist ideas, based on Wotanism and the Kabbalah. Many influential and wealthy Germans were drawn to secret societies such as the Thule Society. Thule Society activist Karl Harrer was one of the founders of the German Workers' Party, which later became the Nazi Party; some Nazi Party members like Alfred Rosenberg and Rudolf Hess were listed as \"guests\" of the Thule Society, as was Adolf Hitler's mentor Dietrich Eckart. After their rise to power, the Nazis persecuted occultists. While many Nazi Party leaders like Hitler and Joseph Goebbels were hostile to occultism, Heinrich Himmler used Karl Maria Wiligut as a clairvoyant \"and was regularly consulting for help in setting up the symbolic and ceremonial aspects of the SS\" but not for important political decisions. By 1939, Wiligut was \"forcibly retired from the SS\" due to being institutionalised for insanity. On the other hand, the German hermetic magic order Fraternitas Saturni was founded on Easter 1928 and it is one of the oldest continuously running magical groups in Germany. In 1936, the Fraternitas Saturni was prohibited by the Nazi regime. The leaders of the lodge emigrated in order to avoid imprisonment, but in the course of the war Eugen Grosche, one of their main leaders, was arrested for a year by the Nazi government. After World War II they reformed the Fraternitas Saturni.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, esotericism came to be increasingly associated with the growing counter-culture in the West, whose adherents understood themselves in participating in a spiritual revolution that would mark the Age of Aquarius. By the 1980s, these currents of millenarian currents had come to be widely known as the New Age movement, and it became increasingly commercialised as business entrepreneurs exploited a growth in the spiritual market. Conversely, other forms of esoteric thought retained the anti-commercial and counter-cultural sentiment of the 1960s and 1970s, namely the techno-shamanic movement promoted by figures such as Terence McKenna and Daniel Pinchbeck which built on the work of anthropologist Carlos Castaneda.\n\nThis trend was accompanied by the increased growth of modern Paganism, a movement initially dominated by Wicca, the religion propagated by Gerald Gardner. Wicca was adopted by members of the second-wave feminist movement, most notably Starhawk, and developing into the Goddess movement. Wicca also greatly influenced the development of Pagan neo-druidry and other forms of Celtic revivalism. In response to Wicca there has also appeared literature and groups who label themselves followers of traditional witchcraft in opposition to the growing visibility of Wicca and these claim older roots than the system proposed by Gerald Gardner. Other trends which emerged in western occultism in the later 20th century were satanism as exposed by groups such as the Church of Satan and Temple of Set, as well as chaos magick through the Illuminates of Thanateros group.\n\nIn 2013, Asprem and Granholm highlighted that \"contemporary esotericism is intimately, and increasingly, connected with popular culture and new media.\"\n\nGranholm noted that esoteric ideas and images could be found in many aspects of Western popular media, citing such examples as \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", \"Avatar\", \"Hellblazer\", and \"His Dark Materials\". Granholm has argued that there are problems with the field in that it draws a distinction between esotericism and non-esoteric elements of culture which draw upon esotericism; citing the example of extreme metal, he noted that it was incredibly difficult to differentiate between those artists who were \"properly occult\" and those who simply utilised occult themes and aesthetics in \"a superficial way\".\n\nWriters interested in occult themes have adopted three different strategies for dealing with the subject: those who are knowledgeable on the subject including attractive images of the occult and occultists in their work, those who disguise occultism within \"a web of intertextuality\", and those who oppose it and seek to deconstruct it.\n\nThe academic study of Western esotericism was pioneered in the early 20th century by historians of the ancient world and the European Renaissance, who came to recognise that – although it had been ignored by previous scholarship – the effect which pre-Christian and non-rational schools of thought had exerted on European society and culture was worthy of academic attention. One of the key centres for this was the Warburg Institute in London, where scholars like Frances Yates, Edgar Wind, Ernst Cassirer, and D. P. Walker began arguing that esoteric thought had had a greater effect on Renaissance culture than had been previously accepted. The work of Yates in particular, most notably her 1964 book \"Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition\", has been cited as \"an important starting-point for modern scholarship on esotericism\", succeeding \"at one fell swoop in bringing scholarship onto a new track\" by bringing wider awareness of the effect that esoteric ideas had on modern science.\n\nAt the instigation of the scholar Henry Corbin, in 1965 the world's first academic post in the study of esotericism was established at the École pratique des hautes études in the Sorbonne, Paris; named the chair in the History of Christian Esotericism, its first holder was François Secret, a specialist in the Christian Kabbalah, although he had little interest in developing the wider study of esotericism as a field of research. In 1979 Faivre assumed Secret's chair at the Sorbonne, which was renamed the \"History of Esoteric and Mystical Currents in Modern and Contemporary Europe\". Faivre has since been cited as being responsible for developing the study of Western esotericism into a formalised field, with his 1992 work \"L'ésotérisme\" having been cited as marking \"the beginning of the study of Western esotericism as an academic field of research\". He remained in the chair until 2002, when he was succeeded by Jean-Pierre Brach.\n\nFaivre noted that there were two significant obstacles to establishing the field. One was that there was an engrained prejudice towards esotericism within academia, resulting in the widespread perception that the history of esotericism was not worthy of academic research. The second was that esotericism is a trans-disciplinary field, the study of which did not fit clearly within any particular discipline. As Hanegraaff noted, Western esotericism had to be studied as a separate field to religion, philosophy, science, and the arts, because while it \"participates in all these fields\" it does not squarely fit into any of them. Elsewhere, he noted that there was \"probably no other domain in the humanities that has been so seriously neglected\" as Western esotericism.\n\nIn 1980, the U.S.-based Hermetic Academy was founded by Robert A. McDermott as an outlet for American scholars interested in Western esotericism. From 1986 to 1990 members of the Hermetic Academy participated in panels at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Religion under the rubric of the \"Esotericism and Perennialism Group\". By 1994, Faivre could comment that the academic study of Western esotericism had taken off in France, Italy, England, and the United States, but he lamented the fact that it had not done so in Germany.\n\nIn 1999, the University of Amsterdam established a chair in the \"History of Hermetic Philosophy and Related Currents\", which was occupied by Hanegraaff, while in 2005 the University of Exeter created a chair in \"Western Esotericism\", which was taken by Goodrick-Clarke, who headed the Exeter Center for the Study of Esotericism. Thus, by 2008 there were three dedicated university chairs in the subject, with Amsterdam and Exeter also offering master's degree programs in it. Several conferences on the subject were held at the quintennial meetings of the International Association for the History of Religions, while a peer-reviewed journal, \"Aries: Journal for the Study of Western Esotericism\" began publication in 2001. 2001 also saw the foundation of the North American Association for the Study of Esotericism (ASE), with the European Society for the Study of Western Esotericism (ESSWE) being established shortly after.\nWithin a few years, Michael Bergunder expressed the view that it had become an established field within religious studies, with Asprem and Granholm observing that scholars within other sub-disciplines of religious studies had begun to take an interest in the work of scholars of esotericism.\n\nAsprem and Granholm noted that the study of esotericism had been dominated by historians and thus lacked the perspective of social scientists examining contemporary forms of esotericism, a situation that they were attempting to correct through building links with scholars operating in Pagan studies and the study of new religious movements.\nOn the basis of the fact that \"English culture and literature have been traditional strongholds of Western esotericism\", in 2011 Pia Brînzeu and György Szönyi urged that English studies also have a role in this interdisciplinary field.\n\nHanegraaff follows a distinction between an “emic” and an “etic” approach to religious studies. The emic approach is that of the alchemist or theosopher as an alchemist or theosopher. The etic approach is that of the scholar as an historian, a researcher, with a critical look. An empirical study of esotericism needs “emic material and etic interpretation”:\nArthur Versluis proposes approaching esotericism through a “sympathetic empiricism”:\nMany scholars of esotericism have come to be regarded as respected intellectual authorities by practitioners of various esoteric traditions.\nAlthough many scholars of esotericism have sought to emphasise that \"esotericism\" is not a single object, practitioners who are reading this scholarship have begun to regard it and think of it as a singular object, with which they affiliate themselves. Thus, Asprem and Granholm noted that the use of the term \"esotericism\" among scholars \"significantly contributes to the reification of the category for the general audience – \"despite\" the explicated contrary intentions of most scholars in the field.\"\n\n\n"}
