{"id": "55202961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55202961", "title": "2015 in politics", "text": "2015 in politics\n\nThese are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5139771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5139771", "title": "Abdul Razzak Yaqoob", "text": "Abdul Razzak Yaqoob\n\nAbdul Razzak Yaqoob (7 May 1944 – 21 February 2014) was a Pakistani gold bullion trader who founded ARY Gold in the United Arab Emirates and later ARY Media Group. \n\nHe was born in Surat, British India to Memon family in 1944 which later migrated to Karachi after partition.\n\nYakoob moved to the United Arab Emirates in the 1960s and started gold business with an outlet in Dubai. He founded ARY Group in 1972 and launched a private television channel ARY Digital in 2000.\n\nHe died on 21 February 2014 in London, United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "28053355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28053355", "title": "Adrian Hayes (adventurer)", "text": "Adrian Hayes (adventurer)\n\nAdrian Hayes is a British record-breaking polar explorer and adventurer, best known for reaching the three extreme points of the Earth—the Three Poles Challenge—which involved walking all the way to the North Pole, South Pole and summiting Mt. Everest, all in the shortest period of time (1 year, 217 days - his first Guinness World record).\n\nAlong with Canadians Devon McDiarmid and Derek Crowe, he set a second Guinness World record in 2009 for the longest unsupported snowkiting journey in Arctic history, the vertical crossing of the Greenland ice cap. In 2011 he completed a crossing of the Arabian Desert by foot and camel in a documentary filmed expedition in the footsteps of 1940s British Explorer Wilfred Thesiger. In 2014 Hayes summited the second highest mountain in the world, K2, following his unsuccessful attempt in 2013.\n\nAside from his adventurous exploits, Hayes, an Arabic and Nepalese speaking former Gurkha Officer and Airbus Sales Director, is also a keynote speaker and business coach, specializing in leadership and team coaching and is a campaigner on various world issues, including economic, social and environmental sustainability.\n\nThe middle of three sons, Adrian Hayes grew up in his family-run hotel in the New Forest, Hampshire, and was educated at St Mary’s College, Southampton. Leaving school at 16, he spent six years in numerous outdoor jobs including bricklaying and farming in the UK, Norway and New Zealand; as a singer/guitarist in a rock band; and travelling the world in between on mountaineering and other adventures & expeditions.\n\nFollowing two years British Army service as a sabre squadron trooper in 21 SAS, he attended the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst and served for eight years as an officer in the Brigade of Gurkhas in Hong Kong, Brunei and Oman, the latter a two-year secondment to the Royal Army of Oman in Salalah. After leaving the Army, he studied for an MBA at the University of Nottingham and worked in various international sales and marketing managerial positions before joining Airbus as a Regional Sales Director Middle East and West Asia from 2000–2006, based in Toulouse, France followed by Dubai, UAE. He set up his own company in 2007 becoming a full-time adventurer, speaker and business coach.\n\nHayes summited Mt Everest on 25 May 2006 by the South East ridge/South Col route from Nepal on his first attempt, as part of a ten-man international Everest summit expedition, led by Henry Todd.\n\nOn 25 April 2007 Hayes reached the Geographic North Pole after a 50-day expedition covering (straight line) across the Arctic Ocean from Ward Hunt Island, Canada as part of a three-man team led by Canadian Polar Explorer Richard Weber.\n\nHayes reached the Geographic South Pole on 28 December 2007 after a 47-day expedition covering from Hercules Inlet on the Ronne Ice Shelf of the Antarctic coastline as part of a five-man international team. In doing so he became the 15th person ever to conquer the three extremes of latitude and altitude on Earth – the Three Poles Challenge - and set a record, recognized by Guinness World Records in 2008, for completing all three in the then shortest period of time in history, 19 months and three days.\n\nIn 2009, along with Canadian teammates Devon McDiarmid and Derek Crowe, Hayes set out to complete an unsupported vertical crossing of the Greenland ice Cap from Narsaq on the Atlantic Ocean to JP Kocks Fjord in Peary Land on the Arctic Ocean and then onto Qaanaaq on the Baffin Sea in North-West Greenland. The trio completed the never before undertaken journey in 67 days, covering (point to point) and achieving the longest unsupported snow-kiting expedition in the Arctic to date. Guinness World Records also recognized the journey in 2010. The film of the expedition, the Emirates NBD Greenland Quest featured in a documentary broadcast on National Geographic channel.\n\nBetween October–December 2011 Hayes led an expedition re-enacting the travels of British Explorer Wilfred Thesiger across the Arabian Desert, otherwise known as the Rub Al Khali or \"Empty Quarter\". Travelling with two Beduin team members, Hayes, an Arabic speaker, journeyed by camel and foot from Salalah, Oman to Abu Dhabi, UAE in 44 days, covering . The expedition, titled \"Footsteps of Thesiger\", was filmed for a television documentary charting the modern day expedition, the travels of Thesiger and the culture, heritage and changing lives of the Bedu of Oman and the UAE and broadcast on Discovery Channel in 2012.\n\nBetween June and August 2013 Hayes was part of six small teams attempting to summit K2 from the Pakistan side, via the Abruzzi Spur. The expeditions were abandoned when an avalanche wiped out Camp 3 at on 27 July 2013, killing New Zealand mountain guide Marty Schmidt and his son Denali.- who had pushed on with a possible summit attempt whilst the remaining 20 climbers had returned to base camp amid snow condition concerns.\n\nOn the 60th anniversary of K2’s first ascent, with just 330 summiteers in that period and only one year of summit successes from Pakistan in the previous five since the 2008 K2 disaster, Hayes returned to K2 for his second attempt between June- August 2014. He summited the mountain on 26 July 2014, becoming the eighth Briton to reach the top in its notorious history.\n\nA lifetime follower of international affairs, Hayes speaks, writes and campaigns on a number of worldwide causes, concepts and charities, in particular on economic, social and environmental sustainability and is a member or supporter of organisations such as New Economics Foundation (NEF), Population Matters, Action for Happiness, and BioRegional.\n\nHayes's first book, 'Footsteps of Thesiger', chronicling the life of Sir Wilfred Thesiger, his modern reenaction expedition in Thesiger's trail and the changing lives of the Bedouin of the Arabian Peninsular was published in 2013. His second book, One Man’s Climb: A Journey of Trauma, Tragedy and Triumph, detailing his personal story attempting the world’s second highest mountain, was published in the UK in November 2018 by Pen and Sword, and will be released worldwide from March 2019.\n"}
{"id": "3139302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3139302", "title": "American Union Against Militarism", "text": "American Union Against Militarism\n\nThe American Union Against Militarism (AUAM) was an American pacifist organization established in response to World War I. The organization attempted to keep the United States out of the European conflict through mass demonstrations, public lectures, and the printed word. Failing in that effort with American entry into the war in April 1917, the Union battled against conscription, action which subjected it to state repression, and military intervention.\nThe organization was eventually dissolved after the war in 1922.\n\nIn January 1915 a group of New York City pacifists known as the \"Henry Street Peace Committee\" organized an organization known first as the \"Anti-Militarism Committee\" in an effort to keep the United States from entering World War I in support of the Entente powers against Germany and the Austro-Hungarian empire. The committee emerged from among the activists in a settlement house project located on the city's Lower East Side. Feelers were extended to Roger Baldwin to head the new national organization, which he declined. Instead, Lillian Wald of the Henry Street Settlement was elected chairwoman and lawyer Crystal Eastman became executive director of the organization.\n\nThe slogan advanced by those favoring American entrance into the European conflict was that of \"Preparedness.\" Throughout the latter part of 1915 this campaign gathered steam, inspiring the fledgling Anti-Militarism Committee to change its name to the \"Anti-Preparedness Committee\" in about January 1916 and to the American Union Against Militarism (AUAM) later in that year.\n\nBaldwin involved himself in the activities of the St. Louis chapter of the AUAM but had grown tired of life in the Midwest and sought to relocate in the East. In February 1917, Baldwin wrote to the national office of the organization, urging it to hold mass meetings in opposition to American participation in the war, an eventuality which seemed imminent. With Crystal Eastman in ill health, the national office responded in March with a telegram signed by a number of liberal and radical worthies asking Baldwin once again to head the organization. This time Baldwin accepted, and he headed for New York to replace Eastman as executive director in the group's office, located in the Munsey Building on Fifth Avenue.\n\nLillian Wald resigned from the AAUM in August 1917, along with other moderates, over the decision by Baldwin, Eastman, and others in the organization to send delegates to a Minneapolis convention of the People's Council of America for Democracy and Peace in September. The latter organization was formed to advance the Russian soviet system in the United States.\n\nParticularly in its early years, the AUAM was a broadly constituted organization, including religious pacifists, socialists, and liberals, united in a distaste for war and militarism and a commitment to the maintenance of civil liberties. The organization was not explicitly socialist, but rather was dedicated to a pacifist critique of international and American policy.\n\nWith American entrance into the war, a campaign against dissent was initiated, touching radical political activists, trade unionists, and critics of the war alike. Baldwin and the AUAM were in the forefront of the campaign to push back in defense of the First Amendment liberties of freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and the right of peaceable assembly to address grievances.\n\nThe organization placed a strong emphasis on lobbying, sending Baldwin to Washington, DC regularly in an attempt to win elected officials to the ideas of the American Union.\n\nActivities included lobbying, publishing, a lecture campaign, and the establishment of a Civil Liberties Bureau. Out of this grew the National Civil Liberties Bureau which later became the American Civil Liberties Union.\n\nIn 1919, the organization was subpoenaed by the New York legislature's Joint Legislative Committee to Investigate Seditious Activities, popularly known as the Lusk Committee, which considered the organization's efforts and pacifist ties to be a vehicle for socialist and communist propaganda.\n\nMost notable actions were their work in the effort to avert war with Mexico in 1916 and the encouragement of opposition to peacetime conscription following World War I. The office was raided by the government and AUAM publications were sometimes stopped by the postal authorities but the organization continued despite these actions.\n\nThe group was also known for a time as the American Union for a Democratic Peace and the League for an American Peace. It ceased operations in 1922.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51695734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51695734", "title": "Batalanda detention centre", "text": "Batalanda detention centre\n\nBatalanda detention centre was an alleged detention centre used to torture and exterminate members of the then militant marxist rebel organization Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna(JVP) during JVP uprising of 1988–1989 who launched a second armed revolt against an elected government then led by President Ranasinghe Premadasa. Unlike the previous open uprising the JVP relied on assassinations of important religious and political figures, subversion and terror attacks. The government replied brutally showing no mercy and the government has been accused of using detention camps in several places including Batalanda to quell the JVP uprising. These were said to be run by anti-subversive units of the police who were tasked with destroying rebels It is believed that nearly 5,000-10,000 members of JVP activists were brutally tortured and killed in this camp. Ranil Wickremesinghe is accused of being the political authority of the alleged detention center. Batalanda commission was appointed by the government of Chandrika Kumaratunga to look into the violations of human rights and crimes committed at Batalanda torture and detention center. In its report the commission recommended the government to take legal action against then opposition leader Ranil Wickremesinghe. However no legal action was taken against him by any government to date and several who were arrested for their involvement in alleged killings have been revealed to be from organizations such as the Sri Lanka Mahajana Party which was created by Kumaratunge and her husband who himself was assassinated by the UNP Government.\n"}
{"id": "889153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889153", "title": "Bouncer (doorman)", "text": "Bouncer (doorman)\n\nA bouncer (also known as a doorman, door supervisor or cooler) is a type of security guard, employed at venues such as bars, nightclubs, stripclubs, casinos, hotels, billiard halls, restaurants, sporting events or concerts. A bouncer's duties are to provide security, to check legal age, to refuse entry for intoxicated persons, and to deal with aggressive behavior or non-compliance with statutory or establishment rules. Bouncers are often required where crowd size, clientele or alcohol consumption may make arguments or fights a possibility, or where the threat or presence of criminal gang activity or violence is high. \nIn the United States, civil liability and court costs related to the use of force by bouncers are \"the highest preventable loss found within the [bar] industry\", as many United States bouncers are often taken to court and other countries have similar problems of excessive force. In many countries, federal or state governments have taken steps to professionalise the industry by requiring bouncers to have training, licensing, and a criminal records background check.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, increased awareness of the risks of lawsuits and criminal charges have led many bars and venues to train their bouncers to use communication and conflict resolution skills before, or rather than, resorting to brute force against troublemakers. However, the earlier history of the occupation suggests that the stereotype of bouncers as rough, tough, physical enforcers has indeed been the case in many countries and cultures throughout history. Historical references also suggest that the 'doorman' function of guarding a place and selecting who can have entry to it (the stereotypical task of the modern bouncer) could at times be an honorific and evolve into a relatively important position.\n\nThe significance of the doorman as the person allowing (or barring) entry is found in a number of Mesopotamian myths (and later in Greek myths descended from them), including that of Nergal overcoming the seven doormen guarding the gates to the Underworld.\n\nIn 1 Chronicles 26 of the Old Testament, the Levitical Temple is described as having a number of 'gatekeepers'—amongst their duties are \"protect[ing] the temple from theft\", from \"illegal entry into sacred areas\" and \"maintain[ing] order\", all functions they share with the modern concept of the bouncer, though the described temple servants also serve as holy persons and administrators themselves (it is noted that some administrative function is still present in today's bouncing in the higher position of the supervisor).\nDoormen or bouncers are usually larger persons who display great strength and size.\n\nThe Romans had a position known as the 'Ostiarius' (doorkeeper), initially a slave, who guarded the door, and sometimes ejected unwanted people from the house whose gate he guarded. The term later become a low-ranking clergy title.\n\nPlautus, in his play \"Bacchides\" (written approximately 194–184 BC), mentions a \"large and powerful\" doorman / bouncer as a threat to get an unwelcome visitor to leave.\n\nTertullian, an early Christian author living mainly in the 1st century AD, while reporting on the casual oppression of Christians in Carthage, noted that bouncers were counted as part of a semi-legal underworld, amongst other 'shady' characters such as gamblers and pimps.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th centuries, US saloon-keepers and brothel madams hired bouncers to remove troublesome, violent, or dead-drunk patrons, and to protect the saloon girls and prostitutes. The word \"bouncer\" was first popularized in a novel by Horatio Alger, Jr., called The \"Young Outlaw\", which was first published in 1875. Alger was an immensely popular author in the 19th century, especially with young people and his books were widely quoted. In Chapter XIV, entitled \"Bounced\", a boy is thrown out of a restaurant because he has no money to pay for his dinner:\n\nAn 1883 newspaper article stated that \"'The Bouncer' is merely the English 'chucker out'. When liberty verges on license and gaiety on wanton delirium, the Bouncer selects the gayest of the gay, and—bounces him!\"\n\n\nIn US Western towns in the 1870s, high-class brothels known as \"good houses\" or \"parlour houses\" hired bouncers for security and to prevent patrons from evading payment. \"Good house\"-style brothels \"... considered themselves the cream of the crop, and [the prostitutes working there] scorned those who worked in (or out of) saloons, dance halls, and theatres.\" The best bordellos looked like respectable mansions, with attractively decorated parlours, a game room and a dance hall. For security, \"somewhere in every parlor house there was always a bouncer, a giant of a man who stayed sober to handle any customer who got too rough with one of the girls or didn't want to pay his bill.\" The \"protective presence\" of bouncers in high-class brothels was \"... one of the reasons the girls considered themselves superior to [lower-class] free-lancers, who lacked any such shepherds.\"\n\nIn Wisconsin's lumberjack days, bouncers would physically remove drinkers who were too drunk to keep buying drinks, and thus free up space in the bar for new patrons. The slang term 'snake-room' was used to describe a \"...room off a saloon, usually two or three steps down, into which a bar-keeper or the bouncer could slide drunk lumber-jacks head first through swinging doors from the bar-room.\" In the late 19th century, until Prohibition, bouncers also had the unusual role of protecting the saloon's buffet. To attract business, \"...many saloons lured customers with offers of a \"free lunch\"—usually well salted to inspire drinking, and the saloon \"bouncer\" was generally on hand to discourage [those with too] hearty appetites\".\n\nIn the late 19th century, bouncers at small town dances and bars physically resolved disputes and removed troublemakers, without worrying about lawsuits. In the main bar in one Iowa town, \"...there were many quarrels, many fights, but all were settled on the spot. There were no court costs [for the bouncers or the bar]; only some aches and pains [for the troublemakers].\"\n\nIn the 1880s and 1890s, bouncers were used to maintain order in \"The Gut\", the roughest part of New York City's Coney Island, which was filled with \"ramshackle groups of wooden shanties\", bars, cabarets, fleabag hotels and brothels. Huge bouncers patrolled these venues of vice and \"roughly ejected anyone who violated the loose rules of decorum\" by engaging in pick-pocketing, jewelery thieving, or bloody fights.\n\nDuring the 1890s, San Diego had a similarly rough waterfront area and redlight district called the 'Stingaree', where bouncers worked the door at brothels. Prostitutes worked at the area's 120 bawdy houses in small rooms, paying a fee to the procurer who usually was the bouncer or 'protector' of the brothel. The more expensive, higher-class brothels were called \"parlour houses\", and they were \"run most decorously\", and the \"best of food and drink was served.\" To maintain the high-class atmosphere at these establishments, male patrons were expected to act like gentlemen; \"... if any customer did or said anything out of line, he was asked to leave. A bouncer made sure he did\".\n\n\nBouncers in pre-World War I United States were also sometimes used as the guardians of morality. As ballroom dancing was often considered as an activity which could lead to immoral conduct if the dancers got too close, some of the more reputable venues had bouncers to remind patrons not to dance closer than nine inches to their partners. The bouncers' warnings tended to consist of light taps on the shoulder at first, and then progressed to sterner remonstrations.\n\nIn the 1930s, bars in the bawdiest parts of Baltimore, Maryland docks hired bouncers to maintain order and eject aggressive patrons. The Oasis club, operated by Max Cohen, hired \"...a lady bouncer by the name of Mickey Steele, a six-foot acrobat from the Pennsylvania coal fields. Mickey was always considerate of the people she bounced; first asking them where they lived and then throwing them in that general direction. She was succeeded by a character known as 'Machine-Gun Butch' who was a long-time bouncer at the club\".\n\nIn the Weimar Republic in the Germany of the 1920s and early 1930s, doormen protected venues from the fights caused by Nazis and other potentially violent groups (such as Communists). Such scenes were fictionalised in the movie \"Cabaret\". Hitler surrounded himself with a number of former bouncers such as Christian Weber; the SS originated as a group designated to protect party meetings.\n\nIn early Nazi Germany, some bouncers in underground jazz clubs were also hired to screen for Nazi spies, because jazz was considered a \"degenerate\" form of music by the Nazi party. Later during the Nazi regime, bouncers also increasingly barred non-German people (such as foreign workers) from public functions, such as 'German' dances at dance halls.\n\nBouncers also often come into conflict with football hooligans, due to the tendency of groups of hooligans to congregate at pubs and bars before and after games. In the United Kingdom for example, long-running series of feuds between fan groups like The Blades and groups of bouncers in the 1990s were described by researchers.\n\nBouncers have also been known to be associated with criminal gangs, especially in places like Russia, Hong Kong or Japan, where bouncers may often belong to these groups or have to pay the crime syndicates to be able to operate. In Hong Kong, triad-connected reprisal or intimidation attacks against bouncers have been known to occur.\n\nHong Kong also features a somewhat unusual situation where some bouncers are known to work for prostitutes, instead of being their pimps. Hong Kong police have noted that due to the letter of the law, they sometimes had to charge the bouncer for illegally extorting the women when the usually expected dominance situation between the sex worker and her 'protector' was in fact reversed.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, a number of bouncers have written \"tell-all\" books about their experiences on the door. They indicate that male bouncers are respected by some club-goers as the ultimate 'hard men', while at the same time, these bouncers can also be lightning rods for aggression and macho posturing on the part of obnoxious male customers wanting to prove themselves. Bouncing has also started to attract some academic interest as part of ethnographic studies into violent subcultures. Bouncers were selected as one of the groups studied by several English researchers in the 1990s because their culture was seen as 'grounded in violence', as well as because the group had increasingly been 'demonised', especially in common liberal discourse (see Research section of this article).\n\nIn the early 1990s, an Australian government study on violence stated that violent incidents in public drinking locations are caused by the interaction of five factors: aggressive and unreasonable bouncers, groups of male strangers, low comfort (e.g., unventilated, hot clubs), high boredom, and high drunkenness. The research indicated that bouncers did not play as large a role \"... as expected in the creation of an aggressive or violence prone atmosphere [in bars].\" However, the study did show that \"...edgy and aggressive bouncers, especially when they are arbitrary or petty in their manner, do have an adverse effect.\" The study stated that bouncers:\n\n\"\"...have been observed to initiate fights or further encourage them on several occasions. Many seem poorly trained, obsessed with their own machismo, and relate badly to groups of male strangers. Some of them appear to regard their employment as giving them a licence to assault people. This may be encouraged by management adherence to a repressive model of supervision of patrons (\"if they play up, thump 'em\"), which in fact does not reduce trouble, and exacerbates an already hostile and aggressive situation. In practice many bouncers are not well managed in their work, and appear to be given a job autonomy and discretion that they cannot handle well.\"\"\nA 1998 article \"Responses by Security Staff to Aggressive Incidents in Public Settings\" in the \"Journal of Drug Issues\" examined 182 violent incidents involving crowd controllers (bouncers) that occurred in bars in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The study indicated that in 12% of the incidents the bouncers had good responses, in 20% of the incidents, the bouncers had a neutral response; and in 36% of the incidents, the bouncers \"... responses were rated as bad—that is, the crowd controllers enhanced the likelihood of violence but were themselves not violent.\" Finally, \"... in almost one-third of incidents, 31 per cent, the crowd controllers' responses were rated as ugly. The controllers' actions involved gratuitous aggression, harassment of patrons and provocative behaviour.\"\n\nAt least one major ethnographic study also observed bouncing from within, as part of a British project to study violent subcultures. Beyond studying the bouncer culture from the outside, the group selected a suitable candidate for covert, long-term research. The man had previously worked as a bouncer before becoming an academic, and while conversant with the milieu, it required some time for him to re-enter bouncing work in a new locality. The study has, however, attracted some criticism due to the fact that the researcher, while fulfilling his duties as a bouncer and being required to set aside his academic distance, would have been at risk of losing objectivity—though it was accepted that this quandary might be difficult to resolve.\n\nOne of the main ethical issues of the research was the participation of the researcher in violence, and to what degree he would be allowed to participate. The group could not fully resolve this issue, as the undercover researcher would not have been able to gain the trust of his peers while shying away from the use of force. As part of the study it eventually became clear that bouncers themselves were similarly and constantly weighing up the limits and uses of their participation in violence. The research however found that instead of being a part of the occupation, violence itself was the defining characteristic, a \"culture created around violence and violent expectation\".\n\nThe bouncing culture's insular attitudes also extended to the recruitment process, which was mainly by word of mouth as opposed to typical job recruitment, and also depended heavily on previous familiarity with violence. This does not extend to the prospective bouncer himself having to have a reputation for violence—rather a perception was needed that he could deal with it if required. Various other elements, such as body language or physical looks (muscles, shaved heads) were also described as often expected for entry into bouncing—being part of the symbolic 'narratives of intimidation' that set bouncers apart in their work environment.\n\nTraining on the job was described as very limited, with the new bouncers being 'thrown into the deep end'—the fact that they had been accepted for the job in the first place including the assessment that they should know what they are doing (though informal observation of a beginner's behaviour was commonplace). In the case of the British research project, the legally required licensing as a bouncer was also found to be expected by employers before applicants started the job (and as licensing generally excluded people with criminal convictions, this kept out some of the more unstable violent personalities).\n\nAlthough a common stereotype of bouncers is that of the thuggish brute, a good club security staff member requires more than just physical qualities such as strength and size: \"The best bouncers don’t \"bounce\" anyone... they talk to people\" (and remind them of the venue rules).\n\nAn ability to judge and communicate well with people will reduce the need for physical intervention, while a steady personality will prevent the bouncer from being easily provoked by customers. Bouncers also profit from good written communication skills, because they are often required to document assaults in an incident log or using an incident form. Well-kept incident logs can protect the employee from any potential criminal charges or lawsuits that later arise from an incident.\n\nHowever, British research from the 1990s also indicates that a major part of both the group identity and the job satisfaction of bouncers is related to their self image as a strongly masculine person who is capable of dealing with – and dealing out – violence; their employment income plays a lesser role in their job satisfaction. Bouncer subculture is strongly influenced by perceptions of honour and shame, a typical characteristic of groups that are in the public eye, as well as warrior cultures in general. Factors in enjoying work as a bouncer were also found in the general prestige and respect that was accorded to bouncers, sometimes bordering on hero worship. The camaraderie between bouncers (even of different clubs), as well as the ability to work \"in the moment\" and outside of the drudgery of typical jobs were also often cited.\n\nThe same research has also indicated that the decisions made by bouncers, while seeming haphazard to an outsider, often have a basis in rational logic. The decision to turn certain customers away at the door because of too casual clothing (face control) is for example often based on the perception that the person will be more willing to fight (compared to someone dressed in expensive attire). Many similar decisions taken by a bouncer during the course of a night are also being described as based on experience rather than just personality.\n\nMovies often depict bouncers physically throwing patrons out of clubs and restraining drunk customers with headlocks, which has led to a popular misconception that bouncers have (or reserve) the right to use physical force freely. However, in many countries bouncers have no legal authority to use physical force more freely than any other civilian—meaning they are restricted to reasonable levels of force used in self defense, to eject drunk or aggressive patrons refusing to leave a venue, or when restraining a patron who has committed an offence until police arrive. Lawsuits are possible if injuries occur, even if the patron was drunk or using aggressive language.\n\nWith civil liability and court costs related to the use of force as \"the highest preventable loss found within the industry...\" (US) and bars being \"sued more often for using unnecessary or excessive force than for any other reason\" (Canada), substantial costs may be incurred by indiscriminate violence against patrons—though this depends heavily on the laws and customs of the country. In Australia, the number of complaints and lawsuits against venues due to the behaviour of their bouncers has been credited with turning many establishments to using former police officers to head their in-house security, instead of hiring private firms.\n\nAccording to statistical research in Canada, bouncers are as likely to face physical violence in their work as urban-area police officers. The research also found that the likelihood of such encounters increased (with statistical significance) with the number of years the bouncer had worked in his occupation. Despite popular misconceptions, bouncers in Western countries are normally unarmed. Some bouncers may carry weapons such as expandable batons for personal protection, but they may not have a legal right to carry a weapon even if they would prefer to do so.\n\nUse of force training programs teach bouncers ways to avoid using force and explain what types of force are considered allowable by the courts. Some bars have gone so far as to institute policies barring physical contact, where bouncers are instructed to ask a drunk or disorderly patron to leave—if the patron refuses, the bouncers call police. However, if the police are called too frequently, it can reflect badly on the venue upon renewal of its liquor licence.\n\nAnother strategy used in some bars is to hire smaller, less threatening or female bouncers, because they may be better able to defuse conflicts than large, intimidating bouncers. The more 'impressive' bouncers, in the often tense environments they are supposed to supervise, are also often challenged by aggressive males wanting to prove their machismo. Large and intimidating bouncers, whilst providing an appearance of strong security, may also drive customers away in cases where a more relaxed environment is desired. In addition, female security staff, apart from having fewer problems searching female patrons for drugs or weapons and entering women's washrooms to check for illegal activities, are also considered as better able to deal with drunk or aggressive women.\n\nIn Australia, for example, women comprise almost 20% of the security industry and increasingly work the door as well, using \"a smile, chat and a friendly but firm demeanor\" to resolve tense situations. Nearly one in nine of Britain's nightclub bouncers are also women, with the UK's 2003 Licensing Act giving the authorities \"discretionary power to withhold a venue's licence if it does not employ female door staff\". This is credited with having \"opened the door for women to enter the profession\". However, female bouncers are still a rarity in many countries, such as in India, where two women who became media celebrities in 2008 for being \"Punjab's first female bouncers\" were soon sacked again after accusations of unbecoming behaviour.\n\nIn many countries, a bouncer must be licensed and lacking a criminal record to gain employment within the security/crowd control sector. In some countries or regions, bouncers may be required to have extra skills or special licenses and certification for first aid, alcohol distribution, crowd control, or fire safety.\n\nIn Canada, bouncers have the right to use reasonable force to expel intoxicated or aggressive patrons. First, the patron must be asked to leave the premises. If the patron refuses to leave, the bouncer can use reasonable force to expel the patron. This guideline has been upheld in a number of court cases. Under the definition of 'reasonable force', \"it is perfectly acceptable [for the bouncer] to grab a patron’s arm to remove the patron from the premises\". However, \"Only in situations where employees reasonably believe that the conduct of the patron puts them in danger can they inflict harm on a patron and then only to the extent that such force is necessary for self defence\".\n\nIn the Newfoundland and Labrador capital of Saint Johns, certification of doormen is purely voluntary. Some establishments require a \"doormans certificate\", provided by the St. Johns Fire Department, that deals with Fire Code. This process requires answering test questions that apply to fire code for the most part, and a basic understanding of the criminal code as it applies to drug use and the use of force.\nUnfortunately it doesn't cover the Use of Force Model for all Canadian citizens. including law enforcement, which states that an assault is considered a crime covered by \"citizens arrest\" under Canadian Law. \nOther municipalities in the province have no training. Municipal or provincial governance does not exist at the time of this publishing. \n\nIn British Columbia, door staff security (bouncers) are required to become certified under the Ministry of Public Safety and Solicitor General Office. The course called BST (Basic Security Training) is a 40-hour program that covers law, customer service, and other issue related to security operation.\n\nIn Alberta, bar and nightclub security staff will have to take a new, government-run training course on correct bouncer behaviour and skills before the end of 2008. The six-hour 'ProTect' course will, among other subjects, teach staff to identify conflicts before they become violent, and how to defuse situations without resorting to force.\n\nIn Ontario, courts have ruled that \"a tavern owes a twofold duty of care to its patrons. It must ensure that it does not serve alcohol which would apparently intoxicate or increase the patron's intoxication. Further, it must take positive steps to protect patrons and others from the dangers of intoxication\". Regarding the second requirement of protecting patrons, the law holds that \"customers cannot be ejected from your premises if doing so would put them in danger [e.g., due to the patron's intoxication]. Bars can be held liable for ejecting a customer who they know, or should know, is at risk of injury by being ejected.\"\n\nIn Ontario, bartenders and servers must complete the Smart Serve Training Program, which teaches them to recognise the signs of intoxication. The Smart Serve program is also recommended for other staff in bars who have contact with potentially intoxicated patrons, such as bouncers, coat check staff, and valets. The Smart Serve certification program encourages bars to keep Incident Reporting Logs, to use as evidence if an incident goes to court. With the August 2007 \"Private Security and Investigative Services Act\", Ontario law also requires security industry workers, including bouncers, to be licensed.\n\nIn Italy, the law defines bouncers as \"security subsidiary unarmed operator\" and they must have specific requisites:\n\nBouncers must not have ownership of any type of firearm during their service even if they have a valid firearms license.\n\nIn New Zealand, as of 2011, bouncers are required to have a COA (Certificate of approval). Like other security work, the person who has the COA has been vetted by the police and cleared through security checks, as well as the courts, to show the person is suitable for the job, and knows New Zealand law to prevent Security Officers going to court for using excessive force and assault on patrons.\n\nSingapore requires all bouncers to undergo a background check and attend a 5-day 'National Skills Recognition System' course for security staff. However, many of the more professional security companies (and larger venues with their own dedicated security staff) have noted that the course is insufficient for the specific requirements of a bouncer and provide their own additional training.\n\nIn Sweden, there are special security officers referred to as \"Ordningsvakt\" with limited policing duties who share the use of force monopoly with the police, thus having more or less the same obligations as the police to report crime and intervene when on duty. They are trained and ordained by the Swedish Police Authority to maintain and enforce public order at venues or areas where the police cannot permanently divert resources to enforce public order themselves. These security officers have powers of citizen's arrest and to verbally dismiss, physically remove, or detain those who disturb or pose an immediate threat to public order or safety, by using a reasonable amount of force. They can also detain or otherwise take into custody those who are drunk and disorderly and turn them over to police custody as soon as possible. An \"Ordningsvakt\" is recruited by the police and must go through a battery of physical tests, a language test, and an interview board before going through a two-week training program which teaches behaviour, conflict management, criminal law, physical intervention, the use of telescopic batons and handcuffs, first aid, equal opportunities and discrimination, and arrest procedures. He or she must then be re-certified every three years. At the end of each shift, a written shift report must always be submitted to the police.\n\nAn \"Ordningsvakt\" is either employed by a private security company, such as Securitas\nor G4S, where they commonly work at shopping malls, hospitals, public transportation, or as privateers employed by bar or nightclub owners. But despite employment, their first and foremost loyalty lies with the police, who manage and supervise them in the field. They can also be used to augment the police at football matches and high-risk football derbies (after receiving special training). An Ordningsvakt is required to wear a special uniform, which is similar to that of a police officer, but made out of a brighter blue colour and with slightly different emblems so they are easily identified as an Ordningsvakt but also make their connection to the Police as obvious as possible. Some security officers are allowed to carry firearms, but this is rare.\n\nWhile on duty, an Ordningsvakt, just like a police officer, is regarded as a public servant, and an assault or threats against one will be punished more harshly. A lawful order given by an Ordningsvakt must be obeyed; otherwise, physical force may be used to enforce that order. Resisting at this point is illegal and punishable by prison.\n\nIn the UK, \"door supervisors\"—as they are termed—must hold a licence from the Security Industry Authority. The training for a door supervisor licence takes 32.5 hours since the current changes were implemented on 1 January 2015, and includes issues such as behaviour, conflict management, civil and criminal law, search and arrest procedures, drug awareness, recording of incidents and crime scene preservation, licensing law, equal opportunities and discrimination, health and safety at work, physical intervention, and emergency procedures. Licenses must be renewed every three years. One current provider of training is the British Institute of Innkeeping Awarding Body.\n\nLicensed door supervisors must wear a blue plastic licence (often worn on the upper arm) whilst on duty.\n\nThe 2010 UK quango reforms includes the SIA amongst many other Quangos the coalition government intended to be disbanded, ostensibly on the overall grounds of cost, despite the SIA being essentially self-funding via licence payments. Whilst this may alleviate to some extent the financial burden on employers and individuals alike, some members of the industry sees this as a retrograde step, fearing a return of the organised criminal element to the currently regulated industry.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland all potential doormen (bouncers) must complete a QQI level 4 course in Door Security Procedures. This allows them to apply for a PSA license (Private Security Authority). The PSA vet all applicants before issuing a license. Some past convictions will disqualify an applicant from working in the security industry. The license issued by the PSA entitles the holder of the license to work on pubs, clubs and event security. The PSA now requires a person to have a license to work in Event Security.\n\nRequirements for bouncers vary from state to state, with some examples being:\n\nCalifornia\n\nIn California, Senate Bill 194 requires any bouncer or security guard to be registered with the State of California Department of Consumer Affairs Bureau of Security and Investigative Services. These guards must also complete a criminal background check, including submitting their fingerprints to the California Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Californians must undertake the \"Skills Training Course for Security Guards\" before receiving a security licence. Further courses allow for qualified security personnel to carry batons upon completion of training.\nExempts from the Act, peace officers in specified \nhttp://leginfo.ca.gov/pub/05-06/bill/sen/sb_0151-0200/sb_194_cfa_20050525_095147_sen_floor.html\nNew York\n\nIn New York State, it is illegal for a bar owner to knowingly hire a felon for a bouncer position. Under Article 7 General Business Law, bars and nightclubs are not allowed to hire bouncers without a proper license. Under New York state law only a Private Investigator or Watch, Guard and Patrol Agency can supply security guards/bouncers to bars.\n\n\nSome types of ant species have evolved a sub-specialisation that has been called a 'bouncer', and performs a similar function (throwing intruders outside) for its fellows. The majors of the Australian \"Orectognathus versicolor\" ants have massive blunt mandible jaws which are of little use to the prey-capture techniques this trap jaw species normally engages in. Instead, they spend much of their time guarding the nest opening, their jaws cocked. When foreign ants venture close, the force of the mandibles is sufficient to throw back the intruder for a significant distance, a defense behaviour which is thought to also protect the guard against physical or chemical injury that it might sustain in more direct battle.\n\nSome critics have noted that the European Union has assigned the job of being its border security 'bouncers' to various non-EU North African countries like Morocco, Algeria or Libya, who are to turn away refugees (often with severe ill-treatment) before they can reach Europe to request asylum, analogous to a club bouncer turning away undesirable customers.\n\nIn a similar analogy, some social theorists have expressed the state itself as a form of 'bouncer' which \"pushes and punches drifters [people who do not conform with social norms] back to where they are supposed to be\"—though, depending on society, some states may be much more heavy-handed and proactive in this.\n\nIn general:\n\nIn popular culture:\n\n"}
{"id": "1083712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083712", "title": "Bòrd na Gàidhlig", "text": "Bòrd na Gàidhlig\n\nBòrd na Gàidhlig () is the executive non-departmental public body of the Scottish Government with responsibility for Gaelic. It was established in 2005 and is based in Inverness.\n\nBòrd na Gàidhlig is a non-departmental public body constituted of members of the board, whose role is \"to provide leadership, direction, support and guidance\" to the body, and staff who are typically full-time public sector employees and who carry out the day-to-day work of the body. The head of the board is the \"cathraiche\" (chairperson) and the head of the staff is the \"ceannard\" (chief executive).\n\nThe current ceannard is Seona NicIllInnein; not a native Gaelic speaker, she studied the language at the University of Edinburgh and Sabhal Mòr Ostaig and had worked at the Bòrd for twenty years prior to taking over the office in June 2016.\n\nIn 2006 Bòrd na Gàidhlig was designated as the body responsible for implementing the Gaelic Language (Scotland) Act 2005 and specifically, as stated in the Act, \"securing the status of the Gaelic language as an official language of Scotland commanding equal respect to the English language\". The Bòrd represents a cornerstone of the Scottish Government's implementation of their duties under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.\n\nThe first \"cathraiche\" of the eight member Bòrd was Donnchadh MacFhearghais (Duncan Ferguson) from Islay, rector of Plockton High School, former convenor of Comunn Luchd-Ionnsachaidh, Comunn na Gàidhlig, and director of the steering committee for BBC Gaelic programming. In March 2012, following the resignation of Arthur Cormack, who had been appointed in February 2009 after holding the position of interim Chair from July 2008, Elizabeth McAtear was appointed by the Bòrd as interim Chair before the full recruitment process for a replacement Chair.\n\nIts primary aims are\nIts duties are\n\nFollowing a consultation period from October 2003 to January 2004, during which many respondents expressed their concern that any advice Bòrd gives would be likely to be ignored by largely hostile authorities, it was announced in September 2004 that the Bòrd was to be strengthened in several areas:\n\n\nThe Bòrd has been criticised for inconsistent and questionable funding priorities. In 2009, the Bòrd cut off funding for the Gaelic-language magazine, An Gàidheal Ùr, after ten years of successful publication. The editor of the newspaper also criticised the Bòrd's excessive bureaucracy, stating that he had been \"spending more time dealing with Bord na Gaidhlig in trying to access funding than producing the paper.\" The organisation's funding of Ùlpan courses has also received scathing criticism, with one student stating that his course was neither \"structured nor logical\" despite over 250,000 pounds allocated for course development in 2012 alone.\n\nIn 2015, one of the academics who had advised on the foundation of the Bòrd described the organisation as in need of reorganisation and having \"lost its way\" after the chief executive, Iain Campbell, quit after only three months and was replaced by the non-Gaelic-speaking Joe Moore.\n\n"}
{"id": "2153225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2153225", "title": "Chushi Gangdruk", "text": "Chushi Gangdruk\n\nChushi Gangdruk (, literally \"Four Rivers, Six Ranges\", full name: , \"the Kham Four Rivers, Six Ranges Tibetan Defenders of the Faith Volunteer Army\") was an organization of Tibetan guerrilla fighters who attempted to stop the invasion of the People's Republic of China (PRC) in Tibet. The Dokham Chushi Gangdruk organization, a charity set up in New York City and India with chapters in other countries, now supports survivors of the Chushi Gangdruk resistance currently living in India. Chushi Gangdruk also led The 14th Dalai Lama out of Lhasa, where he had lived, soon after the start of the Chinese invasion. During that time, a group of Chushi Gangdruk guerillas was led by Kunga Samten, who is now deceased. Because the United States was prepared to recognize People's Republic of China in the early 1970s, CIA Tibetan Program, which funded the Chushi Gangdruk army, has to be ceased. \n\nChushi Gangdruk \"Four Rivers, Six Ranges\" is the name traditionally given to the eastern Tibetan region of Kham where the gorges of the Salween (Tib. \"Ngul-chu\"), Mekong (\"Da-chu\"), Yangtze (\"Dri-chu\") and Yalong (\"Dza-chu\") rivers, all arising on the Tibetan Plateau, pass between six parallel ranges of mountains that form the watersheds for these rivers. \"Chu\" (choo) is the Tibetan word for \"water\", and \"shi\" (she) is the Tibetan word for 4. \"Gang\" is range, and \"druk\" (drewk) means 6.\n\nThe formation of the Chushi Gangdruk Volunteer Force was announced on June 16, 1958. It was called National Volunteer Defence Army (NVDA). \"Chushi Gangdruk\" is a Tibetan phrase meaning \"land of four rivers and six ranges,\" and refers to Amdo and Kham. The group included Tibetans from those regions of eastern Tibet, and its main objective was to drive PRC occupational forces out of Tibet. While central and western Tibet (Ü-Tsang) were bound by a 17-point agreement with the People's Republic of China, the PRC initiated land reform in eastern Tibet (including Amdo and Kham) and engaged in harsh reprisals against the Tibetan land-owners there. \n\nUnder the direction of General Andrug Gonpo Tashi, Chushi Gangdruk included 37 allied forces and 18 military commanders. They drafted a 27-point military law governing the conduct of the volunteers. Their headquarters were located at Tsona, then later moved to Lhagyari. \n\nInitially militia members purchased their own weapons, mainly World War II-era British .303 in, German 7.92 mm, and Russian 7.62 mm caliber rifles. Chushi Gangdruk contacted the US government for support. However, the State Department required an official request from the Tibetan government in Lhasa, which was not forthcoming. State Department requests were made and ignored in both 1957 and 1958.\n\nEventually, the US Central Intelligence Agency provided the group with material assistance and aid, including arms and ammunition, as well as training to members of Chushi Gangdruk and other Tibetan guerrilla groups at Camp Hale. \n\nFrom 1960, Chushi Gangdruk conducted its guerrilla operations from the northern Nepalese region of Mustang. In 1974, guerrilla operations ceased after the CIA, given the realignment of Sino-American relations initiated by President Richard Nixon, terminated its program of assistance to the Tibetan resistance movement and the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual and temporal leader, taped a message telling the Tibetans to lay down their weapons and surrender peacefully.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16508765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16508765", "title": "Commission on Audit of the Philippines", "text": "Commission on Audit of the Philippines\n\nThe Commission on Audit, abbreviated as COA (), is an independent constitutional commission established by the Constitution of the Philippines. It has the primary function to examine, audit and settle all accounts and expenditures of the funds and properties of the Philippine government.\n\nThe Commission on Audit is composed of a Chairperson and two Commissioners. They must be natural-born citizens of at least thirty-five years of age, and must be either a Certified Public Accountant or a lawyer. The members of the Commission are appointed by the President of the Philippines, with the consent of the Commission of Appointment, for a term of seven years without reappointment.\n\nThe Commission has the power, authority and duty to examine, audit and settle all accounts and expenditures of the funds and properties of the Philippine government. Towards that end, it has the exclusive authority to define the scope, techniques and methods of its auditing and examination procedures. It also may prevent and disallow irregular, unnecessary, excessive, extravagant or unconscionable expenditures, or uses of government funds and properties.\n\nAuditing as a tool for effective governance has been recognized and practiced since the Spanish colonial era. One proof of this was the residencia, an inquiry into the administration of an outgoing Governor General and consequently of other officials. Conducted by the Royal Audiencia, it was designed to hold colonial officials to strict accountability for all acts during their term of office. Another was the visita de tierra, a visit of inspection made every three years, which often revealed glaring anomalies in the handling of local government accounts.\nColonial officials also performed investigations to audit at the time. One was a fraud audit of sorts for galleon trade conducted in the early 1700s. Another, which involved the inspection of the Misericordia de Manila in 1751, had shades of financial audit.\nIn 1739, a Royal Decree by the King of Spain established the royal exchequer which was the national treasury of that era. All books of accounts of the Spanish colonial government were required to pass through the scrutiny and certification of the contador or the accountant and that of the oidor, a representative of the Spanish crown, who by the nature of his duties may be considered as the precursor of the auditor.\nBy mid-19th century, the Tribunal de Cuentas was created. It functioned as the supreme auditing institution of the islands until the end of the Spanish rule in 1898. Staffed by a president, two auditors, a fiscal, accountants and examiners, the Tribunal had exclusive jurisdiction over the audit of all financial matters affecting the colony. These personnel, all appointees of the King, were required by law to review all vouchers and to cross-check them against corresponding entries in the books of accounts.\nThe Birth of an Institution\nNurturing a nascent government requires a mixture of boldness and prudence. And at a time when the early Philippine government was being zealously fleshed out by its American rulers emboldened by their newfound power, then President William McKinley ensured a healthy dose of prudence in these activities.\nAn unnumbered memorandum signed on May 8, 1899 by McKinley gave birth to the Office of the Auditor for the Philippine Islands.\nBy 1900, the Office had become a fixture of government. The civil government was formally ushered in 1901 under William Howard Taft. The major change in the nature of government had ripple effects in the structure of government. One result of such change was the conversion of the Office of the Auditor of the Philippine Islands to the Bureau of the Insular Auditor.\nHowever, it was more than a mere change of name. A provincial audit division was created for the Bureau. Moreover, double-entry bookkeeping was introduced which accounted for fuller analysis of settlements and ensured a higher degree of correctness.\nIn 1905, a change of guard took place. Taft resigned as Civil Governor and was replaced by Luke E. Wright who led as Governor General. Under his administration, Act No. 1402 was passed whereby the Bureau of the Insular Auditor was renamed the Bureau of Audits.\nGrowth and Changes: Becoming A Stronger Institution\nAs the nation celebrated its independence with the promulgation of the 1935 Constitution, the institution also reached a milestone. The 1935 Constitution expressly provided for a General Auditing Office, thereby elevating the audit institution to a constitutional body. Renamed as the General Auditing Office or GAO, it now embarked on a full Filipinization of the institution as a reflection of the government-wide transition to self-governance. For the first time, the institution was headed by a Filipino Auditor General in the person of the Hon. Jaime Hernandez.\nAs a major stride towards the independence of the audit institution, the GAO was explicitly placed under the direction and control of an Auditor General to separate it as an organization from the Executive and other departments of the government.\nIn 1972, the country was placed under Martial Law. Government experienced a major upheaval, and the GAO was not exempted. The GAO was renamed the Commission on Audit (COA) and was granted broader powers under the new Constitution promulgated in 1973. Under this Constitution, COA was given a broader area of audit coverage by including the accounts of all subdivisions, agencies, instrumentalities of government and government-owned-and-controlled corporations among those to be examined, audited and settled.\nAs opposed to having an Auditor General single-handedly leading the GAO, the new Constitution provided for a three-man collegial Commission on Audit. This change aimed to strengthen the independence of the auditing office and improve the quality of its decisions, given the rationale that a three-man body was less susceptible to pressure than an office held by a single person. It worked as a built-in internal check within the Commission and encouraged opposing views to surface thereby resulting in earnest consultation and better deliberation.\nIn the years that ensued, the Commission was a hub of activity. A landmark legislation on auditing, Presidential Decree 1445 or the Government Auditing Code, was promulgated in 1978. A Standard Government Chart of Accounts was likewise issued which greatly facilitated financial audit for computerization purposes. The Commission also implemented its comprehensive audit program focusing on the 3Es: economy, efficiency and effectiveness. Installation of this program represented a break from tradition that laid undue emphasis on compliance and voucher audit. And on top of all these, the Commission embarked on a massive reorganization and professionalization of its personnel.\nThis era will also be remembered for the significant involvement of COA in international events such as initiating the establishment of the Asian Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (ASOSAI), on to sponsorships of trainings for Asia’s auditors and culminating with the hosting of the XI International Congress of Supreme Audit Institutions (INCOSAI) in 1983. It was also during this time that a COA Chairman was first elected to the United Nations Board of Auditors.\nYears later, the world witnessed the 1986 EDSA Revolution. It was truly a historical event that highlighted the need for reforms in government as a whole. It provided everyone a chance for introspection and created an avenue towards change. As fate would have it, the COA again found itself working under a new government, under a new Constitution and with an even broader scope of authority.\nThe 1987 Constitution maintained the independence of the Commission on Audit as the supreme auditing arm of the Philippine government. Moreover, the Constitution reiterated COA’s role as the sole official external auditor of government agencies as well as government-owned- and-controlled corporations (GOCCs). In other words, the previous practice of some GOCCs and other government agencies of hiring private accounting firms as a requirement of foreign funding institutions to act as their auditors for foreign-assisted projects was no longer allowed.\nChange, it seems, is the inescapable destiny of the Commission. But as history proves, whatever the nature of change brought about by national political events, the Commission manages to make it for the better.\n\nThe 1987 Constitution staggered the terms of the members of the Constitutional Commissions. Of the first appointees, the Chairman would serve seven years (1st line), a Commissioner would serve five years (2nd line), and another Commissioner would serve three years (3rd line). Term refers to a fixed period, while tenure refers to the actual period that a person held office.\n\nIn \"Funa v. Villar\", it was held that a Commissioner can only be appointed as Chairman if the unexpired term for the office of Chairman and the term that the Commissioner had already served does not exceed seven years. In such case, the Commissioner promoted as Chairman would serve the unexpired term of the Chairman, forfeiting the duration of his original term as Commissioner.\n\nIncumbents\n"}
{"id": "1970368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1970368", "title": "Cutter v. Wilkinson", "text": "Cutter v. Wilkinson\n\nCutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U.S. 709 (2005), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that, under the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA), facilities that accept federal funds cannot deny prisoners accommodations that are necessary to engage in activities for the practice of their own religious beliefs.\n\nRLUIPA prohibited the federal government from imposing a substantial burden on prisoners' freedom of religion. Five residents of an Ohio prison, which included two adherents of Asatru, a minister of the white supremacist Church of Jesus Christ Christian, a Wiccan and a Satanist filed suit. The men stated in federal district court that prison officials violated RLUIPA by failing to accommodate the inmates' exercise of their \"nonmainstream\" religions. Prison officials argued that the act \"improperly advanced religion and thus violated the First Amendment's establishment clause which prohibited government from making laws \"respecting an establishment of religion.\" The district court rejected that argument and ruled for the inmates. The Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decision.\n\nDid prohibiting the federal government from burdening prisoners' religious exercise violate the First Amendment's establishment clause?\n\nThe Court returned a unanimous opinion, written by Justice Ginsburg, with a concurring opinion by Justice Thomas. Ruling in favor of the inmates, the Court held that, on its face, RLUIPA made an accommodation allowed by the First Amendment. The Court noted that constitutional problems could arise if RLUIPA were \"enforced improperly and religious prisoners received favored treatment, or if religious exercise and security concerns were not properly balanced.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4995552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995552", "title": "Decodable text", "text": "Decodable text\n\nDecodable text is a type of text often used in beginning reading instruction. Decodable texts are carefully sequenced to progressively incorporate words that are consistent with the letters and corresponding phonemes that have been taught to the new reader. Therefore, with this type of text new readers can decipher words using the phonics skills they have been taught. For instance, children could decode a phrase such as “Pat the fat rat” if they had been taught the letter-sound associations for each letter—that 'p' stands for the sound /p/, 'a' for the sound /a/, etc.\n\nGenerally, decodable text is used in programs that have a strong phonics emphasis. Whole-language and whole word methods of instruction generally use stories with familiar high-frequency words arranged in predictable and repetitive patterns.\n\nDecodable texts are typically leveled texts, where each level introduces new sounds and letters, and progressively multisyllable words and more complex sentences. Decodable texts vary in quality in terms of the sequence in which sounds are introduced, the rigor of the controlled language, the richness of stories under severe sound limitations, the appearance (font sizes, illustrations, paper weight to avoid bleeding which can be very distracting to the readers, etc.), length in pages and the pace of progression. \n\nIn the United States, certain states dictate that a very high percentage of the words in the earliest texts be decodable according to letter–sound correspondences that children have been taught. Advocates argue that this kind of text enables students to practice the phonics skills they have been taught. Critics argue that this kind of text is stilted and unnatural. In California, using the Whole Language approach was blamed for the drop in student reading scores and the California legislature mandated a renewed emphasis on decodable texts.\n\n"}
{"id": "40428527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40428527", "title": "Democracy and Totalitarianism", "text": "Democracy and Totalitarianism\n\nDemocracy and Totalitarianism is a book by French philosopher and political scientist Raymond Aron. It compares the political systems of the Soviet Union and the democratic countries of the West.\n\nThe basis of the book was a series of lectures Aron gave in 1957 and 1958 at Sorbonne University. It is republished in France regularly and has been translated into many languages, including Russian (1993).\n\nAron divided the history of the Soviet Communist Party into 5 stages:\n\nThe democratically elected Constituent Assembly was dissolved by the Bolsheviks after its first meeting because a considerable majority of its members were hostile to the Bolsheviks. Merchants, priests and landowners were deprived of electoral rights under the constitution of Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic of 1918. According to Aron, this Soviet Constitution had no value because the real power belonged to the Communist Party.\n\nAron claimed that no distinctions were made between cities and villages under the Constitution of 1936. This was unnecessary because there were ample opportunities to juggle the results of elections. According to official figures 99.9% of voters voted for the Communists. The Communists considered a refusal to vote to be a protest against the government.\n\nMeetings of the Supreme Soviet of Russia turned into performances for the expression of approval for actions of the government.\n\nCitizens had defined civil rights under the Soviet Constitution of 1936, but these rights could be ignored \"according to interests of workers\". This clause permitted arbitrary action by the authorities. The Constitution of the Soviet Union was a show for the benefit of the West, according to Aron.\n\nAron notes that the Bolsheviks justified themselves with the idea of a temporary dictatorship.It is possible to say of the affairs of Bolsheviks: \"People make the history, but people don't understand history which they make\". It couldn't have been otherwise as free discussions were forbidden in the Soviet period, censorship was established and the authorities ruthlessly destroyed all critics of the Party's plans. Aron concluded that the plans and the results of the Communists' activities did not match.\n\nAccording to Bolshevist theory, the October Revolution became a symbol of a victory of the world proletariat. According to Aron, the October Revolution was actually an example of the important role of small political groups in human history. Aron points to imaginary elections and hypocritical welcome exclamations at congresses and demonstrations as symbols of the power of the Soviet ruling clique.\n\nAron notes that Lenin did not rely on \"an objective course of history\" to guide his actions and often violated both Marx's theory and his own former statements. Noting the role of state terror in the USSR, Aron noted that both Oliver Cromwell and Maximilien de Robespierre used terror. As an example of state terror Aron that more than half of the delegates to the XVII congress of Soviet Communist Party (1934) were declared \"enemies of the people\" in years of \"big terror\". Almost all party veterans were discharged during the mass \"cleanings\" of 1936-1938. The majority of these veterans were executed or sent to the Gulag. They admitted their own \"guilt\" during the \"Moscow trials\", often after torture.\n\nAron quoted Montesquieu's words about despotism: \" The fear seizes all people in society imperceptibly, except one tyrant\". In this regard Aron quotes Khrushchev writing that at a meeting with Stalin, Khrushchev knew never whether Stalin wanted to consult him or arrest him. Aron concluded that the fear was part of the Communist experiment.\n\nAron identified three types of terror in the USSR:\n\nAron named five main signs of totalitarianism:\n\nAron claimed that according to Marx, power belongs to the proletariat under socialism. The proletariat were a minority of the population in Russia before the 1917 October Revolution. Aron concluded that \"the power belongs to the proletariat\" was thus demagogy, because it excluded the majority. In practice, according to Aron, the power belonged to the ruling group of Party apparatchiks in the USSR. Social democrats (so-called \"Mensheviks\") warned in 1917 that the socialist revolution would doom workers to despotism for half a century. The leader of the Second International Karl Kautsky stated, after the October Revolution: \"The October Revolution is not dictatorship of the proletariat and the October Revolution is the dictatorship of Communist party over the proletariat\". Trotsky justified power capture in 1917, but criticized soviet bureaucracy. However, as Aron specifies, the bureaucracy is necessary for management of a planned economy: the number of officials surpassed the number of industrial workers more than twice by August, 1920: 4 million officials against 1.7 million industrial workers. \n\nThe Soviet bureaucracy wanted to see Stalin as its leader instead of Trotsky with his theory of \"permanent revolution\"; another revolution was not necessary for bureaucracy . Trotsky began to doubt the truth of Marxism at the end of his life. \n\nGerman national socialism and Soviet Communism are two versions of totalitarianism. According to Aron one similarity of Nazism and the Soviet system is the use of terror. The purposes and justification of terror varied.\n\nAron enumerated and compared other similarities of Nazism and the Soviet system:\n\nAron refers to Karl August Wittfogel's work \"Oriental despotism: a comparative study of total power\"\". Marx enumerated various modes of production in \"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\". Marx named an Asian mode of production (Russian) unlike ancient, feudal and capitalist mode of production.\n\nFeatures of an Asian way of production:\nMarxism is the theory of East despotism. The Russian Empire was half Asian until 1917. The Asian mode of production was established in Ancient Egypt and Ancient China. Aron concluded that the Asian way of production was constructed in the USSR.\n\n"}
{"id": "221428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221428", "title": "Democratic Unionist Party", "text": "Democratic Unionist Party\n\nThe Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) is a unionist political party in Northern Ireland. Ian Paisley founded the DUP in 1971, during the Troubles, and led the party for the next 37 years. Now led by Arlene Foster, it is the party with the most seats in the Northern Ireland Assembly and the fifth-largest party in the House of Commons. Following the 2017 general election, the party has agreed to support a Conservative minority government on a case-by-case basis on matters of mutual concern.\n\nThe DUP evolved from the Protestant Unionist Party and has historically strong links to the Free Presbyterian Church of Ulster, the church Paisley founded. During the Troubles, the DUP opposed attempts to resolve the conflict that would involve sharing power with Irish nationalists or republicans, and rejected attempts to involve the Republic of Ireland in Northern Irish affairs. It campaigned against the Sunningdale Agreement of 1973, the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985, and the Good Friday Agreement of 1998. In the 1980s, the party was involved in setting up the paramilitary movements Third Force and Ulster Resistance.\n\nIt is right-wing and socially conservative, being anti-abortion and opposing same-sex marriage. The DUP sees itself as defending Britishness and Ulster Protestant culture against Irish nationalism. The party is Eurosceptic and during the UK European Union (EU) referendum it supported the UK's withdrawal from the EU.\n\nFor most of the DUP's history, the Ulster Unionist Party was the largest unionist party in Northern Ireland, but by 2004 the DUP had overtaken the UUP in terms of seats in the Northern Ireland Assembly and Parliament. Following the St Andrews Agreement in 2006, the DUP agreed to enter into power-sharing devolved government in Northern Ireland with Sinn Féin. Despite reports of divisions within the party, a majority of the party executive voted in favour of power-sharing in 2007. However, the DUP's sole Member of the European Parliament (MEP), Jim Allister, and seven DUP councillors left the party in opposition to its plans to share power with Sinn Féin, founding the Traditional Unionist Voice. Peter Robinson became DUP leader in 2008.\n\nThe Democratic Unionist Party evolved from the Protestant Unionist Party, which itself grew out of the Ulster Protestant Action movement. The DUP was founded on 30 September 1971 by Ian Paisley, leader of the Protestant Unionist Party, and Desmond Boal, formerly of the Ulster Unionist Party. Paisley, a well-known Protestant fundamentalist minister, was the founder and leader of the Free Presbyterian Church of Ulster. He would lead both the DUP and the Free Presbyterian Church for the next 37 years, and his party and church would be closely linked. When the DUP formed, Northern Ireland was in the midst of an ethnic-nationalist conflict known as the Troubles, which began in 1969 and would last for the next thirty years. The conflict began amid a campaign to end discrimination against the Catholic/Irish nationalist minority by the Protestant/unionist government and police force. This protest campaign was opposed, often violently, by unionists who viewed it as an Irish republican front. Paisley had led the unionist opposition to the civil rights movement. The DUP were more hardline or loyalist than the UUP and its founding arguably stemmed from worries of the Ulster Protestant working class that the UUP was not paying them enough heed.\n\nThe DUP opposed the Sunningdale Agreement of 1973. The Agreement was an attempt to resolve the conflict by setting up a new assembly and government for Northern Ireland in which unionists and Irish nationalists would share power. The Agreement also proposed the creation of a Council of Ireland, which would facilitate co-operation between the governments of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. The DUP won eight seats in the 1973 election to the Assembly. Along with other anti-Agreement unionists, the DUP formed the United Ulster Unionist Council (UUUC) to oppose the Agreement. In the February 1974 UK election, the UUUC won 11 out of 12 Northern Ireland seats, while the pro-Agreement unionists failed to win any. On 15 May 1974, anti-Agreement unionists called a general strike aimed at bringing down the Agreement. The strike coordinating committee included DUP leader Paisley, the other UUUC leaders, and the leaders of the loyalist paramilitary groups. The strike lasted fourteen days and brought Northern Ireland to a standstill. Loyalist paramilitaries helped enforce the strike by blocking roads and intimidating workers. On the third day of the strike, loyalists detonated four car bombs in Dublin and Monaghan, killing 33 civilians. The strike led to the downfall of the Agreement on 28 May.\n\nFollowing the downfall of the Agreement, in 1975 the British government set up a Constitutional Convention, an elected body of unionists and nationalists which would seek agreement on a political settlement for Northern Ireland. In the election to the Convention, the UUUC (which included the DUP) won 53% of the vote. The UUUC opposed a power-sharing government and recommended only a return to majority rule (i.e. unionist rule). As this was unacceptable to nationalists, the Convention was dissolved.\n\nThe DUP opposed UK membership of the European Economic Community (EEC). In June 1979, in the first election to the European Parliament, Paisley won one of the three Northern Ireland seats. He topped the poll, with 29.8% of the first preference votes. He retained that seat in every European election until 2004, when he was replaced by Jim Allister, who resigned from the DUP in 2007 while retaining his seat.\n\nDuring 1981, the DUP opposed the then-ongoing talks between British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and Taoiseach Charles Haughey. That year, Paisley and other DUP members attempted to create a Protestant loyalist volunteer militia—called the (Ulster) Third Force—which would work alongside the police and army to fight the Irish Republican Army (IRA). They organized large rallies where men were photographed in military formation waving firearms certificates. Paisley declared: \"This is a small token of the men who are placed to devastate any attempt by Margaret Thatcher and Charles Haughey to destroy the Union\". The DUP helped organize a loyalist 'Day of Action' on 23 November 1981, to pressure the British government to take a harder line against the IRA. Paisley addressed a Third Force rally in Newtownards, where thousands of masked and uniformed men marched before him. He declared: \"My men are ready to be recruited under the crown to destroy the vermin of the IRA. But if they refuse to recruit them, then we will have no other decision to make but to destroy the IRA ourselves!\" In December, Paisley claimed that the Third Force had 15,000–20,000 members. James Prior, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, replied that private armies would not be tolerated.\n\nThe Anglo-Irish Agreement was signed by the British and Irish governments in November 1985, following months of talks between the two. The Agreement confirmed there would be no change in the status of Northern Ireland without the consent of a majority of its citizens, and proposed the creation of a new power-sharing government. It also gave the Irish government an advisory role on some matters in Northern Ireland. Both the DUP and UUP mounted a major protest campaign against the Agreement, dubbed \"Ulster Says No\". Both unionist parties resigned their seats in the British House of Commons, suspended district council meetings, and led a campaign of mass civil disobedience. There were strikes and mass protest rallies.\n\nOn 23 June 1986, DUP politicians occupied the Stormont Parliament Building in protest at the Agreement, while 200 supporters protested outside and clashed with police. The DUP politicians were forcibly removed by police the next day. On 10 July, Paisley and deputy DUP leader Peter Robinson led 4,000 loyalist supporters in a protest in which they 'occupied' the town of Hillsborough. Hillsborough Castle is where the Agreement had been signed. On 7 August, Robinson led hundreds of loyalist supporters in an invasion of the village of Clontibret, in the Republic of Ireland. The loyalists marched up and down the main street, vandalised property, and attacked two Irish police officers (Gardaí) before fleeing back over the border. Robinson was arrested and convicted for unlawful assembly.\n\nOn 10 November 1986, a rally was held in which DUP politicians Paisley, Robinson and Ivan Foster announced the formation of the Ulster Resistance Movement (URM). This was a loyalist paramilitary group whose purpose was to \"take direct action as and when required\" to bring down the Agreement and defeat republicanism. Recruitment rallies were held in towns across Northern Ireland and thousands were said to have joined. The following year, the URM helped smuggle a large shipment of weapons into Northern Ireland, which were shared out between the URM, the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) and the Ulster Defence Association (UDA). Most, but not all, of the weaponry was seized by police in 1988. In 1989, URM members attempted to trade Shorts' missile blueprints for weapons from the apartheid South African regime. Following these revelations, the DUP said that it had cut its links with the URM in 1987.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, the Irish republican party Sinn Féin began to contest and win seats in local council elections. In response, the DUP fought elections under the slogan \"Smash Sinn Féin\" and vowed to exclude Sinn Féin councillors from all council business. Their 1985 manifesto said \"The Sinn Féiners must be ostracised and isolated\" at all local government bodies. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, DUP councillors attempted to exclude Sinn Féin councillors by ignoring them, boycotting their speeches, or drowning them out by making as much noise as possible – such as by heckling and banging tables.\n\nIn early January 1994, the Ulster Defence Association released a document calling for the repartition of Ireland with the goal of making Northern Ireland wholly Protestant. The plan was to be implemented should the British Army withdraw from Northern Ireland. The Irish Catholic/nationalist-majority areas would be handed over to the Republic, and those left in the rump state would be \"expelled, nullified, or interned\". Sammy Wilson, then a DUP press officer and a future Stormont minister and MP, spoke positively of the document, calling it a \"valuable return to reality\" and lauded the UDA for \"contemplating what needs to be done to maintain our separate Ulster identity\".\n\nDuring the Northern Ireland peace process of the 1990s, the DUP was initially involved in the negotiations under former United States Senator George J. Mitchell that led to the Good Friday Agreement of 1998, but withdrew in protest when Sinn Féin, an Irish republican party with links to the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA), was allowed to participate while the IRA kept its weapons. The DUP opposed the Agreement in the Good Friday Agreement referendum, in which the Agreement was approved with 71.1% of the electorate in favour.\n\nThe DUP's opposition was based on a number of reasons, including:\n\nThe DUP contested the 1998 Northern Ireland Assembly election that resulted from the Good Friday Agreement, winning 20 seats, the third-highest of any party. It then took up two of the ten seats in the multi-party power-sharing Executive. While serving as ministers, they refused to sit at meetings of the Executive Committee in protest at Sinn Féin's participation. The Executive ultimately collapsed over an alleged IRA espionage ring at Stormont (see Stormontgate).\n\nThe Good Friday Agreement relied on the support of a majority of unionists and a majority of nationalists in order for it to operate. During the 2003 Northern Ireland Assembly election, the DUP argued for a \"fair deal\" that could command the support of both unionists and nationalists. After the results of this election the DUP argued that support was no longer present within unionism for the Good Friday Agreement. They went on to publish their proposals for devolution in Ireland entitled \"Devolution Now\". These proposals have been refined and re-stated in further policy documents including \"Moving on\" and \"Facing Reality\".\n\nIn the 2003 Northern Ireland Assembly election, the DUP won 30 seats, the most of any party. In January 2004, it became the largest Northern Ireland party at Westminster, when MP Jeffrey Donaldson joined after defecting from the UUP. In December 2004, English MP Andrew Hunter took the DUP whip after earlier withdrawing from the Conservative Party, giving the party seven seats, in comparison to the UUP's five, Sinn Féin's four, and the Social Democratic and Labour Party's (SDLP) three.\n\nIn the 2005 UK general election, the party reinforced its position as the largest unionist party, winning nine seats, making it the fourth largest party in terms of seats in the British House of Commons behind Labour, the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats. In terms of votes, the DUP was the fourth largest party on the island of Ireland.\n\nAt the local government election of 2005, the DUP emerged as the largest party at local government level with 182 councillors across Northern Ireland's 26 district councils. The DUP had a majority of the members on Castlereagh Borough Council, which had long been a DUP stronghold and was home to party leader Peter Robinson, also in Ballymena Borough Council, home to the party's founder Ian Paisley, and finally Ards Borough Council. As well as outright control on these councils, the DUP was also the largest party in eight other councils – Antrim Borough Council, Ballymoney Borough Council, Banbridge District Council, Belfast City Council, Carrickfergus Borough Council, Coleraine Borough Council, Craigavon Borough Council and Newtownabbey Borough Council.\n\nOn 11 April 2006, it was announced that three DUP members were to be elevated to the House of Lords: Maurice Morrow, Wallace Browne, the former Lord Mayor of Belfast, and Eileen Paisley, a vice-president of the DUP and wife of DUP Leader Ian Paisley. None, however, sit as DUP peers.\n\nOn 27 October 2006, the DUP issued a four-page letter in the \"Belfast Telegraph\" newspaper asking \"Are the terms of Saint Andrew's a basis of moving forward to devolution?\", with responses to be received to its party headquarters by 8 November. It was part of the party's policy of consultation with its electorate before entering a power-sharing government.\n\nOn 24 November 2006, Ian Paisley refused to nominate himself as First Minister of Northern Ireland designate. There was confusion between all parties whether he actually said that if Sinn Féin supported policing and the rule of law that he would nominate himself on 28 March 2007 after the Assembly elections on 7 March 2007. The Assembly meeting was brought to an abrupt end when the building had to be evacuated because of a security breach. Paisley later released a statement through the press office stating that he did in fact imply that if Sinn Féin supported policing and the rule of law, he would go into a power-sharing government with them. This was following a statement issued by 12 DUP MLAs stating that what Ian Paisley had said in the chamber could not be interpreted as a nomination.\n\nIn February 2007, the DUP suggested that it would begin to impose fines up to £20,000 on members disobeying the party whip on crucial votes. On 24 March 2007 the DUP party executive overwhelmingly endorsed a resolution put to them by the party officers that did not agree to an establishment of devolution and an executive in Northern Ireland by the Government's deadline of 26 March, but did agree to setting up an executive on 8 May 2007.\n\nOn 27 March 2007, the party's sole Member of the European Parliament (MEP), Jim Allister, resigned from the party, in opposition to the decision to enter a power-sharing government with Sinn Féin. He retained his seat as an independent MEP as leader of his new hard-line anti-St Andrews Agreement splinter group that he formed with other disaffected members who had left the DUP over the issue, Traditional Unionist Voice, a seat which he retained until Diane Dodds won the seat back for the DUP in 2009. MP Gregory Campbell warned on 6 April 2007 that his party would be watching to see if benefits flow from its agreement to share power with Sinn Féin.\n\nOn 31 May 2008, the party's central Executive Committee met at the offices of Castlereagh Borough Council where Ian Paisley formally stepped down as party leader and Peter Robinson was ratified as the new leader, with Nigel Dodds as his deputy.\n\nOn 11 June 2008, the party supported the government's proposal to detain terrorist suspects for up to 42 days as part of the Counter-Terrorism Bill, leading \"The Independent\" newspaper to dub all of the party's nine MPs as part of \"Brown's dirty dozen\". \"The Times\" reported that the party had been given \"sweeteners for Northern Ireland\" and \"a peerage for the Rev Ian Paisley\", amongst other offers, to secure the bill.\n\nMembers of the DUP were lambasted by the press and voters, after MPs' expenses reports were leaked to the media. Several newspapers referred to the \"Swish Family Robinson\" after Peter Robinson, and his wife Iris, claimed £571,939.41 in expenses with a further £150,000 being paid to family members. Further embarrassment was caused to the party when its deputy leader, Nigel Dodds, had the highest expenses claims of any Northern Ireland MP, ranking 13th highest out of all UK MPs. Details of all MPs' expenses claims since 2004 were published in July 2009 under the Freedom of Information Act 2000.\n\nIn January 2010, Peter Robinson was at the centre of a high-profile scandal relating to his 60-year-old MP/MLA wife Iris Robinson's infidelity with a 19-year-old man, and alleged serious financial irregularities associated with the scandal.\n\nIn the 2010 general election, the party suffered a major upset when its leader, Peter Robinson, lost his Belfast East seat to Naomi Long of the APNI on a swing of 22.9%. However, the party maintained its position elsewhere, fighting off a challenge from the Ulster Conservatives and Unionists – New Force in Antrim South and Strangford and from Jim Allister's Traditional Unionist Voice in Antrim North.\n\nThe DUP were strongly criticised after the Red Sky scandal in which DUP ministers attempted to influence a decision at a meeting of the Northern Ireland Housing Executive. The decision related to a £8 million contract of east Belfast firm Red Sky. The Housing Executive cancelled Red Sky's contract after a BBC \"Spotlight\" investigation into the company, which was shown to be overcharging taxpayers. The DUP cited \"sectarian bias\" in relation to the decision. The party suspended DUP councillor Jenny Palmer, who sat on the Executive board, after she confessed that DUP special adviser Stephen Brimstone pressured her into changing her vote at the meeting.\n\nIn the 2015 general election, when the result was expected to be a hung parliament, the issue of DUP and the UK Independence Party forming a coalition government with the UK Conservative Party was considered by Nigel Farage (leader of UKIP). The then Deputy Prime Minister and leader of the Liberal Democrats, Nick Clegg, warned against this \"Blukip\" coalition, with a spoof website highlighting imagined policies from this coalition – such as reinstating the death penalty, scrapping all benefits for under 25s and charging for hospital visits. Additionally, issues were raised about the continued existence of the BBC (as the DUP, UKIP and Conservatives had made a number of statements criticising the institution) and support for same-sex marriage. However, in an interview with BBC Radio 5 Live deputy leader of the DUP Nigel Dodds told BBC Newsline that the DUP was \"against discrimination based on religion ... or sexual orientation\".\n\nOn 10 September 2015, Peter Robinson stepped aside as First Minister and other DUP ministers, with the exception of Arlene Foster, resigned their portfolios.\n\nArlene Foster became leader of the DUP on 17 December 2015, and served as First Minister of Northern Ireland from January 2016 to January 2017.\n\nTwo days before the UK Brexit referendum, held on 23 June 2016, the DUP paid £282,000 for a four-page glossy wrap-around to the free newspaper \"Metro\", which is distributed in major towns and cities in the British mainland, but not Northern Ireland, advocating a 'Leave' vote.\n\nOn 4 October 2016, First Minister Arlene Foster and DUP MPs held a champagne reception at the Conservative Party conference, marking what some have described as an \"informal coalition\" or an \"understanding\" between the two parties to account for the Conservatives' narrow majority in the House of Commons. In October 2017, DUP held a similar reception at the Conservative Party conference, which was attended by leading Conservative figures including First Secretary of State Damian Green, Brexit Secretary David Davis, then-Chief Whip Gavin Williamson, and party chairman Patrick McLoughlin. This was reciprocated in November, when Damian Green and Conservative Chief Whip Julian Smith attended the DUP's conference, with Smith giving a keynote address. Prominent Conservative Ministers and ex-Ministers such as Environment Secretary Michael Gove and former International Development Secretary Priti Patel also headlined fundraising events for the DUP in September 2017 and February 2018 respectively.\n\nFormer UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage also spoke at a DUP fundraiser in May 2018, with his main financial backer, Arron Banks, stating that he would support a bid by Farage to seek office as a DUP candidate after the end of his tenure as Member of the European Parliament in 2019.\n\nIn her capacity as Minister of Enterprise, Trade and Investment in 2012, Foster oversaw the establishment of a green energy scheme, which led to the Renewable Heat Incentive scandal. The scheme gave a perverse incentive to use more energy and increase their carbon footprint to those who signed up to it since they could claim £1.60 for every £1 spent on heating with, for example, wood pellets. With no cost controls, it could cost the public purse up to £490 million.\n\nFoster refused to resign or step aside during any inquiry into her role in the scheme, which in January 2017 led Martin McGuinness to resign and the Northern Ireland Executive to collapse. A snap election followed after Sinn Féin refused to re-nominate a deputy First Minister. In this Northern Ireland Assembly election, held in March 2017, the DUP lost 10 seats, leaving them only one seat and 1,200 votes ahead of Sinn Féin, a result described by the \"Belfast Telegraph\" as \"catastrophic\". The withdrawal of the party whip from Jim Wells in May 2018 left the DUP on 27 seats, the same number as Sinn Féin.\n\nIn the UK 2017 general election, the DUP had 10 seats overall, 3 seats ahead of Sinn Féin. With no party having received an outright majority in the UK Parliament, the DUP entered into an agreement to support government by the Conservative Party. A DUP source said: \"The alternative is intolerable. For as long as Corbyn leads Labour, we will ensure there’s a Tory PM.\"\n\nThe Democratic Unionist Party are Ulster unionists, which means that they support Northern Ireland remaining part of the United Kingdom and are opposed to a united Ireland. The party sees itself as defending Britishness and Ulster Protestant culture against Irish nationalism and republicanism. For example, it supports marching rights for the loyalist Orange Order, which many DUP members are members of, and is in favour of flying the British Union Flag from government buildings all year round. The DUP assert that \"Irish and Gaelic culture should not be allowed to dominate funding\" in Northern Ireland, and have blocked proposed laws that would promote and protect the Irish language. The DUP are staunch supporters of the British security forces and their role in the Northern Ireland conflict. The party wants to prevent British soldiers and police officers from being prosecuted for killings committed during the conflict.\n\nThe party has also been described as right-wing populist and containing extremist tendencies. The party has historic links with the far-right in Northern Ireland, and is linked to the Ulster loyalist faction of unionism, which has been identified as a form of ethnic nationalism. The DUP was also recently endorsed at the 2017 general election by the Loyalist Communities Council, an umbrella group of loyalist paramilitary groups, which are proscribed terrorist organisations. However, the party leadership strongly rejected the endorsement, with party leader Arlene Foster stating: \"We did not seek that statement, we did not seek endorsement from any paramilitary organisation and indeed I fundamentally reject an endorsement from anyone that’s involved with paramilitarism or criminality.\"\n\nWith regards to foreign policy, the DUP \"takes a staunchly pro-Israel line, hewing to the hawkish end of the Israeli spectrum.\"\n\nThe DUP is socially conservative and has strong links to the Free Presbyterian Church of Ulster, the small church founded by Reverend Ian Paisley. The vast majority of DUP members are evangelical Christians and, on average, 65% of its representatives since the party was founded have been Free Presbyterians. The party also has links with the Caleb Foundation, a Protestant fundamentalist pressure group.\n\nThe DUP has opposed LGBT rights in Northern Ireland. Party leaders—as well as many prominent party members—have condemned homosexuality, and a 2014 survey found that two-thirds of party members believe homosexuality is wrong. The DUP campaigned against the legalisation of homosexual acts, which it believed to be a \"harmful deviance\" linked to paedophilia, in Northern Ireland through the \"Save Ulster from Sodomy\" campaign between 1977-82, and the party has vetoed the legalisation of same-sex marriage in Northern Ireland since 2015, making Northern Ireland the only region of the UK where same-sex marriage is not permitted. Former DUP minister Jim Wells called the issue a \"red line\" for power-sharing talks, adding that \"Peter will not marry Paul in Northern Ireland\". The party attempted to introduce a \"conscience clause\" into law in Northern Ireland, which would let businesses refuse to provide a service if it went against their religious beliefs. This came after a Christian-owned bakery was taken to court for refusing to make a cake bearing a pro-gay marriage slogan. Opponents argued that the clause would allow discrimination against LGBT people.\n\nThe party maintains that it is \"pro-life\" and members have campaigned strongly against any extension of abortion rights to Northern Ireland, unanimously opposing a bill by Labour MP Diana Johnson to protect women in England and Wales from criminal prosecution if they ended a pregnancy using pills bought online. They have opposed extra funding for international family planning programmes.\n\nSome DUP politicians have called for creationism to be taught in schools, and for museums to include creationism in their exhibits. In 2007, a DUP spokesman confirmed that these views were in line with party policy.\n\nIn 2011, the DUP called for a debate in the House of Commons over bringing back the death penalty for some serious crimes such as murder or rape.\n\nThe DUP is Eurosceptic and was the only party in the Northern Ireland Executive to back a \"Leave\" vote during the Brexit campaign. The party opposes a hard Irish border, and wishes to maintain the Common Travel Area. East Antrim MP Sammy Wilson caused controversy in March 2016 during a \"BBC Spotlight\" episode discussing the implications of the EU referendum, when he was recorded agreeing with a member of the public who said that they wanted to leave the European Union and \"get the ethnics out\". Wilson stated \"You are absolutely right\". Wilson claimed he was agreeing with the desire to leave the European Union, not the \"ethnics out\" call. Wilson was criticised by the Polish consul in Northern Ireland and various other political parties.\n\nThe DUP is in favour of keeping the \"triple lock\" for pensions, the Winter Fuel Allowance, and greater spending in Northern Ireland for services such as health.\n\nThe DUP has also revived calls for a 25-mile sea bridge to link Northern Ireland with Scotland. Calls for a feasibility study into the £20,000,000,000 project have previously been made.\n\nFounder Ian Paisley led the party from its foundation in 1971 onwards, and retired as leader of the party in spring 2008.\n\nPaisley was replaced by former deputy leader Peter Robinson on 31 May 2008, who in turn was replaced by Arlene Foster on 17 December 2015.\n\nThe following are the terms of office as party leader and as First Minister of Northern Ireland:\n\n\nMembers of the House of Commons following 8 June 2017 general election:\n\nMembers of the House of Lords\n\nMembers of the Northern Ireland Assembly elected in May 2016:\n\nMembers elected in 2014\n\n\n"}
{"id": "346186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346186", "title": "Denglisch", "text": "Denglisch\n\nDenglisch (German spelling) or Denglish (English spelling) is a portmanteau of the German words \"Deutsch\" and \"Englisch\" (\"English\"), and can also be used to refer to a portmanteau of English and Dutch. The term is used in all German-speaking countries to refer to the increasingly strong influx of macaronic English or pseudo-English vocabulary (and other features of the language such as grammar and orthography) into German. Many synonyms exist, including Germ(l)ish, Gerglish, Angleutsch, Genglish, and Engleutsch as well as Pseudo-Englisch. Both these and Denglish are also used to refer to incorrect English that is influenced by German.\n\nTo some extent, the influence of English on German can be described in terms of normal language contact (which is active also in the reverse direction, see list of English words of German origin). The term \"Denglisch\" is however mostly reserved for forced, excessive exercises in anglicization, or pseudo-anglicization, of the German language.\nThe forced introduction of anglicisms, especially in marketing and business terminology, experienced a peak during the 1990s and the early 2000s, but the ubiquity of the practice has since made it much less fashionable or prestigious and since then, many publicistic commentators have argued against it.\n\"Zeit Online\" (itself an example of the prevalence of English loans in IT terminology) in a 2007 article, while granting the possibility of excessive linguistic purism among those arguing against anglicizing influence on German, criticises ubiquitous use of English (citing as example the fashion to label information desks at train stations, formerly simply known as \"Auskunft\", with the anglicistic \"Service Point\"), and as an extreme case cites the pseudo-anglicistic \"Brain up!\" chosen by then-minister for education Edelgard Bulmahn as a campaign slogan in 2004.\nThe same slogan had already been satirized by \"Frankfurter Allgemeine\" in 2004. That newspaper described how even the English-speaking sphere was mocking the unreflected and basically unnecessary kowtow as \"German linguistic submissiveness\".\n\nGerman vocabulary has numerous cases of English loanwords now fully \"naturalized\" as German words, including full inflection. English had only very limited influence on German before the mid-19th century. Such loanwords as there are mostly concern nautical vocabulary, loaned into Low German (e.g. \"tank\", ultimately from Indo-Aryan; \"Tanker\" (\"tanker (ship)\") is early 20th century).\n\nIn the 19th century, it was still more common to use loan translation for the vocabulary of industrialisation (\"Dampfmaschine\" for \"steam engine\", \"Pferdestärke\" for \"horse power\", etc.). To some extent, this continued in the early 20th century: \"Wolkenkratzer\" for \"skyscraper\", \"Kaugummi\" for \"chewing gum\", \"Flutlicht\" for \"flood light\", \"Fernsehen\" for \"television\".\n\nEnglish loanwords became more common in the early 20th century. A notable example from this period is \"Test\" (ultimately from Old French \"test\" \"earthen pot\"). \"Test\" was compatible both with German phonology and orthography so its nature as a loan is not evident.\n\nEarly loanwords (19th to early 20th century) often describe garments or foodstuffs: \"Jumper\" (19th century), \"Curry\" (19th century loan from English, ultimately from Tamil), \"Pyjama\" (early 20th century loan from English \"pyjamas\", ultimately from Urdu), \"Trenchcoat\" (1920s). Other loanwords are \"boykottieren\" \"to boycott\" (1890s) and \"Star\" (\"film star\", homonymous with the German for starling).\n\nDirect influence of English, especially via US pop culture, became far more pronounced after the end of World War II, with the Allied occupation of Germany and later by association with 1960s to 1970s US counterculture: \"Jeep\", \"Quiz\", \"Show\", \"Western\", \"Rock\" (\"rock music\", homonymous with the German for \"skirt, frock\"), \"Hippie\", \"Groupie\".\n\nThe newest and most prolific wave of anglicisms arose after 1989 with the end of the Cold War and the surge of the \"Anglo-Saxon\" smack of economic liberalism in continental Europe and the associated business jargon (\"CEO\" became extremely fashionable in German, replacing traditional terms such as \"Direktor\", \"Geschäftsführer\", \"Vorsitzender\" during the 1990s). At the same time, the rapid development of information technology pushed many technical terms from that field into everyday language.\n\nMany of the more recent loans have developed in the spoken language and are still clearly felt to be English words, so their English orthography is retained in written communication, which leads to awkward spellings combining German morphemes with English word stems, as in ge\"boot\"et (\"booted up\" of a computer) or \"gecrasht\" or \"gecrashed\" (\"crashed\", of a computer), \"downgeloadet\", \"gedownloadet\" or \"gedownloaded\" (\"downloaded\"). They also retain English phonology in many cases, including phonemes that do not exist in Standard German (such as the /eɪ/ in \"upd\"a\"te\").\n\nGerman pseudo-anglicisms are words that seem to be English, but are German creations and have a different meaning or no meaning in native English.\n\nThe following English words or expressions came to be used in an unfamiliar sense in German:\nCompounds: Some German pseudo-anglicisms are produced by compounding two existing correct anglicisms:\n\nAnother form of Denglisch consists of calques of popular English expressions which replace German words and idioms. Common examples are:\n\n\nAlthough this is considered incorrect by many native speakers as it violates German grammar, it can be found even in German newspapers.\n\n\nAnother phenomenon is the usage of the possessive construction \" 's \" (generally used in English but also correct in German in sunder cases), often called \"Deppenapostroph\" or \"Idiotenapostroph\" (\"Idiot's apostrophe\" or \"Idiot's inverted comma\") instead of the traditional German constructions. For example, a Denglisch speaker might write \"Wikipedia's Gestaltung\" (\"Wikipedia's design\") instead of either \"Wikipedias Gestaltung\" or \"die Gestaltung der Wikipedia\". Less often, it is used incorrectly to mark a plural (Greengrocers' apostrophe); cf. a similar construction in Dutch:\nor for adverbial expressions, such as\n\nDenglisch may combine words according to English rules by writing them in succession. According to the Standard German grammar and spelling rules, that is incorrect.\nThe first spelling, with two separate words, makes no logical or grammatical connection between the words but simply juxtaposes them. The second combines them into one word, an \"Annahme\" (in this case a place where something is received) for \"Reparaturen\" (repairs). That is often called \"Deppenleerstelle\", or \"\" which means \"idiot's space\", incorrectly separating parts of a compound word.\n\nSome major companies such as Deutsche Bank now conduct much of their business in English, while several departments of the major German telephone company Deutsche Telekom were known as \"T-Home\" (formerly \"T-Com\"), \"T-Mobile\", \"T-Online\", and \"T-Systems\".\n\nReinventing titles for English-language films dubbed into German was once a common practice so, for example, a title like Paul Landres's 1958 Western \"Man from God's Country\" would become \"Men Who Die with Their Boots on.\" Most current American film titles are no longer translated into German, (\"Ice Age\") although they still often receive German appendages like \"\" (\"Prometheus – Dark Signs\") or include puns not present in the original title, such as \"Clerks – Die Ladenhüter\" for \"Clerks – The Shelf-Warmers\". Menus of many global fast food chains also usually go partly or completely untranslated: \"Double Whopper (formally: \"Doppel-Whopper\") mit leckerem Bacon und Cheddar Cheese.\"\n\nAdvertising agencies in German-speaking countries have such a need for skills in English that they want ads for new employees to contain plain English such as \"Join us\". KFC Germany's recruitment slogan is \"I Am for Real\", and its website shows very heavy use of English coupled with nonstandard German.\n\nGerman commercials or, more often, written advertisements are likely to use many English terms:\n\nThe verb \"downloaden\" is alleged to have been coined by Microsoft, as there is a native, common German word (\"). Microsoft Windows Update uses the phrase \" (\"Download the latest updates\") instead of the standard \". The latest interface guidelines suggest that the term \" should be used again because many users complained. However, \"Aktualisierungen\" (unlike \"herunterladen\") would not be idiomatic German in this usage or would at least have to be explained as \"Softwareaktualisierungen\" or \"Programmaktualisierungen\", the former involving the new Anglicism \"Software\".\n\nThe use of (\") has its roots in a commercial name, too. It is related to the handheld Walkie-talkie, a commercial name for the two-way radio transceiver to be transported in a bag, later in hands and so called (\"). A correct translation could be (\"). Germans used to cite the word (\") as an example of Denglisch.\n\nAdvertising in the field of personal hygiene tends to use much English:\n\nThe same applies to detergents:\n\nLarger national and international companies based in Germany also use English to describe their services. The television broadcaster ProSieben uses the slogan \"We love to entertain you\" while Zurich Financial Services advertise with the slogan \"Because change happens\". The fastest trains run by the German state-owned railway system Deutsche Bahn (German Rail) are named \"IC\" and \"ICE\", abbreviations of \"Inter City\" and \"Inter City Express\", while information booths are named \"ServicePoints\", first-class waiting areas are referred to as \"Lounges\", and words like \"Kundendienst\" (customer service) and \"Fahrkarte\" (ticket) are quickly losing out to their respective English counterparts. As an official stance against this rampant use of Denglisch, the Deutsche Bahn in June 2013 issued a directive and glossary of 2200 Anglicisms that should be replaced by their German counterparts.\n\nSometimes such neologisms also use CamelCase, as in the Deutsche Telekom's newest rates called \"Fulltime\", \"Freetime\", \"Call Plus\" and \"Call Time\" offering additionally such features as \"CountrySelect\". They do not even refrain from offering services at certain 'Callshops', using both languages by building a German-style compound, capitalizing it and using two English words in a new context. It has become common for travel agencies to offer \"last minute\" bookings or manufacturers to adopt \"just in time\"; perhaps driven by international commerce and economic interests.\n\nThe phrase \"Test it\" is increasingly common as an English phrase idiosyncratic to German, meaning roughly \"Try it out\". That is thought to have originated with advertising copy for West cigarettes, exhorting consumers to \"Test The West\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56059298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56059298", "title": "First impeachment process against Pedro Pablo Kuczynski", "text": "First impeachment process against Pedro Pablo Kuczynski\n\nThe first impeachment process against Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, then the incumbent President of Peru since 2016, was initiated by the Congress of Peru on 15 December 2017. According to Luis Galarreta, the President of the Congress, the whole process of impeachment could have taken as little as a week to complete.\n\nThe impeachment request was rejected by the congress on 21 December 2017, for failing to obtain sufficient votes for the deposition.\n\nKuczynski would go on to abruptly resign on 21 March 2018, after videos showing evidence of vote-buying to keep him in office were leaked to the public and the Congress of Peru initiated a second impeachment process against him, but continued to deny any wrongdoing and insisted that he was only stepping aside because he did not want to \"be a burden to the development of the nation\".\n\nPrior to the beginning of the process to remove him from office, President Kuczynski was accused by the congressional opposition of lying about receiving bribes from the Brazilian construction company Odebrecht, as he had initially denied receiving any payments at all from the them, but later admitted that he had in fact been receiving payments to a firm he owned, Westfield Capital Ltd, while continuing to deny any irregularities in those payments. A number of other Latin American politicians had previously also been implicated in similar accusations of part-taking in financial irregularities involving Odebrecht, including Colombian president Juan Manuel Santos, Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto, Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro, former Peruvian presidents Alan García, Alejandro Toledo and Ollanta Humala, as well as Keiko Fujimori, chairwoman of the party Popular Force and daughter of the former president Alberto Fujimori, and whom Kuczynski had narrowly defeated in the 2016 general election. \n\nUpon the initiation of impeachment proceedings Congress president Luis Galarreta stated that he expected Kuczynski to be removed from office ″within a week″, as Kuczynski's Peruvians for Change party occupies only 18 of the 130 seats in Congress, while the opposition right-wing Popular Force (which is chaired by Keiko Fujimori) and left-wing Broad Front (headed by a former priest and environmental activist called Marco Arana), both in favor of Kuczynski's removal, together command 81 of the necessary two-thirds congressional majority (87 seats) needed to remove a president from office. According to reports by the Reuters news agency, Kuczynski had also lost the support of his own cabinet members, who had begun to urge him to resign as well. On 14 December 2017 he was also given an ultimatum by the congressional opposition to resign by the end of the day or face impeachment in Congress, to which he responded by saying: \"It cost us a lot to get our democracy back. We're not going to lose it again. I'm not going to give up my honour, nor my values, nor my responsibilities as president of all Peruvians.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "23147102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23147102", "title": "HEAT LANrev", "text": "HEAT LANrev\n\nHEAT LANrev (formerly Absolute Manage) is systems lifecycle management software used by system administrators to automate IT administration tasks. The product includes server and client (\"agent\") software that runs on Windows and Mac OS X.\n\nVancouver-based Absolute acquired LANrev from Pole Position Software in December 2009, for US$12.1 million in cash and 500,000 shares of Absolute's common stock. LANrev was rebranded as Absolute Manage in February 2010. In July 2015, Absolute announced its intention to divest Absolute Manage. The sale of Absolute Manage to HEAT Software was completed on October 5, 2015, for US$11.0 million, and the product was renamed HEAT LANrev.\n\nIn the 2010 \"Robbins v. Lower Merion School District\" case, plaintiffs charged two suburban Philadelphia high schools secretly spied on students by surreptitiously and remotely activating webcams embedded in school-issued laptops the students were using at home, and therefore infringed on their privacy rights. The schools admitted to secretly snapping over 66,000 webshots and screenshots, including webcam shots of students in their bedrooms.\n\nLANrev software was used in the Lower Merion school district's student laptop program, overseen by network technician Michael Perbix. In February 2010, Perbix and other administrators in the district were accused of using the software to take undisclosed and unauthorized photographs of students through the webcams on their Macintosh laptops. The lawsuit was brought by the parents of 15-year-old sophomore, Blake Robbins, who was allegedly accused of illicit behavior seen through his computer's webcam of him in his bedroom. The photographs, taken from a laptop that was not reported stolen, were then allegedly used as evidence in a disciplinary action. The FBI investigated the incident, and a Philadelphia federal judge intervened to sort out issues relating to the lawsuit.\n\nPerbix had previously praised Theft Track, the name of the feature that lets administrators remotely photograph potential thieves if a computer is reported stolen, noting in a YouTube video he produced that: It’s an excellent feature. Yes, we have used it, and yes, it has gleaned some results for us. But it, in and of itself, is just a fantastic feature for trying to—especially when you’re in a school environment and you have a lot of laptops and you’re worried about, you know, laptops getting up and missing. I’ve actually had some laptops we thought were stolen which actually were still in a classroom, because they were misplaced, and by the time we found out they were back, I had to turn the tracking off. And I had, you know, a good twenty snapshots of the teacher and students using the machines in the classroom.\nLANrev's new owner, Absolute Software denounced the use of their software for any illegal purpose, emphasizing that theft recovery should be left to law enforcement professionals. They further denied any knowledge of or complicity in either Perbix's or the school district's actions. Absolute stated that the next update of LANrev would permanently disable Theft Track.\n"}
{"id": "58882115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58882115", "title": "Haryana Staff Selection Commission", "text": "Haryana Staff Selection Commission\n\nHaryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) is an organisation under Government of Haryana to recruit staff for various posts in the various Departments of the Government of Haryana and in subordinate offices.\n"}
{"id": "55750946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55750946", "title": "Honest Ads Act", "text": "Honest Ads Act\n\nThe Honest Ads Act (S. 1989) is a bill in the United States Senate legislative body to promote regulation of campaign advertisements online by online companies such as Facebook and Google. The act is a bipartisan bill sponsored by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D), Mark Warner (D), and John McCain (R). The bill was proposed on October 19, 2017, as a response to investigation regarding Russia purchasing political ads during the United States 2016 presidential election. There is also a companion version to this bill in the House of Representatives, HR 4077, sponsored by Representative Derek Kilmer.\n\nPolitical ads on television, news print and on the radio are all currently required to disclose who has paid for the advertisement under the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, but this is not a requirement online. The bill would amend the 1971 law to make \"reasonable efforts\" to ensure ads are not purchased \"directly or indirectly\" by foreign countries. The legislation would require companies to disclose how advertisements were targeted as well as how much the ads cost.\n\nCompanies such as Google have argued against regulation as being too restrictive, in favor instead for self-regulation.\n\n"}
{"id": "46646449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46646449", "title": "Ict4peace", "text": "Ict4peace\n\nICT4peace is a policy and capacity-building oriented international foundation. The purpose is to save lives and protect human dignity through Information and Communication Technology (ICT). The Foundation promotes cybersecurity and a peaceful cyberspace through international negotiations with governments, companies and non-state actors. It also explores and champions the use ICTs to facilitate communication between peoples, communities and stakeholders involved in humanitarian or conflict-related crisis management and crisis mapping, humanitarian assistance and peacebuilding. It is registered as ICT for Peace in the Geneva business directory.\n\nICT4peace is supported by governments and philanthropic foundations and proposes analysis and counselling services as well as capacity-building programs. It works closely with the United Nations (UN) in strengthening the organisation’s capacities to map, share and use data across its various agencies and locations and by contributing to the creation of best practices in Crisis Information Management across the organisation. ICT4peace intervened for instance in the project \"Strengthening Crisis Information and Management at the United Nations\", described in the UN Secretary general report of 5 October 2010 on ICTs in the United Nations (A/65/491).\n\nThe way early warning systems help reduce the human cost of earthquakes, ICT-based platform can help save lives during natural or man-made disasters, said ICT4peace founder, Daniel Stauffacher, former Ambassador and Special Representative of the Swiss Government for the first phase of the World Summit on Information Society (WSIS 1), which took place in Geneva in 2003.\n\nICT4peace also called for international norms of responsible state behaviour and disarmament negotiations for a peaceful cyberspace.\n\nAlthough the idea of considering the use of ICTs in promoting peace was mentioned in the lead-up to WSIS 1, in particular by Maurice Strong, Senior Advisor to United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan, the topic was left out from WSIS 1.\n\nIn the run-off to the WSIS 2nd phase (WSIS 2), that took place in November 2005 in Tunisia, the UN published the document \"Information and Communication Technology for Peace, the role of ICT in Preventing, Responding to and Recovering from conflict\". This document presented the ICT4peace project, that began in 2004 and formed part of Switzerland’s contribution to WSIS 2.\n\nThe project aim was to explore and map the possible uses of ICTs in the field of prevention of conflicts, peace building and post conflict reconstruction. Crisis situations such as natural disaster were also considered for their similarities with conflicts situations.\n\nSubsequently WSIS 2 in The Tunis Commitment for the Information Society adopted para 36 and valued \"\"the potential of ICTs to promote peace and to prevent conflict which, inter alia, negatively affects achieving development goals. ICTs can be used for identifying conflict situations through early-warning systems preventing conflicts, promoting their peaceful resolution, supporting humanitarian action, including protection of civilians in armed conflicts, facilitating peacekeeping missions, and assisting post conflict peace-building and reconstruction\".\n\nIn October 2006, under the Communities of Expertise (CoE) established within the framework of the Global Alliance for Information and Communication Technologies and Development (also known as Global Alliance for ICT and Development or GAID), the ICT4peace Foundation was invited to a partnership with the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA) and GAID. The Foundation’s role is that of a focal point for overseeing and promoting the spirit of Paragraph 36 of the WSIS Tunis Commitment.\n\nThe Foundation also participates as a co-host and facilitator in the annual Meeting of the UN Crisis Information Management Advisory Group (CiMAG), which is reviewing and supporting progress of the UN Crisis Information Management Strategy (CiMS). The CiMS aims at helping all actors, including the UN’s member states and agencies, in dealing with all stages of a crisis lifecycle more efficiently and effectively. ICT4peace also supports and intervenes in both in the annual Crisis Mappers Conference and BuildPeace Conference.\n\nA full list of ICT4peace publications is available on the website of the ETH Zurich International Security Network.\n\n"}
{"id": "207723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207723", "title": "Integralism", "text": "Integralism\n\nIntegralism or Integrism () is a term coined in 19th and early 20th century polemics within the Catholic Church, especially in France, as an epithet to describe those who opposed the \"modernists\" who had sought to create a synthesis between Christian theology and the liberal philosophy of secular modernity. Integrism is often referred to as Integralism.\n\nIntegrists taught that all social and political action ought to be based on the Catholic Faith. They rejected the separation of church and state, arguing that Catholicism should be the proclaimed religion of the state.\n\nCatholic integralism (also called integrism) is used in the context of Catholicism to refer to an organization of the state which rejects \"the separation of politics from concern with the end of human life, holding that political rule must order man to his final goal.\" Though less commonly referred to in modern theology, integralism defines the social order of medieval Christendom and is part of the social teaching of the Catholic Church. It is an \"anti-pluralist\" trend in Catholicism; the Catholic integralism born in 19th-century Spain, France, and Italy was a movement that sought to assert a Catholic underpinning to all social and political action, and to minimize or eliminate any competing ideological actors, such as secular humanism and liberalism.\n\nCatholic integralism does not support the creation of an autonomous \"Catholic\" state church, or Erastianism (Gallicanism in French context). Rather it supports subordinating the state to the moral principles of Catholicism. Thus it rejects separating morality from the state and favours Catholicism as the proclaimed religion of the state.\n\nCatholic integralism appeals to the teaching on the necessity of the subordination of the state and on the subordination of temporal to spiritual power of medieval popes such as Pope Gregory VII and Pope Boniface VIII. But Catholic Integralism in the strict sense came about as a reaction against the political and cultural changes which followed the Enlightenment and the French Revolution. The 19th-century papacy challenged the growth of liberalism (with its doctrine of popular sovereignty) as well as new scientific and historical methods and theories (which were thought to threaten the special status of the Christian revelation). Pope Pius IX condemned a list of liberal and Enlightenment ideas in his Syllabus of Errors. The term \"integralism\" was applied to a Spanish political party founded about 1890, which based its programme on the \"Syllabus\". Catholic integralism reached its \"classical\" form in the reaction against modernism. The term did not, however, became popular till the time of Pope St. Pius X, whose papacy lasted from 1903 to 1914. After the papal condemnation of modernism in 1907, \"integral Catholics\" (, from which the word \"intégrisme\" (Integrism) and \"intégralisme\" (Integralism) were derived. Encouraged by Pope Pius X, they sought out and exposed any co-religionist whom they suspected of modernism or liberalism. An important integralist organization was the Sodalitium Pianum, known in France as \"La Sapinière\" (fir plantation), which was founded in 1909 by Umberto Benigni. \n\nIntegrists were originally ultramontane. But since the Second Vatican Council this has caused tensions within Integrism since the post-conciliar popes no longer support Integrism. “Apart from the practical difficulties of bringing their ideals to fruition without hierarchical support, contemporary [integrists] face the problem of advocating for a maximal stance toward papal and hierarchical authority at a time when they are in tension with, if not outright opposition to, the pastoral and theological lines of that very authority.” This led some integrists to oppose the post-conciliar popes. Catholic integralism suffered a decline after the Second Vatican Council, due to a lack of support from the Catholic hierarchy; during that time, other ideas had been proposed about the relation between the church and state. However, even the Second Vatican Council finally sided with the integralist understanding in some ways, stating in \"Dignitatis humanae\" that the council \"leaves intact the traditional teaching of the duty which the state owes to the Church\", namely, recognition of the church as the state religion, unless it would be a detriment to the common good. However, the document also affirmed personal freedom of conscience and freedom from coercion, and in the heyday after the council this became the focus of theological discourse, to the exclusion of the traditional teaching on church–state relations. In the post-conciliar period, Catholic integralism came to be supported mainly by traditionalist Catholics such as those associated with the Society of St. Pius X and Tradition, Family and Property, and lay Catholics, though some clergy still supported it in theory, if not vociferously. \n\nIn recent years, however, a \"revived Catholic integralism\" has been noted among the younger generation of Catholics writing for websites such as \"The Josias\". Integralism could be said to merely be the modern continuation of the traditional Catholic conception of church–state relations elucidated by Pope Gelasius I and expounded upon throughout the centuries up to the Syllabus of Errors, which definitively condemned the idea that the separation of church and state is a moral good.\n\nScholars have drawn parallels between Catholic integralism and a view held by a minority in the Reformed churches, Christian reconstructionism. In the \"National Catholic Reporter\", Joshua J. McElwee stated that both Catholic integralists and Reformed Christian reconstructionists have created a non-traditional ecumenical alliance to achieve the goal of establishing a \"theocratic type of state\".\n\nThe term Traditionalist Catholic has become more prominent in recent times and is generally the most common term used in the English-speaking world to describe anti-modernist elements.\n\nThe term has also been borrowed in some cultures to describe elements within non-Catholic religious movements who are also opposed to the radical end of Western liberalism, such as Protestant fundamentalism or Islamism.\n\nThe term \"integrism\" is largely used in French philosophical and sociopolitical parlance, particularly to label any religious extremism. Integralism is particularly associated with the French \"Action Française\" movement founded by Charles Maurras.\n\n\"Integralismo Lusitano\" (Lusitanian Integralism) was the integralist movement of Portugal, founded in 1914. Portuguese integralism was traditionalist, but not conservative. It was against parliamentarism and, instead, it favored decentralization, national syndicalism, Catholicism and the monarchy.\n\nSomewhat rooted in the Portuguese integralist tradition, the Brazilian integralist movement led by Plínio Salgado – Ação Integralista Brasileira – was for some time the largest political party ever founded in Brazil, with over a million members, even though it lasted less than six years as a legally recognized organization.\n\nThe political implications of Catholic integralism are apparent in the Basque-Navarrese context of Spain, where that Integrism or Traditionalist Catholicism refers to a 19th- and 20th-century anti-Liberal movement advocating for the re-establishment of not only clerical but also native institutions lost in the context of the First Carlist War (1839, 1841). One of its branches evolved by the turn of the 20th century into Basque nationalism.\n\nThe term may also refer to the Spanish formation (1888-1932) led by Ramon Nocedal and Juan Olazábal. \n\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center uses the term \"integrism\" to refer to traditional Catholics who disagree with Rome, many of them having been excommunicated by Rome. The SPLC identifies two groups \"'traditionalists' — people who prefer the old Latin Mass to the Mass now typically said in vernacular languages\" and \"'Radical traditionalist' Catholics, who may make up the largest single group of serious counter-Semites in America\". It is only the latter group that the SPLC views as a \"hate group.\"\n\nCritics and opponents of integralism argue that the movement can be associated with fascism (especially in South America), although there exist deep points of disagreement: integralism stresses trade unionism and localism while fascism defends a centralist state; the traditionalist and Catholic foundation of integralist ideas against the often secular and anti-clerical, and modernist philosophical basis of fascism.\n\nSome liberal Catholics such as John Zmirak have criticized contemporary Catholic integralists as enemies of \"religious liberty\". However, others assert that this paints a false picture of integralism.\n\n"}
{"id": "11416413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11416413", "title": "International Association for Religious Freedom", "text": "International Association for Religious Freedom\n\nThe International Association for Religious Freedom (IARF) is a charitable organization that works for religious freedom around the world. It was founded in Boston in 1900 and is the oldest international interfaith group.\n\nIARF has over ninety affiliated groups, spread over twenty countries, with a wide range of faiths represented, including Islam, Christianity, Hinduism, Sikhism and Shintoism.\n\nIn 1972 IARF was granted consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Fund (ECOSOC). It was the catalyst for the formation of the \"Committee on Freedom of Religion or Belief\" in 1989 which was granted formal status with ECOSOC in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45541620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45541620", "title": "Internationalization of higher education", "text": "Internationalization of higher education\n\nInternationalization of higher education in theory is \"the process of integrating an international, intercultural, or global dimension into the purpose, functions or delivery of postsecondary education.\" Internationalization of higher education in practice is \"the process of commercializing research and postsecondary education, and international competition for the recruitment of foreign students from wealthy and privileged countries in order to generate revenue, secure national profile, and build international reputation.\" The main components of internationalization of higher education are recruitment of international students, development of international branch campuses, students, staff and scholars exchange programs, internationalization of the curriculum, and research and education partnerships between institutions regionally and internationally.\n\nThere are specific rationales which are driving the internationalisation and strategies which are being used in the internationalisation of the high education institutions (HEIs).\n\nThere are three rationales of internationalization: \"idealism, instrumentalism and educationalism\".\n\nAn idealist rationale of internationalization in higher education can generate a more democratic, fair and equal world with regard to international cooperation.\n\nThe second rationale is consistent with its practical and economic goals. This rationale influences policy-makers on developing the level of transparency and mobilization between national educational systems, enabling and simplifying the mobility of people and integrating university degrees, grading systems etc. According to instrumentalists, higher education is a way of increasing profit, ensuring economic boost and sustainable development and transferring ideologies of governments, transnational corporations, stakeholders or supranational regimes.\n\nFurthermore, higher education is required to meet the demands of the capitalist and global world. In this respect, universities espousing internationalization are more likely to promote their country’s competitiveness in the global academic arena. Instrumentalism can be contrasted with idealism in terms of hidden ideocultural goals.\n\nEducationalists accept internationalization in higher education (HE) as a way of broadening the academic experiences of students and academic staff.\n\nGlobalisation leads to the challenges in HE systems of the world. These challenges can be figured out through the internationalisation strategies.‘Strategies’ indicate the most concrete level and comprise the academic and organizational initiatives at the institutional level. Strategies at the institutional level imply both program and organizational initiatives. Strategies are divided into two groups at institutional level such as \"academic and organizational strategies\".\n\nAcademic strategies focus on academic programmes, research and scholarly collaboration, external relations: domestic and cross-border and extra-curricular activities.\n\nOrganisational strategies include governance, operations, services and human resources. Governance mainly focuses on the active participation of faculty and staff, recognition of the international dimension in institutional mission/mandate statements and in planning, management. Additionally, it indicates the importance of operations which highlights appropriate organizational structures, systems for coordination, communication and cooperation, adequate financial support and resource allocation systems.\n\nFrom a critical point of view, the story of internationalization in the real world of higher education institutions may differ from what is literally expressed in official policy documents like strategic plans of internationalization. Considered to be a product of and response to globalization, internationalization is being critiqued for having an economic orientation. The central criticism is that within the Anglo-American tradition of higher education internationalization is increasingly associated with commodification and commercialization of postsecondary education. Internationalization of higher education has been criticized to be the process of international competition for recruitment of more foreign students from privileged countries in order to generate revenue, secure national profile, and build international reputation.\n"}
{"id": "269231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269231", "title": "Jimmy Lai", "text": "Jimmy Lai\n\nLai Chee-Ying, better known by his western name Jimmy Lai, is a Hong Kong entrepreneur. He founded Giordano, an Asian clothing retailer, and Next Digital (Formerly Next Media), a Hong Kong-listed media company and a Chinese-language media group. He is one of the main contributors to the pro-democracy camp, especially to the Democratic Party.\n\nBorn 1947 in an impoverished family in Canton, Kwangtung, China with family roots in nearby Shunde, Lai was educated to fifth grade level.\n\nSmuggled to Hong Kong aboard a small boat at the age of 13, Lai worked as a child-laborer in a garment factory for a wage of $8 per month.\n\nRising to the level of factory manager, Lai speculated his year-end bonus on Hong Kong stocks to raise enough cash to buy out the owners of a bankrupt garment factory, Comitex, in 1975 and began producing sweaters. Customers included J.C. Penney, Montgomery Ward, and other U.S. retailers.\n\nBy rewarding sellers with financial incentives in Hong Kong, he built the chain into an Asia-wide retailer. Giordano was said to have more than 11,000 employees in 1,700 shops across 30 territories worldwide.\n\nOwing to the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Lai became an advocate of democracy and critic of the People's Republic of China government. He distributed Giordano T-shirts with portraits of student leaders and began publishing \"Next Magazine\", which combined tabloid sensationalism with hard-hitting political and business reporting. He went on to found other magazines, including \"Sudden Weekly\" (忽然一週), \"Eat & Travel Weekly\" (飲食男女), \"Trading Express/Auto Express\" (交易通/搵車快線) and the youth-oriented \"Easy Finder\" (壹本便利).\n\nIn 1995, as the Hong Kong handover approached, Lai founded Apple Daily, a newspaper start-up that he financed with $100 million of his own money owing to investor fear of association with a critic of the Mainland China government. The newspaper's circulation rose to 400,000 copies by 1997, which was the territory's second largest among 60 other newspapers.\n\nIn 2006, \"Sudden Weekly\" and \"Next Magazine\" ranked first and second in circulation for Hong Kong's magazine market while \"Apple Daily\" is the No. 2 newspaper in Hong Kong.\n\nLai encourages a company culture of transparency and creativity without hierarchy. Employees are encouraged to tackle challenges through trial and error while assuming responsibility for their actions and sharing in profits from successful ventures.\n\nIn a 1994 newspaper column, he told Premier of the PRC Li Peng to \"drop dead,\" and called the Communist Party of China, \"a monopoly that charges a premium for lousy service\". As a result, most of his publications remain banned in mainland China. China's government retaliated against Lai by starting a shut-down of Giordano shops, prompting him to sell out of the company he founded in order to save it.\n\nAhead of the record-breaking pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong of July 2003 that brought half a million people onto the streets, the cover of Next Magazine featured a photo-montage of the territory's embattled chief executive, Tung Chee-Hwa taking a pie in the face. The magazine urged readers to take to the streets while Apple Daily distributed stickers calling for Tung to resign.\n\nIn addition to promoting democracy, Lai's publication often ruffle feathers of fellow Hong Kong tycoons by exposing their personal foibles and relations with local government. Lai has frequently faced hostility from the many Beijing-backed tycoons, including attempts to force supplier boycotts of his companies and a lengthy battle to list on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange that he sidestepped through a reverse takeover. Lai managed to list the company in 1999 by acquiring Paramount Publishing Group in October of that year.\n\nNeither Bank of China nor any state-owned enterprise from mainland places ads in Next Media publications, while major Hong Kong property developers and a range of other top-line companies advertise only in competing publications. The offices of his publications have been vandalised and his house was firebombed in 1993. It was at this time he converted to the Catholic faith, which has a long history in China.\n\nLai pioneered a reader-centric philosophy with paparazzi journalism in Hong Kong based on publications such as \"USA Today\" and \"The Sun\". His best-selling \"Next Magazine\" and \"Apple Daily\" newspaper, feature a mix of racy tabloid material and news items oriented to the mass market with plenty of colour and graphics that attracts a wide range of readers, some of whom are also critics of Lai and his ideology.\n\nLai launched Taiwan editions of \"Next Magazine\" in 2001 and \"Apple Daily\" in 2003, taking on heavily established rivals who made considerable effort to thwart him. Rival publishers pressed advertisers to boycott and distributors not to undertake home delivery. His Taiwan offices were vandalised on numerous occasions, but as the publications grew to have the largest readership in their category, the advertising boycotts ended.\n\nIn October 2006, Lai launched \"Sharp Daily\" (Shuang Bao in mandarin), a free daily newspaper targeting Taipei commuters. The company also launched \"Me! Magazine\" in Taiwan.\n\nIn building Taiwan's most popular newspaper, Apple Daily, and magazine, Next Magazine, Lai's racy publications have had a great impact on the island's hitherto staid media culture.\n\nDuring the dot-com boom of the late 1990s, Lai started the Internet-based grocery retailer which offered home delivery service, adMart. It expanded its product scope beyond groceries to include electronics and office supplies but was shut down after losing between $100 and $150 million. Lai attributed this business failure to overconfidence and the lack of a viable business strategy. Admart.Asia (www.Admart.Asia), a popular free classifieds website covering Asia, is now no longer associated with Lai.\n\nIn 2011, NextMedia reportedly sold 70% stake of NextMedia's subsidiary Colored World Holdings (CWH, incorporated in the British Virgin Islands) to Sum Tat Ventures (STV, incorporated in the British Virgin Islands), a private company 100% owned by Jimmy Lai. CWH was estimated to have net asset value of US$6.1 million. STV paid US$100 million in cash for 70% stake of CWH. In 2013, STV paid another US$20 million in cash for the remaining 30% stake of CWH. CWH itself had its assets sold in 2011, and ceased operation in 2011. Thus, in total, STV paid US$120 million in cash for CWH. Very little information is available for STV. However, on Jimmy Lai's Form 3B disclosure form, STV is listed as having the same correspondence address as NextMedia, at 1/F., 8 Chun Ying Street, Tseung Kwan O Industrial Estate, Tsueng Kwan O, NT, Hong Kong. The purchase of CWH was largely seen as a transfer of cash from Lai to NextMedia to offset NextMedia's continual losses during that time, and to boost assets as collateral for NextMedia to obtain additional loans in the future. However, as US$120 million is approximately 1/10 of Lai's net worth, some speculate real liquidity of Lai's personal assets, and whether Lai made other loan guarantees to obtain such an amount.\n\nNear end of 2013, Lai spent approximately US$73 million (or NT$2.3 Billion) to purchase 2% stake (~17 million shares) in Taiwanese electronics manufacturer HTC.\n\nLai's support for Occupy Central and pro-democracy movements has proved controversial with the Chinese government. On 13 December 2014, Lai was arrested, along with other pro-democratic leaders, during the clearance of the Admiralty protest site of the Umbrella movement. The following day, Lai announced he would step down as head of Next Media \"so as to spend more time with his family and further pursue his personal interests\".\n\nAmong other attacks, he has had machetes, axes and threatening messages left in his driveway, has been rammed by a car and has had his home firebombed several times (most recently in 2015). Some suspect this is due to the activist, pro-democracy nature of his media outlets, which the Chinese government disapproves of. Next Media spokesman Mark Simon claims that \"This is a continual effort to intimidate the press in Hong Kong. This is raw and pure intimidation.\" Though the attack was denounced by Hong Kong's Secretary for Justice, pro-democracy activists feel that the Hong Kong police and the government (which was Chinese-controlled since the handover in 1997) do not always follow up on acts against Apple Daily or the democracy movement, and that culprits are rarely found.\n\nDuring the early hours of 12 January 2015, two masked men hurled petrol bombs at Lai's home on Kadoorie Avenue in Kowloon Tong. At the same time, a petrol bomb was thrown at the Next Media headquarters in Tseung Kwan O Industrial Estate. The fires were extinguished by security guards. The perpetrators fled and two cars used in the attacks were found torched in Shek Kip Mei and Cheung Sha Wan. The crimes were denounced as an \"attack on press freedom\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2970967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2970967", "title": "Joseph Lagu", "text": "Joseph Lagu\n\nJoseph Lagu (born 21 November 1931, in a hamlet called Momokwe in Moli, northern region of Madiland, about 80 miles south of Juba, Sudan, currently South Sudan) is a South Sudanese military figure and politician. He belongs to the Madi ethnic group of Eastern Equatoria state, South Sudan.\n\nIn May 1960 he graduated from the military college in Omdurman and was commissioned as an officer in the Sudanese Army and posted to the 10th Brigade, Northern Command.\n\nIn the period 1978–1979, Lagu served as the second President of the High Executive Council of the autonomous region of Southern Sudan.\n\nJune 1963 he defected from the Army and joined the South Sudan resistance movement against the Government of Sudan. September 1963 he founded Anya nya the military wing of the resistance movement, named after a deadly poison. Anya-nya reinvigorated the movement that erupted on 18 August 1955 and continued the fight against the Sudanese government in the first Sudanese civil war (1955–72) dubbed the 17 Years War. Among Joseph Lagu's junior officers in Anya-nya was John Garang who was recruited in October 1970 and was later to become the chief architect of the second civil war.\n\nThe war ended in 1972, after a peace agreement was signed in Addis Ababa by the Sudanese government led by President Gaafar Nimeiry and the South Sudan Liberation Movement (SSLM), political wing of the resistance founded by Joseph Lagu when he took overall control of the entire southern resistance in January 1971. The agreement was signed under the auspices of emperor Haile Selassie. The Addis Ababa Agreement granted regional autonomy to Southern Sudan and ensured that Anya-nya and its political arms would be absorbed into the national army, police force and the newly formed national government. Joseph Lagu, who rejoined the Sudanese armed forces with the rank of Major General, stayed on in the Army to ensure a smooth merger of the disparate forces. The ten years following the agreement gave the country the longest period of relative peace in Sudan's turbulent history, plagued as it was by coup d'etats and civil wars. It also gave Southern Sudan a chance at developing democratic institutions in its own autonomous context.\n\nAfter leaving military service he entered public life. He was elected by popular vote to the Presidency of the High Executive Council of the Southern Sudan Autonomous Region in 1978 and in 1982 was appointed 2nd Vice President of the Republic.\n\nIn 1985 when Nimeiry's government was toppled by his defence minister, Gen. Mohammed Ahmed Suar-El-Dahab, Joseph Lagu also lost his position as 2nd Vice President. Relocating to the UK with his family, Joseph Lagu kept quite a low political profile, though he sometimes appeared on political rallies. The brief military rule that succeeded the coup was followed by a democratically elected government under the Premiership of Sadiq al-Mahdi. Joseph Lagu was appointed Roving Ambassador by the elected Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi. Al Mahdi's government was in turn overthrown by Gen. Omar al-Bashir (then a Brigadier) who has managed to maintain his hold on power since the coup in 1989. Joseph Lagu’s post as Roving Ambassador continued under the new regime having been confirmed by President al-Bashir himself. Joseph Lagu was appointed as Sudanese Ambassador to the UN between September 1990 and January 1992. He was then reappointed Roving Ambassador. He resigned from the position in May 1998 after he was appointment as Presidential Advisor, a post that he declined requesting he be relieved of all official duty so as to become a private citizen and an independent voice.\n\nHe has recently completed writing his memoirs—\"Sudan Odyssey Through a State from Ruin to Hope\".\n"}
{"id": "46665799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46665799", "title": "José Leonardo Chirino", "text": "José Leonardo Chirino\n\nJosé Leonardo Chirino (April 25, 1754 – December 10, 1796) was a free zambo who helped lead a 1795 uprising in Santa Ana de Coro, Venezuela. José Leonardo Chirino Airport is named after him.\n\n1795 was perhaps the most revolutionary year in Caribbean history, with rebellions in Grenada, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent, Curaçao, Dominica, Guyana, Trinidad, Jamaica, and the unfolding Haitian Revolution.\n\nThe Coro rebellion grew out of and contributed to this revolutionary conjuncture, especially under the leadership of Chirino, who had recently traveled to Saint-Domingue and heard news of the rebellion there as well as the more-distant French Revolution, and also the leadership of José Caridad González, a Congolese man who had studied the philosophy, strategy, and tactics of the unfolding French Revolution.\n\nThe Coro rebellion had four primary objectives:\n\n\nAfter the rebellion was suppressed, Chirino was betrayed by an associate, captured, and condemned to death. His children were sold into slavery. He was executed on December 10, 1796.\n"}
{"id": "14833871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14833871", "title": "Judicial police", "text": "Judicial police\n\nThe judicial police, judiciary police, or justice police are (depending on both country and legal system) either a branch, separate police agency or type of duty performed by law enforcement structures in a country. In civil law systems, it is common for \"judiciary police\" to be a separate police structure from internal affairs police structure, but they can overlap in duties and competences.\n\nThe most important difference is that the \"judiciary police\" typically report to the \"judicial branch\" of government or to the justice ministry or department of the executive branch, and \"normal\" police, such as the gendarmerie, typically report to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the executive branch. Typical duties performed by the judicial police are administering and securing administration offices of the judicial branch, courts and prisons, providing physical security to judicial officials such as judges, criminal investigators and prosecutors, transportation of defendants and prisoners between courts, jails and law enforcement offices and other duties linked to enforcement of criminal law.\n\nIn some cases, the judicial police secure enforcement of non-criminal judicial decisions, such as providing physical security to judicial enforcement officers (ushers or bailiffs), but that is commonly the duty of normal police. It is common for criminal investigation duties, usually under the direction of prosecutor's office, to be performed by the judicial police branch instead of a criminal investigation department within standard police force, but it does not commonly participate in other forms of law enforcement, such as enforcement of traffic codes.\n\nCivil law \"judiciary police\" are, thus, in many ways similar to the institutes of sheriff or marshall in common law countries.\n\nJudicial police may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "3130131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3130131", "title": "Lady Caroline Faber", "text": "Lady Caroline Faber\n\nLady Ann Caroline Faber (29 August 1923 – 14 September 2016) was the daughter of Harold Macmillan (created Earl of Stockton in 1984) and his wife Lady Dorothy Macmillan. She was the second of their four children, and their last surviving child.\n\nShe was married to the insurance executive Julian Faber from 1944 until his death in January 2002. They had five children.\n\n\nShe died in Sussex on 14 September 2016 at the age of 93, and her funeral was held at Chelsea Old Church, Cheyne Walk, London later that month. \n"}
{"id": "11110749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11110749", "title": "List of Undersecretary Positions", "text": "List of Undersecretary Positions\n\nUnder Secretary may refer to:\n\nIn the United States, the rank of Under Secretary denotes a high level civilian official within the United States federal government. An official of sub-Cabinet rank, Under Secretaries are appointed by the President of the United States with the consent of the United States Senate and are assigned to assist a specific Cabinet Secretary. Under Secretaries often manage extensive portfolios within a Cabinet Department.\n\nUnder Secretaries are generally Level III positions within the Executive Schedule, ranking below the position of Deputy Secretary and above the position of Assistant Secretary. Since January 2010, the annual rate of pay for Level III is $165,300.\n\nThe Associate Attorney General and the Solicitor General, both of the Department of Justice, are ranked equivalent to an Under Secretary. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36791029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36791029", "title": "Mining act", "text": "Mining act\n\nThe main purpose of mining acts () in law is to govern the structure of mining authorities and their responsibilities, the entitlement to mining and the oversight of safety in and around the mines. With the introduction of parliamentary legislative powers, they replaced the earlier mining regulations issued by royalty or nobility to their states and territories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21038616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21038616", "title": "Ministry of Culture and Fine Arts (Cambodia)", "text": "Ministry of Culture and Fine Arts (Cambodia)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture and Fine Arts (Khmer: ក្រសួងវប្បធម៌ និងវិចិត្រសិល្បៈ) (MoFA) is the government ministry with a mandate to promote, encourage and support the fine arts of Cambodia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6054747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6054747", "title": "Movladi Udugov", "text": "Movladi Udugov\n\nMovladi Saidarbievich Udugov (; born February 9, 1962 in Germenchuk, Shalinsky District, Chechnya into the Shirdi teip) is an activist and the former First Deputy Prime Minister of the separatist Chechen Republic of Ichkeria (ChRI). As a Chechen propaganda chief, he was credited for the Chechen separatists' victory on the information front during the First Chechen War.\n\nA highly-controversial figure, following a particularly fundamentalist strain of Islam that is not shared by most Chechens, he is currently one of the ideologues and the main propagandist behind the Caucasus Emirate (a Pan-Islamic militant movement that is rejecting the idea of a merely independent Chechen state in favor of an Islamic state encompassing most of the Russia's North Caucasus and based on Islamic Sharia law).\n\nFrom 1983 to 1988, Udugov studied in Checheno-Ingushetia State University. Since 1988, was editor in chief of the newspaper \"Orientir\", which was banned by the regional committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1989. Soon, he became a member of the Presidium of the Executive Committee of the National Congress of Chechen People (NCCP). In NCCP, Movladi Udugov became the chairman of the Information Committee and simultaneously an employee of the local television station; during the 1991 revolution in Grozny, Udugov used this position to broadcast Dzhokhar Dudayev's address to the people.\n\nAfter the Chechen declaration of independence by Dudayev, Udugov joined the ruling structures of the Chechen separatist government, serving as press secretary. During the 1994-1996 war, the ways in which he distributed information about the conflict, although crude by the Western standards, were still more professional than those of the Kremlin and the Russian federal forces. In August 1996, Movladi Udugov was appointed the First Deputy Prime Minister of Chechen Republic for state policy and information in the war-time cabinet of Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev who became an acting president after the death of Dudayev. For his role in the Chechen victory in information warfare (and the whole war) Udugov was awarded the Ichkeria's highest medal, Honor of the Nation. Among his Russian enemies, he became known as \"the Chechen Goebbels\".\n\nFollowing the end of the First Chechen War, Udugov unsuccessfully ran for the post of President of Ichkeria in the January 1997 election, but got less than 1% percent of the votes (in his election campaign he was representing an unpopular radical Islamist platform). Udugov again became a Deputy Prime Minister and of the Minister of Information in the government of Aslan Maskhadov. In 1996-1997 he travelled to Moscow on a number of occasions for talks with members of the Security Council of Russia and Russian government, including as a part of Chechen delegation for the signing of peace treaty at the Kremlin. In August 1997, Udugov founded Islamic Umma party, uniting a number of political movements in Chechnya and neighbouring Dagestan. In 1998, together with Shamil Basayev and several other radical Chechen and Dagestani figures, Udugov organized the association called Congress of the Peoples of Ichkeria and Dagestan. In March 1999, Udugov helped to create Kavkaz Center, a Chechen international Islamic Internet agency; he also sponsors several other websites, among them Russian language The Chechen Times. According to an Anti-Defamation League investigator, Udugov propagated antisemitic ideas in his media.\n\nRussian authorities accused him of being one of the main organizers of the Chechen rebel-led attack on Dagestan in August 1999, and Udugov is wanted by the Russian federal government since March 20, 2000, accused of having violated Article 279 of Russia's Criminal Code, which outlaws \"armed uprisings.\" At the start of the Second Chechen War in September 1999, Udugov left Chechnya abroad, resulting in a rapid decline of his influence on the Chechen separatist movement at the time. There is information about his stay in Afghanistan, Scandinavia, Turkey, Persian Gulf countries and possibly United States; although no evidence has been offered to support any of these claims. His current whereabouts are unknown. Since February 2006, following his victory in a dispute with exiled moderate Chechen leader Akhmed Zakayev, he once again became an official rebel spokesman, heading National Information Service (NIS) of the State Defense Council. In October 2007, Udugov was said to be the author of the proclamation of the Caucasus Emirate; during the following constitutional crisis, the ChRI government in exile led by Zakayev dismissed Udugov from the post of the head of NIS and abolished the service. Since 2007, Udugov runs the Informational-Analytical Service of the Caucasus Emirate.\n\n"}
{"id": "40866274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40866274", "title": "Noura Erakat", "text": "Noura Erakat\n\nNoura Erakat is a Palestinian American legal scholar, and human rights attorney She is an activist and writer, as well as a specialist in national security. Erakat is one of six core figures who launched \"Jadaliyya\" in 2010 (an ezine in English, Arabic, and French that is an initiative of the non-profit Arab Studies Institute (ASI) in Washington, D.C. and Beirut, Lebanon). She is the sister of Yousef Erakat, better know by his YouTube moniker, FouseyTube.\n\nErakat graduated with a B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley in 2002 (Phi Beta Kappa) and was a \"UC Berkeley Human Rights Center Summer Fellow\" in 2003. She received her J.D. from UC Berkeley School of Law in 2005 and was awarded the \"Francine Diaz Memorial Scholarship Award\" in the same year. Finally, she completed her L.L.M at Georgetown University Law Center in 2012.\n\nErakat has \"served as legal counsel to the House of Representatives Oversight Committee\" and has previously taught at Georgetown University. From 2012-2014, she was a Freedman Fellow with Temple University Beasley School of Law. She currently serves on the board of the Institute for Policy Studies, is a member of the Board of Directors for the Trans-Arab Research Institute, and is a policy advisor with Al-Shabaka: The Palestinian Policy Network.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49382777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49382777", "title": "Obed Mountain coal mine spill", "text": "Obed Mountain coal mine spill\n\nThe Obed Mountain coal mine spill was a mining disaster that occurred on October 31, 2013, when a waste pit at the Obed Mountain Mine failed near the town of Hinton in Alberta, Canada. Following the collapse of a tailings dam, up to one billion liters () of wastewater flooded into the nearby Athabasca River – what may be the largest coal slurry spill in Canadian history. The river's waters experienced immediate spikes in arsenic, metals, and carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). Although the Athabasca was deemed safe for drinking and wildlife by the end of the year, the extent of the environment's recovery remains in doubt.\n\nLocated about east of Hinton, the Obed Mountain Mine was a thermal coal mine with the capacity to produce about 3.2 million tonnes () of coal per year; 2.6 million tonnes () are proven to exist, and up to 84.7 million more tonnes () were posited. Tailings ponds were constructed to contain water used to wash coal; besides wastewater, the pools also contained fine rock and clay particles, unrecovered coal, and flocculents. Operations were suspended in 2012 because of economic pressures, and around of the mine has been reclaimed.\n\nOn October31, 2013, one of the mine's tailings dams failed, and from between 600 million to a billion liters () of slurry poured into the Plante and Apetowun Creeks. The plume of waste products then joined the Athabasca River, travelling downstream for a month before settling in Lake Athabasca near Fort Chipewyan, over away.\n\nIn the first month after the spill, water quality tests revealed the presence of metals and chemicals such as cadmium, arsenic, manganese, lead, mercury, and PAHs in excess of limits for consumption or life along the first of the Athabasca River. Mercury, for instance, was found to be nine times higher than normal, while PAHs were at levels four times higher than the Canadian standard for potable water. As a result, residents were discouraged from both drinking any of the Athabasca as well as watering any livestock or pets. \n\nBy December 2013, as the plume reached Fort McMurray, government officials reported that water from the Athabasca was once again below safety thresholds for both wildlife and drinking water. Monitoring has continued in the years since, although First Nations representatives have continued to dispute the rigor of the sampling program, its exclusion of data from sediment, and the lack of information made available to the public.\n\nIn October 2015, the Alberta Energy Regulator corporation filed charges against the mine's operators, Sheritt Coal and Coal Valley Resources Inc., on several counts of violations of the Environmental Protection and Enhancement, Water, and Public Lands Acts which could amount to up to a $2.2 million fine. Proceedings began on January20, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "29555161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29555161", "title": "Open Philanthropy", "text": "Open Philanthropy\n\nOpen Philanthropy is the doctrine which holds that the programming, operations, governance, effectiveness, and efficiency of nonprofit organizations should be open and visible by the public, donors, and especially, stakeholders in those nonprofits.\n\nAmong recent developments is the theory of open source governance which advocates the application of the philosophies of the free software movement to democratic principles to enable interested citizens to get more directly involved in the legislative process.\n\nThe Effective altruism movement is a prominent proponent of analyzing, in a rubric with other criteria, the transparency of nonprofit organizations. The Open Philanthropy Project - a joint collaboration between GiveWell, a charity navigator, and Good Ventures, co-founded by a Facebook co-founder - \"envision a world in which philanthropists increasingly document and share their research, reasoning, results and mistakes to help each other learn more quickly and serve the world more effectively.\"\n\nSince 2007 a variety of bloggers and writers, including Mark Surman, have proposed the concept of \"Open Philanthropy\". Few of these early efforts seemed to get much traction with stakeholders or nonprofit leaders. Then early in 2010, Lucy Bernholz again surfaced the concept for how nonprofits should follow the conventions of Open Source and Open Government initiatives.\n\nThe guiding principles of compliant organizations include:\n\nThe plans, budgets, expenses, and programming of an organization shall be designed to ensure organizational focus on the mission of the organization. The majority of funds spent are in support of programs and services. Administrative and fundraising costs are kept within reasonable limits with a goal of more than 75 percent of funds allocated to program and outreach expenses.\n\nOrganizations shall have a documented methodology to measure and accurately report programmatic achievements, and where appropriate, the actual cost per beneficiary for program services. Additionally, these efforts shall account, and if necessary discount, for program achievements that are accomplished through and with other organizations. Program costs shall be managed to be as reasonable as possible, without sacrificing services, quality, and long-term sustainability of services.\n\nProgramming is designed to be both sustainable and scalable using models other organizations can emulate and adopt or proving new concepts. Fundraising efforts match anticipated programming needs. Program efforts demonstrate high numbers of beneficiaries served with programs, which are sustainable for years and decades. Post-program monitoring and research designed to test impact, value, sustainability, and scalability of solutions. Measures of success are meaningful, accurate, and complete.\n\nOrganization has documented strategic, fiscal, and annual plans and processes that are shared with appropriate stakeholders. Ongoing management review of key deliverables with risks identified and disaggregated by type. Mitigation strategies and processes incorporate controls, accountabilities, monitoring, and reporting. There shall be a clear organizational tone regarding ethical behavior in all the activities of the organization. Proactively explain actions and material decisions to stakeholders, including government, donors, beneficiaries, and the public at large.\n\nAs the organization develops, implements, tests, and then refines procedures and processes, it shares those lessons in a non-competitive fashion with other organizations that might benefit from past successes. In regard to content, the organization will strive to collect, process, and share media assets such as video, still imagery, and audio in a manner that allows for release under creative commons, no commercial use, with attribution licensing terms. Where permissible and valuable, make data interoperable and release intellectual property under open source creative commons licensing terms.\n\nOrganizations shall publish and make conveniently available important data about the organization, its staffing, resources, and governance. Reporting shall be in a format convenient for stakeholders and can include printed and digital reports, audio programming or real-time online systems. All reports shall be published on a timely basis and in particular financial data, including filed tax returns, shall be publicly available within 30 days of necessary audits. Organizations shall use best efforts to ensure the accuracy and timeliness of information released and shall promptly correct inaccuracies or incorrect materials.\n\nWithin the scope of Open Philanthropy there are practical limitations to the extent all materials shall be open and visible by the public. Materials whose release would be prohibited by law, or that may compromise the corporate or personal safety of others are exempt. Those items with contractual privacy or licensing arrangements do not require disclosure. Organizations shall not disclose information that compromises the integrity of others, and/or organizational processes and policies. Only to the extent as explicitly permitted, donor information shall be exempt. In compliance with trademark law, trade names and marks are exempt from reuse without attribution.\n\n"}
{"id": "9443072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9443072", "title": "Optical scan voting system", "text": "Optical scan voting system\n\nAn optical scan voting system is an electronic voting system and uses an optical scanner to read marked paper ballots and tally the results.\n\nWhile mark sense technology dates back to the 1930s and optical mark recognition dates to the 1950s, these technologies were first explored in the context of standardized tests such as college entrance exams. The first suggestion to use\nmark sense technology to count ballots came in 1953, but practical optical scanners did not emerge until the 1960s. The Norden Electronic Vote Tallying System was the first to be deployed, but it required the use of special ink to mark the ballot. The Votronic, from 1965, was the first optical mark vote tabulator able to sense marks made with a graphite pencil.\n\nThe oldest optical-scan voting systems scan ballots using optical mark recognition scanners. Voters mark their choice in a voting response location, usually filling a rectangle, circle or oval, or by completing an arrow. Various mark-sense voting systems have used a variety of different approaches to determining what marks are counted as votes. Early systems, such as the Votronic, introduced in 1965, had a single photosensor per column of marks on the ballot. Most such tabulators used analog comparators that counted all marks darker than a fixed threshold as being votes. The Optech line of scanners developed by Business Records Corporation and sold by both Election Systems & Software and Sequoia Voting Systems is a current example of this technology.\n\nThe use of digital imaging technology to view the ballot does not necessarily imply more sophisticated mark recognition. For example, the Avante Vote-Trakker simply counts the number of dark and light pixels in each marking area to determine if the mark counts as a vote. More sophisticated mark recognition algorithms are sensitive to the shape of the mark as well as the total overall darkness, as illustrated by the ES&S Model 100, introduced in the mid 1990s.\nThe ballot can be immediately tabulated at polling stations allowing for voters to be notified by the voting system of voting errors such as an overvote and can prevent residual votes. One such method can display a digital image of the ballot being submitted and allows the voter to review how their ballots are being read. This is known as a precinct-count voting system. Alternately the ballots can be collected in the polling station and tabulated later at a central facility, known as central-count voting system.\n\nAn electronic ballot marker (EBM) or ballot marking device (BMD) is a device that can aid voters in marking paper ballots. Typical ballot markers include a touch screen and a variety of assistive devices to serve the needs of voters with disabilities.\n\nIn 1991, Julien Anno and others filed a patent application for a device resembling a modern electronic ballot marker, with an emphasis on multilingual ballot presentation, not accessibility. The Jites and Digivote systems used in Belgium are similar to this, although they use magnetic stripe cards instead of bar codes to record the ballot. Eugene Cummings filed a patent for an electronic ballot marker specifically designed as an accessible voting interface for optical-scan voting systems in 2003. This machine, the Automark, saw widespread use in the United States.\n\nDigital pen voting systems use ballots on digital paper which is recognized by a small camera in the pen while it is marked by the voter. The ballots are collected in a ballot box and the digital pen is returned to an election official for tabulation.\n\nThis technology was expected to be used in the 2008 Hamburg state elections, but eventually was decided against due to controversy surrounding the accuracy of voting tallies.\n\nThe technology was first used by the town of Menstrie, Clackmannanshire Scotland in their 2006 local community council elections.\n\nOptical scan voting systems are a form of document ballot voting system, meaning that there is a tangible record of the voter's intent (a paper ballot). Like traditional paper ballots these are subject to electoral fraud and ballot stuffing.\n\nOne form of wholesale fraud possible with optical scan voting systems is during the recording of votes. Douglas W. Jones of the University of Iowa states that if a potential attacker were to gain access to the voting system configuration files, they would be able to \"credit one candidate with votes intended for another.\" He found these files are exposed in the computer system used to prepare the election, making them vulnerable to anyone setting up the election. The files are then transferred to the voting system using removable media, and \"anyone with access to these media could potentially attack the system.\"\n\nAnother form of wholesale fraud is during tabulation. Possible attacks have been demonstrated by Harri Hursti and the University of Connecticut.\n\nIf an attacker is able to obtain a blank ballot (by theft, counterfeit, or a legitimate absentee ballot) the attacker can then mark the ballot for their chosen candidates and convince (through intimidation or bribery) a voter to take the pre-marked ballot to a polling station, exchange it for the blank ballot issued and return the blank ballot to the attacker. This is known as chain voting\n\nSome suggest many of these well-known vulnerabilities can be effectively mitigated. Ballot stuffing may be resolved with incorporation of randomly generated ballot identifier for each paper ballot and capturing digital ballot images of scanned ballots as electronic audit.\n\nTabulation fraud and wholesale tampering can also be prevented by adding a cryptographic verification mechanism. This approach is mathematically based, and thus invariant to software attacks or breaches in chain-of-custody of the paper ballots. One such system is Scantegrity.\n\nAn advantage of these systems is that the voters don't have to learn to use a voting machine. Physically able voters can simply use pen and paper to mark their intent. Some disabled voters could use a machine to print a voted ballot, which can then be fed into the optical scanner along with all the other ballots, thus preserving the secrecy of their ballot.\n\nOptical scan voting systems can allow for manual recounting of ballots and random auditing of the election equipment that reports the results to election officials. Statistically relevant auditing can serve as a tool to detect or deter malfunction or fraud. In the instance where a candidate is entitled to a recount, a full hand recount of paper ballots can determine the accurate, or final results. Officials responsible for maintaining the veracity and accuracy of elections such as election commissioners or county auditors, can randomly select a voting block such as a precinct to verify the optical scanning voting system tabulation and report is accurate by doing a hand count against the machine's results. By performing such an audit, election officials can confirm the system is in good standing. Or, if an error in the counting is discovered during a random audit of the machine(s), a full recount can be conducted, and the system evaluated for the source of failure or fraud. \n\nAn advantage compared to DRE voting machines is that even if the optical scanner fails, voters can still fill out their paper ballot, and leave it to be scanned when the machine is fixed or replaced with a spare. This also allow many more people to simultaneously vote than would be the case with fully computerized voting.\n\nUsing more than 80,000 optical scanners during its last two elections (2010 and 2013), the Philippines has reduced the time to process votes and announce results. The Philippine elections constitute the largest deployment of optical scanners in the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22716990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22716990", "title": "Palestinian land laws", "text": "Palestinian land laws\n\nPalestinian land laws refer to ownership of land under the Palestinian Authority (PA). These laws prohibit Palestinians from selling Palestinian-owned lands to \"any man or judicial body corporation of Israeli citizenship, living in Israel or acting on its behalf.\" These land laws were originally enacted during the Jordanian rule of the West Bank (1948–1967). Land sales to Israelis are considered treason by the Palestinians because they threaten the founding of a future state and to \"halt the spread of moral, political and security corruption\". Palestinians who sell land to Israelis can be sentenced to death, although death penalties are seldom carried out; a death sentence has to be approved by the Palestinian Authority President.\n\nIsrael captured the West Bank from Jordan and Gaza from Egypt during the Six-Day War of 1967. Under international law as interpreted by the Palestine Liberation Organization, Jordanian laws as they existed on 4 June 1967 (the eve of the\noccupation) are applicable to the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, and Israel as an Occupying Power is obliged to respect these laws.\n\nShortly after the war, Israel began establishing settlements in these territories based on the legal opinion of Plia Albeck, in contradiction with legal advice of others, including from Theodor Meron, the Israeli Foreign Ministry's advisor. In 2005, Israel dismantled its settlements in Gaza, but Israeli settlements in East Jerusalem, along with their security zones, still account for about 60% of the area. In the West Bank, settlements have continued to slowly grow and as of April 2009, included about 400,000 settlers. All Israeli settlements in the occupied territories (including those in East Jerusalem) are considered illegal by the international community, but Israel disputes this.\n\nPalestinians argue that the growth of Israeli settlements compromises their ability to establish a viable state of their own in the territories, in accordance with the proposed two-state solution. In April 2009, a Chief Islamic Judge of the Palestinian Authority reminded of an existing fatwa that bans Palestinians from selling property to Jews, which is considered high treason and punishable by death.\n\nThe Negotiations Affairs Department of the State of Palestine (PLO-NAD) declared in 2008, that all transactions with Israelis and other foreigners transferring confiscated land in the Occupied Territories violate international law and are null and void. It stated that under the Hague Regulations an occupant may only administer public property as a usufructuary and does not gain sovereignty or title over any part of occupied territory. Israel thus has no right to sell Palestinian state land, nor does it have a right to lease state land for long periods or for the purpose of settlements. According to the PLO-NAD, the Palestinian government of the future Palestinian state will not be under any obligation to honour Israeli transactions in occupied Palestinian property that took place during Israel’s occupation.\n\nIn a 2009 case, in which a Palestinian was convicted of selling land to foreigners, it appears that some additional laws were used to obtain the conviction. The \"Jerusalem Post\" states that the defendant was convicted under a law prohibiting sale of Palestinian land to \"the enemy\" (possibly a reference to the old Jordanian law), as well as a Palestinian \"military law\" which, according to the Jerusalem Post, \"states that it is forbidden to sell land to Jews\", and two earlier laws dating from the 1950s which forbade trade with the state of Israel.\n\nWhile Palestinian Authority courts can impose death sentences, they cannot be carried out without the approval of the PA President. The current President, Mahmoud Abbas, has consistently refused to approve executions. In September 2010, a Palestinian court reaffirmed that the sale of Palestinian land to Israelis is punishable by death. The Palestine General Prosecution said that the ruling represented \"a consolidation of the previous legal principle,\" and that the \"ruling aimed to protect the Palestinian national project to establish an independent Palestinian state.\"\n\nSources differ on the number of Palestinians officially executed for the offence, with the \"Jerusalem Post\" stating that none have been executed while a BBC report indicates that there have been two executions. However, a number of extrajudicial killings have also taken place since the death penalty was first announced. In May 1997 for example, three Palestinians convicted under the statute were later found murdered. Human Rights Watch argued that the circumstances of the murders \"strongly suggested official tolerance if not involvement\" by the PA, citing as evidence \"inflammatory statements\" by PA Justice Minister Frei Abu Medein \"which seemed to give a green light to violence against suspected land dealers.\" Medein is quoted as saying: \"... expect the unexpected for these matters because nobody from this moment will accept any traitor who sells his land to Israel.\"\n\nIn 1998, Amnesty International reported that torture of those accused of selling land to Israelis appeared to be systematic, and unlawful killings were also reported against those accused.\n\nAn additional consequence has reportedly been increased intimidation of Palestinian Christians, as many ordinary Palestinians have misinterpreted the law to mean prohibition on sale of property not only to Jews but also to any other non-Muslim. This misperception has been fuelled by a number of fatwas issued by Palestinian Muslim clerics in support of the PA's death penalty which fail to distinguish between Jews and Christians, but which simply condemn sale of property to \"infidels\" (i.e. non-Muslims).\n\nIn March 2007, the Palestinian Authority and Jordan arrested two Palestinians accused of selling a house in Hebron to Israelis. According to Hebron's Jewish Committee, \"The arrest exposes once again the anti-Semitic nature of the PA. We call upon the government to accept the racial hatred prevalent in the PA.\" Knesset member Uri Ariel demanded that the government act to secure the release of the arrested Palestinians, while Orit Struk of the committee said the arrest proves that the house legally belongs to the Jewish community.\n\nIn 2012, Mohammad Abu Shahala, a former PA intelligence officer, was reportedly sentenced to death for selling land to Jews. The Jewish community of Hebron petitioned the UN, the US, and the Israeli government to step in on Abu Shahala's behalf.\n\nIn early April 2009, it was reported that several Jewish businessmen from the United States purchased 20 dunams (2 hectares) of land from Palestinians in the Mount of Olives area of Jerusalem. The report prompted the PA to reissue its warning that sale of property to Jews constitutes \"high treason\" punishable by death. Sheikh Tamimi, Chief (Islamic) Judge of the PA, reminded Palestinians of an earlier fatwa against the practice. \"The city of Jerusalem is the religious, political and spiritual capital of the Palestinians,\" he said. \"The Jews have no rights in Jerusalem. This is an occupied city like the rest of the territories that were occupied in 1967.\" Fatah legislator Hatem Abdel Kader, an advisor to the PA Prime Minister, asserted that the ban on sale of property to Jews was still necessary as the Israeli government and settlers were mounting a \"fierce onslaught\" on the Arab sector in East Jerusalem, attempting to alter the demographic balance there by demolishing Palestinian homes. East Jerusalem was annexed by Israel in the wake of the 1967 war, but the annexation has not been recognized by the international community.\n\nIn late April 2009, a Palestinian military court condemned a man to death by hanging for treason after he sold some land to Israelis. The death sentence requires the approval of the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, who is not expected to approve it.\n\nOsama Hussein Mansour, a retired Palestinian security officer, was arrested by the Palestinian Authority in June 2012 on charges of collaborating with Israel and being involved in land transactions with Israelis. He died in July after falling from a window while being held in Palestinian custody, but it was unclear whether he fell or was pushed. His wife does not believe it was suicide, but rather that he was killed, and stated that she visited him a few days before and he was in good spirits and happy.\n\nPalestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas issued an executive order that amended the land law penal code, and increased punishments for selling land to \"hostile countries and its citizens\". These punishments include hard labor to life imprisonment for Palestinians who sell, rent or mediate real estate transactions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35944689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35944689", "title": "Petromocho", "text": "Petromocho\n\nEl Petromocho was a political scandal that took place in the Principality of Asturias, Spain, in 1993. It led to the resignation of the Asturian President, Juan Luis Rodríguez-Vigil. The scandal occurred at a time when there was a need to attract productive investment to Asturias because of a declining industrial structure. \n\nIn October 1992, Jean-Maurice Lauze stated he was sent by the Saudi International Bank as a French intermediary to negotiate with the government of Asturias. His proposal was to make an investment of up to 100,000 million pesetas to build an oil refinery near the port of El Musel in Gijón. The negotiations lasted seven months, and the project was to receive a state subsidy of 1,000 million pesetas. The project was announced in May 1993, and was presented as one of the largest industrial investments ever made in Spain. Construction would begin in 1994 and was to be completed in 1998. The refinery, with a production capacity of 180,000 barrels a day, would create up to 4,000 jobs. A week after the announcement, and following an investigation by three of its editors, the newspaper \"Gijón Trade\" stated the project was a fraud. The Saudi International Bank confirmed that it had no knowledge of the project. The alleged New York bank that was to underwrite the operation did not exist. The Asturian government discovered that it had been deceived by an imposter. Rodríguez-Vigil and the Minister of Industry, Victor Zapico, each blamed the other. Zapico stated he had not received monetary compensation for the negotiations. A government spokesman suggested that the plan may have been conceived to discredit the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE). Rodriguez-Vigil resigned in May 1993, citing reasons of \"political dignity\". \n\nThough he maintained his innocence, Lauze was convicted in July 1994 of forging official commercial documents. The court held that his certificates were forged in the Saudi Kingdom embassy in Madrid. The documents claimed that Lauze was the head of oil supply contracts with the state-owned Saudi Samareg. The petrochemical complex proposal was said to have been instigated by the Saudi International Bank, a financial organization of Prince Abdullah ibn Faisal ibn Turki Al-Abdullah Al-Saud. The forged documents were attributed to a Swiss notary, Roland Rochat.\n"}
{"id": "23605746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23605746", "title": "Religious uniformity", "text": "Religious uniformity\n\nReligious uniformity occurs when government is used to promote one state religion, denomination, or philosophy to the exclusion of all other religious beliefs.\nReligious uniformity was common in many modern theocratic and atheistic governments around the world until fairly modern times. The modern concept of a separate civil government was relatively unknown until expounded upon by Roger Williams, a Christian minister, in \"The Bloudy Tenent of Persecution\" (1644) shortly after he founded the American colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in 1636. \n\nIn the United States, the First Amendment to the Constitution (1791) prohibits the federal government from establishing or prohibiting a religion, and in 1947 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that states cannot create established state churches in \"Everson v. Board of Education\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48573794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48573794", "title": "Rita Schwerner Bender", "text": "Rita Schwerner Bender\n\nRita Levant Schwerner Bender (born 1942) is a civil rights activist and lawyer. She and her first husband Michael (Mickey) Schwerner participated in the Freedom Summer of 1964, where Michael was murdered by the Ku Klux Klan. As his young widow, she drew national attention for her commentary on racial prejudice in the United States, delivered at a press conference after her husband went missing. After the Civil Rights Movement, Schwerner became an attorney, now practicing family law in Washington state. She continues to advocate for civil rights today through her law practice and public presentations.\n\nSchwerner and husband Michael both grew up in New York. They married when she was 20, he 22.\n\nRita Schwerner became active in the civil rights movement first in the north; she and Michael were both arrested at a civil rights protest in Baltimore in July 1963.\n\nThe Schwerners moved to Meridian, Mississippi in January 1964. She was a teacher, and the two worked at a freedom school and registering black voters.\n\nThe summer of 1964, known as \"Freedom Summer\" was an endeavor to register more black voters in the deep south. It was headed up by civil rights activist groups such as the Congress for Racial Equality (CORE), and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). Rita Schwerner and her husband Michael (Mickey) were among a group of three hundred students who went to Mississippi to help with the voting campaign. They were 22 and 24 years old.\n\nIn June 1964, the Schwerners were attending a civil rights activism training in Ohio when they learned a church involved in the movement in Neshoba County, Mississippi, had been burned down and its clergy beaten. Michael Schwerner, James Chaney, a black man, and Andrew Goodman, who was white (as were the Schwerners) drove the Schwerner family station wagon back to Mississippi to investigate. On Sunday June 21, the three men were driving together when they were stopped by Neshoba deputy sheriff Cecil Price outside of the town of Philadelphia, Mississippi. Price arrested the three men on charge of speeding and locked them in the jailhouse, only to release them around 10pm that night. The men were never seen again. Rita Schwerner was still in Ohio when she learned of their disappearance, and two days later, at the Cincinnati airport with Fannie Lou Hamer and getting ready to travel back to Mississippi, Schwerner learned their station wagon had been found burned, in a swamp.\n\nSchwerner returned to Mississippi, for safety \"staying [at a] black-owned hotel, with a guard organized by black ministers keeping watch outside.\"\n\nSchwerner spoke actively, pressing President Johnson to expand the federal government's efforts to find them. The national media covered the story in detail, and FBI posters went up for the three all over the country. In the wake of this national crisis and the disappearance of her husband, Rita Schwerner was interviewed by the media in Meridian, Mississippi and gave this response to the situation:\n\nIt is tragic, as far as I am concerned, that white northerners have to be caught up in the machinery of injustice and indifference in the South. Before the American people register concern, I personally suspect that if Mr. Cheney, who is a native Mississippian negro, had been alone at the time of the disappearance that this case like so many other that have come before would have been completely unnoticed. \n\nSoon it was discovered that Schwerner, Cheney, and Goodman had been murdered by the Ku Klux Klan. Sheriff Price was affiliated with the Klan and had participated in the murder.\n\nThree years later, Price was convicted with the killing of the three men and was given six years in prison. He died in 2001 at the age of 63. While there were other Klan members involved in the murder, only six of them were convicted along with Price.\n\nAfter her husband's death, Schwerner stayed in Mississippi and continued to pursue civil rights work with the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. In particular she worked on an action \"challeng[ing] the all-white Mississippi delegation\" to the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City: \"Delegates used borrowed passes to march on the convention floor and were hauled away by guards, galvanizing Mississippi's black population. Rita Schwerner testivied [sic] before the credentials committee with Freedom Democratic Party members standing in silent tribute.\"\n\nAfter her work in the Civil Right Movement, Schwerner decided to go to law school and become an attorney. She attended Rutgers School of Law in New Jersey in 1965, graduating three years after her husband was murdered. Out of 150 students in the graduating class of 1968, Schwerner was one of five women. She later worked for the ACLU.\n\nWhile studying at Rutgers, she also met her second husband, William J. Bender.\n\nRita Schwerner Bender is now a private family practice attorney in Washington State. Her areas of specialty are family law, adoption and assisted reproduction, professional ethics and discipline, and \"specializes in providing indigent defendants access to legal assistance.\" Bender continues to be active in the fight for civil rights today, speaking on topics like \"Searching for Restorative Justice: The Trial of Edgar Ray Killen\" and \"Racial Disparity in Education and State Action.\" Additionally, Bender has written or co-written several publications pertaining to her areas of law practice. A few of her works are \"FAQ: Surrogacy, Sperm Donation and Egg Donation in Washington for Prospective Gay and Lesbian Parents\" (with Raegen N. Rasnic and Janet M. Helson) and \"Washington State Legal Technician Rule: Myths and Facts,\" which appeared in the Washington State Bar news in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "44518056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44518056", "title": "Stuttgart Peace Prize", "text": "Stuttgart Peace Prize\n\nThe Stuttgart Peace Prize () is an annual award of 5000 Euros made by the non governmental organization (\"The Instigators\") to people or projects involved \"in a special way for peace, justice and world solidarity\".\n\nVoting is open to all who have won either the Foundation or the instigators Stuttgart Peace Prize in the year in question, those who have made a donation before the election or are supporting members. Each voter has three votes, and may give a proposal per vote or distribute their votes over existing proposals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8726775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8726775", "title": "Svanholm", "text": "Svanholm\n\nSvanholm is a country estate and former manor west of Copenhagen, Denmark. In 1978 an association of over 100 persons bought the estate to create Denmark's largest intentional community. The Svanholm Collective grows its own food and was one of the pioneers of organic farming in Denmark. As of January 2006, membership consisted of 70 adults and 35 children aged 0 to 80, jointly owning around 400 hectares (988 acres) of farmland, park, and woodlands.\n\nThe name comes from \"svan\" meaning \"swan\" and \"holm\" meaning \"islet\"; ie. Svanholm means \"Swan-isle\".\n\nThe Svanholm estate is located north of the village of Skibby in Krogstrup parish, on the Hornsherred peninsula between Roskilde Fjord and Ise Fjord on the north coast of Zealand. It consists of a main building (the former manor house) plus 12 other dwellings and utility buildings nearby or elsewhere on the grounds.\n\nThe earliest mention of Svanholm in historical documents is in 1346. Its owner at the time was the knight Niels Knudsen Manderup. The building was completely renovated and extended in 1744.\n\nThe community offers guided tours throughout the year on Sundays from 11 a.m. or upon request\n\nTwin Oaks Community\n\n"}
{"id": "35507379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35507379", "title": "Technical failure", "text": "Technical failure\n\nA technical failure is an (unwanted) error of technology based systems.\n\nCausalities include fatigue and attenuation distortions.\n\n"}
{"id": "40040217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40040217", "title": "Three Kids Mine Remediation and Reclamation Act", "text": "Three Kids Mine Remediation and Reclamation Act\n\nThe Three Kids Mine Remediation and Reclamation Act (; ) is a U.S. public law that authorizes the sale of approximately 950 acres of federal land to the city of Henderson, Nevada. The land used to be a mine and now needs significant environmental remediation and reclamation. The bill was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress; a previous version () passed the House during the 112th United States Congress, but never received a vote in the Senate. Cleanup efforts of the land are expected to cost between $300 million and $1.2 billion, depending on various estimates and cleanup targets.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Three Kids Mine Remediation and Reclamation Act would direct the United States Department of the Interior to convey to the Henderson Redevelopment Agency of the city of Henderson, Nevada, the Three Kids Mine Federal Land (the parcel or parcels of federal land consisting of approximately 948 specified acres) for the environmental remediation and reclamation of the Three Kids Mine Project Site. The bill also would direct the Secretary of the Interior to administratively adjust the fair market value of the Three Kids Mine Federal Land based on the reasonable approximate assessment, remediation, and reclamation costs for the Three Kids Mine Project Area. The bill would then require the Henderson Redevelopment Agency to pay the fair market value, if any for the Three Kids Mine Federal Land.\n\nThe bill would adjust the boundary of the River Mountains Area of Critical Environmental Concern. It also releases the United States, upon making the conveyance, from any and all liabilities or claims of any kind or nature arising from the presence, release, or threat of release of any hazardous substance or mining related materials at the Three Kids Mine Project Site.\n\nFinally, it would make the provisions of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 () inapplicable to land conveyed under this Act.\n\nH.R. 697 would require the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to sell 950 acres of federal land, some of which are contaminated by hazardous waste, to the city of Henderson, Nevada. Under the bill, the agency would determine the sale price by estimating the fair market value of the land and reducing that amount by the estimated cost of any necessary environmental remediation and mining reclamation activities at the site. The city of Henderson would be responsible for those costs following the sale. Based on information from the BLM, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that implementing the legislation would have no significant impact on the federal budget. Enacting the bill would not affect direct spending or revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures do not apply.\n\nRoughly 15 percent of the lands that would be sold under the bill are contaminated and will require mine reclamation and environmental remediation. Based on information provided by the BLM and the city of Henderson, the CBO estimates that the agency is unlikely to receive any financial compensation for any of the land because remediation and reclamation costs would exceed the land’s fair market value. Because the CBO expects that the affected lands would not generate any receipts under current law over the next 10 years, we estimate that conveying the lands under the bill would have no significant impact on the federal budget.\n\nThe Three Kids Mine Remediation and Reclamation Act was introduced into the House by Rep. Joe Heck (R-NV) on February 14, 2013. The bill was referred to the United States House Committee on Natural Resources and two of its subcommittees: the United States House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources and the United States House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation. On July 8, 2013, it was reported (amended) by the Committee on Natural Resources alongside House Report 113-137. On Friday, July 19, 2013, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor announced that H.R. 697 would be on the schedule for consideration under a suspension of the rules on July 22, 2013. The bill passed by voice vote on July 22, 2013. The bill was received in the United States Senate and referred to the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. On July 9, 2014, the Senate passed the bill by unanimous consent. President Barack Obama signed the bill into law on July 25, 2014.\n\nThe City of Henderson, NV paid a lobbyist organization $10,000 in 2013, part of which went to fund lobbying activities in favor of the Three Kids Mine Remediation and Reclamation Act.\n\nIn 2013, the Las Vegas Sun listed off the Three Kids Mine Remediation and Reclamation Act as item number three in its list of \"Top 10 Nevada land swaps stalled in Congress,\" noting that 87 percent of Nevada's land is federally owned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54460009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54460009", "title": "Three Seas Initiative", "text": "Three Seas Initiative\n\nThe Three Seas Initiative (3SI, TSI, I3M), also known as the Baltic, Adriatic, Black Sea (BABS) Initiative, is a forum of twelve states in the European Union, located in Central and Eastern Europe. The combined area connects the Adriatic Sea, Baltic Sea, and Black Sea. The initiative aims to create a regional dialogue on a variety of questions affecting the member states. The twelve members met for their first summit in 2016, in Dubrovnik.\n\nThe Three Seas Initiative has twelve member states along a north-south axis from the Baltic Sea to the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia.\nAll, except Austria, are formerly communist countries. With the exception of two Nordic states (Sweden and Finland) and the Mediterranean island states (Cyprus and Malta) it includes all states that have joined the European Union since 1986.\n\nThe initiative held its first summit in Dubrovnik on 25–26 August 2016. The two-day event ended with a declaration of co-operation in economic matters, particularly in the field of energy as well as transport and communications infrastructure. Polish President Andrzej Duda called the initiative \"a new concept to promote Europe's unity and cohesion, it is an idea of cooperation among 12 countries located between the Adriatic, Baltic and Black Seas, the three seas of Central Europe.\" Guest speakers included Chinese Ministerial Assistant for Foreign Affairs Liu Haixing, who talked about the interconnectedness with the Chinese government's Belt and Road Initiative, and former US National Security Advisor, General James L. Jones, who stressed the initiative's role in European development and security.\n\nThe initiative's second summit was held 6–7 July 2017 in Warsaw. US President Donald Trump attended the summit.\nThe participating countries unanimously agreed to set up a Three Seas Business Forum.\n\nThe initiative's third summit took place 17-18 September 2018 in Bucharest. Participants approved a list of priority interconnection projects in the three key areas – transport, energy and digital. President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas and US Secretary of Energy Rick Perry attended the summit as guests. The first edition of the Business Forum was organised at this time. 3SI Network of Chambers of Commerce was created and Letter of Intent in relation to the establishment of the Three Seas Investment Fund was signed here.\n\nThe initiative is closely related to two major infrastructure projects in the region:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42194250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42194250", "title": "Turla (malware)", "text": "Turla (malware)\n\nTurla or Uroboros is a Trojan package that is suspected by computer security researchers and Western intelligence officers to be the product of a Russian government agency of the same name.\n\nTurla has been targeting governments and militaries since at least 2008.\n\nIn December 2014 there was evidence of it targeting the Linux operating system.\n\nThe advanced persistent threat hacking group has also been named Turla. Dan Goodin in \"Ars Technica\" described Turla as \"Russian spies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16625967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16625967", "title": "United Cerebral Palsy", "text": "United Cerebral Palsy\n\nUnited Cerebral Palsy (UCP) is an international nonprofit charitable organization consisting of a network of affiliates. UCP is a leading service provider and advocate for adults and children with disabilities. As one of the largest health nonprofits in the United States, the UCP mission is to advance the independence, productivity and full citizenship of people with disabilities through an affiliate network.\n\nUCP was founded in 1949 by Leonard Goldenson (who would later become Chairman of the broadcast network ABC) and his wife Isabel, and Jack and Ethel Hausman. United Cerebral Palsy pioneered the use of fundraising telethons.\n\nUCP through its more than 66 local affiliates across the United States, and in Canada, Australia provide a broad array of services and resources to children and adults with a broad range of disabilities. Each affiliate provides a different menu of services tailored to their local needs and capabilities, but often include education, employment, health & wellness, housing, parenting & family training and support, sports & leisure, transportation and travel assistance. With a combined budget of more than $750 million for research, public policy advocacy and direct services. System-wide, an average of 85 percent of all revenue is dedicated to programs.\n\nIn addition to raising money for services and research, UCP also engages in public policy advocacy, including promoting access and opportunity for people with disabilities, and the provision of services. In the United States, UCP was one of the catalyst organizations advocating for the adoption of the Americans With Disabilities Act in 1990. More recently, UCP has been on the cutting edge of disabilities rights with programs such as \"Life Labs\", a national initiative to foster innovation and technology.\n\nIn April 2013, United Cerebral Palsy of Central Maryland announced that it would change its name from UCP to Unified Community Connections to make it clearer which clientele served by the organization. Other affiliates have chosen not to include the phrase \"United Cerebral Palsy,\" as part of their doing business as names or logos even if it might remain part of their legal names, in an effort to be more encompassing of their programs and services.\n\nUCP is led by a 16-person Board of Trustees and President/CEO Armando A. Contreras. The headquarters is in Washington, DC.\n\nUCP meets the standards of the National Health Council and the Better Business Bureau/Wise Giving Alliance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2398355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2398355", "title": "United States Marijuana Party", "text": "United States Marijuana Party\n\nThe United States Marijuana Party (or U.S. Marijuana Party™) is a cannabis political party in the United States founded in 2002 by Loretta Nall specifically to end the war on drugs and to legalize cannabis. Their policies also include other socially libertarian positions. The party is active in Vermont, has local chapters in several other states, and is affiliated with international cannabis political parties.\n\nOn September 18, 2012, the U.S. Marijuana Party™ endorsed Libertarian Party candidate Gary Johnson in the 2012 presidential election.\n\nThe United States Marijuana Party was started in 2002 by Loretta Nall from Alabama following her misdemeanor arrest for marijuana possession. Nall was the chairperson of the party until she resigned in 2006 to pursue the Libertarian Party of Alabama's nomination for Governor.\n\nIn 2004, Illinois Marijuana Party leader Richard Rawlings ran for U.S. Congress in Illinois' 18th Congressional District as a write-in candidate. Brian Meyer ran as a write-in candidate in the 12th Congressional District in 2004. Rawlings ran again as a Marijuana Party write-in candidate for Congress in 2010.\n\nIn 2015–2016, Zach Boiko, Mark Elworth Jr., and Krystal Gabel collected signatures for Marijuana Party of Nebraska to be officially recognized. In order to make the ballot, petitioners needed 5,397 signatures statewide. The party also must have a certain number of signatures from each of the state's three congressional districts.\n\nIn July, 2016, volunteers turned in 9,000 signatures to the Nebraska Secretary of State. However, the Secretary of State said that half of the signatures were invalid, falling short of the 5,397 needed. In 2016, the group changed its name to Nebraska Legal Marijuana Now Party, and organizers began petitioning for 2018 ballot access.\n\nRastafari cannabis rights activist and businessman Edward Forchion, who founded the Legalize Marijuana Party in 1998 in New Jersey, ran for U.S. Representative for New Jersey's 3rd congressional district in 2004 as a U.S. Marijuana Party candidate. Forchion got 4,914 votes.\n\nIndependent candidate Cris Ericson ran for Governor of Vermont in 2002 as a Make Marijuana Legal candidate. In 2004, Ericson ran for Vermont governor and U.S. senator as a Marijuana Party candidate. She went on to compete in 2006, 2008, 2014 and 2016 in Republican Party and Democratic Party primaries, and for multiple state and federal offices as an Independent candidate. Ericson was a U.S. Marijuana Party candidate for U.S. Senator and Governor of Vermont in 2010, 2012, and 2016. Cris Ericson left the marijuana party in January 2018 and was Replaced by Jakob McElwain.\n\nIn the Washington State House of Representatives District 2b election, in 2014, retired union official Rick Payne was on the August primary ballot as a Marijuana Party candidate. In Washington the top two vote-getters in the primary advance to the general election. Payne received 1,644 votes (9.3%). Defeated by the incumbent, a Republican, and a Libertarian candidate, Payne did not make it into the November general election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18168732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18168732", "title": "Welfare rights", "text": "Welfare rights\n\nWelfare rights means the rights of people to be aware of and receive their maximum entitlement to state welfare benefits, and to be treated reasonably well by the welfare system. It has been established in the United Kingdom since 1969 and has also been developed in other countries including Ireland, Australia and the United States. It became necessary because of the complexity of the UK social security system and had links at the time with a growing Claimants Union movement. As local authorities realized the advantages of having well-informed front-line staff such as housing officers and social workers, who often have to deal with benefit queries as part of their wider tasks, they turned to welfare rights staff to provide that expertise for both training and handling complex cases. In the 1980s, as local authorities took on the wider 'equalities' agenda, anti-poverty work was seen as a valid local activity in itself. Increasing benefit income helps individuals but also boosts the local economy.\n\nSome local authorities and voluntary sector organisations, such as the Citizens Advice Bureau, employ paid or volunteer welfare rights advisers. These advisers usually offer free, impartial and independent advice, information and support on all aspects of social security benefits and tax credits, including free representation at a First-tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal, which are administered by the UK Ministry of Justice.\n\nWelfare rights advice and representation is also provided by some solicitors, barristers and independent advisers or companies. These advisers may charge a fee or they might provide limited pro-bono (free) advice and assistance.\n\nWelfare rights advisers generally offer expert lay legal advice in dealings with public departments, such as local authority Housing Benefit and Council Tax Benefit services, Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP).\n\nWelfare rights advisers will generally:\n\nWelfare rights advisers often use a case management system to help them manage their work. These can be paper based, computer based or online.\n\nWelfare rights officers are often closely allied with campaigning groups and charities such as the Child Poverty Action Group (CPAG), Citizens Advice Bureau and London Advice Service Alliance (LASA), for example. These organizations are respected for their training and publications, which are used extensively by advisers throughout the UK, as well as their campaigning activities.\n\nWelfare rights advisers' professional organization is the National Association of Welfare Rights Advisers (NAWRA) at a UK level; Scotland has its own professional association, Rights Advice Scotland (RAS).\n\nThe Flemming Rule of 1960, named after Arthur Flemming, was an administrative ruling which decreed that states could not deny income assistance eligibility through the Aid to Families with Dependent Children program on the basis of a home being considered unsuitable per the woman's children being termed as illegitimate. \n\nIn 1963 Johnnie Tillmon founded ANC (Aid to Needy Children) Mothers Anonymous, which was one of the first grassroots welfare mothers’ organizations, and which eventually became part of the National Welfare Rights Organization.\n\nThe National Welfare Rights Organization, active from 1966 to 1975, was an activist organization that fought for the welfare rights of people, especially women and children. The organization had four goals: adequate income, dignity, justice, and democratic participation. Johnnie Tillmon was the first chair of the organization. \n\n\"King v. Smith\", 392 U.S. 309 (1968), was a decision in which the Supreme Court held that Aid to Families with Dependent Children could not be withheld because of the presence of a \"substitute father\" who visited a family on weekends.\n\nIn April 1991 Cheri Honkala founded the Kensington Welfare Rights Union, a progressive social justice, political action, and advocacy group of, by, and for the poor and homeless which is operating out of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and led by Galen Tyler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "479891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479891", "title": "Wes Jackson", "text": "Wes Jackson\n\nWes Jackson (born 1936) co-founded the Land Institute with Dana Jackson. He is also a member of the World Future Council.\n\nJackson was born and raised on a farm near Topeka, Kansas. After earning a BA in biology from Kansas Wesleyan University, an MA in botany from the University of Kansas, and a PhD in genetics from North Carolina State University, Wes Jackson established and served as chair of one of the United States' first environmental studies programs at California State University, Sacramento.\n\nJackson then chose to leave academia, returning to his native Kansas, where he founded a non-profit organization, The Land Institute, in 1976. The Land Institute is working to develop perennial grains, pulses, and oilseed-bearing plants to be grown in ecologically intensified, diverse crop mixtures under its Natural Systems Agriculture program. In tandem with these sustainable agriculture efforts, the Ecosphere Studies program seeks to change the way people think about the world and their place in it, through educational and cultural projects with a perennial perspective. Jackson stepped down from the presidency of The Land Institute in 2016, but still works in the Ecosphere Studies program.\n\nThe Land Institute has explored alternatives in appropriate technology, environmental ethics, and education, but a research program in sustainable agriculture eventually became central to its work. In 1978, Jackson proposed the development of a perennial polyculture. He sought to have fields planted in polycultures, more than one variety of plant in a field, like diverse plants grow together in nature.\n\nJackson also wanted to use perennials, which would not need to be replanted every year - reducing the need for frequent tillage, preventing erosion, and promoting plant-soil microbe relationships to establish and persist. The Land Institute attempts to breed plants not presently used in agriculture into effective producers of perennial grains in intercropping conditions. Jackson argues that this version of agriculture used \"nature as model,\" and to pursue that end, \"The Land Institute\" has studied prairie ecology.\n\nNow in its fourth decade, The Land Institute is beginning to demonstrate progress in developing the perennial crops called for in the Natural Systems Agriculture model. Programs in wheat, sorghum, and sunflower are generating crop lines displaying both perenniality and agriculturally-significant seed yield.\n\nResearch on integrating these new plants into polycultures also continues. The Land Institute is not itself developing machinery suitable for one-pass harvesting of grain polycultures. It instead takes the position that integration of existing materials separation technology into harvesters is a straightforward task, and will be accomplished by public and private agricultural engineers when the demand arrives.\n\nWes Jackson is the author of several books and is recognized as a leader in the international sustainable agriculture movement. In 1971, Wes Jackson's first efforts to address growing environmental concerns, react to social concerns growing from the Civil Rights movement and opposition to the Vietnam War, and answer student requests for more relevant materials, resulted in the environmental reader, \"Man and the Environment\". After leaving academia and establishing the Land Institute, Jackson published \"New Roots for Agriculture,\" partially in reaction to a report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office on soil erosion.\n\nThis book expanded on ideas presented in a 1978 article, \"Towards a Sustainable Agriculture,\" about looking to natural ecosystems, such as the prairie, to help solve the problem of soil erosion. He collaborated with author Wendell Berry on \"Meeting the Expectations of the Land,\" in response to a Council on Agricultural Science and Technology report on agrochemicals.\n\nJackson's \"Becoming Native to This Place,\" published in 1994, challenges readers to develop a relationship with their ecosystems and further develops the idea of Natural Systems Agriculture. He was a 1990 Pew Conservation Scholar, in 1992 became a MacArthur Fellow, and in 2000 received the Right Livelihood Award. His work is often referred to by author Wendell Berry, with whom Jackson has shared a longtime friendship and correspondence.\n\nSelected Bibliography\n\nPrimary Author:\n\nContributor:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1279071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279071", "title": "World Tribunal on Iraq", "text": "World Tribunal on Iraq\n\nThe World Tribunal on Iraq (WTI) was a people's court consisting of intellectuals, human rights campaigners and non-governmental organizations, and was active from 2003 to 2005. Set up following the 2003 invasion of Iraq it sprung from the anti-war movement and is modelled on the Russell Tribunal of the American movement against the Vietnam War.\n\n\n\nThe most complete collection of the proceedings of the Tribunal has been collected in Sökmen, M. G. Roy, A., Falk, R. (eds.) 2008. \"World Tribunal on Iraq: Making the Case Against War\". Northampton, MA: Olive Branch Press.\n\nSee also:\nBorowiak, C. 2008. 'The World Tribunal on Iraq: Citizens’ Tribunals and the Struggle for Accountability'. \"New Political Science\", 30:161-186. \nCubukcu, A. 2011. ‘On Cosmopolitan Occupations. The Case of the World Tribunal on Iraq’, \"Interventions. International Journal of Postcolonial Studies\", 13:422-442.\n\n"}
