{"id": "212813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212813", "title": "1984 (advertisement)", "text": "1984 (advertisement)\n\n\"1984\" is an American television commercial that introduced the Apple Macintosh personal computer. It was conceived by Steve Hayden, Brent Thomas and Lee Clow at Chiat\\Day, produced by New York production company Fairbanks Films, and directed by Ridley Scott. English athlete Anya Major performed as the unnamed heroine and David Graham as Big Brother. It first aired in 10 local outlets, including Twin Falls, Idaho, where Chiat\\Day ran the ad on December 31, 1983, at the last possible break before midnight on KMVT, so that the advertisement qualified for 1983 advertising awards. Its second televised airing, and only national airing, was on January 22, 1984, during a break in the third quarter of the telecast of Super Bowl XVIII by CBS.\n\nIn one interpretation of the commercial, \"1984\" used the unnamed heroine to represent the coming of the Macintosh (indicated by her white tank top with a stylized line drawing of Apple’s Macintosh computer on it) as a means of saving humanity from \"conformity\" (Big Brother). These images were an allusion to George Orwell's noted novel, \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", which described a dystopian future ruled by a televised \"Big Brother\". The estate of George Orwell and the television rightsholder to the novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" considered the commercial to be a copyright infringement and sent a cease-and-desist letter to Apple and Chiat\\Day in April 1984.\n\nOriginally a subject of contention within Apple, it has subsequently been called a watershed event and a masterpiece in advertising. In 1995, The Clio Awards added it to its Hall of Fame, and \"Advertising Age\" placed it on the top of its list of 50 greatest commercials.\n\nThe commercial opens with a dystopic, industrial setting in blue and grayish tones, showing a line of people (of ambiguous gender) marching in unison through a long tunnel monitored by a string of telescreens. This is in sharp contrast to the full-color shots of the nameless runner (Anya Major). She looks like a competitive track and field athlete, wearing an athletic \"uniform\" (red athletic shorts, running shoes, a white tank top with a cubist picture of Apple's Macintosh computer, a white sweat band on her left wrist, and a red one on her right), and is carrying a large brass-headed hammer. Rows of marching minions evoke the opening scenes of \"Metropolis\".\n\nAs she is chased by four police officers (presumably agents of the Thought Police) wearing black uniforms, protected by riot gear, helmets with visors covering their faces, and armed with large night sticks, she races towards a large screen with the image of a Big Brother-like figure (David Graham, also seen on the telescreens earlier) giving a speech:\n\nThe runner, now close to the screen, hurls the hammer towards it, right at the moment Big Brother announces, “we shall prevail!” In a flurry of light and smoke, the screen is destroyed, shocking the people watching the screen.\n\nThe commercial concludes with a portentous voiceover, accompanied by scrolling black text (in Apple's early signature \"Garamond\" typeface); the hazy, whitish-blue aftermath of the cataclysmic event serves as the background. It reads: \"On January 24th, Apple Computer will introduce Macintosh. And you'll see why 1984 won't be like '1984.'\"\n\nThe screen fades to black as the voiceover ends, and the rainbow Apple logo appears.\n\nThe commercial was created by the advertising agency Chiat/Day, of Venice, California, with copy by Steve Hayden, art direction by Brent Thomas, and creative direction by Lee Clow. The commercial \"grew out of an abandoned print campaign\" with a specific theme:\nRidley Scott (whose dystopian sci-fi film, \"Blade Runner\", was released one and a half years prior) was hired by agency producer Richard O'Neill to direct it. Less than two months after the Super Bowl airing, \"The New York Times\" reported that Scott \"filmed it in England for about $370,000\"; In 2005 writer Ted Friedman said the commercial had a then-\"unheard-of production budget of $900,000.\"\nThe actors who appeared in the commercial were paid $25 per day. Scott later admitted that he accepted brutal budget constraints because he believed in the ad's concept, outlining how the total cost was less than $250,000 and that he used local skinheads to portray the broken, pale \"drones\" in the commercial.\n\nSteve Jobs and John Sculley were so enthusiastic about the final product that they \"...purchased one and a half minutes of ad time for the Super Bowl, annually the most-watched television program in America. In December 1983 they screened the commercial for the Apple Board of Directors. To Jobs' and Sculley's surprise, the entire board hated the commercial.\" However, Sculley himself got \"cold feet\" and asked Chiat/Day to sell off the two commercial spots.\n\nDespite the board's dislike of the film, Steve Wozniak and others at Apple showed copies to friends, and he offered to pay for half of the spot personally if Jobs paid the other half. This turned out to be unnecessary. Of the original ninety seconds booked, Chiat/Day resold thirty seconds to another advertiser, then claimed they could not sell the other 60 seconds, when in fact they did not even try.\n\nIn his 1983 Apple keynote address, Steve Jobs read the following story before showcasing a preview of the commercial:\n\nIn March 1984 Michael Tyler, a communications expert quoted by \"The New York Times\", said \"The Apple ad expresses a potential of small computers. This potential may not automatically flow from the company's product. But if enough people held a shared intent, grass-roots electronic bulletin boards (through which computer users share messages) might result in better balancing of political power.\"\n\nIn 2004, Adelia Cellini writing for \"Macworld\", summarized the message:\nArt director Brent Thomas said Apple \"had wanted something to 'stop America in its tracks, to make people think about computers, to make them think about Macintosh.' With about $3.5 million worth of Macintoshes sold just after the advertisement ran, Thomas judged the effort 'absolutely successful.' 'We also set out to smash the old canard that the computer will enslave us,' he said. 'We did not say the computer will set us free—I have no idea how it will work out. This was strictly a marketing position.'\"\n\n\nIt ranked at number 38 in Channel 4's 2000 list of the \"100 Greatest TV Ads\".\n\nTed Friedman, in his 2005 text, \"Electric Dreams: Computers in American Culture\", notes the impact of the commercial:\n\n\"1984\" became a signature representation of Apple computers. It was scripted as a thematic element in the 1999 docudrama, \"Pirates of Silicon Valley\", which explores the rise of Apple and Microsoft (the film opens and closes with references to the commercial including a re-enactment of the heroine running towards the screen of \"Big Brother\" and clips of the original commercial). The \"1984\" ad was also prominent in the 20th anniversary celebration of the Macintosh in 2004, as Apple reposted a new version of the ad on its website and showed it during Jobs's Keynote Address at Macworld Expo in San Francisco, California. In this updated version, an iPod, complete with signature white earbuds, was digitally added to the heroine. Keynote Attendees were given a poster showing the heroine with an iPod as a commemorative gift. And the ad has also been cited as the turning point for Super Bowl commercials, which had been important and popular before (especially with the Coca-Cola ad featuring Joe Greene from a years earlier) but after \"1984\" those ads became the most expensive, creative and influential advertising set for all television coverage.\n\nIn March 2007, the advertisement attracted attention again as \"Hillary 1984\", a video mashup of the original commercial with footage of Hillary Clinton used in the place of Big Brother, went viral in the early stages of the race for the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination. The video was produced in support of Barack Obama by Phil de Vellis, an employee of Blue State Digital, but was made without the knowledge of either Obama's campaign, or his employer: de Vellis stated that he made the video in one afternoon at home using a Mac and some software. Political commentators including Carla Marinucci and Arianna Huffington, as well as de Vellis himself, suggested that the video demonstrated the way technology had created new opportunities for individuals to make an impact on politics.\n\nRevisiting the commercial in \"Harper's Magazine\" thirty years after it aired, Rebecca Solnit suggested that \"1984\" did not so much herald a new era of liberation as a new era of oppression. She wrote, \"I want to yell at that liberatory young woman with her sledgehammer: 'Don't do it!' Apple is not different. That industry is going to give rise to innumerable forms of triviality and misogyny, to the concentration of wealth and the dispersal of mental concentration. To suicidal, underpaid Chinese factory workers whose reality must be like that of the shuffling workers in the commercial. If you think a crowd of people staring at one screen is bad, wait until you have created a world in which billions of people stare at their own screens even while walking, driving, eating in the company of friends—all of them eternally elsewhere.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15358577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15358577", "title": "Adsotrans", "text": "Adsotrans\n\nAdso is a Chinese to English dictionary and natural language processing engine for Chinese text. The Adso project started in 2001. Its gist translation and dictionary interface are online at the Adsotrans website, where its software and database are also available for download. These downloads include a copy of the \"Adsotrans Attribution-NonCommercial License 1.1\" and an additional README that states \"Free use may be made of the software for machine translation, hanzi-to-pinyin conversion and text segmentation purposes, provided that attribution is given, including a link to our project.\"\n\nWith over 195,000 entries, Adso is the largest free Chinese–English dictionary compilation on the Internet. It differs from other projects in providing part of speech and ontological data on word entries, and in reviewing user contributions. Project data is generated collaboratively by users through an online dictionary hosted at Popup Chinese.\n\nThe Adso software engine provides text segmentation, hanzi-to-pinyin, gist translation, annotation, gist extraction and semantic analysis services. It is heavily used as a translation aid for Chinese-English translation. Adso also supports a specially-defined XML language which customizes software output. This has made it useful as preprocessor for statistical machine translation software such as GIZA++ or for reverse-index search engines such as Lucene.\n\n"}
{"id": "55826486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55826486", "title": "Bahamas Leaks", "text": "Bahamas Leaks\n\nThe Bahama Leaks are 1.3 million internal files from the company register of the Bahamas. After the release of the Panama Papers, in 2016 an unknown source handed over internal data from the national corporate registry of the Bahamas to Frederik Obermaier and Bastian Obermayer, who analyzed them with the help of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ). At the same time ICIJ, Süddeutsche Zeitung and other media partners published detailed reporting before they published an online database of offshore entities.\n\nThe files provided data on 175,888 shell companies and trusts that were established in the Bahamas between 1990 and 2016. The 38 gigabyte of data showed that \"several current and former heads of state and government and high-ranking politicians, including former EU Commissioner Neelie Kroes; Colombia’s former mining minister Carlos Caballero Argáez; Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani, the former prime minister of Qatar; and Angola’s vice-president, Manuel Domingos Vicente were respectively are directors, secretaries, or presidents of Bahamian companies\".\n\nCombined with documents from the Panama Papers and others leaked offshore documents, for the first time a free, online and publicly-searchable database of offshore companies was made available to the public. The Offshore Leaks Database contains information about 500,000 entities linked to 200 countries and territories.\n"}
{"id": "8804538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8804538", "title": "Bellman joke", "text": "Bellman joke\n\nThe Bellman joke is a type of simple joke popular among Swedish schoolchildren, always including a person named Bellman as the main character. \n\nThe jokes first became popular in the 19th century, and were originally inspired by the life of the poet and composer Carl Michael Bellman. The first known Bellman joke appears in the preface to an 1835 collection of Bellman's works, in which the publisher reprints an 1808 letter from a contemporary of Bellman, containing the following anecdote.\n\n19th-century Bellman jokes tended to focus on C. M. Bellman's life at court, and often contained sexual humour. Since then, however, the Bellman character of the jokes has changed into a generic Swede, rather than the historical figure. The shift from jokes told by adults to jokes told mainly by young schoolchildren up to 10 years of age probably happened in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nThe modern versions of the Bellman jokes often include Bellman and two other characters of different nationalities, with the former coming out victorious from a tricky situation. However, in many Bellman jokes, Bellman is portrayed as something of an anti-hero, who may cheat, lie or even smell very bad in order to get the last laugh. Another common theme is that Bellman fools or makes fun of a priest, policeman or other authority figure. He can thus be seen as a modern sort of a trickster. The jokes tend to involve bodily functions such as urinating or defecating.\n\nThe ubiquitous character of the stories and the fact that they have been told in various forms for so many years have made them subject to study by ethnologists such as Bengt af Klintberg and researchers in children's culture.\n\nA Russian, a German and Bellman wanted to see who could swim the fastest across the Atlantic. First out was the German. He swam one kilometer and drowned. \nNext came the Russian. He swam 10 kilometers and then he drowned. \nNow it was Bellman's turn. He swam and swam until he almost reached the coast of America – then he got tired and swam back.\n\nA Dane, a Norwegian and Bellman made a wager on who could remain inside a goat pen the longest. First out was the Dane, who came out after just 10 minutes yelling \"Damn! The goat stinks!\" After him the Norwegian went in, and after half an hour he came out yelling, \"Damn! The goat stinks!\" Finally Bellman went in. After two hours the goat came rushing out yelling \"Damn! Bellman stinks!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "41378506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41378506", "title": "Berlin Memorandum", "text": "Berlin Memorandum\n\nThe Berlin Memorandum was a document drawn up by the three imperial world powers in 1876 to address the Eastern Question during the Crisis of 1875-1878. The purpose of the Berlin Memorandum was for the three imperial powers of Russia, Austria-Hungary, and Germany to address the state of relations between the Islamic Ottoman Empire and with the Christian peoples of the Balkans, with whom these imperial powers had international relationships and interests, and to correct the \"Andrássy Note\", a document that preceded the Berlin Memorandum and had similar intentions in creating an armistice and plan of reforms for the Balkans and the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAs the Ottoman Empire began to decline in the late 19th century, there were many nationalistic Christian uprisings in the Balkan States, whose populations wished to be free from the Islamic rule of the Ottoman Empire. In 1875, there were a series of rebellions that broke out first in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then in Bulgaria. One of the main points of contention between the Balkans and their Ottoman rulers was the religious difference, which led to a bolstering of religious and ethnic nationalism that contributed to the uprisings that took place during the period of the Balkan Crisis. The bloodiness and destruction of Christians led to an exodus of Christians into Serbia and Montenegro, and these countries had gained the diplomatic support of the Russian Empire.\n\nInitially, the three great powers, Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Russia formed the League of the Three Emperors in 1872 and met to discuss the state of relations in the Near East. This meeting concluded with the policy of non-intervention in the East. However, as religious tensions between Christians and Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina began to come to a head, Count Gyula Andrássy of Austria-Hungary began to feel the need for religious reform in the Balkans, and so on December 30, 1875, Austria-Hungary, Russia, and Germany proposed the Andrássy Note. The note called for religious reforms that would allow the coexistence of Christians and Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina by incorporating Christian law into the Ottoman Empire’s traditional Islamic law, reforms in the system of tax farming that would alleviate the tax burden on Bosnia and Herzegovina, and ensure that the Ottoman Empire make proper revenue in taxes, and laws that would address the agrarian conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, by 1876, the note was considered a failure because the Ottomans, who had been pushed by Andrássy and never had intentions of reforming the Empire, had never acted to implement it.\n\nBecause the Andrássy Note had been a failure, and the Balkan people were still revolting through the beginning of 1876, the Russian Prince Gorchakov invited Andrássy to a meeting in Berlin in order to collaborate on a new armistice between the Balkans and the Ottoman Empire along with German Prince Bismarck, as well as to forge an alliance with Austria and Germany. Andrássy complied, but only if he could arrive to Berlin early in order to have a preliminary meeting with Bismarck to discuss relations between Austria-Hungary and Germany. In May 1876, Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Russia met in Berlin to discuss the response and plan of action to take in regards to the state of affairs in the Ottoman Empire and the Balkans. They drafted the Berlin Memorandum, which voiced the intent to protect the Christian populations of the Balkans. The Berlin Memorandum demanded that the Ottoman Empire end military response to the Slavic rebels for two months in order to give enough time for reforms to be put in place in the Balkans. The memorandum also requested that an international committee be formed and instituted in the Balkans in order to protect the Christians, and see that the changes proposed in the Andrássy Note of 1875 could be administered in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The new armistice, which the Berlin Memorandum was seeking, was incorporated into the following five points, which had originated in Andrássy’s initial note:\n\n\nThe end of the note was written by Prince Gorkachov of Russia and states that if the Ottoman Empire did not meet the demands of the Berlin Memorandum and failed to comply with the two-month armistice requested by the Berlin Memorandum, the three authoring imperial powers would take necessary international measures to provide for the safety of the people in the Balkans \"in order to arrest the prevailing evil and prevent its development.\" The day following the agreement of the three imperial powers, French, Italian, and British representatives were summoned to Berlin in order to discuss the new armistice agreement.\n\nThe response of the three major western powers of Great Britain, Italy, and France varied, though France and Italy’s position was generally the same while Britain had rejected the Berlin Memorandum completely. While Italy did have a position on any decisions made by the central powers, it initially deferred the controversy surrounding the Eastern Question because Italy had a power struggle of its own within the Italian government at the time of both the Andrássy Note and the Berlin Memorandum. In April 1876, Italian Prime Minister Melegari promised the German minister the service of his army in Bosnia if necessary. On May 14, the day after the Berlin Memorandum was circulated in the city of Berlin, Italy gave its full and abiding support to the provisions made by the Berlin Memorandum through telegraph. France’s response to the memorandum followed that of the Italians. While France’s role in the outcome of the Eastern Question seemed inconsequential, the tragic murder of a French consul in Salonika shocked and appalled French officials, and thus the memorandum earned support from France on the grounds that peace would be achieved in the Balkans and that the demands of the Berlin Memorandum would include the input of the three outside western powers in order to bring about the desired change. While France and Italy quickly gave their support to the Berlin Memorandum, British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli rejected the document altogether on May 16, 1876. His reasons for rejecting the memorandum were cited by his idea that the three imperial powers were using the initiatives of the Berlin Memorandum to put an end to the Ottoman Empire. Disraeli felt that the meeting of Russia, Germany, and Austria-Hungary had not adequately included Great Britain in the discussions of the crisis, and as such, prevented Britain and Germany from \"exchanging opinions.\" Disraeli drew up his own memorandum because he felt that the three empires were conspiring to disband the Ottoman Empire. He even encouraged Turkey to reject the document and sent a fleet to Besika Bay. He believed that all the provisions were erroneous, for example, he believed that the proposed relief, which the Ottoman Empire was to administer was far beyond the means of the Sultan, and that concentrating troops in any situation would lead to chaos. The cabinet nonetheless approved Disraeli’s rejection of the Berlin Memorandum and arguably, the reason why this armistice was unsuccessful, was because it lacked the British approval, which would have given the Berlin Memorandum unanimous support from the western European powers.\n\nAlthough the Berlin Memorandum made an effort to create a temporary armistice and correct the situation in the Balkans, tensions between the Ottoman Empire and the Christian Balkans continued. The violence continued to spread into Bulgaria, Serbia, and Montenegro, and was met with a massacre of the Bulgarians by the Ottomans. In June and July 1876, tensions between the Ottoman Empire and Serbia and Montenegro came to a head when Serbia and Montenegro declared war on the Ottoman Empire, culminating with the involvement of Russia in the war in 1877 in order to protect their Balkan allies.\n\n\"The Berlin Conference.\" Press 31 July 1876: p. 3. Papers Past. http://paperspast.natlib.govt.nz/cgi-bin/paperspast?a=d&d=CHP18760731.2.23\n"}
{"id": "33825345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33825345", "title": "Biografisch Portaal", "text": "Biografisch Portaal\n\nThe Biografisch Portaal (Biography Portal) is an initiative based at the Huygens Institute for Dutch History in The Hague, with the aim of making biographical texts of the Netherlands more accessible.\n\nThe project was started in February 2010 with material for 40,000 digitized biographies, with the goal to grant digital access to all reliable information about (deceased) people of the Netherlands from the earliest beginnings of history up to modern times.\n\nThe Netherlands as a geographic term includes former colonies, and the term \"people\" refers both to people born in the Netherlands and its former colonies, and also to people born elsewhere but active in the Netherlands and its former colonies. , only biographical information about deceased people is included. The system used is based on the standards of the Text Encoding Initiative. Access to the Biografisch Portaal is available free through a web-based interface.\n\nThe project is a cooperative undertaking by ten scientific and cultural bodies in the Netherlands with the Huygens Institute as main contact. The other bodies are:\n\nBesides ongoing digital projects, Dutch biographical dictionaries originally published in book form that have been digitized and incorporated into the indexes of the Biografisch Portaal are:\n\nAs of November 2012 the Biografisch Portaal contained 80,206 persons in 125,592 biographies. In February 2012, a new project was started called \"BiographyNed\" to build an analytical tool for use with the Biografisch Portaal that will link biographies to events in time and space. The main goal of the three-year project is to formulate ‘the boundaries of the Netherlands’.\n\n"}
{"id": "4927784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4927784", "title": "Boundaries of Parliamentary Constituencies 1885–1972", "text": "Boundaries of Parliamentary Constituencies 1885–1972\n\nBoundaries of Parliamentary Constituencies 1885–1972 (), F. W. S. Craig, Political Reference Publications, Chichester, Sussex, 1972, provides text and outline map descriptions of United Kingdom Parliament constituencies in Great Britain for the period 1918 to 1983 and in Northern Ireland for the period 1922 to 1983. Also, it includes maps outlining constituencies in Great Britain for the period 1885 to 1918.\n\nIt succeeds in covering a period later than 1972 because boundary changes which became effective in 1974 (for the February general election) had been decided in 1971. Only the dates for which the new boundaries would be effective were unknown in 1972. Boundaries described under \"1955-1970\" remained effective until 1974, and boundaries described under \"1971-\" were effective 1974 to 1983.\n\nThe maps divide England into three areas, southern, central and northern, and boundaries between these areas appear to have been very stable throughout the 1885 to 1983 period. Wales is mapped as \"Wales and Monmouthshire\".\n\nCraig makes clear that a work of this kind is unlikely to be free from error, and error is apparent in the way district of burghs constituencies are shown in the maps. Kilmarnock District of Burghs, for example, is shown as if a single area in Ayrshire: in fact, when abolished in 1918, it consisted of two parliamentary burghs in Ayrshire, two in Renfrewshire and one in Lanarkshire.\n\nCraig attributes the maps to David Bird and Peter Westley, saying they \"prepared the diagrams and frequently had to work from inadequate maps not always free from error\".\n\nCraig points also to inadequacies in boundary commission reports, which may have generated errors in the text and maps, despite efforts to check details. He draws particular attention to Leeds South, which commissioners had listed as having a major boundary change in 1955: in fact the constituency boundaries were unaltered, although the official description of it changed.\n\n"}
{"id": "8726246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8726246", "title": "Chronicle of 754", "text": "Chronicle of 754\n\nThe Chronicle of 754 (also called the Mozarabic Chronicle or Continuatio Hispana) is a Latin-language history in 95 sections, which was composed in 754 in a part of Spain under Arab rule. The \"Chronicle\" contains the earliest reference in Latin to \"Europeans\" (\"europenses\"), whom it describes as having defeated the Saracens at the battle of Tours in 732.\n\nIts compiler was an anonymous Mozarab (Christian) chronicler, living under Arab rule in some part of Iberia. Since the 16th century, it has been attributed to an otherwise unknown bishop, Isidorus Pacensis but this attribution is now widely accepted as being the result of compounded errors. Henry Wace explained the origin and the phantom history of \"Isidorus Pacensis\", an otherwise unattested bishop of Pax Julia (modern Beja, Portugal).\n\nThere is also some disagreement about the place where the \"Chronicle\" was written. Tailhan named Córdoba as the city of origin. Mommsen was the first to champion Toledo. A recent study by Lopez Pereira rejects both these in favour of an unidentified smaller city in south-east Spain.\n\nThe Chronicle of 754 covers the years 610 to 754, during which it has few contemporary sources against which to check its veracity; some consider it one of the best sources for post- Visigothic history and for the story of the Arabian conquest of Spain and southern France; it provided the basis for Roger Collins, \"The Arab Conquest of Spain, 711-797\" (Blackwell, 1989), the first modern historian to utilise it so thoroughly. It contains the most detailed account of the Battle of Poitiers-Tours.\n\nThe Chronicle is a continuation of an earlier history. It survives in three manuscripts, of which the earliest, of the ninth century, is divided between the British Library and the Biblioteca de la Real Academia de la Historia, Madrid. The other manuscripts are of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. \n\nThe Chronicle was first published in its entirety in Pamplona, 1615; it was printed in Migne’s \"Patr. Lat.\", vol. 96, p. 1253 sqq. and given a modern critical edition and translated into Spanish by José Eduardo Lopez Pereira. An English translation by Kenneth Baxter Wolf can be found in his volume \"Conquerors and Chroniclers of Early Medieval Spain\" (Liverpool, 1990).\n\n"}
{"id": "6935131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6935131", "title": "Comparison of browser synchronizers", "text": "Comparison of browser synchronizers\n\nThe following tables compare general and technical information for a number of web-based browser synchronizers. Please see the individual products' articles for further information. Unless otherwise specified in footnotes, comparisons are based on the stable versions.\n\nHistory of bookmarks (favorites) sync:\n\n"}
{"id": "3099178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099178", "title": "Comparison of raster-to-vector conversion software", "text": "Comparison of raster-to-vector conversion software\n\nThe following tables contain general and technical information about a number of raster-to-vector conversion software products. Please see the individual products' articles for further information.\n\nThis table gives basic general information about the different vector graphics editors:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1017527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1017527", "title": "Cristero War", "text": "Cristero War\n\nThe Cristero War or Cristero Rebellion (1926–29), also known as , was a widespread struggle in many central-western Mexican states against the secularist, anti-Catholic and anti-clerical policies of the Mexican government. The rebellion was set off by enactment under President Plutarco Elías Calles of a statute to enforce the anti-clerical articles of the Mexican Constitution of 1917 (also known as the Calles Law). Calles sought to eliminate the power of the Catholic Church and organizations affiliated with it as an institution, and also suppress popular religious celebration in local communities. The massive, popular rural uprising was tacitly supported by the Church hierarchy and was aided by urban Catholic support. US Ambassador Dwight W. Morrow brokered negotiations between the Calles government and the Church. The government made some concessions, the Church withdrew its support for the Cristero fighters and the conflict ended in 1929. It can be seen as a major event in the struggle between Church and State dating back to the 19th century with the War of Reform, but it can also be interpreted as the last major peasant uprising in Mexico following the end of the military phase of the Mexican Revolution in 1920.\n\nThe Mexican Revolution (1910–20) remains the largest conflict in Mexican history. The overthrow of dictator Porfirio Díaz unleashed disorder, with many contending factions and regions. The Catholic Church and the Díaz government had come to an informal \"modus vivendi\" whereby the State did not enforce the anticlerical articles of the liberal Constitution of 1857, but also did not repeal them. Having a change of leadership or a wholesale overturning of the previous order was potentially a danger to the Church's position. In the democratizing wave of political activity, the National Catholic Party (\"Partido Católico Nacional\") was formed. Francisco Madero was overthrown and assassinated in a February 1913 military coup led by Gen. Victoriano Huerta, bringing back supporters of the Porfirian order; with the ouster of Huerta in 1914, the Catholic Church was the target of revolutionary violence and fierce anticlericalism by many Northern revolutionaries. The Constitutionalist faction won the revolution and its leader, Venustiano Carranza, had a new revolutionary constitution drawn up. The Constitution of 1917 strengthened the anticlericalism of the previous document. Neither President Carranza (1915–20) nor his successor, Gen. Alvaro Obregón (1920–24), enforced the anticlerical articles. The Calles administration (1924–28) felt its revolutionary initiatives and legal basis to pursue them were being challenged by the Catholic Church. To destroy the Church's influence over the Mexican people, anti-clerical laws were instituted, beginning a ten-year religious conflict that resulted in the death of thousands of armed civilians. On the opposing side was an armed professional military sponsored by the government. Calles' Mexico has been characterized by some as an atheist state, and his program as being one to eradicate religion in Mexico.\n\nA period of peaceful resistance to the enforcement of the anticlerical provisions of the constitution by Mexican Catholics brought no result. Skirmishing broke out in 1926 and violent uprisings began in 1927. The rebels called themselves \"Cristeros\", invoking the name of Jesus Christ under the title of \"Cristo Rey\" or \"Christ the King\". The rebellion is known for the Feminine Brigades of St. Joan of Arc, a brigade of women who assisted the rebels in smuggling guns and ammunition, and for certain priests who were tortured and murdered in public (and later canonized by Pope Saint John Paul II). The rebellion eventually ended by diplomatic means brokered by U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Dwight Whitney Morrow, with financial relief and logistical assistance provided by the Knights of Columbus.\n\nThe rebellion attracted the attention of Pope Pius XI, who issued a series of papal encyclicals between 1925–37. On December 11, 1925, the pontiff issued \"Quas primas\", instituting the Feast of Christ the King. On November 18, 1926, he issued \"Iniquis afflictisque\" (On the Persecution of the Church in Mexico), denouncing the violent anti-clerical persecution in Mexico. Despite the government's promises to the contrary, it continued the persecution of the Church. In response, Pius issued \"Acerba animi\" on September 29, 1932. As the persecution continued he issued Firmissimam Constantiam and expressed his opposition to the \"impious and corruptive school\" (p. 22) while granting papal support for \"Catholic Action\" in Mexico for the third consecutive time with the use of plenary indulgence on March 28, 1937.\n\nThe Political Constitution of the United Mexican States was drafted by the Constitutional Congress convoked by Venustiano Carranza in September 1916, and it was approved on February 5, 1917. The new constitution was based in the previous one instituted by Benito Juárez in 1857. Three of its 136 articles—Article 3, Article 27 and Article 130—contain heavily secularizing sections, restricting the power and influence of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe first two sections of article 3 state: \"I. According to the religious liberties established under article 24, educational services shall be secular and, therefore, free of any religious orientation. II. The educational services shall be based on scientific progress and shall fight against ignorance, ignorance's effects, servitudes, fanaticism and prejudice\". The second section of article 27 states that: \"All religious associations organized according to article 130 and its derived legislation, shall be authorized to acquire, possess or manage just the necessary assets to achieve their objectives\".\n\nThe first paragraph of article 130 states that: \"The rules established at this article are guided by the historical principle according to which the State and the churches are separated entities from each other. Churches and religious congregations shall be organized under the law\".\n\nIt also provided for obligatory state registration of all churches and religious congregations, and placed a series of restrictions on priests and ministers of all religions (ineligible to hold public office, to canvas on behalf of political parties or candidates, to inherit from persons other than close blood relatives, etc.). The article also allowed the state to regulate the number of priests in each region—even reducing the number to zero—and forbade the wearing of religious garb and excluded offenders from a trial by jury. Venustiano Carranza declared himself opposed to the final draft of Articles 3, 5, 24, 27, 123 and 130, but the Constitutional Congress contained only 85 conservatives and centrists close to Carranza's rather restrictive brand of \"liberalism\"; against them were 132 more radical delegates.\n\nArticle 24 states that: \"Every man shall be free to choose and profess any religious belief as long as it is lawful and it cannot be punished under criminal law. The Congress shall not be authorized to enact laws either establishing or prohibiting a particular religion. Religious ceremonies of public nature shall be ordinarily performed at the temples. Those performed outdoors shall be regulated under the law\".\n\nViolence on a limited scale occurred throughout the early 1920s, but never rose to the level of widespread conflict. In 1926, following passage of stringent anticlerical criminal laws and enforcement of these so-called Calles Laws (named for Mexican President Plutarco Elías Calles) coupled with peasant revolts against land reform in the heavily Catholic Bajio and clampdown on popular religious celebrations such as fiestas, scattered guerrilla operations coalesced into a serious armed revolt against the government.\n\nCatholic and anticlerical groups turned to terrorism. Of the several uprisings against the Mexican government in the 1920s, the Cristero War was the most devastating and had the most long-range effects. The diplomatic settlement of 1929 brokered by the US Ambassador to Mexico between the Catholic Church and the Mexican government was supported by the Vatican. Although many Cristeros continued fighting, they no longer did so with the tacit support of the Church. Persecution of Catholics and anti-government terrorist attacks continued into the 1940s, when the remaining organized Cristero groups were incorporated into the Sinarquista Party.\n\nThe Mexican Revolution of 1910 was originally fought against longtime autocrat Porfirio Díaz and in favor of the demand by the mass of peasantry for land. However, the late revolutionary leader Plutarco Elias Calles took radically anti-Catholic stances, despite the Church's overwhelming support from the people. Francisco I. Madero was the first revolutionary leader. Madero was elected president in November 1911 but was overthrown and executed in 1913 by the counterrevolutionary Gen. Victoriano Huerta. When Huerta seized power after Madero's assassination, Archbishop Ruiz y Flores from Morelia published a letter condemning the coup and distanced the Church from Huerta. The National Catholic Party newspaper, representing the views of the bishops, attacked Huerta severely and, as a result, the new regime jailed the President of the NCP and halted the publication of the newspaper. Nevertheless, some members of the National Catholic Party decided to participate in Huerta's regime, such as Eduardo Tamariz. The revolutionary generals Venustiano Carranza, Francisco Villa and Emiliano Zapata—who vanquished Huerta's federal army under the Plan of Guadalupe—had friendships with the Catholics and local parish priests who aided them, but they also blamed high-ranking Catholic clergy for supporting Huerta.\n\nCarranza was the first president under the new Constitution, but he was overthrown by one-time ally Álvaro Obregón in 1919, who took over the presidency in late 1920. Obregón effectively applied the secularist laws emanating from the constitution only in areas where Catholic sentiment was weakest. This uneasy \"truce\" between the government and the Church ended with the 1924 hand-picked succession of an atheist, Plutarco Elías Calles. Mexican Jacobins, supported by Calles' central government, went beyond mere anti-clericalism and engaged in secular anti-religious campaigns to eradicate what they called \"superstition\" and \"fanaticism\", which included the desecration of religious objects as well as the persecution and murder of the clergy.\n\nCalles applied the anti-clerical laws stringently throughout the country and added his own anti-clerical legislation. In June 1926 he signed the \"Law for Reforming the Penal Code\", known unofficially as the \"Calles Law.\" This provided specific penalties for priests and individuals who violated the provisions of the 1917 Constitution. For instance, wearing clerical garb in public (\"i.e.\", outside Church buildings) earned a fine of 500 pesos ($250 U.S. per the historical exchange rate); a priest who criticized the government could be imprisoned for five years. Some states enacted oppressive measures. Chihuahua enacted a law permitting only a single priest to serve the entire Catholic congregation of the state. To help enforce the law, Calles seized church property, expelled all foreign priests and closed the monasteries, convents and religious schools.\n\nIn response to these measures, Catholic organizations began to intensify their resistance. The most important of these groups was the National League for the Defense of Religious Liberty, founded in 1924. This was joined by the Mexican Association of Catholic Youth (founded 1913) and the Popular Union, a Catholic political party founded in 1925.\n\nOn July 11, 1926, Catholic bishops voted to suspend all public worship in response to the Calles Law, with the suspension taking effect on August 1. On July 14 they endorsed plans for an economic boycott against the government, which was particularly effective in west-central Mexico (the states of Jalisco, Michoacan, Guanajuato, Aguascalientes and Zacatecas). Catholics in these areas stopped attending movies and plays and using public transportation, and Catholic teachers stopped teaching in secular schools.\n\nThe bishops worked to have the offending articles of the Constitution amended. Pope Pius XI explicitly approved this plan. The Calles government considered the bishops' activism sedition and had many more churches closed. In September 1926 the episcopate submitted a proposal for the amendment of the constitution, but the Congress rejected it on September 22.\n\nOn August 3, in Guadalajara, Jalisco, some 400 armed Catholics shut themselves in the Church of Our Lady of Guadalupe. They exchanged gunfire with federal troops and surrendered when they ran out of ammunition. According to US consular sources, this battle resulted in 18 dead and 40 wounded. The following day, in Sahuayo, Michoacán, 240 government soldiers stormed the parish church. The priest and his vicar were killed in the ensuing violence.\n\nOn August 14 government agents staged a purge of the Chalchihuites, Zacatecas, chapter of the Association of Catholic Youth and executed their spiritual adviser, Father Luis Bátiz Sainz. This execution caused a band of ranchers, led by Pedro Quintanar, to seize the local treasury and declare themselves in rebellion. At the height of their rebellion they held a region including the entire northern part of Jalisco. Luis Navarro Origel, the mayor of Pénjamo, Guanajuato, led another uprising on September 28. His men were defeated by federal troops in the open land around the town but retreated into the mountains, where they continued as guerrillas. In support of the two guerrilla Apache clans, the Chavez and Trujillos helped smuggle arms, munitions and supplies from the US state of New Mexico.\n\nThis was followed by a September 29 uprising in Durango led by Trinidad Mora and an October 4 rebellion in southern Guanajuato led by former Gen. Rodolfo Gallegos. Both rebel leaders adopted guerrilla tactics, as their forces were no match for federal troops. Meanwhile, rebels in Jalisco—particularly the region northeast of Guadalajara—quietly began assembling forces. Led by 27-year-old René Capistrán Garza, leader of the Mexican Association of Catholic Youth, this region would become the main focal point of the rebellion.\n\nThe formal rebellion began on January 1, 1927, with a manifesto sent by Garza titled \"A la Nación\" (To the Nation). This declared that \"the hour of battle has sounded\" and \"the hour of victory belongs to God\". With the declaration the state of Jalisco, which had seemed to be quiet since the Guadalajara church uprising, exploded. Bands of rebels moving in the \"Los Altos\" region northeast of Guadalajara began seizing villages, often armed with only ancient muskets and clubs. The Cristeros' battle cry was \"¡Viva Cristo Rey! ¡Viva la Virgen de Guadalupe!\" (\"Long live Christ the King! Long live the Virgin of Guadalupe!\"). The rebels had scarce logistical supplies and relied heavily on the Feminine Brigades of St. Joan of Arc, raids on towns, trains and ranches in order to supply themselves with money, horses, ammunition and food. By contrast, later in the war the Calles government was supplied with arms and ammunition by the US government. In at least one battle, American pilots provided air support for the federal army against the Cristero rebels.\n\nThe Calles government did not take the threat seriously at first. The rebels did well against the \"agraristas\" (a rural militia recruited throughout Mexico) and the Social Defense forces (local militia), but initially were always defeated by regular federal troops who guarded the important cities. At this time the federal army numbered 79,759 men. When Jalisco federal commander Gen. Jesús Ferreira moved on the rebels, he matter-of-factly wired to army headquarters that \"it will be less a campaign than a hunt.\" It was a sentiment that Calles also held.\n\nHowever, the rebels planned their battles fairly well, considering the fact that they had little to no previous military experience. The most successful rebel leaders were Jesús Degollado (a pharmacist); Victoriano Ramírez (a ranch hand) and two priests, Fr. Aristeo Pedroza and Fr. José Reyes Vega. Reyes Vega was renowned, and Cardinal Davila deemed him a \"black-hearted assassin\". At least five priests took up arms, while many others supported them in various ways.\n\nThe Mexican episcopate never officially supported the rebellion, but the rebels had some indications that their cause was legitimate. Bishop José Francisco Orozco of Guadalajara remained with the rebels; while formally rejecting armed rebellion, he was unwilling to leave his flock.\n\nOn February 23, 1927, the Cristeros defeated federal troops for the first time at San Francisco del Rincón, Guanajuato, followed by another victory at San Julián, Jalisco. However, they quickly began to lose in the face of superior federal forces, and retreated into remote areas, constantly fleeing federal soldiers. Most of the leadership of the revolt in the state of Jalisco was forced to flee to the US, although Victoriano Ramírez and Fr. Reyes Vega remained.\n\nIn April 1927 the leader of the civilian wing of the Cristiada, Anacleto González Flores, was captured, tortured and killed. The media and government declared victory and plans were made for a re-education campaign in the areas that had rebelled. As if to prove that the rebellion was not extinguished, and to avenge the death of González Flores, Fr. Reyes Vega led a raid against a train carrying a shipment of money for the Bank of Mexico on April 19, 1927. The raid was a success, but Reyes Vega's brother was killed in the fighting.\n\nThe \"concentration\" policy, rather than suppressing the revolt, gave it new life, as thousands of men began to aid and join the rebels in resentment of the treatment of the Federation. When the rains came the peasants were allowed to return to the harvest, and there was now more support than ever for the Cristeros. By August 1927 they had consolidated their movement and were constantly attacking federal troops garrisoned in their towns. Soon they would be joined by Enrique Gorostieta, a retired general hired by the National League for the Defense of Religious Liberty. Although Gorostieta was himself a liberal and a skeptic, he would eventually wear a cross around his neck and speak openly of his reliance on God.\n\nOn June 21, 1927, the first Women's Brigade was formed in Zapopan. The brigade began with 16 women and one man, but after a few days grew to 135 members and soon after, they came to number 17,000. Its mission was to obtain money, weapons, provisions and information for the combatant men while also caring for the wounded. By March 1928 some 10,000 women were involved in the struggle, with many smuggling weapons into combat zones by carrying them in carts filled with grain or cement. By the end of the war they numbered some 25,000.\n\nWith close ties to the Catholic Church and clergy, the De La Torre family was instrumental in bringing the Cristero Movement to northern Mexico. The family, originally from Zacatecas and Guanajuato, moved to Aguascalientes and then in 1922 to San Luis Potosí. They moved again to Tampico for economic reasons and finally to Nogales—both the Mexican city and its similarly named sister city across the border in Arizona—to escape persecution from authorities because of their involvement in the Church and the movement \n\nThe Cristeros maintained the upper hand throughout 1928, and in 1929 the federal government faced a new crisis: a revolt within army ranks led by Arnulfo R. Gómez in Veracruz. The Cristeros tried to take advantage of this with an attack on Guadalajara in late March 1929. It failed, but the rebels did manage to take Tepatitlán on April 19; however, Fr. Vega was killed. The military rebellion was met with equal force and the Cristeros were soon facing divisions within their own ranks.\n\nIn October 1927 US ambassador to Mexico Dwight Whitney Morrow initiated a series of breakfast meetings with President Calles at which the two would discuss a range of issues, from the religious uprising to oil and irrigation. This earned him the nickname \"the ham and eggs diplomat\" in US papers. Morrow wanted the conflict to end both for regional security and to help find a solution to the oil problem in the US. He was aided in his efforts by Fr. John J. Burke of the National Catholic Welfare Conference. Calles' term as president was coming to an end—former president Álvaro Obregón had been elected president and was scheduled to take office on December 1, 1928. Though Obregon had been more lenient to Catholics during his time in office, it was also generally accepted among Mexicans, including the Cristeros, that Calles was his puppet leader. Two weeks after his election Obregón was assassinated by a Catholic radical, José de León Toral, an event that gravely damaged the peace process.\n\nIn September 1928 Congress named Emilio Portes Gil as interim president, with a special election to be held in November 1929. Portes was more open to the Church than Calles had been, allowing Morrow and Burke to re-initiate the peace initiative. Portes told a foreign correspondent on May 1, 1929, that \"the Catholic clergy, when they wish, may renew the exercise of their rites with only one obligation, that they respect the laws of the land\". The next day exiled Archbishop Leopoldo Ruíz y Flores issued a statement that the bishops would not demand the repeal of the laws, only their more lenient application.\n\nMorrow managed to bring the parties to agreement on June 21, 1929. His office drafted a pact called the \"arreglos\" (agreement) that allowed worship to resume in Mexico and granted three concessions to the Catholics: only priests who were named by hierarchical superiors would be required to register, religious instruction in the churches (but not in the schools) would be permitted, and all citizens, including the clergy, would be allowed to make petitions to reform the laws. However, the most important part of the agreement was that the church would recover the right to use its properties, and priests recovered their rights to live on such property. Legally speaking, the Church was not allowed to own real estate, and its former facilities remained federal property. However, the church effectively took control over the properties. It was a convenient arrangement for both parties, and the church ostensibly ended its support for the rebels.\n\nOver the previous two years, anticlerical officers who were hostile to the federal government for reasons other than its position on religion had joined the rebels. When the agreement between the government and the church was made known, only a minority of the rebels went home, mainly those who felt their battle had been won. On the other hand, since the rebels themselves were not consulted in the talks, many felt betrayed and some continued to fight. The church threatened those rebels with excommunication, and gradually the rebellion died out. The officers, fearing that they would be tried as traitors, tried to keep the rebellion alive. This attempt failed and many were captured and shot, while others escaped to San Luis Potosí where Gen. Saturnino Cedillo gave them refuge.\n\nOn June 27, 1929, church bells rang in Mexico for the first time in almost three years. The war had claimed the lives of some 90,000 people: 56,882 on the federal side, 30,000 Cristeros, and numerous civilians and Cristeros who were killed in anti-clerical raids after the war ended. As promised by Portes Gil, the Calles Law remained on the books, but no organized federal attempts to enforce it took place. Nonetheless, in several localities, officials continued persecution of Catholic priests based on their interpretation of the law.\n\nIn 1992 the Mexican government amended the constitution by granting all religious groups legal status, conceding them limited property rights and lifting restrictions on the number of priests in the country.\n\nBoth US councils and mostly newly formed Mexican councils of the Knights of Columbus opposed the persecution by the Mexican government. To date, nine of those beatified or canonized were Knights. The American Knights collected more than $1 million to assist exiles from Mexico, to continue the education of expelled seminarians and to inform citizens of the US about oppression. They circulated five million leaflets educating the US about the war, held hundreds of lectures and spread the news via radio. In addition to fostering an informed public the Knights met with President Calvin Coolidge to press for intervention.\n\nAccording to Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus Carl A. Anderson, two-thirds of Mexican Catholic councils were shut down by the Mexican government at the time. In response, the Knights of Columbus published posters and magazines presenting Cristero soldiers in a positive light.\n\nHigh-ranking members of the racist and anti-Catholic US organization the Ku Klux Klan in the mid-1920s offered President Calles $10,000 to help fight the Catholic Church. The offer came when the Knights of Columbus in the US secretly offered a group of Cristero rebels $1,000 of financial assistance for guns and ammunition. This was made after the fact that Calles also sent a private telegram to the Mexican Ambassador to France, Alberto José Pani Arteaga, advising that the Catholic Church in Mexico is a political movement, and must be eliminated in order to proceed with a Socialist government free of religious hypnotism which fools the people . . . within one year without the sacraments, the people will forget the faith . . .\"\n\nThe government in many cases did not abide by the terms of the truce and, in violation of its terms, executed some 500 Cristero leaders and 5,000 other Cristeros. Particularly offensive to Catholics after the supposed truce was Calles' insistence on a complete state monopoly on education, suppressing all Catholic education and introducing secular education in its place: \"We must enter and take possession of the mind of childhood, the mind of youth.\" Calles' military persecution of Catholics would be officially condemned by President Lázaro Cárdenas and the Mexican Congress in 1935. Between 1935–36 Cárdenas had Calles and many of his close associates arrested and forced them into exile soon afterwards. Freedom of worship was no longer suppressed, although some states still refused to repeal Calles' policy, and relations with the church improved while Cárdenas was president.\n\nGovernment disregard for the church, however, did not relent until 1940, when President Manuel Ávila Camacho, a practicing Catholic, took office. Church buildings in the country still belonged to the Mexican government and the nation's policies regarding the church still fell into federal jurisdiction. Under Camacho, the bans against church, though lawfully required either throughout the country or in just some Mexican states, were no longer enforced anywhere in Mexico.\n\nThe effects of the war on the Church were profound. Between 1926–34 at least 40 priests were killed. There were 4,500 priests serving the people before the rebellion, but by 1934 there were only 334 licensed by the government to serve 15 million people. The rest had been eliminated by emigration, expulsion and assassination. By 1935, 17 states had no priests at all.\n\nThe end of the Cristero War affected emigration to the US. \"In the aftermath of their defeat, many of the Cristeros—by some estimates as much as 5 percent of Mexico's population—fled to America [i.e. the United States]. Many of them made their way to Los Angeles, where they found a protector in John Joseph Cantwell, the bishop of what was then the Los Angeles-San Diego diocese.\" Under Archbishop Cantwell's sponsorship the Cristero refugees became a substantial community in Los Angeles, California, in 1934 staging a parade some 40,000 strong through the city.\n\nThe Calles law was repealed after Lázaro Cárdenas became president in 1934. Cárdenas earned respect from Pope Pius and befriended Mexican Archbishop Luis María Martinez, a major figure in Mexico's Catholic Church who successfully persuaded Mexicans to obey the government's laws in a peaceful manner.\n\nThe Church refused to back Mexican insurgent Saturnino Cedillo's failed revolt against Cárdenas, despite the fact that Cedillo endorsed more power for the Church as well.\n\nSocialist Education: Cárdenas' government continued to suppress religion in the field of education during his administration (1934–40). Congress amended Article 3 of the Constitution in October 1934 to include the following introductory text (textual translation): \"The education imparted by the State shall be a socialist one and, in addition to excluding all religious doctrine, shall combat fanaticism and prejudices by organizing its instruction and activities in a way that shall permit the creation in youth of an exact and rational concept of the Universe and of social life.\"\n\nThis amendment was invalidated by future President Manuel Ávila Camacho and was officially repealed from the Mexican Constitution in 1946. Constitutional bans against the Church would not be enforced anywhere in Mexico during Avila Camacho's presidency.\n\nThe promotion of socialist education met with strong opposition in some parts of academia and in areas formerly controlled by the Cristeros.\n\nPope Pius XI also published the encyclical \"Firmissimam Constantiam\" on March 28, 1937, expressing his opposition to the \"impious and corruptive school\" (paragraph 22) and his support for Catholic Action in Mexico. This was the third and last encyclical published by Pius XI making reference to the religious situation in Mexico.\n\nViolence against public school teachers: Many of those formerly associated with the Cristeros took up arms again as independent rebels, and they were followed by some other Catholics, but this time unarmed public school teachers were among the main targets of independent rebel-associated atrocities. Government supporters blamed these on the Cristero movement in general.\n\nRural teachers did not take up arms, but some of them refused to leave their schools and communities, and many had their ears cut off by the Cristeros. This is the reason why those teachers who were murdered and had their corpses desecrated are often known as \"maestros desorejados\" (\"teachers without ears\") in Mexico.\n\nIn some of the worst cases, teachers were tortured and murdered by the former Cristero rebels. It is calculated that approximately 300 rural teachers were murdered in this way, between 1935–39, while other authors calculate that at least 223 teachers were victims of the violence between 1931–40, including the assassinations of Carlos Sayago, Carlos Pastraña and Librado Labastida in Teziutlán, Puebla, hometown of future president Manuel Ávila Camacho; the execution of a teacher, Carlos Toledano, who was burned alive in Tlapacoyan, Veracruz; and the lynching of at least 42 teachers in the state of Michoacán: J. Trinidad Ramírez in Contepec, Pedro García in Apatzingan, Juan Gonzalez Valdespino in Huajumbaro, José Rivera Romero in Ciudad Hidalgo, María Salud Morales in Tacambaro; et al. The atrocities by the rebels and associated Catholics against rural teachers have been criticized in essays and books published by the Ibero-American University in Mexico, a college run by the Jesuit order of the Catholic Church.\n\nThe Mexican constitution prohibits outdoor worship, which is only allowed in exceptional circumstances, generally requiring governmental permission. Religious organizations are not permitted to own print or electronic media outlets, governmental permission is required to broadcast religious ceremonies, and ministers are prohibited from being political candidates or holding public office. Despite remnants of anti-clerical statutes, there is no real enforcement of them, and the Catholic Church enjoys liberties from the Government, as well as devotion from the people.\n\nThe Catholic Church has recognized several of those killed in the Cristero rebellion as martyrs, including the Blessed Miguel Pro (SJ), who was shot dead without trial by a firing squad on November 23, 1927, on trumped-up charges of involvement in an assassination attempt against former President Álvaro Obregón but in actuality for his priestly activities in defiance of the government. His beatification occurred in 1988.\n\nOn May 21, 2000, Pope Saint John Paul II canonized a group of 25 martyrs from this period. They had been beatified on November 22, 1992. Of this group, 22 were secular clergy and three were laymen. They did not take up arms but refused to leave their flocks and ministries, being shot or hanged by government forces for offering the sacraments. Most were executed by federal forces. Although Peter de Jesus Maldonado was killed in 1937, after the war ended, he is considered a Cristero and a member of this group .\n\nFr. Luis Bátiz Sainz was the parish priest in Chalchihuites and a member of the Knights of Columbus. He was known for his devotion to the Eucharist and for his prayer for martyrdom: \"Lord, I want to be a martyr; even though I am your unworthy servant, I want to pour out my blood, drop by drop, for your name.\" In 1926, shortly before the closing of the churches, he was denounced as a conspirator against the government because of his connections with the National League for the Defense of Religious Liberty, which was preparing an armed uprising. A squad of soldiers raided the private house where he was staying on August 14, 1926, and took him captive. They executed him, reportedly without benefit of a trial, along with three youths of the Mexican Association of Catholic Youth.\n\nThe Catholic Church declared 13 additional victims of the anti-Catholic regime as martyrs on November 20, 2005, thus paving the way for their beatifications. This group was mostly lay people including 14-year-old José Sánchez del Río. On November 20, 2005, at Jalisco Stadium in Guadalajara, José Saraiva Cardinal Martins celebrated the beatifications.\n\nJuan Gutiérrez, a surviving Cristero, penned the Cristeros hymn, \"Battle Hymn of the Cristeros\", which is based on the music of the Spanish-language song, \"Marcha Real\".\n\n\n\nFrench historian and researcher Jean Meyer argues that the Cristero soldiers were western peasants who tried to resist the heavy pressures of the modern bourgeois state and its Revolution, of the city elites, and of the rich, all of whom wanted to suppress the Catholic faith.\n\n\"El martes me fusilan\" is a song by Vicente Fernandez about a fictional Cristero's execution. https://www.letras.com/vicente-fernandez/1300723/\n\nJuan Rulfo's famous novel \"Pedro Páramo\" is set during the Cristero War in the western Mexico city of Comala.\n\nGraham Greene's novel \"The Power and the Glory\" is set during this period.\n\nFor Greater Glory is based on the events of the Cristero War.\n\nMalcolm Lowry's novel \"Under the Volcano\" is also set during this period. In Lowry's novel, the Cristeros appear as a reactionary group with fascist sympathies, which contrasts with their portrayal in other novels.\n\nThere is a long section of B. Traven's novel \"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre\" devoted to the history of what Traven refers to as \"the Christian Bandits\". However, in the classic film made from the novel, no mention is made of the Cristeros, although the novel takes place in the same time period as the rebellion.\n\nMany fact-based films, shorts and documentaries about the war have been produced since 1929. The list includes:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38937556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38937556", "title": "EHF Champions League clubs performance comparison", "text": "EHF Champions League clubs performance comparison\n\nThe comparison of the performances of all of the clubs that participated in EHF Champions League is below. The qualification rounds were not taken into account.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6451743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6451743", "title": "Ernest Lindgren", "text": "Ernest Lindgren\n\nErnest Lindgren (3 October 1910 – 22 July 1973) was a British film archivist and writer.\n\nLindgren joined the British Film Institute in February 1934 as Information Officer, and became the first curator of the National Film Library in 1935, renamed the National Film Archive in 1955. He remained curator until his death in 1973. He was succeeded by David Francis.\n\nLindgren's approach to the preservation of film materials is often contrasted with that of Henri Langlois, the founder of the Cinémathèque Française; the scientific against the romantic. Unlike Langlois, Lindgren adopted a selective approach in opposition to accumulating every possible film. Along with Langlois though, Lindgren played a major role in the development of FIAF, the International Federation of Film Archives. It is argued that the NFA gained a reputation for being uncooperative in this period, and Lindgren reportedly applied the Alizarin Red test (a disputed means of checking for the extent of nitrate decomposition) to films which were on loan from other institutions. Langlois in contrast had an eccentric, or non-existent, approach to record keeping, and the Cinémathèque suffered a nitrate fire on 10 July 1959.\n\nLindgren's approach, on the other hand, meant that no account of changes in fashion could be made. When the BFI published \"Missing Believed Lost\" (1992), and launched an accompanying campaign, it was forced to admit that some of the featured titles, all made during the nitrate era, had previously been rejected as possible acquisitions.\n\n\"The Art of the Film: An Introduction to Film Appreciation\", first published in 1948, went through several editions during Lindgren's lifetime. \"A Picture History of the Cinema\" appeared in 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "35021292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35021292", "title": "Fat (cookbook)", "text": "Fat (cookbook)\n\nFat: An Appreciation of a Misunderstood Ingredient, with Recipes is a cookbook written by Canadian author Jennifer McLagan. In \"Fat\", McLagan discusses the history of the shift from diets that were high in animal fat to low-fat foods, which has not resulted in an appreciable increase in overall health. The trend to lower fat foods is a result of studies conducted in the 1940s, which McLagan disputes. Included in \"Fat\" are instructions for fat rendering, recipes for its use, and a description of the health benefits of eating animal fat.\n\nIn 2009 the book received the James Beard Foundation Award and the IACP Cookbook Award.\n\nMcLagen was raised in Australia in the 1960s, prior to the North American and United Kingdom diets moving towards low fat. In the 1970s, she moved to Europe, where fat was not being removed as a common part of the diet. The 1970s saw American diets adopting lower amounts of animal fat (though without an improvement in overall health), resulting in an increased intake of overall fat, with vegetable fats substituted for animal fats, leading to higher polyunsaturated fat levels in the diet. McLagan's explanation for the belief that fat is unhealthy comes from Ancel Keys's studies in the 1940s, which linked animal fat to heart disease—studies which have since been challenged by other studies which do not link the two. McLangan states the studies were faulty, citing the \"French paradox,\" according to which cultures with a high-fat diet have low rates of heart disease.\n\nMcLagen discusses the misconception that people have about fat as a \"greasy killer\" and describes the shift to a low-fat diet, citing two studies that show that obesity may not be connected to heart attacks, and pointing to the Atkins diet. There are sections dedicated to butter and to types of fat from different animals, with instructions on how to render it, store it, and cook with it. Recipes for dishes with animal fat as an ingredient are included as well. McLagen's book also covers the health benefits of animal fat, such as its energy content, helping the immune system, reducing bad cholesterol and aiding in digestion of protein and fat-soluble vitamins. McLagen contends that animal fat is not unhealthy and tastes good, but that it has gotten a bad reputation and thus consumers have become afraid of eating it—if they stopped being afraid, they would enjoy it.\n\n"}
{"id": "43394350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43394350", "title": "Hessian Bibliography", "text": "Hessian Bibliography\n\nThe Hessian Bibliography () is a German regional bibliography. Its aim is to completely capture all the literature connected with the geography, history and culture of the German federal state of Hesse from the year 1974. It is based on the holdings of the copyright libraries at Kassel, Fulda, Frankfurt, Wiesbaden and Darmstadt.\n\nBy 2000 a total of 24 indexed year books had appeared in print; since then it has only been available in electronic form as a freely accessible database of the Hessian library information system (HEBIS). The titles are recorded in accordance with the Rules for Alphabetic Cataloguing and accessed using a comprehensive system of about 1,200 system sites and keywords. About 6,500 bibliographic records are added per year. \n\nThe Hessian bibliography is part of the Virtual German National Bibliography, which has its own web portal.\n\nFor the period before 1974, the \"Literature on the History and Historic Geograph and Culture of Hesse\" is used. This consists of seven printed volumes by Karl Ernst Demandt (covering the period to 1964) and by Winfried Leist and Wolfgang Podehl (covering the period 1965-1976). Currently, the volumes of Podehl and Leist are gradually being added retrospectively to the database.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3992993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3992993", "title": "Heywood Manuscript", "text": "Heywood Manuscript\n\nThe Heywood Manuscript is a collection of handwritten copies of letters and poems of the Heywood family, and letters from their relatives and friends, which was completed in 1798, and to which some explanatory passages have been added. Most of the letters and poems are by Nessy and Peter Heywood, and it may be that the transcription and reproduction of their correspondence and poetry was instigated by Peter as a lasting monument to his sister Nessy, who died so young, and who had devoted herself with indefatigatible energy to him and his release when he was imprisoned on HMS Hector and awaiting his court-martial in connection with the Mutiny on the Bounty.\n\nThere are five known versions of the manuscript, which were produced for members of the Heywood family. Two are privately owned, the other three are in libraries:\n\n\nThe Manx National Heritage copy consists of a preface page with the name of the owner – E C Fleetwood, whose wife Elizabeth (Bessy) was Nessy’s niece – and several unbound small books and additional loose leaves which are numbered from 1 to 397, and which include a total of 184 different documents. Some pages are missing, and the last 110 pages are blank. One poem stems from 1786, others have no date. Most of the documents are dated between 1790 and 1793 and deal with Peter’s alleged participation in the Mutiny on the Bounty and the court proceedings against the mutineers. In the early 20th century the manuscript was in the possession of Mr A. R. Allinson, a relation of the Heywoods. In the 1920s it was sold to a private collector in London. Manx National Heritage obtained the Heywood-Manuscript as well as letters and poems by Peter Heywood and returned them to the Isle of Man, when Bonhams in London auctioned off letters and manuscripts by members of the Bounty expedition in 1996.\n\nIn the library catalogue of the New South Wales State Library there is mention that the manuscript was possibly produced by Nessy’s older sister, Mary Heywood. It is assumed that the inscription Mary Heywood on the first page is Mary’s handwriting. A second inscription Aunt to Bessie Fleetwood Castle Lawn Douglas seems to indicate that Mary left the manuscript to her niece Elizabeth (Bessy) Fleetwood. Bessy was the daughter of Mary’s and Nessy’s youngest brother Edwin Holwell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4808828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4808828", "title": "ICPC-2 PLUS", "text": "ICPC-2 PLUS\n\nICPC-2 PLUS is an extended terminology classified to ICPC-2 International Classification of Primary Care, which aids data entry, retrieval and analysis. ICPC-2 PLUS takes into account the frequency distribution of problems seen in primary health care. It allows for the classification of the patient’s reason for encounter (RFE), the problems/diagnosis managed, primary care interventions, and the ordering of the data of the primary care session in an episode of care structure.\n\nICPC-2 PLUS provides a list of possible terms matching a keyword (or start of a keyword) entered by the user. The user then selects the most appropriate term. Each term is already classified to ICPC-2 rubrics and a system of additional groupers that may include terms from multiple ICPC-2 rubrics.\n\nEach term has one or more keywords linked to it which may include abbreviations, synonyms, generics or specifics. The keyword searching is thus much broader, faster and better controlled than text mining of free text and labels. Instead of guessing what the physician meant by a term (in free text) prior to classification, the physician is actually prompted with a small list of terms to select from which are already classified.\n\nThe product also includes a \"natural language\" label for each term which can be used for reports and letters.\n\nNote: The PLUS extension mentioned here is not part of the ICPC-2 standard. The World Organization of Family Doctors (WONCA) and the WONCA International Classification Committee (WICC) have no control over it although they do have control over the ICPC classification which the PLUS extension makes use of. It is similar to the difference between a car and fuel.\n\nICPC-2 PLUS was the successor to 'ICPC PLUS' and were both designed by the Family Medicine Research Centre(FMRC) for use in Australia. ICPC 2 PLUS responsibility was transferred to the NCCH () in July 2016 which continues to update and support ICPC-2 PLUS.\n\nICPC is being developed by the WONCA International Classification Committee (WICC), and the first version was published as ICPC-1 in 1987 by Oxford University Press (OUP), and a revision and inclusion of criteria and definitions, was published in 1998 as \"ICPC-2\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3346671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3346671", "title": "Interracial adoption", "text": "Interracial adoption\n\nInterracial adoption (also referred to as transracial adoption) refers to the act of placing a child of one racial or ethnic group with adoptive parents of another racial or ethnic group.\n\nInterracial adoption is not the same as transcultural or international adoption though in some circumstances an adoption may be interracial, international, and transcultural.\n\nBased on the Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting System (AFCARS) in the U.S., the fiscal year of 1998 showed that approximately 64% of children waiting in foster care were of non-Caucasian background; 32% were white. Out of all foster children waiting for adoption 51% are black, 11% are Hispanic, 1% are American Indian, 1% are Asian/Pacific Islander, and 5% are unknown/unable to determine. Data from the 1995 National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG) in the U.S. show that adoption of an unrelated child was most common among childless white women and those with higher levels of income and education. The most recent estimate of interracial adoption was performed in 1987 by the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) and it found that 1% of white women adopt black children, 5% of white women adopt children of other races, and 2% of women of other races adopt white children (estimates include foreign-born).\n\nThe US Census 2000 found that \"White (and no other race), not Hispanic children made up the majority of all categories of children of householders under 18: about 58 percent of adopted children, 64 percent of biological children\" and \"Of the 1.7 million households with adopted children, about 308,000 (18 percent) contained members of different races.\"\n\nBetween 2008 and 2009, approximately 2,700 white children were adopted compared to only 410 mixed-race children and only 90 black children in the UK. Approximately 1 in 10 children in care is black and 1 in 9 children in care comes from a racially mixed background. Black, mixed-race and Asian children typically wait to be adopted on average three years longer than white children. Children of mixed ethnicities are more likely than other children to be placed for adoption. The Children Act 1989 and Adoption and Children Act 2002 state that in England and Wales an adoption agency must give due consideration to a child's religious persuasion, racial origin and cultural and linguistic background; this requirement was repealed for England in the Children and Families Act 2014. Adoption placement of children of mixed ethnicities is difficult because it is influenced by values, ideology and anti-oppressive practices that need to be considered within the practice. Mixed ethnicity children are subject to racism and complete inclusion of both parts of their heritage. Mixed children will struggle with discrimination from both parts of their ethnicity, desiring solidarity from both parts of their ethnic backgrounds.\n\nInterracial adoption grew significantly from 1999 to 2005 where it reached its peak year at 585 adoptions to the United States. Following 2005, interracial adoption into the US declined with 288 adoptions in the year 2011. From 1999 to 2011, there has been 233,934 adoptions into the United States from other countries across the globe. Of the total adoptions, 39.4% (92,202 children) were under the age of 12 months. Also, 63% (146,516 children) were female. Overall, children from China were the most common to be adopted. 66,630 were from China and Russia was the second largest country with 45,112 children.\n\nBefore World War II it was very rare for white couples to adopt a child of a different race and every effort was made in order to match a child with the skin color and religion of the adoptive family. Then in 1944 the Boys and Girls Aid Society took an interest in the increasing number of minority children waiting to be adopted which focused on children from Asian American, Native American, and African American heritage. Children of Asian and Native American heritage were most easily placed outside of their racial group while those of African Americans heritage proved more difficult. The campaign was called \"Operation Brown Baby\" and its objective was to find adoptive homes even if from a different race, the first candidate in this operation, Noah Turner, was a Chinese baby adopted into a Caucasian family in 1947. Then during the civil rights movement, interracial adoptions in the United States increased dramatically and the numbers more than tripled from 733 cases in 1968 to 2,574 cases in 1971. (There are now about 6,500 cases a year.) It was then that the National Association of Black Social Workers condemned interracial adoption citing that adoptees were at risk for developing a poor racial identity due to lack of contact with role models of the same race. In the 1990s the placement of black children into non-black homes virtually came to a complete stop.\n\nFamilies formed across racial, national, and biological boundaries represent a growing demographic, adding to the pervasive, historical diversity of family forms in the United States (Coontz, 2008). Since 1990, the number of U.S. adoptions of foreign-born orphans has increased in unprecedented numbers, rising from 7,093 children to 12,753 in 2009—an 80% increase: China ranked as the top sending country, and Vietnam ranked as the seventh highest (U.S. Department of State, 2009). Whereas diversification in the family form is not a new phenomenon, it often appears so, given that family communication scholarship on nontraditional families is a relatively recent development.\n\nIn 1994 the Howard M. Metzenbaum Multiethnic Placement Act (MEPA) was passed. It prohibits an agency that receives Federal assistance and is involved in foster care and adoptive placements from delaying or denying the placement of a child based on race, color, or national origin of the child or adoptive/foster parent. Then, in 1996 it was amended with the \"Interethnic Adoption Provisions\", also known as the Interethnic Placement Act. These provisions forbid agencies from delaying or denying the placement of a child \"solely\" on the basis of race and national origin. The purpose of these revisions was to strengthen compliance and enforcement of the procedures, remove any misleading language, and demand that discrimination would not be tolerated.\n\nAnother important law regarding interracial adoptions was the Adoption and Safe Families Act that was implemented in 1997. The purpose of this law is to reduce the time that a child spends in foster care by implementing a two-year limit and therefore hopefully moving a child closer to permanent adoption. The purpose of this act was to reduce the instability and abuse problems in the foster care system. Critics argue that it also takes the emphasis off of trying to keep children with their biological parents.\n\nOne study found that interracial adoptees fare sometimes better, sometimes worse, but overall about the same as their same-race adopted counterparts across the 12 adjustment measures investigated. These measures investigated indices of academic, familial, psychological, and health outcomes for 4 groups of interracial and same-race adopted adolescents. Specifically, interracial adoptees had significantly higher grades and significantly higher academic expectations but marginally more distant father relationships and higher levels of psychosomatic symptoms than their same-race adopted counterparts. Also, Asian adolescents adopted by white parents had both the highest grades and the highest levels of psychosomatic symptoms, whereas black adolescents adopted by black parents reported the highest levels of depression. On the other hand, black adoptees reported higher levels of self-worth than non-black adoptees.\n\nAnother report suggested that adjustment problems among their children at approximately the same levels as were reported by the parents of intraracially adopted whites. Yet, evidence also showed that extra-family forces, for example societal racism, did negatively impact adjustment outcomes. Particularly, experiences of discrimination generated feelings of appearance discomfort. The research suggested that black and Asian children, who appear unmistakably different from whites, are most likely to encounter such societal discrimination. Apparently, many Latino children with European physical features can safely escape such expressions of racism. One of this study's most interesting findings showed that interracial adoptive parents' decisions on where to live had a substantial impact upon their children's adjustments. Interracial adoptive parents living in predominantly white communities tended to have adoptees that experienced more discomfort about their appearance than those who lived in integrated settings.\n\nTransracial adoptees are posed with the challenge of understanding the differences between their own view of identity and the identity reflected and modeled by their parents. Identity entails, not only race, but also heritage, culture, ethnicity and many other descriptors. Studies have sought to explore how children of interracial adoption are affected in these varying categories in an effort to counter the argument that transracial adoptions can have confusing and conflicting effects on a child's view of self-identity. Research suggests that the age of adoption and parenting acculturation styles may influence the way in which transracial children construct and build their own identities.\n\nMany groups continue to argue that children put up for adoption should be matched with same race parents in an effort to better help the child assimilate culturally and racially. This idea is commonly known as race-matching, when the adoptee and adoptive parents are paired based on race. In 2008, the Evan B. Donaldson Adoption Institute reignited the interracial adoption debate with its recommendation that race should be considered in selecting adoptive parents for children awaiting placement. These reports examined adoption of black children by white parents. They found that interracial adoptees face additional and complex challenges coping with being \"different\", particularly if they grew up in homogeneous white communities struggling to fit in with both their adoptive families and the black community, feeling awkward and out of place in both settings, developing a positive racial/ethnic identity, acknowledging racial differences but without expressing racial pride, and managing racial prejudice and discrimination. The findings from the Donaldson report links the challenges that interracial adoptees face with socialization practices of adoptive parents that minimize racial differences, particularly when parents do not facilitate their children's understanding of and comfort with their own ethnicities.\n\nHowever, there has also been academic research on transracial adoption that has shown that black children can build strong racial identities when adopted by white parents. In light of this debate, much research has been specifically designed to analyze how transracial adoption affects the construction of a child's personal identity, and whether the circumstance of transracial adoption present such acclaimed negative influence on development. One study compared black children who had been placed with black adoptive families and black children who had been transracially adopted. They measured self-esteem and perception of racial identity. While there was no difference in perception of racial identity, there was a difference in how they perceived their own racial identity. Transracial children were \"more likely to identify themselves as being adopted and to use racial self-referents than in racially adopted children\" (McRoy, 1982). This study relates back to the importance of how influential transracial adopted parents acculturation, socialization, and awareness of race plays into fostering a positive racial identity for the child.\n\nA study involving Korean adoptees was designed to obtain information on how family involvement in culturally related activities factored into a child's ethnic identity. Results showed that children exposed to higher levels of involvement in Korean cultural activities attributed to a higher measure of Korean identity. In addition, these children were more easily able to communicate openly about their adoption. The implications of this study suggested that involvement of cultural activities of the child's native culture may help in the child's development of integrated ethnic identities. Another study, conceptually similarly, looked at both the parents and the children to measure how color-blind racial attitudes would affect engagement in activities of the adoptees native culture. Color blindness is the sociological concept that race, or racial characteristics, do not exist amongst people. The study found that parents scoring lower on color-blind racial attitudes positively correlated with high scores on acculturation and socialization levels, meaning parents that were aware of their cultural differences took part in more cultural activities of their adoptee. It is important to note that this study looked at international adoptions, which subsequently includes transracial adoptees, but is not specifically focused on this particular subset of individuals.\n\nAnother study, again focused on Korean transracial adoptees, sought to explore self-concept and acculturation through measurements of Religion, Honesty, Relationships with Opposite Sex, Physical Appearance, general self-concept, math, emotional stability, and relationships with parents in relation to age of placement of Korean adoptees. The significant findings in this study highlighted that the later the age at which the Korean adoptees were placed, the higher Honesty self-concept scores were. The implications of this study presume that the older in which a child is adopted, the more secure they are in their ethnic identity. Due to a longer amount of time, exposed to their native culture, the longer they had to develop a sense of identity of that culture before their adoptive parents' culture.\n\nFinally, some research has examined the empirical studies of interracial adoption themselves. These studies address whether past research that claims that interracial adoption positively benefits children of color, particularly black children, may have methodological difficulties. Specifically, these studies analyze the presence of an ethnocentric bias in legal and scientific assessments of children's well-being and adjustment.\n\nMulticultural families have both similarities and differences from the biological family. A family that has participated with interracial adoption shares similar roles, life stages, and transition points as other families. The challenge comes, however, with the pursuit of a shared family identity through communication. Linda D. Manning conducted a research study on this topic titled \"Presenting Opportunities: Communicatively Constructing a Shared Family Identity\". The research question she posed initially was, How do members of a multiracial adoptive family communicatively co-construct a shared family identity that emphasizes similarities and allows for difference? The results of the study found that having \"cultural artifacts\" in the home allow for the embrace of the differing cultures represented in the family. It \"creates a worldview that embraces diversity – not just races and ethnicities directly related to those embodied by family members. The choice to embrace multiple races and ethnicities... affirms the multiethnic experience\" (Manning, 2006). The study also showed that parents, in any family, present the family identity and the child responds. This is where an interracial family would share the similar roles as in a biological family. The parents act as educators and spokesperson. The children act as compliant participant, challenger, and expert. The research also showed that in an interracial family, there is tension between uniqueness and conformity. It is difficult but essential to balance these two qualities within the family identity. Manning concludes the research study by describing how \"the constructs of a shared family identity is both a process and a product\". The process includes roles and themes within the family while the product is developed through communication. \"A shared family identity is a group identity that encompasses individual identity characteristics shared by each family member, allows for salient differences between and among family members, and accounts for dialectic tensions that exist within family interactions, as well as between the family and the community\".\n\nThe United States Department of State offers multiple resources for parents wanting to adopt such as the \"Intercountry Adoption from A-Z\" publication, Adoption guides, Adoptive families committees, FAQs, and Visa information. All of these and more are available on their website. The article, \"Adoptive Parent's Framing of Laypersons' Conceptions of Family\" by Elizabeth A. Suter, Kristine L. Reyes, & Robert L. Ballard, addresses the importance of parents preparing for outside comments from others. This study showed that families that had participated in interracial adoption had experienced comments such as \"their families violated the canonical view of family in terms of racial dissimilarity between members, construction of family via adoption, and adoption of a child born out of the United States\". The article uses a battleground as a metaphor for an adoptive family. The external view of the family does pose as a challenge for interracial families. The results suggest that prior to interracial adoption, parents \"should be made aware of social stigmas... and be provided with opportunities to develop a critical consciousness about such stigmas\". The research also suggests and encourages required statewide courses for prospective parents.\n\nA dichotomy exists in reference to the subject of interracial adoption. Critics of race matching say there is a darker side involving whites with lingering racist beliefs against mixing races. They argue that children are hurt most by the practice. \"One of the problems with race-matching policies,\" says Donna Matias, a lawyer with the Institute of justice, \"is that it leaves the children in the system to wait. They are thrown into a vicious cycle where the chances plummet that they will ever get adopted.\" Never getting adopted has been shown to have a negative impact on children. After aging out of foster care, 27% of males and 10% of females were incarcerated within 12 to 18 months. 50% were unemployed, 37% had not finished high school, 33% received public assistance, and 19% of females had given birth to children. Before leaving care, 47 percent were receiving some kind of counseling or medication for mental health problems; that number dropped to 21% after leaving care.\n\nOpposition to interracial adoption has been reactionary to extreme misuse of adoption practices; for example Australian aborigines were taken from their parents, sterilized and then adopted for Christian upbringing. Similar cases happened with Native Americans.\nThe National Association of Black Social Workers, which consisted of twelve members, opposed interracial adoption, saying it was \"cultural suicide\", but their opposition was opposed by such groups as the NAACP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41585185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41585185", "title": "List of painters in the collection of the Rijksmuseum", "text": "List of painters in the collection of the Rijksmuseum\n\nThis is an incomplete list of painters in the collection of the Rijksmuseum, with the number of artworks represented, and sorted by century of birth. For more information about the collection which comprises more than 3,000 paintings, see Rijksmuseum. More than 300 works are by unknown or anonymous painters, and though over 1,000 individual artists are in the collection, many of these are represented by only one work. The highlights of the collection are the oldest works such as former altarpieces from Amsterdam churches, but also large works for other former Amsterdam institutions by Pieter Aertsen, Rembrandt, Nicolaes Maes, and Bartholomeus van der Helst. Most of the artists in the collection were born in the 16th and 17th centuries. Only 24 women are represented with works in the collection, most notably Judith Leyster, Gesina ter Borch, Catharina van Hemessen and Rachel Ruysch.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1638697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638697", "title": "List of personal information managers", "text": "List of personal information managers\n\nThe following is a list of personal information managers (PIMs) and online organizers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616785", "title": "List of reporting marks: R", "text": "List of reporting marks: R\n\n"}
{"id": "48561020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48561020", "title": "List of works by Lois McMaster Bujold", "text": "List of works by Lois McMaster Bujold\n\nThis is the complete list of works by American science fiction and fantasy author Lois McMaster Bujold.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCassette tape and CD versions of \"Falling Free\", \"Shards of Honor\", \"Barrayar\", \"The Warrior's Apprentice\", \"The Vor Game\", \"Cetaganda\", \"Ethan of Athos\", \"Borders of Infinity\", and \"Brothers in Arms\" were produced by The Reader's Chair. This company is no longer in business.\n\nCurrently, unabridged audio CD editions are available (retail and library), via iPhone/iPod Touch apps using the Folium enhancedAudio player, MP3, Playaway and cassette versions through Blackstone Audio for \"Falling Free\", \"Shards of Honor\", \"Barrayar\", \"The Warrior's Apprentice\", \"The Vor Game\", \"Cetaganda\", \"Ethan of Athos\", \"Brothers in Arms\", \"Borders of Infinity,\" \"Mirror Dance\", \"Memory\", \"Komarr\", \"A Civil Campaign\", \"Winterfair Gifts\", \"Diplomatic Immunity\", \"Cryoburn,\" \"Captain Vorpatril's Alliance,\" and \"Gentleman Jole and the Red Queen.\"\n\nMost titles produced by Blackstone Audio are also available for download on Audible.com and from the websites of several public libraries via overdrive.com and Hoopla. The enhancedAudio app versions are available via the Apple iTunes Store and can be previewed at the BlackstoneAudioApps.com website.\n\nThe Vorkosigan Saga has also been adapted for a comic book in France:\n\nThe World of the Five Gods:\n\n\"The Sharing Knife\" is a single fantasy novel published in four volumes:\n\nBlackstone Audio produces CD editions, MP3, Playaway, and cassette versions of \"The Curse of Chalion\", \"Paladin of Souls\", \"The Hallowed Hunt\", \"The Sharing Knife Vol 1: Beguilement\", \"The Sharing Knife Vol 2: Legacy\", \"The Sharing Knife Vol 3: Passage\" and \"The Sharing Knife Vol 4: Horizon\". All of these titles are also available from Audible.com and emusic.com.\n"}
{"id": "38588001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38588001", "title": "Manifesto of the People of Brabant", "text": "Manifesto of the People of Brabant\n\nThe Manifesto of the People of Brabant (, ) was a document made public at the start of the Brabant Revolution in 1789 proclaiming the end of Austrian occupation over the Duchy of Brabant.\n\nIn October 1789, the leader of the \"Statists\", Henri Van der Noot and the general Jean-André van der Meersch led a small army of patriots from the Dutch Republic where they had been in exile into the Duchy of Brabant, then under Austrian rule. The first significant town liberated was Hoogstraten and it was there that van der Noot made the declaration public to his army.\n\nThe manifesto was first read on 24 October 1789 in the town of Hoogstraten, though it had been published on the previous day by the Committee of Breda.\n\nThe Duke of Brabant was obliged by the terms of the Joyous Entry to respect the privileges of the people of Brabant. The element which sparked the revolution was the infringement of the terms, meaning that the declaration also declaired Duke Joseph of Brabant deposed from his position. \n\nThe declaration led, in January 1790, to the establishment of the United Belgian States.\n\n"}
{"id": "9361957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9361957", "title": "Matenadaran MS 7117", "text": "Matenadaran MS 7117\n\nThe MS No. 7117 Manuscript from Matenadaran is an Caucasian Albanian language manual of the 15th century. It contains the Caucasian Albanian alphabet.\n\nThis manual presents different alphabets for comparison: Armenian, Greek, Latin, Syriac, Georgian, Coptic, and Albanian among them.\n\n"}
{"id": "312359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312359", "title": "Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence", "text": "Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence\n\nThe Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence is a text published in 1819 with the claim that it was the first declaration of independence made in the Thirteen Colonies during the American Revolution. It was supposedly signed on May 20, 1775, in Charlotte, North Carolina, by a committee of citizens of Mecklenburg County, who declared independence from Great Britain after hearing of the battle of Lexington. If the story is true, the Mecklenburg Declaration preceded the United States Declaration of Independence by more than a year. The authenticity of the Mecklenburg Declaration has been disputed since it was published, forty-four years after it was reputedly written. There is no verifiable evidence to confirm the original document's existence and no reference to it has been found in extant newspapers from 1775.\n\nProfessional historians have maintained that the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence is an inaccurate rendering of an authentic document known as the Mecklenburg Resolves. The Mecklenburg Resolves were a set of radical resolutions passed on May 31, 1775, that fell short of an actual declaration of independence. Although published in newspapers in 1775, the text of the Mecklenburg Resolves was lost after the American Revolution and not rediscovered until 1838. Historians believe that the Mecklenburg Declaration was written in 1800 in an attempt to recreate the Mecklenburg Resolves from memory. According to this theory, the author of the Mecklenburg Declaration mistakenly believed that the Resolves had been a declaration of independence, and so he recreated the Resolves with language borrowed from the United States Declaration of Independence. Defenders of the Mecklenburg Declaration have argued that both the Mecklenburg Declaration and the Mecklenburg Resolves are authentic.\n\nThe early government of North Carolina, convinced that the Mecklenburg Declaration was genuine, maintained that North Carolinians were the first Americans to declare independence from Great Britain. As a result, both the seal and the flag of North Carolina bear the date of the declaration. A holiday commemorating the Mecklenburg Declaration, \"Meck Dec Day\", is celebrated on May 20 in North Carolina, although it is no longer an official holiday and does not attract the attention that it once did.\n\nThe Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence was published on April 30, 1819 in an article written by Dr. Joseph McKnitt Alexander in the \"Raleigh Register and North Carolina Gazette\", of Raleigh, North Carolina. \"It is not probably known to many of our readers,\" wrote the editor of the \"Raleigh Register\" in an introduction to the article, \"that the citizens of Mecklenburg County, in this State made a Declaration of Independence more than a year before Congress made theirs.\"\n\nAccording to Dr. Alexander, his father, John McKnitt Alexander, had been the clerk at a meeting convened in Charlotte on May 19, 1775. Each militia company in Mecklenburg County had sent two delegates to the meeting, where measures were to be discussed regarding the ongoing dispute between the British Empire and the American colonies. Relations between the colonies and the mother country had reached a crisis in Boston, Massachusetts, following the 1774 passage of the Coercive Acts by the British Parliament. During the meeting in Mecklenburg County, the delegates received official news that the battle of Lexington had been fought in Massachusetts one month earlier. Outraged by this turn of events, wrote Dr. Alexander, the delegates unanimously passed the following resolutions at about 2:00 a.m. on May 20:\n\nA few days later, wrote Dr. Alexander, Captain James Jack of Charlotte was sent to the Continental Congress in Philadelphia. Jack carried a copy of the resolves and a letter asking North Carolina's congressmen to have the Mecklenburg proceedings approved by Congress. The North Carolina congressional delegation—Richard Caswell, William Hooper, and Joseph Hewes—told Jack that although they supported what had been done, it was premature to discuss a declaration of independence in Congress.\n\nDr. Alexander concluded by writing that although the original documents relating to the Mecklenburg Declaration were destroyed in a fire in 1800, the article was written from a true copy of the papers left to him by his father, who was now deceased.\n\nThe 1819 article about the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence was reprinted in many newspapers across the United States. People immediately noticed that, even though the Mecklenburg Declaration was supposedly written more than a year before the 1776 United States Declaration of Independence, the two declarations had some very similar phrases, including \"dissolve the political bands which have connected\", \"absolve ourselves from all allegiance to the British Crown\", \"are, and of right ought to be\", and \"pledge to each other, our mutual cooperation, our lives, our fortunes, and our most sacred honor\". This raised an obvious question: did Thomas Jefferson, the principal author of the American Declaration of Independence, use the Mecklenburg Declaration as a source?\n\nOne person who thought so was John Adams, who like Jefferson was elderly and in retirement when the Mecklenburg Declaration was published in 1819. When Adams read Dr. Alexander's article in a Massachusetts newspaper, he was astonished because he had never previously heard of the Mecklenburg Declaration. He immediately assumed, as he wrote a friend, that Jefferson had \"copied the spirit, the sense, and the expressions of it \"verbatim\" into his Declaration of the 4th of July, 1776.\" Adams, who had played a major role in getting the Continental Congress to declare independence in 1776, had become somewhat resentful that Jefferson now received most of the praise for independence just because he had written the now-revered document announcing it. Adams was therefore privately delighted with the emergence of the Mecklenburg Declaration, since it clearly undercut Jefferson's claim to originality and precedence. Adams sent a copy of the article to Jefferson to get his reaction.\n\nJefferson replied that, like Adams, he had never heard of the Mecklenburg Declaration before. Jefferson found it curious that historians of the American Revolution, even those from North Carolina and nearby Virginia, had never previously mentioned it. He also found it suspicious that the original was lost in a fire and that most of the eyewitnesses were now dead. Jefferson wrote that while he could not claim for certain that the Mecklenburg Declaration was a fabrication, \"I shall believe it such until positive and solemn proof of its authenticity shall be produced.\"\n\nJefferson's argument, Adams wrote in reply, \"has entirely convinced me that \nthe Mecklengburg Resolutions are a fiction\". Adams forwarded Jefferson's letter to the editor of the Massachusetts newspaper, who wrote an article expressing reservations about the Mecklenburg Declaration without mentioning Jefferson or Adams by name. In response to this skepticism, North Carolina senator Nathaniel Macon and others collected eyewitness testimony to the events described in the article. The now elderly witnesses did not agree in every detail, but they generally corroborated the story that a declaration of independence had been read in public in Charlotte, although they were not all certain about the date. Perhaps most importantly, eighty-eight-year-old Captain James Jack was still living, and he confirmed that he had delivered to the Continental Congress a declaration of independence that had been adopted in May 1775. For many, the authenticity of the Mecklenburg Declaration had been firmly established.\n\nAfter the Mecklenburg Declaration was published in 1819, supporters compiled a list of men who they believed had signed the document. William Polk, who said that he had heard his father Thomas Polk read the Declaration to the public, listed the names of fifteen delegates present when the Declaration was adopted; other testimony produced other names. A pamphlet issued in 1831 by the government of North Carolina listed the names of twenty-six delegates. Eventually, supporters of the Declaration settled on a list of twenty-seven or twenty-eight men who they claimed had signed the document. In alphabetical order, they are:\n\nModern historians have emphasized that the story of the 1775 signing of the Mecklenburg Declaration can be dated no earlier than 1819. There is no contemporaneous evidence of a signing, nor did John McKnitt Alexander mention such an event in his notes. As far as it is known, none of the \"signers\" ever claimed to have signed the Mecklenburg Declaration.\n\nMost of the listed signers were Scots-Irish Presbyterians, as were many of the early promoters of the authenticity of the Declaration. Many of the reputed signers were kinsmen, and their descendants were among the staunchest defenders of the Declaration.\n\nEyewitnesses who provided testimony about the 1775 meeting disagreed about the roles played by some of the signers. John McKnitt Alexander wrote that he had been the secretary at the meeting, but others recalled that Ephraim Brevard had been the secretary. Alexander wrote that his kinsman Adam Alexander had issued the order for the meeting to be convened, but William Polk and other eyewitnesses insisted that Thomas Polk had called the meeting. Abraham Alexander is said to have chaired the meeting.\n\nAfter 1819, people in North Carolina (and Tennessee, which shared an early history) began to take pride in the previously unheralded Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence. Before then, Virginia and Massachusetts had been given much of the credit for leading the American Revolution. The Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence clearly enhanced North Carolina's role—already notable because of the Halifax Resolves of April 1776—in establishing American independence. The first celebration of the anniversary of the supposed adoption of the Mecklenburg Declaration took place in Charlotte on May 20, 1825.\n\nMany North Carolinians were offended when Thomas Jefferson's skeptical letter about the Mecklenburg Declaration was posthumously published in 1829. In questioning the authenticity of the Mecklenburg Declaration, Jefferson, a Virginian, had impolitically referred to William Hooper, one of North Carolina's signers of the American Declaration of Independence, as a \"tory\". According to author Hoyt, Jefferson used the term to mean that Hooper had been conservative on declaring independence, not to imply that he had been a Loyalist, but North Carolinians felt their honored Patriots had been slighted.\n\nThe state of North Carolina responded to Jefferson's letter in 1831 with an official pamphlet that reprinted the previously published accounts with some additional testimony in support of the Mecklenburg Declaration. This was followed in 1834 with a book by a leading North Carolina historian, Joseph Seawell Jones, entitled \"A Defence of the Revolutionary History of the State of North Carolina from the Aspersions of Mr. Jefferson.\" Jones defended the patriotism of William Hooper and accused Jefferson of being envious that a little county in North Carolina had declared independence at a time when the \"Sage of Monticello\" was still hoping for reconciliation with Great Britain. On May 20, 1835, more than five thousand people gathered in Charlotte to celebrate the Mecklenburg Declaration. In the many toasts celebrating \"the \"first\" declaration of American independence\", Jefferson was never mentioned.\n\nIn 1837, Jefferson's first biographer, George Tucker, came to Jefferson's defense. In \"The Life of Thomas Jefferson\", Tucker argued that Jefferson's Declaration of Independence had been fraudulently interpolated into the Mecklenburg Declaration. North Carolina native Francis L. Hawks, a New York Anglican clergyman, responded that Jefferson had instead plagiarized the Mecklenburg Declaration. Hawks's position was apparently supported by the discovery of a proclamation by Josiah Martin, the last royal governor of North Carolina, which seemed to confirm the authenticity of the Mecklenburg Declaration. In August 1775, Governor Martin had written that he had:\n\nseen a most infamous publication in the \"Cape Fear Mercury\" importing to be resolves of a set of people styling themselves a committee for the county of Mecklenburg, most traitorously declaring the entire dissolution of the laws, government, and constitution of this country, and setting up a system of rule and regulation repugnant to the laws and subversive of his majesty's government...\n\nHere, at last, was contemporaneous confirmation that radical resolves had been adopted in Mecklenburg County in 1775. Unfortunately, the issue of the \"Cape Fear Mercury\" that Martin referred to could not be found. Throughout the 19th century, supporters of the Mecklenburg Declaration hoped that the missing paper would be discovered, proving their case. In 1905, \"Collier's Magazine\" published what was said to be a clipping from the missing issue, but advocates and opponents of the Mecklenburg Declaration agreed that the document was a hoax. It was later confirmed that the \"traitorous\" document referred to by Governor Martin was not the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, but was instead a radical set of resolutions known as the Mecklenburg Resolves.\n\nIn 1838, the case for the authenticity of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence suffered a setback from which it has not recovered. That year, while examining newspapers published in 1775, archivist Peter Force discovered an abbreviated list of resolutions adopted in Mecklenburg County on May 31, 1775, that were different from the Mecklenburg Declaration of May 20. In 1847, the complete text of these Mecklenburg Resolves was found in a South Carolina newspaper published in June 1775. Unlike the Mecklenburg Declaration that had appeared in the \"Raleigh Register\" in 1819, the Mecklenburg Resolves fell short of an outright declaration of independence, and did not contain language that was parallel to Jefferson's 1776 Declaration of Independence. The Resolves, though radical, were similar to other local resolutions that were adopted in the colonies in 1774 and 1775.\n\nThe controversy over the Mecklenburg Declaration entered a new phase with the discovery of the Mecklenburg Resolves. The focus shifted from Thomas Jefferson to the question of how to account for two very different sets of resolutions supposedly adopted in Charlotte only eleven days apart. How was it possible that citizens of Mecklenburg County declared independence on May 20, and then met again on May 31 to pass less revolutionary resolutions? For skeptics of the Mecklenburg Declaration, the answer was that the Declaration was a misdated, inaccurate recreation of the authentic Resolves. Supporters of the Declaration maintained that both documents were genuine, and were adopted to serve different purposes.\n\nThe argument that the Mecklenburg Declaration is a flawed version of the Mecklenburg Resolves was first made in 1853 by Charles Phillips, a professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In an influential article in the \"North Carolina University Magazine\", Dr. Phillips concluded that John McKnitt Alexander had admitted to having reconstructed the text of the Mecklenburg Declaration from memory in 1800. In 1906, William Henry Hoyt published a scholarly work that many historians have regarded as the conclusive refutation of the Mecklenburg Declaration.\n\nHoyt's argument is briefly as follows: After the original documents relating to the Mecklenburg Resolves were destroyed by fire in 1800, John McKnitt Alexander attempted to recreate them from memory. Alexander made some rough notes, which still survive, and internal evidence indicates that these notes were written after the 1800 fire. Like some of his contemporaries, Alexander mistakenly remembered the radical Mecklenburg Resolves as being an actual declaration of independence. This misconception led Alexander, or perhaps another unknown writer, to borrow language from Jefferson's well-known Declaration of Independence when the Mecklenburg Declaration was written from Alexander's rough notes. The eleven-day discrepancy between the two sets of resolutions—May 20 and May 31—may result from some confusion of Old Style and New Style dates.\n\nAccording to this argument, when the elderly eyewitnesses were interviewed after 1819, they naturally could not be expected to verify the wording of a document that they had heard read nearly fifty years earlier, nor remember the exact date of the public reading. The eyewitnesses were misled into accepting the text of the Mecklenburg Declaration as authentic because it had been published in 1819 with the claim that it was a true copy of the original resolutions. Because the actual resolutions had been radical, and British authority in Mecklenburg County had effectively ended in 1775, the eyewitnesses were able to believe that the Mecklenburg Resolves had been an outright declaration of independence. While they undoubtedly told the truth about the events of May 1775 as they remembered them, their testimony was given in response to leading questions, and their answers actually referred to the lost Mecklenburg Resolves. Unfortunately, by the time the authentic text of the Resolves had been rediscovered, all of the eyewitnesses were dead, and so no one could be asked to explain the existence of two different sets of resolutions.\n\nAdvocates of the Mecklenburg Declaration have argued that both the Declaration and the Resolves are authentic. This argument was developed in the 20th century by Professor Archibald Henderson of the University of North Carolina, who, beginning in 1916, wrote numerous articles on the subject. Henderson believed that the evidence showed that Mecklenburg County had adopted two sets of resolutions, that the text of the Mecklenburg Declaration was not recreated from memory, and that the events as described in Dr. Alexander's 1819 article were substantially correct. His work was supplemented in 1960 by journalist V. V. McNitt's book \"Chain of Error and the Mecklenburg Declarations of Independence\".\n\nOne of the strongest pieces of nearly contemporaneous evidence in support of the Mecklenburg Declaration is a diary entry discovered in 1904. The entry is unsigned and undated, but internal evidence suggests that it was written in 1783 in Salem, North Carolina, by a merchant named Traugott Bagge. The English translation of the German entry reads:\n\nI cannot leave unmentioned at the end of the 1775th year that already in the summer of this year, that is in May, June, or July, the County of Mecklenburg in North Carolina declared itself free and independent of England, and made such arrangements for the administration of the laws among themselves, as later the Continental Congress made for all. This Congress, however, considered these proceedings premature.\n\nSkeptics of the Mecklenburg Declaration argued that the diary entry merely suggests that Bagge, writing eight years after the event, misinterpreted the Mecklenburg Resolves as having been an actual declaration of independence. Archibald Henderson, however, argued that the entry attested to both the Declaration (\"declared itself free and independent\") and the Resolves (\"arrangements for the administration of the laws\").\n\nThe Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence no longer attracts much attention from professional historians, who generally regard the document as spurious. If the declaration is mentioned in scholarly works, it is usually to discount it. Professor William S. Powell, in his standard history \"North Carolina through Four Centuries\" (1989) relegates the Mecklenburg Declaration to a skeptical footnote; Professor H.G. Jones, in his \"North Carolina Illustrated\" (Chapel Hill: University of N.C. Press, 1983), pointedly places ironic quotation marks around the name of the declaration. The \"Harvard Guide to American History\" (1954) lists the Mecklenburg Declaration under the heading of \"spurious declarations.\" Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Allan Nevins wrote in 1938 \"Legends often become a point of faith. At one time the State of North Carolina made it compulsory for the public schools to teach that Mecklenburg County had adopted a Declaration of Independence on May 20, 1775—to teach what had been clearly demonstrated an untruth.\"\n\nIn 1997 historian Pauline Maier wrote:\nWhen compared to other documents of the time, the \"Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence\" supposedly adopted on May 20, 1775, is simply incredible. It makes the reaction of North Carolinians to Lexington and Concord more extreme than that of the Massachusetts people who received the blow. The resolutions of May 31, 1775, of which there is contemporary evidence, were also radical, but remain believable.\n\nDespite much scholarly opinion against the authenticity of the Mecklenburg Declaration, belief in the document remains important to some North Carolinians, says historian Dan L. Morrill, who notes that the possibility that it is genuine cannot be entirely discounted. Morrill writes, \"Let's make one thing clear. One cannot demonstrate conclusively that the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence is a fake. The dramatic events of May nineteenth and May twentieth could have happened. Ultimately, it is a matter of faith, not proof. You believe it or you don't believe it.\" Recently, North Carolina released a new license plate, with the words \"First in Freedom\" and the date of the Declaration of Independence preceded by the date of North Carolina's supposed declaration.\n\nThe early government of North Carolina, convinced that the Mecklenburg Declaration was authentic, maintained that North Carolinians were the first Americans to declare independence from Britain. As a result, both the seal and the flag of North Carolina bear the date of the declaration. Coins have been minted that celebrate the Mecklenburg Declaration, and the story was printed in elementary school textbooks. A monument to the reputed signers of the declaration was unveiled in Charlotte on May 20, 1898, and a commemorative tablet was placed in the rotunda of the North Carolina State Capitol building on May 20, 1912. In 1881, the state legislature made May 20 a legal holiday to commemorate the Mecklenburg Declaration. Sometimes known as \"Meck Dec Day\", it is no longer an official holiday and does not attract the attention that it once did.\n\nFour United States presidents visited Charlotte to participate in the Mecklenburg Day celebration: William Howard Taft (1909), Woodrow Wilson (1916), Dwight D. Eisenhower (1954), and Gerald Ford (1975). Aware of the controversy, the presidents generally praised the revolutionary patriots of Mecklenburg County without specifically endorsing the authenticity of the disputed document.\n\nThe Mecklenburg Declaration is referenced in the motto for Davidson College, located in Davidson in Mecklenburg and Iredell counties: \"Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas\" (\"Let Knowledge Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20472313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20472313", "title": "Museum of Art of Puerto Rico", "text": "Museum of Art of Puerto Rico\n\nThe Museum of Art of Puerto Rico (\"Museo de Arte de Puerto Rico\", abbreviated MAPR) is an art museum in San Juan, Puerto Rico.\n\n"}
{"id": "48652873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48652873", "title": "Nanfang Caomu Zhuang", "text": "Nanfang Caomu Zhuang\n\nThe (c. 304 CE) Nanfang caomu zhuang (南方草木狀 Plants of the Southern Regions), attributed to the Western Jin dynasty scholar and botanist Ji Han (嵇含, 263-307), is a Flora describing the plants of Nanyue and Jiaozhi, present-day South China and northern Vietnam. The \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" is the oldest work extant in any language on subtropical botany. The book contains the first descriptions of several economic plants, for instance jasmine and black pepper, as well as the earliest accounts of some agricultural techniques such as biological pest control (using \"citrus ants\" to protect orange crops), and the cultivation of vegetables on floating gardens (centuries before the earliest recorded Mesoamerican \"chinampa\"). \n\nSince 1273, when the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" was first printed in the Song dynasty, it was frequently quoted by Chinese authors, both in literature and technical books on horticulture, agriculture, and Chinese herbology. Since the 19th century (e.g., Hirth 1865 and Bretschneider 1870), many Western sinologists, botanists, and historians of plant cultivation have studied it.\nThe \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" author Ji Han was \"one of the greatest of all Chinese botanists\" (Needham, Ho, and Lu 1976: 80).\n\nThe primary source of information about Ji Han's life is the \"Book of Jin\" biography of his uncle Ji Shao (嵇紹), who was the son of the poet-musician Ji Kang (23–262), one of the Seven Worthies of the Bamboo Grove. Ji Han was born in 263 in Zhixian (銍縣, in present-day Anhui province). His courtesy name was Jun Dao (君道 \"Gentleman's Way\"), and his pen name Boqiuzi (亳丘子 \"Master of Boqiu\") refers to his residence at Boqiu (present-day Henan) near the capital Luoyang. He served as a scholar-administrator and poet on the staff of several princes. \n\nIn 300, during the War of the Eight Princes, Ji Han was a military commander under the future Emperor Huai of Jin (r. 307-313), whose army suffered a defeat at Tangyin (蕩陰), in which his uncle Ji Shao was killed protecting the emperor. Ji Han was made prefect of Xiangcheng in 304, but when it was conquered, he had to escape south to Xiangyang (present-day Hebei), and at the recommendation of the official Liu Hong (劉弘), he was appointed governor of Guangdong in 306. However, before he could leave, Ji Han was assassinated at Xiangyang in 307 after Liu Hong's death. When Ji Han was made Governor, he appointed his friend Ge Hong, the alchemist and author of the \"Shenxian zhuan\" and \"Baopuzi\", as aide-de-camp. Ge Hong went to Guangdong ahead of Ji, and remained there afterwards for several years, probably because he was interested in the exotic plants and unusual mineral substances of the south (Needham, Ho, and Lu 1976: 80).\n\nIn addition to writing the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\", the \"first botanical treatise of all time\", Ji Han was a prolific poet, particularly \"fu\" \"rhapsody; poetic exposition\", and deeply interested in botany (Li 1979: 10-11). While most of his ten-volume collected works were lost, later texts quote the prefaces to Ji's poetical \"fu\" essays on the daylily, hibiscus, \"Platycarya\" tree, evergreen tree, and sweet melon. Ji Han also wrote a \"fu\" on the fashionable \"Cold-Food Powder\" mixture of mineral and plant drugs, which says \"it cured his ailing son when other treatments had failed\" (Lagerwey and Lü 2010:358).\n\nThe title uses three common Chinese words.\n\nThe title \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" does not have a standard English translation. For instance, the \"Science and Civilisation in China\" series of books, edited by Joseph Needham and his international collaborators, gives six variant versions. \n\nThe \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" text is divided into three chapters, with a total of 80 botanical entries. The first (\"cǎolèi\" 草類 \"Herbs\", 1-29) consists of 29 herbs and plants, the second (\"mùlèi\" 木類 \"Trees\", 30-57) 28 forest trees, and the third consists of (\"guǒlèi\" 果類 \"Fruits\", 58-74) 17 fruit trees, and (\"zhúlèi\" 竹類 \"Bamboos\", 75-80) 6 bamboos.\n\nThe Preface explains Ji Han's motive in writing the book.\nThe plants of Nan-yueh and Chiao-chih are the most interesting of the four borderlands. They were not known before the Chou and Ch'in dynasties. Since the expansion territories undertaken by Wu Ti of Han, the rare and precious kinds were sought and brought in and the best were used as tributes. As people of the central regions [China] are often unfamiliar with their nature, I hereby record and describe these from what I have heard for the benefit of future generations. (tr. Li 1979: 32) \nThe ancient kingdom of Nanyue (\"southern Yue\") was located in parts of the present-day Chinese provinces of Guangdong, Guangxi, and Yunnan; Jiaozhi was in northern Vietnam. The pre-Han dynasties were the Zhou (c. 1046–256 BCE) and Qin (221–206 BCE). Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141–87 BCE) led the Southward expansion of the Han dynasty.\n\nAmong six proposed categories of Chinese authors who wrote botanical books, Ji Han and the exotic botanical \"Nanfang caomu zhuiang\" exemplify the first, \"scholar-officials, physicians and others whose duties took them to those places within or on the borders of the empire where special plants flourished\" (Needham, Lu, and Huang 1986: 359).\n\nThe \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" is considered the type-specimen for the \"strange plants of the south\" genre of Chinese botanical writings (Needham, Lu, and Huang 1986: 28). Within the traditional Sinocentric world-view, China's \"south\" (\"nan\" 南) referred to the seaward-facing regions of present-day Zhejiang, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, and Hainan provinces, all subtropical or tropical in climate are distinctly separate from the rest of China, which is borne out by their affiliation to a different floristic region. The Nan Mountains or \"Wuling\" (五岭 \"five mountain ranges\") geographically and climatically separate Northern and Southern China, and Lingnan (\"south of the mountain ranges\") is another name for the subtropical area that Ji Han called Nanyue and Jiaozhi.\n\nThe first book in the \"strange plants of the south\" genre was the (early 3rd century) \"Yiwu zhi\" (\"Record of Strange/Foreign Things\"), by the Eastern Han official Yang Fu. It is also known as the \"Nanyi yiwu zhi\" (南裔異物志, \"Record of Strange Things of the Southern Borders\").\n\nThe (c. 3rd century) \"Nanzhou yiwu zhi\" (南洲異物志, \"Record of Strange Things of the Southern Continent\") or \"Nanfang yiwu zhi\" (南方異物志, \"Record of Strange Things of the South\") was written by Wan Zhen (萬震), and may have been one of Ji Han's sources for his book.\n\nJi Han's \"Nanfang caomu zhi\" (\"Record of Southern Plants and Trees\") title is sometimes confused with the (c. 3rd-4th century) \"Nanfang caowu zhi\" (南方草物狀, \"Record of Southern Plants and Products\"), which was written by a less well-known person, whose name is written Xu Zhong (徐衷) or Xu Biao (徐表). In order to explain the confusion of these \"caomu\" (\"plants and trees\") and \"caowu\" (\"plants and products\") titles, Needham, Lu, and Huang (1986: 450) compare this almost-identically named parallel work with noise in communication systems. For instance, an early Chinese book on agriculture, Jia Sixie's (賈思勰, c. 540) \"Qimin Yaoshu\" was fond of quoting the \"Nanfang caowu zhi\", as were others later, often giving \"Nanfang caomu zhi\" as the title. But since none of the Xu Zhong quotations can be found in the work of Ji Han as it has come down to us, some scholars supposed the two books to have been one and the same. Modern scholarship has shown that the two books were quite distinct. In contrast to Ji Han's \"refinement\", Xu Zhong's style is \"plain and rather repetitive\". There are five cases of the same plant being described by both authors, and then the entries are generally quite different; but the \"Nanfang caowu zhi\" was never a flora, for it included marine animals and all kinds of natural products (Needham, Lu, and Huang 1986: 451).\n\nThe (early 19th century) \"Xu nanfang caomu zhi\" (續南方草木狀 \"Supplement to the Record of Southern Plants and Trees\"), written by Jiang Fan (江藩), is an independent study rather than a supplement to Ji Han's book. It contains brief notes on 42 plants in Guangdong (Li 1979: 30).\n\nThe best way to elucidate the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" text is to provide some noteworthy entries for bananas, Chinese spinach, oranges, and \"herb ferment\".\n\nThe \"Gānjiāo\" (甘蕉, lit. \"sweet banana/plantain\") \"banana, \"Musa paradisiaca\", \"Musa sapientum\"\" entry distinguishes two kinds of dessert-banana plants and one fiber-banana plant.\nThe Kan-chiao, seen from afar, resembles a tree. The larger plants are over one armspan in circumference. The leaves are ten feet long, or sometimes seven to eight feet and over one to almost two feet broad. The flowers are as big as a wine cup, with the shape and color of a lotus. Over one hundred pods are attached together at the end of the stem, called a \"fang\" (房, spathe). They are sweet and palatable and can also be preserved in honey. The roots resemble taro, the largest as big as a carriage wheel. Fruiting follows flowering, and the flowers, which have a cluster of six pods each, develop successively. The pods are not formed simultaneously and the flowers do not drop at the same time. It is also called \"Pa-chiao\" 芭蕉 or \"Pa-chü\" 巴苴. Removing the peel of the pod, the yellowish-white interior with a taste like the grape appears, sweet and soft. It satisfies hunger also. \nThere are three kinds. The kind with pods the size of a thumb, long and pointed, resembling a sheep's horn in shape, is called \"Yang-chiao-chiao\" 羊角蕉 (sheep's horn banana), and is the sweetest and most delicious in taste. Another kind with pods the size of a hen's egg and resembling a cow's udder is called \"Niu-ju-chiao\" 牛乳蕉 (cow's udder banana), and is slightly inferior to \"Yang-chiao-chiao\". A third kind is the size of a lotus rootstock; the pods are six to seven inches in length, squarish in shape, not sweet, and considered the most inferior. The stem is separable into fibers, and when treated with lime, can be woven into thin cloth, called \"Chiao-ko\" 蕉葛 (banana linen). Although the cloth is soft and good and yellowish-white in color, it is not comparable to the reddish linen. The plant grows in both Chiao and Kuang. According to the \"San-fu huang-t'u\" 三輔黃圖, \"Wu Ti of Han, in the sixth year of the Yüan-ting period (111 B.C.), conquered Nan-yüeh and built the Fu-Ii Palace to plant the rare plants and strange trees obtained. There are two plants Kan-chiao.\" (1, tr. Li 1979: 32-33) \nThis detailed description is of great interest for botanists (Needham and Kuhn 1988: 49), but closer observation would have shown that the six fruits in a half-spiral did not come from one ovary (Needham, Lu, and Huang 1986: 453). Since banana plants are all sterile hybrid cultigens, species differentiation is problematic. \"Musa × paradisiaca\" includes the previously differentiated \"M. paradisiaca\" \"cooking/fiber banana; plantain\" and \"M. sapientum\" \" dessert banana\". Judging from the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" account, the two \"yángjiǎojiāo\" (羊角蕉 \"ram's horn banana\") and \"niúrǔjiāo\" (牛乳蕉 \"cow's milk banana\") were of the edible \"sapientum\" type, and the unnamed third was of the fibrous \"paradisiaca\" type. \"Xiāngjiāo\" (香蕉 \"fragrant banana\") is the common name in Modern Standard Chinese usage.\n\nThe most surprising thing is the emphasis placed on the banana as a fiber plant (Needham, Lu, and Huang 1986: 453), and the oldest occurrences of the word \"jiao\" mention no fruit, but only the value of the fiber and the cloth. The (121 CE) \"Shuowen jiezi\" first recorded the Chinese character \"jiāo\" (蕉 \"plantain; banana\"), which combines the \"plant radical\" (艸) and a \"jiāo\" (焦 \"burnt; scorched\") phonetic, defined as (生枲, lit. \"living/raw male hemp-nettle\") translated \"raw plant fiber\" (Reynolds 1940: 165) or \"natural nettle-hemp\" (Needham, Lu, and Huang 1986: 453). Zuo Si's (c. 270) \"Wudu fu\" (吳都賦 \"Rhapsody on the Wu capital\", i.e., Suzhou) mentions \"jiāogé\" (蕉葛 \"linen made from banana/plantain fibers\") but not the fruit. Needham, Lu, and Huang (1986: 453) say that the banana was primarily a textile-producer, rather than cultivated for fruit, which could reasonably explain the origin of the name, for \"jiāo\" (焦) means \"heat; burning; boiling\", which was how the stems had to be treated with lime water to get the fibers. \n\nThis entry quotes the \"Sanfu huangtu\" (三輔黃圖 \"Description of palace buildings in [the Han capital] Chang'an\"), which is an anonymous text of uncertain date, estimated at from the 3rd century (Reynolds 1940: 166) to the 8th century (Ma 1978: 231), says:\nIn the sixth year of Yüan-ting [i.e., 111 B. C.] of the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Annam was vanquished. The palace Fu-li kung 扶荔宮 [so named on account of its lichee plants] was built [in Ch'ang-an, the national capital] for transplanting the newly acquired plants ... among which were ... twelve plants of the \"kan-chiao\", etc. ... Because the climates of the North and the South are different, most of the plants soon died. (tr. Reynolds 1940: 166) \n\nParts of this \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" banana entry are almost identical with passages in earlier and later texts. The \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" source could have been the (2nd-3rd century) \"Yiwu zhi\" or (3rd century) \"Nanzhou yiwu zhi\"; and it could have been copied into the (3rd-4th century) \"Nanfang caowu zhi\" and (4th-5th century) \"Guang zhi\" (廣志). Yang Fu's \"Yiwu zhi\" gives this description.\n\"Pa-chiao\" has leaves as large as mats. Its stem is like a [bamboo] shoot. After boiling, the stem breaks into fibres and can be used for weaving cloth. Women weavers make this fibre into fine or coarse linen which is known now as \"chiao-chih\" [Cochin-China] linen. The center of the plant is shaped like a garlic-bulb and is as large as a plate[?]. There the fruit grows and holds the 'stem.' One stem bears several tens of fruits. The fruit has a reddish skin like the color of fire and when peeled the inside pulp is dark. The pulp is edible and is very sweet, like sugar or honey. Four or five of these fruits are enough for a meal. After eating, the flavor lingers on among the teeth. \"Kan-chiao\" is another name for it. (tr. Reynolds 1940: 167) \nThe \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" has another entry (9) for an unidentified \"shuijiao\" (水蕉 \"water banana\") that \"resembles the day-lily, and is either purple or yellow\", which Li (1979: 44) suggests might be \"Lycoris\".\n\nThe \"Nanfangcao mu zhuang\" entry for \"yongcai\" (蕹葉 \"\"Ipomoea aquatica\"; Chinese spinach; water spinach; swamp cabbage\") is the first record of both this vegetable and of floating gardens.\n\nChinese spinach is a semi-aquatic tropical plant grown, either in water or on wet ground, as a vegetable for its tender shoots and leaves. In southern China it is a very common and popular vegetable, and often escapes from cultivation (Li 1979: 71). \nThe Yung has leaves resembling the Lo-k'uei 落葵 but smaller in size. The nature is cold and the taste sweet. The southerners make rafts by weaving reeds, cutting into the raft small holes and floating it above the water. When seeds are planted in the water, they float above the water like duckweeds. When grown, the stems and leaves rise above the holes in the raft, which undulates with the water. This is a strange vegetable of the south. Yeh-ko 冶葛 has deadly poison. If juice of the Yung is dropped on the shoot of the latter, it withers instantly. According to traditions, Wei-wu 魏武 could eat Yeh-ko up to one foot in length. It is said that this is possible because he ate the vegetable first. (25, tr. Li 1979: 71) \nWei Wu (魏武 \"[Emperor] Wu of Wei\") is the posthumous name of Cao Cao (155-220), the penultimate Chancellor of the Eastern Han dynasty and founder of the Cao Wei dynasty (220-265). These plant references are \"luòkuí\" (落葵 lit. \"falling malva\") \"Basella alba\" or redvine spinach and \"yěgé\" (冶葛 lit. \"smelting kudzu\") \"Gelsemium elegans\" or heartbreak grass. \"Gelsemium\" is the subsequent \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" entry (26, tr. Li 1979: 72), which says, \"Those who use this to poison people often give it mixed with other raw vegetables. If not discovered quickly and treated with an antidote, the one poisoned will die within half a day.\" \"Gelsemium\" roots contain the highly toxic alkaloid gelsemine, which acts as a paralytic and often results in death. Later Chinese works repeatedly mention using Chinese spinach as an antidote for \"Gelsemium\", and in India, the juice of this plant is believed to have emetic properties and is used in opium poisoning (Li 1979: 72).\n\nChinese floating gardens are called \"fēngtián\" (葑田 \"wild-rice fields\") or \"jiàtián\" (架田 \"frame fields\"). Many texts, such as Xu Guangqi's (1693) \"Nongzheng chuanshu\" (農政全書 \"Complete Treatise on Agricultural Administration\"), refer to floating gardens (Li 1979: 15-16). Wang Zhen's (1313) \"Nongshu\" (農書 \"Treatise on Agriculture\") describes wooden instead of reed rafts as Ji Han mentions. Wang Zhen explains that the frame is like a \"fá\" (筏 \"[bamboo] raft\"), and that \"fēng\" means the roots of the aquatic plant \"gū\" (箛 \"Zizania latifolia\", Manchurian wild rice). He says that floating fields are found more or less everywhere in Southeast China, and quotes a poem by Su Dongpo that describes floating fields on the West Lake at Hangzhou: \"'The water drains away, the wild grass sprouts, and gradually a [\"fengtian\"] appears\" (tr. Needham and Bray 1964: 119).\n\nThe \"chinampas\", which have been used by the Aztecs on shallow lakes in the Valley of Mexico since the Middle Postclassic period (1150-1350), are the best-known floating gardens (technically, artificial islands separated by canoe-width channels). Several countries in Asia have actual floating gardens. In China, they are found not only in the Huai and Yangtze River area but also on Dian Lake in the Yunnan–Guizhou Plateau. Floating fields are also found on Kasumigaura, Ibaraki in Japan, Dal Lake in Kashmir (West 1950), and Inle Lake in Myanmar (Needham and Bray 1964: 121).\n\nThe \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" has two entries (62 and 63) for \"Citrus\" trees: \"Jú\" (橘 \"Citrus × sinensis\", Sweet Orange) and \"Gān\" (柑 \"Citrus reticulata\", Mandarin Orange).\nThe Chü has white flowers and reddish fruits which have fragrant petals and a delicious taste. Since the time of Wu Ti of Han, there was a Minister of Oranges with a salary of two hundred \"shih\" [of rice], responsible for presenting oranges to the royal court. In the Huang-wu period of Wu (A.D. 222-229), Shih Hsieh 士燮, the Governor of Chiao-chih, once presented an orange specimen with seventeen fruits to one stalk, considered as a symbol of auspiciousness. The entire court entourage presented their congratulations. (62, tr. Li 1979: 118) \nShi Xie (137-226) was a Han dynasty Administrator of Jiaozhi commandery (present-day northern Vietnam). This story about Shi Xie sending as tribute a sweet orange plant with seventeen fruits to Sun Quan (r. 229-252), the founder of the Eastern Wu dynasty, is not recorded elsewhere, and Ma (1978: 243) believes it is a forgery based on the (492-493) \"Songshu\" history record that in 33I Yu Liang sent a sweet orange plant with twelve fruits to the Jin dynasty court.\n\nLi (1979: 119) notes that the \"Yiwu Zhi\" (quoted in the \"Qimin yaoshu\") may possibly be the original source for this \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" entry: \"the orange tree has white flowers and reddish fruits, which have fragrant peels and also sweet taste. It is produced in Kiangnan and not elsewhere\". The \"Taiping Yulan\" quotes this same passage followed by an additional sentence: \"There is an orange grove in Chiao-chih, where an administrative officer is installed, with a salary of 300 \"shih\" (picul) [of rice], who is responsible for presenting an annual tribute of oranges to the royal court.\"\nThe Kan is a kind of orange with an exceptionally sweet and delicious taste. There are yellow and red kinds. The red ones are called Hu-kan 壺柑 (jar orange). In the market, the natives of Chiao-chih sell ants stored in bags of rush mats. The nests are like thin silk. The bags are all attached to twigs and leaves, which, with the ants inside the nests, are for sale. The ants are reddish-yellow in color, bigger than ordinary ants. In the south, if the Kan trees do not have this kind of ant, the fruits will all be damaged by many harmful insects and not a single fruit will be perfect. There are now two trees of Kan in the Hua-lin Garden. When in fruit, the Emperor has the court entourage wine and dine by their side and the fruits are picked and given to all. (63, tr. Li 1979: 118-119) \n\"Húgān\" (壺柑) is now called \"pènggān\" (椪柑 \"Citrus poonensis\", ponkan, Chinese honey orange\"). Ma (1978: 243-244) says the first few sentences appear Zhou Chu's (236-297) \"Fengtuji\" (風土記 \"Record of Local Conditions\"), which is the likely source for this \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" entry. Both Duan Chengshi's (9th century) \"Yuyang zalu\" (酉陽雜俎) and the (early 10th century) Lingbiao luyi (嶺表錄異) retell the citrus ant story. \n\nA number of scholars say this \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" mandarin orange entry is the first reference in any literature to the entomological control of plant pests (e.g., Needham and Wang 1954: 118, Li 1979: 120), as well as the earliest example of a biological control agent as an article of commerce (Huang and Yang 1987: 66). \n\nThe arboreal \"citrus ant\", \"Oecophylla smaragdina\", Chinese \"huángjīngyǐ\" (黃猄蟻 \"yellow fear ant\"), is a weaver ant that binds leaves and twigs together with silk to form tight nests in a tree. At night, the citrus ants retire into these nests, and during the day, they leave the nests and forage for various insects that attack the orange trees and their fruit. To take advantage of these ants, a citrus grower secures a nest on one tree, then connects it to adjacent trees with bamboo strips for bridges, enabling the citrus ants to travel to and build new nests in neighboring trees, and eventually colonize the whole orchard. In 1915, the United States Department of Agriculture sent plant physiologist Walter Tennyson Swingle to China for research in varieties of orange resistant to citrus canker. In collaboration with George W. Groff and his students at Lingnan University in Guangzhou (Groff and Howard 1925), they became the first Western scientists to encounter the cultivated citrus ant of southern China.\n\nThe \"Cǎoqū\" (草麴, lit. \"herb ferment\") entry in the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" is the earliest description of wine production using a natural ferment made with rice flour and herbs. In Southern Chinese tradition, this special rice wine was prepared in advance for marriage ceremonies while the daughter was still young.\n\nThe traditional fermentation starter for Chinese wine is called \"jiǔqū\" (酒麴 \"wine ferment\", compounding \"jiǔ\" \"wine; liquor\" and \"qū\" \"leaven; yeast\") or \"jiǔyào\" (酒藥 \"wine medicament\", with \"yào\" \"drug; medicine\"), which is produced by inoculating a cereal dough with a previously-grown microbial culture (Needham and Huang 2000: 183). Yeast in winemaking is divided between natural, ambient wild yeast (such as \"caoqu\") and cultured inoculated yeast (such as \"jiuqu\").\nIn Nan-hai there are many fine wines, prepared not with yeast leaven but by pounding rice flour mixed with many kinds of herb leaves and soaked in the juice of Yeh-ko 冶葛. The dough, as big as an egg, is left in dense bushes under the shade. After a month, it is done, and is used to mix with glutinous rice to make wine. Thus if drunk heavily, even after awakening from intoxication, the head is hot and sweaty because there are poisonous herbs in it. Among the southerners, when a daughter reaches several years of age the family starts to brew wine on a large scale. After straining, and when the ponds become dry in the winter, the wine is put in jars, tightly sealed at the top and buried in the side of the ponds. When spring comes and the ponds are full of water, these jars are not removed. When the daughter is getting ready to be married, the pond edges are dug to remove the wine for use in feasting the guests at the marriage ceremony. It is called \"girl's wine.\" The taste is exceedingly fine. (14, tr. Li 1979: 59)\nNanhai (南海 \"south sea\", in Guangzhou) was the capital of the ancient Jiaozhou province. \"Yěgé\" (冶葛) \"Gelsemium elegans\" or Heartbreak grass is a famous poisonous plant of southern China. Besides this \"herb ferment\" entry mentioning \"yege\", the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" has a \"yege\" entry (26), and mentions it in the Chinese spinach entry (25, see above). Li (1979: 60) notes that while the root contains poison, it is not clear whether \"caoqu\" used the leaves or the roots. \"Nǚjiǔ\" (女酒 lit. \"women wine\") first appears in the \"Zhouli\" ritual text meaning \"female slave winemaker\" who (in \"yin\" and \"yang\" gender separation) made wines for women in the royal palace, the staff of the Superintendent of Wines is said to include 10 eunuchs, 30 \"wine-women\", and 300 convicts (tr. Manjo 1991: 236).\n\nNeedham and Huang (2000: 261) suggest that since it took one month or the herbal rice-flour dough to become infected by fungi (presumably mycelia), the process was probably not easily reproducible in areas outside South China.\n\nThe tradition of preparing wines for marriage ceremonies while the daughter was still young continued in the Shaoxing region of Zhejiang province until at least the early 20th century. Shaoxing wine is a famous variety of \"huangjiu\" fermented from rice, and it originated in Shaoxing, an ancient city in the southern Yue kingdom during the Warring States period. Qu Dajun's (17th century) \"Guangdong xinyu\" (廣東新語) confirmed that \"caoqu\" \"herb ferment\" was still used in the Guangdong area, and it was made from beans and rice mixed with plant materials such as \"shānjié\" (山桔 \"Glycosmis citrifolia)\"), \"làliǎo\" (辣蓼 \"Persicaria hydropiper\"), and \"mǎliǎo\" (馬蓼 \"Persicaria lapathifolia\") (Li 1979: 60).\n\nAcademic controversies over the authenticity of Ji Han's \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" been ongoing for over a century.\n\nThe first scholar to question the text's authenticity was Wen Dingshi (文廷式, 1856-1904), who said Ji Han could not have been the author because the theriac entry (19, tr. Li 1979: 64) says the physician Liu Juanzi (劉涓子, fl. 410), \"used this plant to prepare pills and after taking them, attained immortality\"; which is likely a copyist's mistake for the Daoist Juanzi (涓子) mentioned in the (c. 1st century BCE) \"Liexian Zhuan\" (Ma 1978: 234).\n\nThere is no reference to the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" in Ji Han's \"Book of Jin\" biography, nor in the bibliographies of the (636) \"Book of Sui\" or (945) \"Old Book of Tang\", both of which do mention his collected works. The \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" title is first recorded in Tang Shenwei's (唐慎微, 1108) \"Zhenglei bencao\" (證類本草) and You Mou's (尤袤, 1180) \"Suichutang shumu\" (遂初堂書目). The oldest extant edition is in the (1273) \"Baichuan xuehai\" (百川學海), printed by Zuo Gui (左圭).\n\nOn one side of the debate, Ma (1978: 246) concludes the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" is unequivocally a forgery, compiled sometime between 1108, the year the \"Zhenglei bencao\" was first published, and 1194, the year You Mou died. On the other side, Needham, Lu, and Huang conclude (1986: 450) that basically Ji Han's \"text is authentic, though there may have been some later interpolations.\"\n\nLi (1979: 11-12) lists internal evidence that attests the historical validity of the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" text, or at least the major part of it. First, Ji Han used archaic and unusual names for certain plants instead of those which later became standard in the Tang and Song, for instance (45), \"jishexiang\" (雞舌香) instead of \"dingxiang\" (丁香) for cloves, indicating the antiquity of the text. Second, he wrote eight entries describing plants that later authors have never been able to identify. Third, Ji Han was occasionally confused regarding some plants where later botanists were not, for example (17), he mixed up \"Phrynium\" with \"Zingiber\". Fourth, he mentions contemporary events, such as \"Aquilaria\" bark-paper (56) being presented as tribute to Emperor Wu of Jin in 284. Li (1979: 13) concludes that although we cannot rule out the possibility of interpolations, we can be reasonably sure that the text, as it has come down to us in its present form since the late Song period, \"represents on the whole a historically trustworthy account of the plants treated therein as they appeared in the southern regions around the third and fourth centuries\".\n\nHuang Xingzong's (1986) summary of the proceedings at an international symposium on the authenticity of the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" provides an overview of both sides in the debate: those who claim that the text is a 12th-century forgery compiled from early texts, and those who consider it a genuine 4th-century work with later interpolations. \n\nIn the first category of bibliographical evidence (Huang 1986: 73), some argued at the symposium that there is no reason to believe that the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" existed before the Song dynasty when the title first appeared, and when it did occur in pre-Song literature, it was often called the \"Nanfang caowu zhuang\". Others responded that lack of citation in the dynastic histories, which was a common occurrence in Chinese literary history, does not necessarily mean that the book did not exist. Since Ji Han's preface explicitly said the book was compiled for the edification of his family, and not intended for public dissemination, it is not surprising that for generations its existence was not well known. Furthermore, there are unanswered questions (Huang 1986: 73). If the text suddenly first appeared in the Song dynasty, why did it not arouse the suspicion of learned bibliophiles? What would a forger gain by spending the time and effort necessary to compile such an admirable text but not accepting its authorship? Huang says the most reasonable hypothesis is that the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" appearance in a printed edition did not attract any special attention because it was common knowledge among the Song literati that Ji Han wrote the text in the 4th century. \n\nIn the second category of textual comparisons, there are numerous \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" passages that are similar or identical to those on the same topics in other classical works about South China. Ma (1978) identified passages in books written between the 3rd and 12th centuries as \"sources\" for many \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" entries, for example, the \"Yiwu zhi\" was a probable sources for the banana and orange descriptions. Ma claimed that at least thirteen entries were copied from (early 10th century) \"Lingbiao luyi\" (岭表錄異), and seven from (875) \"Beihulu\" (北戶錄). Symposium scholars who rejected this plagiarism hypothesis contended that it is more reasonable to conclude that the \"sources\" were themselves copied from the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" without acknowledgement, as early Chinese authors so often did. Furthermore, Hui-lin Li gave the entries on wild ginger (5) and chinkapin (73) as convincing examples. In the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" the descriptions make botanical sense, but the corresponding entries in \"Lingbiao luyi\", though almost identical in language, lack one or two key words needed to render them botanically meaningful, thus indicating that the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" author had an intimate knowledge of plants and knew what he was writing about, whereas the \"Lingbiao luyi\" compiler was copying blindly from the older text.\n\nIn the third category of philological considerations, several discrepancies in book titles, personal names, and historical events quoted in the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\" have led scholars in China and the West to question its authenticity (Huang 1986: 75-76). Jasmine (\"yeximing\" 耶悉茗, from Arabic \"yasmin\") and sambac (\"moli\" 茉莉, from Sanskrit \"mallikā\"), according to the \"Beihulu\", were introduced from Persia in 536, and therefore, could not have been known to Ji Han. In rebuttal, scholars cited evidence that jasmine was already well known in central China during the Jin dynasty, thus the mistake was in the \"Beihulu\", and not in the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\".\n\nThe symposium participants reached consensus that the extant text contains interpolations by later writers, and probably first appeared in its current form during the Southern Song dynasty. Among the pro-forgery group, opinions about the date of fabrication varied considerably, perhaps Tang, Northern Song, or Southern Song. Huang (1986: 77) says, \"Based on what is known about Ji Han's life, his literary attainments, his love of plants, and his interest in alchemy, those opposed to the forgery thesis believe that he is a likely author for the \"Nanfang caomu zhuang\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5545755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5545755", "title": "Novgorod First Chronicle", "text": "Novgorod First Chronicle\n\nThe Novgorod First Chronicle () or The Chronicle of Novgorod, 1016-1471 is the most ancient extant chronicle of the Novgorod Republic. It reflects a tradition different from the Kievan Primary Chronicle. As was first demonstrated by Aleksey Shakhmatov, the later editions of the chronicle reflect the lost Primary Kievan Code (Начальный Киевский свод) of the late 11th century, which contained much valuable data suppressed in the later Primary Chronicle.\n\nThe earliest extant copy of the chronicle is the so-called Synod Scroll, dated to the second half of the 13th century, first printed in 1841 and currently preserved in the State Historical Museum. It is the earliest known manuscript of a major East Slavic chronicle, predating the Laurentian Codex of the Primary Chronicle by almost a century. In the 14th century, the Synod Scroll was continued by the monks of the Yuriev Monastery in Novgorod. \n\nOther important copies of the Novgorod First Chronicle include the Academic Scroll (241 lists, 1444), Commission Scroll (320 lists, mid-15th century), Trinity Scroll (1563), and Tolstoy Scroll (208 lists, 1720s).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_Chronicle\n\n"}
{"id": "35785252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35785252", "title": "Polenlager", "text": "Polenlager\n\nThe Polenlager (, \"Polish Camps\") was a system of labor and Nazi concentration camps in Silesia that held Poles during the World War II Nazi German occupation of Poland. The prisoners, originally destined for deportation across the border to the new semi-colonial General Government district, were sent to the \"Polenlager\" between 1942 and 1945, once the other locations became too overcrowded to accommodate the prisoners. \n\nThere were over 30 \"Polenlager\" camps, mostly in Silesia.\n\nAll \"Polenlager\" camps were classified by the Germans as \"labour reformatories\". They were built near major military work-sites for the steady supply of slave labor. The camps had permanent German staff, augmented by captives and volunteers from other Eastern European countries (known as Hiwis). The Poles were delivered to \"Polenlagers\" by trainloads from German temporary transit camps, after they had been evicted from their homes to make way for new settlers (see: Action Saybusch). Some of the Silesians who were imprisoned there, refused to sign the Volksliste (DVL) or claim German nationality.\nThe \"Polenlager\" idea was part of Adolf Hitler's plan, known as \"Lebensraum\", which involved Germanization of all Polish areas annexed by Nazi Germany with the help of settlers from Bukovina, Eastern Galicia and Volhynia. The main purpose of the forcible displacement of Poles was to create a German-only enclave known as \"Reichsgau Wartheland\" across the formerly Polish territories.\n\nThere were over 30 \"Polenlager\" camps identified in research – mostly in Silesia (26), but also in other locations across the Third Reich and in the present day Czech Republic. Historians estimate their number to have been even higher. In some camps, such as \"Polenlager\" 92 in Kietrz (\"Katscher\"), the living accommodations were set up in the factory where prisoners worked; they were given about per person to live on, at a redesigned floor of the Schaeffler textile factory. – In 1943, they processed into yarn 3 tons of human hair delivered from Auschwitz in two railroad cars.\n\nAt the \"Polenlager\" 75 in Racibórz (\"Ratibor\") – with 142 prisoners as of January 14, 1943 according to records – 22,1% were below the age of 14 years. At the \"Polenlager\" 10 in Siemianowice Śląskie \"(pictured)\", children as young as eight were forced to work at a stone quarry. The extant documentation indicates that plans for further expansion of the \"Polenlager\" camp system had also been made. All of them were designated within the general numbering framework of the Volksdeutsche \"Mittelstelle\" camps. They were not numbered successively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32080773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32080773", "title": "Port Elizabeth Municipality v Various Occupiers", "text": "Port Elizabeth Municipality v Various Occupiers\n\nPort Elizabeth Municipality v Various Occupiers [2004] ZACC 7 decided by the Constitutional Court in 2004, is an important case in South African law, with significance especially for post-apartheid property rights and constitutional supremacy. \n\nThe case concerned the fate of a small group of people who had been unlawfully occupying some vacant, unused and private land in the jurisdiction of the municipality of Port Elizabeth. At the instance of the landowners and a large number of concerned locals, the municipality applied for their eviction.\n\nIt fell to the court to decide whether the eviction could go ahead under the circumstances. \n\nThe Constitutional Court found that the eviction could not go ahead. Sachs J made reference to the judiciary's \"new task,\" which was to manage \"the counterpositioning of conventional rights of ownership against the new, equally relevant, right not to be arbitrarily deprived of a home, without creating hierarchies of privilege.\" The statute relied upon by the municipality, the Prevention of Illegal Eviction from and Unlawful Occupation of Land Act (PIE), was found to require the courts to \"infuse elements of grace and compassion into the formal structures of the law,\" and confirmed with the Constitution that \"we are not islands unto ourselves,\" and that the courts are \"called upon to balance competing interests in a principled way and promote the constitutional vision of a caring society based on good neighbourliness and shared concern.\" The Bill of Rights in particular is \"nothing if not a structured, institutionalised and operational declaration in our evolving new society of the need for human interdependence, respect and concern.\"\n\nThe court's reasoning \"represents a profound commentary on the way in which property law is to be understood in light of the Constitution.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16049023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16049023", "title": "RKM code", "text": "RKM code\n\nThe RKM code, also referred to as \"letter and digit code for resistance and capacitance values and tolerances\" or \"R notation\", is a notation to specify resistor and capacitor values defined in the international standard IEC 60062 (formerly IEC 62) since 1952. It is also adopted by various other standards including DIN 40825 (1973), BS 1852 (1974), IS 8186 (1976) and EN 60062 (1993). The significantly updated IEC 60062:2016 comprises the most recent release of the standard.\n\nOriginally meant also as part marking code, this shorthand notation is widely used in electrical engineering to denote the values of resistors and capacitors in circuit diagrams and in the production of electronic circuits (for example in bills of material and in silk screens). This method avoids overlooking the decimal separator, which may not be rendered reliably on components or when duplicating documents.\n\nThe standards also define a \"color code for fixed resistors\".\n\nFor brevity, the notation omits to always specify the unit (ohm or farad) explicitly and instead relies on implicit knowledge raised from the usage of specific letters either only for resistors or for capacitors, the case used (uppercase letters are typically used for resistors, lowercase letters for capacitors), a part's appearance, and the context.\n\nThe notation also avoids using a decimal separator and replaces it by a letter associated with the prefix symbol for the particular value.\n\nThis is not only for brevity (for example when printed on the part or PCB), but also to circumvent the problem that decimal separators tend to \"disappear\" when photocopying printed circuit diagrams.\n\nThe code letters are loosely related to the corresponding SI prefix, but there are several exceptions, where the capitalization differs or alternative letters are used.\n\nFor example, 8K2 indicates a resistor value of 8.2 kΩ. Additional zeros imply tighter tolerance, for example 15M0.\n\nWhen the value can be expressed without the need for a prefix, an \"R\" is used instead of the decimal separator. For example, 1R2 indicates 1.2 Ω, and 18R indicates 18 Ω.\nFor \"resistances\", the standard dictates the use of the uppercase letters L (for 10), R (for 10 = 1), K (for 10), M (for 10), and G (for 10) to be used instead of the decimal point.\n\nThe usage of the letter R instead of the SI unit symbol Ω for ohms stems from the fact that the Greek letter Ω wasn't (and still isn't) part of most character sets and therefore is sometimes impossible to reproduce, in particular in some CAD/CAM environments. The letter R was chosen because visually it loosely resembles the Ω glyph, and also because it works nicely as a mnemonic for \"r\"esistance in many languages.\n\nThe letters G and T weren't part of the first issue of the standard, which pre-dates the introduction of the SI system (hence the name \"RKM code\"), but were added after the adoption of the corresponding SI prefixes.\n\nThe introduction of the letter L in more recent issues of the standard (instead of an SI prefix m for milli) is justified to maintain the rule of only using uppercase letters for resistances (the otherwise resulting M was already in use for mega).\n\nSimilar, the standard prescribes the following lowercase letters for \"capacitances\" to be used instead of the decimal point: p (for 10), n (for 10), µ (for 10), m (for 10), but uppercase F (for 10 = 1) for farad.\n\nThe letters p and n weren't part of the first issue of the standard, but were added after the adoption of the corresponding SI prefixes.\n\nIn cases where the Greek letter µ is not available, the standard allows it to be replaced by u (or U, when only uppercase letters are available). This usage of u instead of µ is also in line with ISO 2955 (1974, 1983), DIN 66030 (Vornorm 1973; 1980, 2002) and BS 6430 (1983), which allow the prefix μ to be substituted by the letter u (or U) in circumstances in which only the Latin alphabet is available.\n\nLetter code for resistance and capacitance tolerances:\n\nLetter codes for resistor temperature coefficients:\n\n\n\nExample: V8 = August 2007 (or August 1987)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1795886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1795886", "title": "Record chart", "text": "Record chart\n\nA record chart, also called a music chart, is a ranking of recorded music according to certain criteria during a given period of time. Many different criteria are used in different charts, including record sales, the amount of radio airplay, and since the popularity of the Internet for music, the number of downloads and the amount of streaming activity.\n\nSome charts are specific to a particular musical genre and most to a particular geographical location (although download charts are not easily pinned down in this way). The most common period of time covered by a chart is one week with the chart being printed or broadcast at the end of this time. Summary charts for years and decades are then calculated from their component weekly charts. Component charts have become an increasingly important way to measure the commercial success of individual songs.\n\nA \"chart hit\" is a recording, identified by its inclusion in a chart that uses sales or other criteria to rank popular releases, that ranks highly in popularity compared to other songs in the same time frame. \"Chart-topper\" and related terms (like \"number one\", \"No. 1 hit\", \"top of the charts\", \"chart hit\", and so forth) are widely used in common conversation and in marketing, and are loosely defined. Because of its value in promoting recording artists and releases, both directly to the consumer, and by encouraging exposure on radio, TV other media, chart positioning has long been a subject of scrutiny and controversy. Chart compilation methodology and data sources vary, ranging from \"buzz charts\" (based on opinions of various experts and tastemakers), to charts that reflect empirical data such as retail sales. Therefore, a \"chart-topper\" may be anything from an \"insiders' pick\" to a runaway seller. Most charts that are used to determine extant mainstream popularity rely on measurable data.\n\nRecord chart performance is inherently relative, as they rank songs, albums and records in comparison to each other at the same time, as opposed to music recording sales certification methods, which are measured in absolute numbers. Comparing the chart positions of songs at different times thus does not provide an accurate comparison of a song's overall impact. The nature of most charts, particularly weekly charts, also favors songs that sell very well for a brief period of time; thus, a song that is only briefly popular may chart higher than a song that sells more copies in the long range, but more slowly. As a result, a band's biggest hit single may not be its best-selling single.\n\nAccording to Joel Whitburn, the American trade publication \"Billboard\" introduced the Hot 100 on August 4, 1958. This was the first chart in the US to \"fully integrate the hottest-selling and most-played pop singles.\" From 1958 until 1991, \"Billboard\" compiled the chart from playlists reported by radio stations, and surveys of retail sales outlets. Before 1958, several charts were published, including \"Best Sellers in Stores\", \"Most Played by Jockeys\" (later revived under the name Hot 100 Airplay), and \"Most Played in Juke Boxes\", and, in later collations of chart hits, the record's highest placing in any of those charts was usually reported. On November 30, 1991, \"Billboard\" introduced a new method of determining the Hot 100, \"by a combination of actual radio airplay monitored electronically by Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems (BDS), additional playlists from small-market stations, and actual point-of-sale information provided by Nielsen SoundScan.\" Until 1998, any songs placed on the chart had to be physically available as a single. The Hot 100 continues to be published.\n\nThere are several commonly used terms when referring to a music/entertainment chart or the performance of a release thereon.\n\nA \"new entry\" is a title which is making its début in that chart. This is applied to all charts, for instance a track which is outside the Top 40 but which later climbs into that level of the chart is considered to be a 'new entry' to the Top 40 that week. In most official charts, tracks have to have been on sale for a period of time in order to enter the charts; however, in some retailers' charts, new releases are included in charts as 'new entries' without a sales history in order to make them more visible to purchasers. A real \"new entry\" is a title that makes its chart début, no matter how many positions officially the chart actually is. In the UK the official published chart is a Top 100 although a new entry can take place between positions 101-200 (this is also true of the Billboard Hot 100, which has a \"bubbling under\" addendum for new songs that have not yet made the Hot 100). The Top 40 is only used for radio to shorten the play-lists.\n\nA \"re-entry\" is a track which has previously entered a chart falls out of that chart and then later re-appears in it. This may come about if a release is reissued or if there is a surge of interest in the track. Generally any repeat entry of a track into a chart is considered a re-entry, unless the later version of the track is a materially different recording or significantly repackaged (such as Michael Jackson's \"Thriller 25\"), where the release would normally be considered separate and thus a \"new\" entry.\n\nA \"climber\" is a release which is going higher in the chart week-on-week. Because chart positions are generally relative to each other on a week-to-week basis, a release does not necessarily have to increase sales week-to-week to be a climber, as if releases ahead of it decline in sales sufficiently they may slip below it. By the same metric, not all week-to-week sales increases result in a climber, if other releases improve by a sufficient amount to keep it from climbing. The term \"highest climber\" is used to denote the release making the biggest leap upwards in the chart that week. There is generally not an equivalent phrase for tracks going down the chart; the term \"faller\" is occasionally used, but not as widely as 'climber'.\n\nThe \"top 10\", \"top 20\" and so forth are used to determine the relative success of a release. For instance, a track may be referred to as a 'top 10 hit' if it reaches a position between 1 and 10 on the singles chart, as a 'top 20 hit' if it reaches between positions 1 and 20, and so on. The most commonly known chart is the 'top 40' widely used by the media in various territories, though it is common for longer lists to be produced for or by the music industry. For example, in the UK, the Official Charts Company produces a top 200, although various media only publish shorter lists.\n\nA \"one-hit wonder\" is an act that appears on the chart just once. The term \"true one-hit wonder\" was the term given by Guinness Book of British Hit Singles & Albums (and also the Billboard book Top Pop Singles) is an act that has one number one hit and nothing else on the chart ever. If an act appears in some other form, (for example) a solo act that appears with a band or with other acts then these are taken separately.\n\n"}
{"id": "22464965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22464965", "title": "Sky Sports Football Yearbook", "text": "Sky Sports Football Yearbook\n\nSky Sports Football Yearbook (formerly Rothmans Football Yearbook) is a British football reference book published annually by Headline (a division of Hodder Headline). It was first published in 1970 for the 1970–71 season, its first compilers being Tony Williams and Roy Peskett, and has released its 43rd edition. For many years the editors were father and daughter Jack and Glenda Rollin. The Rollins' involvement ended with the 2012-13 edition, with the parting somewhat acrimonious.\n\nThe book contains statistical information on the previous season in English football, including all results, appearances, goalscorers and transfers for the Premier League, Football League, Conference National, Scottish Premier League and Scottish Football League, as well as selected historical records for each club and all major competitions. It also contains less detailed information on football in Wales and Northern Ireland, non-League football and women's football in England, European nations' national league tables, and international competitions. The current edition runs to 1056 pages.\n\nIn March 2018 it was reported that the future of the book was in doubt after Sky Sports withdrew their sponsorship, believed to be around £30,000 per year.\n\nIt was sponsored by the tobacco company Rothmans from its inception until the 2002–03 edition, after which they withdrew due to pending United Kingdom legislation restricting tobacco sponsorship in sport. Sky Sports took over as the new sponsors from the 2003–04 edition onwards.\n\nFrom 2018/19 season the book will be sponsored by The Sun newspaper.\n"}
{"id": "1638128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638128", "title": "Spirit", "text": "Spirit\n\nA spirit is a supernatural being, often, but not exclusively, a non-physical entity; such as a ghost, fairy, or angel. The concepts of a person's spirit and soul, often also overlap, as both are either contrasted with or given ontological priority over the body and both are believed to survive bodily death in some religions, and \"spirit\" can also have the sense of \"ghost\", i.e. a manifestation of the spirit of a deceased person. In English Bibles, \"the Spirit\" (with a capital \"S\"), specifically denotes the Holy Spirit.\n\nSpirit is often used metaphysically to refer to the consciousness or personality.\n\nHistorically, it was also used to refer to a \"subtle\" as opposed to \"gross\" material substance, as in the famous last paragraph of Sir Isaac Newton's \"Principia Mathematica\".\n\nThe English word \"spirit\" comes from the Latin \"spiritus\",but also \"spirit, soul, courage, vigor\", ultimately from a Proto-Indo-European \"*(s)peis\". It is distinguished from Latin \"anima\", \"soul\" (which nonetheless also derives from an Indo-European root meaning \"to breathe\", earliest form \"*henh-\"). In Greek, this distinction exists between \"pneuma\" (), \"breath, motile air, spirit,\" and \"psykhē\" (), \"soul\" (even though the latter term, = \"psykhē/psūkhē\", is also from an Indo-European root meaning \"to breathe\": \"*bhes-\", zero grade \"*bhs-\" devoicing in proto-Greek to \"*phs-\", resulting in historical-period Greek \"ps-\" in \"psūkhein\", \"to breathe\", whence \"psūkhē\", \"spirit\", \"soul\").\n\nThe word \"spirit\" came into Middle English via Old French. The distinction between soul and spirit also developed in the Abrahamic religions: Arabic \"nafs\" () opposite \"rūħ\" (); Hebrew \"neshama\" ( \"nəšâmâh\") or \"nephesh\" \"nép̄eš\" (in Hebrew \"neshama\" comes from the root \"NŠM\" or \"breath\") opposite \"ruach\" ( \"rúaħ\"). (Note, however, that in Semitic just as in Indo-European, this dichotomy has not \"always\" been as neat historically as it has come to be taken over a long period of development: Both (root ) and (root ), as well as cognate words in various Semitic languages, including Arabic, also preserve meanings involving misc. air phenomena: \"breath\", \"wind\", and even \"odour\").\n\nIn spiritual and metaphysical terms, \"spirit\" has acquired a number of meanings:\n\n\nSimilar concepts in other languages include Greek \"pneuma\" and Sanskrit \"akasha / atman\" (see also \"prana\"). Some languages use a word for \"spirit\" often closely related (if not synonymous) to \"mind\". Examples include the German \"Geist\" (related to the English word \"ghost\") or the French \"l'esprit\". English versions of the Bible most commonly translate the Hebrew word \"ruach\" (רוח; \"wind\") as \"the spirit\", whose essence is divine.\n\nAlternatively, Hebrew texts commonly use the word \"nephesh\". Kabbalists regard \"nephesh\" as one of the five parts of the Jewish soul, where \"nephesh\" (animal) refers to the physical being and its animal instincts. Similarly, Scandinavian, Baltic, and Slavic languages, as well as Chinese (气 \"qi\"), use the words for \"breath\" to express concepts similar to \"the spirit\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4413453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4413453", "title": "Stephen M. Ross", "text": "Stephen M. Ross\n\nStephen M. Ross (born May 10, 1940) is an American real estate developer, philanthropist and sports team owner. Ross is the chairman and majority owner of The Related Companies, a global real estate development firm he founded in 1972. Related is best known for developing the Time Warner Center, where Ross lives and works, as well as the Hudson Yards Redevelopment Project. According to \"Forbes\" magazine, Ross had a net worth of $4.4 billion. Ross is also the principal owner of the Miami Dolphins and Hard Rock Stadium.\n\nRoss is a major benefactor of his alma mater, the University of Michigan; with lifetime contributions of $378 million to the university, he is the largest donor in university history. According to the \"Chronicle of Philanthropy\", His higher education gifts rank behind only those of fellow American billionaire New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg, whose recent $350 million contribution to Johns Hopkins University increased his lifetime total to $1.1 billion. The University of Michigan renamed its business school, the Ross School of Business, in Ross's honor in 2004, after he made a $100 million gift to fund a new business-school building. In September 2013, Ross donated $200 million to the University ($100 million to the Business School and $100 million to Michigan athletics), the largest single gift in the history of the university; the University of Michigan announced plans to rename the university's athletics campus in his honor. He also gave $5 million to the athletic department's academic center and $1 million to endow a professorship in real estate at the Ross School of Business.\n\nRoss was raised in a Jewish family in Detroit, where he went to Mumford High School, and later graduated from Miami Beach Senior High School. He attended the University of Florida and then transferred to the University of Michigan Business School, where he earned his B.S. degree in accounting in 1962. He later received a Juris Doctor from the Wayne State School of Law in 1965 and an LL.M. degree in Taxation from the New York University School of Law in 1966. These later degrees were financed by a loan from his uncle, the businessman Max Fisher, who Ross has called, \"the most important role model and inspiration for me in life\".\n\nRoss began his career as a tax attorney at Coopers & Lybrand in Detroit. In 1968, he moved to New York City and accepted a position as an assistant vice president in the real estate subsidiary of Laird Inc. and then worked in the corporate finance department of Bear Stearns. In 1972, he left employment and living off $10,000 lent to him by his mother, he utilized his federal tax law knowledge to organize deals for wealthy investors allowing them to shelter income with the generous incentives granted by the federal government to promote the construction of federally subsidized affordable housing. He was very successful, earning $150,000 in his first year, and he was soon arranging more complicated transactions. Using his earnings along with his newfound experience, he started to develop real estate on his own and with an emphasis on high-quality architecture and engineering, he quickly earned a solid reputation in the American real estate arena. With a focus on the northeastern United States and Florida, he developed apartments, condominiums, retail, office parks and mixed-use developments. In 1972, he founded The Related Companies, a real estate development company.\n\nRelated is an integrated and diversified real estate development company. Its business includes development, acquisitions, management, finance, marketing and sales. Headquartered in New York City, Related has offices and real estate developments in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, San Francisco, South Florida, Abu Dhabi, and Shanghai. The company directly employs approximately 2,000 people. The company's existing portfolio of real estate assets, valued at over $15 billion, is made up of mixed-use, residential, retail, office, trade show and affordable properties in what the company calls \"premier high-barrier-to-entry markets.\" Related is the largest owner of luxury residential rental properties in New York with over 5,000 units in its portfolio and has developed mixed-use projects such as Time Warner Center in New York and CityPlace in West Palm Beach and is currently developing the 26-acre Hudson Yards project on Manhattan's west side. Related also manages approximately $1.5 billion of equity capital on behalf of sovereign wealth funds, public pension plans, multi-managers, endowments, Taft-Hartley plans and family offices.\n\nRelated also owns Equinox Fitness Clubs and a partnership interest in Union Square Events, the catering, culture, sports, and events business of Danny Meyer's Union Square Hospitality Group.\n\nIn February 2008, Ross bought 50 percent of the Miami Dolphin franchise, Dolphin Stadium (now known as Hard Rock Stadium) and surrounding land from then-owner Wayne Huizenga for $550 million, with an agreement to later become the Dolphins' managing general partner. On January 20, 2009, Ross closed on the purchase of an additional 45% of the team from Wayne Huizenga. The total value of the deal was $1.1 billion. This means Ross is now the owner of 95% of both the franchise and the stadium. Ross announced his intention to keep Bill Parcells as the director of football operations. Parcells later stepped down from his position shortly before the 2010 NFL season. Since buying the Dolphins, Ross has brought in Gloria Estefan, Marc Anthony, Venus Williams, and Serena Williams, as minority owners of the team. In 2013, Ross made a push to obtain multimillion-dollar public funding from the state of Florida and Miami-Dade taxpayers to help renovate Hard Rock Stadium, the Dolphins' home field. After this effort failed in the Florida legislature, a team spokesman said that Ross does not intend to move the team but that under an eventual future owner the Dolphins' future in the Miami area is bleak. Although Ross said he intends to keep the Dolphins \"in town\", there has been speculation that the team may seek to move out of Miami to a nearby locale such as Palm Beach.\n\nRSE Ventures is a private investment firm that focuses on sports and entertainment, media and marketing, food and lifestyle, and technology. RSE Ventures was co-founded in 2012 by Ross and Matt Higgins (businessman), former Executive Vice President of the New York Jets and current Vice Chairman of the Miami Dolphins. RSE builds, owns and operates a variety of companies, including the Drone Racing League, Thuzio, VaynerMedia and Relevent.\n\nRoss and Carl Peterson own Kangaroo Media, producer of FanVision.\n\nRoss was co-chair of the University of Michigan's fund raising campaign, which was completed May 2007.\n\nIn 2004, Ross made the single largest contribution (at the time) to the University of Michigan by donating $100 million to the school. The University renamed its business school, Ross School of Business in his honor. On September 12, 2013, it was announced Ross had committed an additional $200 million gift to the University, to be distributed equally among the Ross School of Business and the University's athletic department. It replaced Charlie Munger's 2013 contribution of $115 million as the largest single gift in the University's history.. On September 20, 2017, Ross donated an additional 50 million to the University of Michigan, the majority of which would support career development programs for students, innovative action-based learning experiences, and resources for attracting and developing junior faculty.\n\nHe was on the executive committee of NYC2012, New York's initiative to bring the summer Olympic Games to New York City in 2012, which failed when London won. Ross is chairman of Equinox Holdings, and chairperson emeritus of the Real Estate Board of New York (REBNY), the city's leading real estate trade association. As a member of the board of trustees of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, Ross was involved in the planning of a major renovation of the Frank Lloyd Wright iconic building and other new museums. He is a trustee of New York Presbyterian Hospital, the Urban Land Institute, the NY Chapter of Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International, the Levin Institute and is a director of the Jackie Robinson Foundation and the World Resources Institute. He also serves on the Executive Committee and is a trustee of Lincoln Center.\n\nRoss was a major supporter and contributor to the 2012 presidential campaign of Mitt Romney.\n\nHe serves on the Board for the Cornell Tech Campus, a $2B redevelopment of Roosevelt Island including the Joan & Irwin Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute, a partnership between Cornell University and the Technion – Israel Institute of Technology that when completed will house several thousand post-graduate students, hundreds of faculty, and a high-tech business incubator.\n\nOn March 27, 2017, Ross cast the only \"no\" vote in the NFL owners' 31–1 \"yes\" decision on the Oakland Raiders request for approval to move to Las Vegas starting in the 2019 season. Ross said he had no personal problems with Raiders owner Mark Davis and wished the franchise well, but did not think the Raiders did everything they could to stay in Oakland, and also that having 3 teams move within only 15 months (the Rams and Chargers both moved to Los Angeles) was not good for players or fans. Ross also stated prior to his Dolphins playing the Chargers in their first home game since the move to Los Angeles that he did not believe that Chargers owner Dean Spanos made his best effort to stay in San Diego, making him a popular figure with the betrayed San Diego fan base.\n\nRoss invested in a partnership named RERI that was donated to the University of Michigan in 2003. RERI obtained its own appraisal for the donation in the amount of $32,935,000. The university sold the Ross-donated remainder interest in December, 2005 for $1.94 million, below the $6.5 million appraised value. The IRS denied the entire $33 million tax deduction and imposed a multi million dollar penalty in July, 2017. Ross's long time accountant Alan Katz and business associate, Harold Levine were instrumental in the partnership. They are currently under criminal investigation for the tax plan.\n\nOver the years, Ross has received numerous honors for his business, civic, and philanthropic activities. He was named the third Most Powerful Person in New York Real Estate by the New York Observer, Multi-Family Property Executive of the Year by Commercial Property News, and Housing Person of the Year by the National Housing Conference. He also received The National Building Museum Honor Award, REBNY's Harry B. Helmsley Distinguished New Yorker Award and the Jack D. Weiler Award from UJA. Crain's New York named Ross one of the 100 Most Influential Leaders in Business and he was recognized by NYC & Company with their Leadership in Tourism Award.\n\nRoss and his wife Kara Ross (née Gaffney), an entrepreneur and jewelry designer, reside in New York with her two daughters from a previous marriage. Ross has two of his own children from his first marriage. The Rosses also own an 11,000 sq ft oceanfront mansion in Palm Beach named \"The Reef\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8296462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8296462", "title": "Swedish Chronicle", "text": "Swedish Chronicle\n\nThe Swedish Chronicle (\"Vetus chronicon sveciæ prosaicum\" or \"Prosaiska krönikan\") is a mid-15th century chronicle on a nation called Getae (\"gethe\"), Goths (\"gotha\"), Geats (\"götha\") and eventually Swedes (\"swenske\"). It says that it is compiled from ancient chronicles.\n\nIt includes a line of kings from the House of Yngling which appears to be based on the Norwegian \"Historia Norwegiæ\" and the Danish \"Chronicon Lethrense\", but the compiler seems to have \"corrected\" the information.\n\nThe first part of its line of Swedish kings:\n\n"}
{"id": "4436466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4436466", "title": "Table of correspondences", "text": "Table of correspondences\n\nA table of correspondences is an esoteric table that lists purported magical, supernatural, occult, medicinal or similar advice in connection with the subjects being indexed. Tables of correspondences are provided as reference tools in casting spells and creating magic circles. A table of correspondences can be as simple as a list of colors and their associated magical properties. A more sophisticated examples might include multiple columns and indexes. For example, a summary of ritual advice by auspicious time and place might include: alchemical or symbolic formulae to influence plants, animals, spirits or deities. Although distinct from sympathetic magic, examples can be found in ancient Greek medical theory, (the four humours), and Traditional Chinese Medicine.\n\nThe belief that apparently unconnected things share a mystical connection is common to most cultures; it is one of the principles of sympathetic magic identified by anthropologist James George Frazer in \"The Golden Bough\". Examples of the theory of interconnectedness in Western culture include the Platonic concept of macrocosm and microcosm, expressed in Hermeticism by the aphorism, \"as above, so below\"; the doctrine of signatures advocated in the Renaissance by Paracelsus; the Jewish mystical practice of Kabbalah, which Renaissance humanists attempted to Christianize; and the doctrine of correspondence in the theology of Emanuel Swedenborg. \n\nTables of correspondences are not limited to magical spellcasting. Gnostic books in the Nag Hammadi Library contain lists of aeons and archons (good and evil beings), correlating them to virtues and vices. The First Book of Enoch lists fallen angels and their spheres of influence. Medieval grimoires also included lists of correspondences. Tables of correspondences are also found in Chinese traditional and Indian Ayurvedic healthcare manuals. \n\nIn the Renaissance, Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa published his \"Three Books of Occult Philosophy\" (1531), which contained many lists of correspondences, and Francis Barrett's \"The Magus, or Celestial Intelligencer\" (1801, frequently reprinted) repeated many of Agrippa's lists.\n\nCollecting attributes or indexes into small familiar sets provides a sense of orderliness:\n\n"}
{"id": "37165130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37165130", "title": "Tenseless language", "text": "Tenseless language\n\nIn linguistics, a tenseless language is a language that does not have a grammatical category of tense. Tenseless languages can and do refer to time but they do so using lexical items such as adverbs or verbs, or by using combinations of aspect, and mood, and words that establish time reference. Examples of tenseless languages are Burmese, Dyirbal, Chinese, Malay (including Indonesian), and in some analyses Greenlandic and Guaraní.\n"}
{"id": "23152654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23152654", "title": "The Secret Lore of Magic", "text": "The Secret Lore of Magic\n\nThe Secret Lore of Magic is a book by Idries Shah on the subject of magical texts. First published in 1957, it includes several major source-books of magical arts, translated from French, Latin, Hebrew and other tongues, annotated and fully illustrated with numerous diagrams, signs and characters. Together with \"Oriental Magic\", which appeared in the preceding year, it provided an important literary-anthropological survey of magical literature and is a comprehensive reference for psychologists, ethnologists and others interested in the rise and development of human beliefs.\n\nIn addition to the inherent worth of their content, \"The Secret Lore of Magic\" and \"Oriental Magic\" can also be seen as a ground-breaking operation by this author, before publishing over the ensuing years his many volumes of Sufi thought, ideas, and materials.\n\nBlack magic and \"maleficium\" or sorcery have been practised through the ages with the aid of certain jealously guarded writings, such as the \"Black Books of the Magicians\". \"The Secret Lore of Magic\" includes the entire text of the four books of the \"Secrets of Albertus Magnus\", the \"Book of the Spirits,\" \"the Almadel\", the \"Book of Power\", \"the Clavicle and the Testament\", the \"Grimoire of Honorius the Great\", and the processes of the Black Pact as given by \"the True Grimoire\" and \"the Great Grimoire\". Copies of these Grimoires (the \"grammars\" of sorcery) were extremely rare, and although occult works based on parts of grimoires were continuing to appear, the actual sources had never before been made available for study and comparison.\n\nShah points out that all magic essentially outside religious rituals, had been viewed by clerics as nothing less than the Black Art. That attitude shifted during the centuries of research in Arabian Spain, as a result of which magic became officially understood as divided into the twin categories of black and white. \"The Secret Lore of Magic\" reflects this division. Its pages contain both the most sublime, complex and important rituals and methods of white magic, (The Key of Solomon), and also what was considered to be the most diabolical work on black magic ever written (\"The Grimoire of Honorius the Great\").\n\nAlthough the major part of \"The Secret Lore\" consists of primary sources, the author’s own informed commentary runs through it, often setting symbols, rituals and practices in a clearer light or wider context. Shah also states that the methods of making spells, charms and talismans, together with the rituals of raising spirits through the Magical Circle, all of which are contained in this work, between them comprise the whole gamut of supernatural power.\n\nCommenting on these works, Shah emphasised that neither had relevance to, nor were written for, contemporary devotees of witchcraft and magic. \nFor too long people believed that there were secret books, hidden places, and amazing things. They held onto this information as something to frighten themselves with. So the first purpose was information. This is the magic of East and West. That's all. There is no more. The second purpose of those books was to show that there do seem to be forces, some of which are either rationalized by this magic or may be developed from it, which do not come within customary physics or within the experience of ordinary people. I think this should be studied; that we should gather the data and analyze the phenomena. We need to separate the chemistry of magic from the alchemy, as it were.\n\nAccording to Mundilibro, (Nov-Dec 1974), commenting on \"Oriental Magic\" and \"The Secret Lore of Magic\",\nThese basic works … serve to establish Idries Shah as an original, careful and reliable researcher in the field of human knowledge …”. It also stated that the two books “have not been superseded as links in the history of ideas.” The Book Exchange said that The Secret Lore of Magic was ‘essential reading for research in the fields of human beliefs, practices and ceremonies”.\n\nThe Liverpool Post described it as a “mammoth survey, never before attempted in any language.”\n\n"}
{"id": "2890452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2890452", "title": "The Song of Dermot and the Earl", "text": "The Song of Dermot and the Earl\n\nThe Song of Dermot and the Earl () is an anonymous Anglo-Norman verse chronicle written in the early 13th century in England. It tells of the arrival of Strongbow in Ireland in 1170 (the \"earl\" in the title), and of the subsequent arrival of Henry II of England.\n\nThe chronicle survives only in a single manuscript which was re-discovered in the 17th century in London. The work bears no title in the manuscript, but has been commonly referred to as \"The Song of Dermot and the Earl\" since G.H. Orpen in 1892 published a diplomatic edition under this title. It has also been known as The Conquest of Ireland and The Conquest of Ireland by Henry II; in the most recent edition it was called La Geste des Engleis en Yrlande (\"The Deeds of the English in Ireland\").\n\nThis section of the poem has been translated from Anglo-Norman French\nby G.H.C. Orpen (Trinity College, Dublin) from the Carew 596 manuscript and covers lines 3129 - 3161 (ref Skryne and the Early Normans by Elizabeth Hickey.1994. p. 31).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33560", "title": "The Wizard of Speed and Time", "text": "The Wizard of Speed and Time\n\nThe Wizard of Speed and Time is a 1989 low-budget feature film written, directed, and starring animator Mike Jittlov, as well as a 1979 16 mm short film, also by Jittlov. \n\nIn the original short film, a young man in a green wizard costume runs throughout America at super speed, much like the superhero The Flash. Along the way, he gives a pretty girl a swift lift to another city, gives golden stars to other women who want a trip themselves. He then slips on a banana peel and comically crashes into a film stage, which he then brings to life in magical ways.\nJittlov is a special effects technician, and produced all of the special effects in the film himself, many through stop motion animation.\n\nThis short film originally was shown as a segment of an episode of \"The Wonderful World of Disney\". The episode was called \"Major Effects\", and was aired to coincide with the release of Disney's \"The Black Hole\" in 1979.\n\nThe film segment then began to be shown at science fiction conventions around the country, gaining popularity, prompting Jittlov to eventually create a (semi-)fictionalized account of how this short film came to be, in the form of a feature film. \n\nYears later, Jittlov was able to remake the short, as well as incorporate portions of some of his other short films (such as \"Time Tripper\" and \"Animato\"), into a feature-length 35 mm film. The feature version recounts the exploits of a special effects \"wizard\" (played by Jittlov) trying to fulfill his dream of making a full-length movie. The tricks of movie magic are exposed; but so are the tribulations of the independent moviemaker working around the heavily unionized Hollywood film industry.\n\nStraeker: There are your film cans, but you can't move them.\nJittlov: Why? Are they stuck to the floor?\nStraeker: No, to the system!\n\nMany scenes in the movie turned out to be only too prophetic, according to Jittlov. In the film, a director, Lucky Straeker (Steve Brodie), and a producer, Harvey Bookman (Richard Kaye), bet over whether Jittlov can actually complete a major effects assignment, and Bookman does everything in his power to thwart Jittlov.\n\nRichard Kaye not only produced this film but also starred as one of the main characters \nHarvey Bookman, coincidentally a producer. Richard was also the co-writer of this script. Richard Kaye's daughter Lauri Kaye, at the age of 16, was the production secretary of \"The Wizard of Speed and Time\" and Lauri also performs in the film as a voice-over artist and a hand model.\n\nThe feature film is also filled with subliminal messages, many hidden in single frames during the \"Wizard Run\" sequence (which was remade and expanded from the original short film), or hidden in electrical sparks generated by various happenings in the film. \n\nThe feature film was filmed in 1983, released to theaters in 1989 (though it was never widely distributed), and was later released on VHS and laserdisc. Although there is no official DVD release yet, Jittlov's fans have (with Jittlov's knowledge and at least tacit approval) created a DVD image file, and made it available for free on peer-to-peer networks until such time as an official release is realized. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17945575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17945575", "title": "Tiled Kiosk", "text": "Tiled Kiosk\n\nThe Tiled Kiosk () is a pavilion set within the outer walls of Topkapı Palace and dates from 1472 as shown on the tile inscript above the main entrance. It was built by the Ottoman sultan Mehmed II as a pleasure palace or kiosk. It is located in the most outer parts of the palace, next to Gülhane Park. It was also called \" Glazed Kiosk\" (\"Sırça Köşk\").\n\nIt was used as the Imperial Museum (, ) between 1875 and 1891. In 1953, it was opened to the public as a museum of Turkish and Islamic art, and was later incorporated into the Istanbul Archaeology Museums, housing the Museum of Islamic Art. The pavilion contains many examples of İznik tiles and Seljuk pottery.\n\nThe building has a Greek cross shaped groundplan and two storeys high, although since the building straddles a declivity, only one floor is visible from the main entrance. The exterior glazed bricks show a Central Asian influence, especially from the Bibi-Khanym Mosque in Samarkand. The square, axial plan represents the four corners of the world and symbolizes, in architectural terms, the universal authority and sovereignty of the Sultan. As there is no Byzantine influence, the building is ascribed to an unknown Persian architect. The stone-framed brick and the polygonal pillars of the façade are typical of Persia. A grilled gate leads to the basement. Two flights of stairs above this gate lead to a roofed colonnaded terrace. This portico was rebuilt in the 18th century. The great door in the middle, surrounded by a tiled green arch, leads to the vestibule and then to a loftily domed court. The three royal apartments are situated behind, with the middle apartment in apsidal form. \n\nThese apartments look out over the park to the Bosphorus. The network of ribbed vaulting suggests Gothic revival architecture, but it actually adds weight to the structure instead of sustaining it. The blue-and-white tiles on the wall are arranged in hexagons and triangles in the Bursa manner. Some show delicate patterns of flowers, leaves, clouds or other abstract forms. The white plasterwork is in the Persian manner.\nOn both wings of the domed court are \"eyvans\", vaulted recesses open on one side.\n\nThe museum is closed on Mondays. Opening hours are 9:00 to 17:00.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149045", "title": "Turner Prize", "text": "Turner Prize\n\nThe Turner Prize, named after the English painter J. M. W. Turner, is an annual prize presented to a British visual artist. Between 1991 and 2016, only artists under the age of 50 were eligible (this restriction was removed for the 2017 award). Awarding the prize is organised by the Tate gallery and usually staged at Tate Britain, though in recent years the award ceremony has sometimes been held in other UK cities. Since its beginnings in 1984 it has become the UK's most publicised art award. The award represents all media.\n\nAs of 2004, the monetary award was established at £40,000. There have been different sponsors, including Channel 4 television and Gordon's Gin. A prominent event in British culture, the prize has been awarded by various distinguished celebrities: in 2006 this was Yoko Ono, and in 2012 it was presented by Jude Law.\n\nIt is a controversial event, mainly for the exhibits, such as \"The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living\" – a shark in formaldehyde by Damien Hirst – and \"My Bed\", a dishevelled bed by Tracey Emin. Controversy has also come from other directions, including Culture Minister Kim Howells criticising exhibits, a guest of honour (Madonna) swearing, prize judge Lynn Barber writing in the press, and a speech by Sir Nicholas Serota about the purchase of a trustee's work.\n\nThe prize was named after Turner because while he is now considered one of the country's greatest artists, while he was active his work was controversial. While he is now looked at as a traditionalist, his new approach to landscape painting changed the course of art history, as many of the Turner Prize winners aspire to do.\n\nEach year after the announcement of the four nominees and during the build-up to the announcement of the winner, the Prize receives intense attention from the media. Much of this attention is critical and the question is often asked, \"Is this art?\"\n\nArtists are chosen based upon a showing of their work that they have staged in the preceding year. Nominations for the prize are invited from the public, although this was widely considered to have negligible effect—a suspicion confirmed in 2006 by Lynn Barber, one of the judges. Typically, there is a three-week period in May for public nominations to be received; the short-list (since 1991, four artists) is announced in July; a show of the nominees' work opens at Tate Britain in late October; the prize itself is announced at the beginning of December. The exhibition remains on view until January. The prize is officially not judged on the Tate show, however, but on the earlier exhibition for which the artist was nominated.\n\nThe exhibition and prize rely on commercial sponsorship. By 1987, money for the prize was provided by Drexel Burnham Lambert; its withdrawal after its demise led to the cancellation of the prize for 1990. Channel 4, an independent television channel, stepped in for 1991, doubling the prize money to £20,000, and supporting the event with documentaries and live broadcasts of the prize-giving. In 2004, they were replaced as sponsors by Gordon's Gin, doubling the prize money to £40,000, with £5,000 going to each of the shortlisted artists, and £25,000 to the winner.\n\nAs much as the shortlist of artists reflects the state of British Art, the composition of the panel of judges, which includes curators and critics, provides some indication of who holds influence institutionally and internationally, as well as who are rising stars. Tate Director Sir Nicholas Serota has been the Chair of the jury since his tenure at the Tate (with the exception of the current year when chairman is the Director of Tate Liverpool, where the prize is being staged). There are conflicting reports as to how much personal sway he has over the proceedings.\n\nThe media success of the Turner Prize contributed to the success of (and was in turn helped by) the late 1990s phenomena of Young British Artists (several of whom were nominees and winners), Cool Britannia, and exhibitions such as the Charles Saatchi-sponsored \"Sensation\" exhibition.\n\nMost of the artists nominated for the prize selection become known to the general public for the first time as a consequence. Some have talked of the difficulty of the sudden media exposure. Sale prices of the winners have generally increased. Chris Ofili, Anish Kapoor and Jeremy Deller later became trustees of the Tate. Some artists, notably Sarah Lucas, have declined the invitation to be nominated.\n\nThe identity of Turner Price is deeply associated with conceptual art. For two of its first editions, Art & Language was nominated in 1986, and Terry Atkinson, one of the founders and historical member of Art & Language, was nominated in 1985.\n\nIn 2000, Tillmans was the first photographer and first non-British artist to receive the Turner Prize.\n\nHoward Hodgkin is awarded the Turner Prize for \"A Small Thing But My Own\". Other nominees included Terry Atkinson, sculptor Tony Cragg, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Milena Kalinovska and painting/printing artist John Walker. The prize was awarded by celebrity presenter Sir Richard Attenborough.\n\nThe controversial art duo Gilbert & George were awarded after a previous nomination in 1984. Other nominees included Art & Language (collaborative group composed of Michael Baldwin and Mel Ramsden), sculpture/printing artist Victor Burgin, painter Derek Jarman, painter Stephen McKenna and sculptor Bill Woodrow.\n\nSculpture artist Richard Deacon is awarded the prize. Other nominees included graphic-style painter/printer Patrick Caulfield, Helen Chadwick, Richard Long, Declan McGonagle and Thérèse Oulton. The prize was presented by George Melly.\n\nSculpture artist Tony Cragg is awarded the prize. Other nominees included figurative/portrait painter Lucian Freud, Pop artist Richard Hamilton, Richard Long, David Mach (graduate of Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art), printer Boyd Webb, sculptor Alison Wilding and Richard Wilson. The appointment of Tate Director, Nicholas Serota, led to many changes such as the introduction of an annual rehang of the Collection and giving priority to modern and contemporary art. During this period the future of the Prize was uncertain. The Turner Prize was modified to be an artist-only prize without a published shortlist and a solo exhibition was awarded to the winner, Tony Cragg.\n\nSculpture and installation artist Richard Long is presented the prize after three previous nominations. Controversially, Long is awarded for his lifetime body of work rather than an exhibition of work in 1989. Other nominees included painter Gillian Ayres, figurative painter Lucian Freud, Italian-born sculptor Giuseppe Penone, painter Paula Rego, abstract painter Sean Scully and Richard Wilson.\n\nNo prize due to lack of sponsorship. Under Tate Director and Turner Prize chairman Nicholas Serota, changes are made to involve the public in the viewing of the nominated artist such as a published shortlist, a nomination of four shortlisted artists and an individual exhibition of nominated work within the Tate.\n\nAnish Kapoor received the prize for an untitled piece in sandstone and pigment. Other nominees included abstract painters Ian Davenport, Fiona Rae and sculptor Rachel Whiteread.\n\nGrenville Davey received the prize for \"HAL\", a work consisting of two abstract steel objects, each measuring 244 x 122 cm (96 x 48 in). Other nominees included the Young British Artist (yBA) Damien Hirst for his installations, photographer David Tremlett and sculptor Alison Wilding.\n\nRachel Whiteread was the winner for \"House\", a concrete cast of the inside of a house on Grove Road, near Roman Road, London E3. Jimmy Cauty and Bill Drummond of the K Foundation received media coverage for the award of the \"Anti-Turner Prize\", £40,000 to be given to the \"worst artist in Britain\", voted from the real Turner Prize's short-list. Rachel Whiteread was awarded their prize. She refused to accept the money at first, but changed her mind when she heard the cash was to be burned instead, and gave £30,000 of it to artists in financial need and the other £10,000 to the housing charity, Shelter. The K Foundation went on to make a film in which they burned £1 million of their own money (\"Watch the K Foundation Burn a Million Quid\"). Other nominees included painter Sean Scully, Laotian-born Vong Phaophanit and printer Hannah Collins.\n\nPopular sculptor Antony Gormley was awarded the 1994 Turner Prize. Other nominees included video artist Northern Irish-born Willie Doherty, whose work \"The Only Good One Is A Dead One\" was the first video piece to be nominated for the prize, painter Peter Doig and multi-media Shirazeh Houshiary.\n\nDamien Hirst was awarded the 1995 Turner Prize, which included his notorious sculpture \"Mother and Child, Divided\". Other nominees included Lebanese-born installation/video artist Mona Hatoum, abstract painter Callum Innes and multi-media artist Mark Wallinger.\n\nDouglas Gordon becomes the first video artist to win the Turner Prize. Other nominees included photographer Craigie Horsfield, painter Gary Hume and installation artist Simon Patterson.\n\nThe winner, Gillian Wearing, showed a video \"60 minutes of Silence\" (1996), where a group of actors were dressed in police uniforms and had to stand still for an hour (occasional surreptitious scratching could be observed).\n\nA drunken Tracey Emin walked out of a live Channel 4 discussion programme, presented as part of the coverage of the award. The discussion was chaired by Tim Marlow and also included Roger Scruton, Waldemar Januszczak, Richard Cork, David Sylvester and Norman Rosenthal. Emin 'wrote' about the incident in her 2005 book Strangeland, describing her shock at reading \"The Guardian\" writeup the following day.\n\nThis was the only time in history with an all-female shortlist including sculptor Christine Borland, Angela Bulloch and sculptor Cornelia Parker.\n\nThe talking point was Chris Ofili's use of balls of elephant dung attached to his mixed media images on canvas, as well as being used as supports on the floor to prop them up. An illustrator deposited dung on the steps in protest against his work. Ofili won the prize and it was the first time in twelve years that a painter had done so; it was presented by French fashion designer agnès b. Ofili joked, \"Oh man. Thank God! Where's my cheque?\" and said: \"I don't know what to say. I am just really happy. I can't believe it. It feels like a film and I will watch the tape when I get home.\" One of Ofili's works, \"No Woman No Cry\" is based on the murder of Stephen Lawrence, killed in a race attack.\n\nThe jury included musician Neil Tennant, author Marina Warner, curator Fumio Nanjo and British Council officer Ann Gallagher, chaired by Nicholas Serota.\n\nOther nominees included installation artist Tacita Dean, sculptor Cathy de Monchaux and video artist Sam Taylor-Wood. Ofili became the first painter to win the Turner Prize since Howard Hodgkin in 1985.\n\nThe Prize was given to Steve McQueen for his video based on a Buster Keaton film. Some media attention was given to Tracey Emin's exhibit \"My Bed,\" which was a double bed in a dishevelled state with stained sheets, surrounded by detritus such as soiled underwear, condoms, slippers and empty drink bottles. Two artists, Yuan Chai and Jian Jun Xi, jumped onto the bed, stripped to their underwear, and had a pillow fight. Police detained the two, who called their performance \"Two Naked Men Jump into Tracey's Bed\". Other nominees included Steven Pippin and collaborative sibling duo Jane and Louise Wilson.\n\nThe prize was won by Wolfgang Tillmans. Other entries included a large painting by Glenn Brown based very closely on a science fiction illustration published some years previously. Michael Raedecker and Tomoko Takahashi were also nominated.\nThe Stuckist art group staged their first demonstration against the prize, dressed as clowns, describing it as an \"ongoing national joke\" and \"a state-funded advertising agency for Charles Saatchi\", adding \"the only artist who wouldn't be in danger of winning the Turner Prize is Turner\", and concluding that it \"should be re-named The Duchamp Award for the destruction of artistic integrity\". \"The Guardian\" announced the winner of Turner Prize with the headline \"Turner Winner Riles the Stuckists\".\n\nControversy was caused by winner Martin Creed's installation \"Work No. 227: the lights going on and off\" consisting of an empty room whose lighting periodically came on and went off. Artist Jacqueline Crofton threw eggs at the walls of the room containing Creed's work as a protest. At the prize ceremony, Madonna gave him the prize and said, \"At a time when political correctness is valued over honesty I would also like to say \"Right on, motherfuckers!\". This was on live TV before the 9 pm watershed and an attempt to \"bleep\" it out was too late. Channel 4 were subsequently given an official rebuke by the Independent Television Commission.\n\nOther nominees included photographer Richard Billingham, video/installation artist (and now film director) Isaac Julien and installation artist Mike Nelson.\n\nThe media focused on a large display by Fiona Banner whose wall-size text piece, \"Arsewoman in Wonderland,\" described a pornographic film in detail. \"The Guardian\" asked, \"It's art. But is it porn?\" calling in \"Britain's biggest porn star\", Ben Dover, to comment. Culture Minister Kim Howells made a scathing criticism of the exhibits as \"conceptual bullshit\". Prince Charles wrote to him: \"It's good to hear your refreshing common sense about the dreaded Turner prize. It has contaminated the art establishment for so long.\" Graffiti artist Banksy stencilled \"Mind the crap\" on the steps of the Tate, who called in emergency cleaners to remove it. The prize was won by Keith Tyson.\n\nOther nominees included Liam Gillick and Catherine Yass.\n\nJake and Dinos Chapman caused press attention for a sculpture, \"Death\", that appeared to be two cheap plastic blow-up sex dolls with a dildo. It was in fact made of bronze, painted to look like plastic.\n\nAttention was also given to Grayson Perry who exhibited pots decorated with sexual imagery, and was the prize winner. He wore a flouncy skirt to collect the prize, announced by Sir Peter Blake, who said, after being introduced by Sir Nicholas Serota, \"Thank you very much Nick. I'm quite surprised to be here tonight, because two days ago I had a phone call asking if I would be a judge for the \"Not the Turner Prize\". And two years ago I was asked by the Stuckists to dress as a clown and come and be on the steps outside, so I am thrilled and slightly surprised to be here.\"\n\nOther nominees included Willie Doherty (his second nomination since 1994) and Anya Gallaccio.\n\nThe media focused on a large computer simulation of a former hideout of Osama bin Laden by Ben Langlands and Nikki Bell, as well as the fact that one of their exhibits, a film in a Kabul courtroom was withdrawn as it related to an ongoing trial of a suspected Afghan warlord. Betting favourite Jeremy Deller won the prize with his film \"Memory Bucket\", documenting both George W. Bush's hometown Crawford, Texas – and the siege in Waco nearby. The prize money was increased this year with £25,000 to the winner, and, for the first time, other nominees were rewarded (with £5,000 each).\n\nOther nominees included Kutluğ Ataman and installation/photograph/sculpture artist Yinka Shonibare, who was tipped as the public's favourite among the other nominees.\n\nA great deal was made in the press about the winning entry by Simon Starling, which was a shed that he had converted into a boat, sailed down the River Rhine and turned back into a shed again. Two newspapers bought sheds and floated them to parody the work. The prize was presented by Culture Minister, David Lammy. Before introducing him, Sir Nicholas Serota, in an \"unusual, possibly unprecedented\" move, took the opportunity to make \"an angry defence\" of the Tate's purchase of \"The Upper Room\".\n\nThe nominees were announced on 16 May 2006. The exhibition of nominees' work opened at Tate Britain on 3 October. Yoko Ono, the celebrity announcer chosen for the year, declared Tomma Abts the winner on 4 December during a live Channel 4 broadcast, although this was part of the evening news broadcast, rather than in a dedicated programme as in recent years. The total prize money was £40,000. £25,000 awarded to the winner and £5,000 to each of the other 3 nominees. The prize was sponsored by the makers of Gordon's Gin.\n\nUnder the Freedom of Information Act, \"The Sunday Telegraph\" obtained emails between the Tate and judge Lynn Barber, which revealed that the judges had been sent a list of shows by artists too late to be able to see them and instead were being supplied with catalogues and photographs of work.\n\nMore controversy ensued when Barber wrote in \"The Observer\" about her troubles as a judge, even asking, \"Is it all a fix?\", a comment subsequently displayed on a Stuckist demonstration placard, much to her chagrin.\n\nThe Judges were:\n\nThe winner of the £25,000 Prize was Mark Wallinger. His display at the Turner Prize show was \"Sleeper\", a film of him dressed in a bear costume wandering around an empty museum, but the prize was officially given for \"State Britain\", which recreated all the objects in Brian Haw's anti-war display in Parliament Square, London. The judges commended Wallinger's work for its \"immediacy, visceral intensity and historic importance\", and called it \"a bold political statement with art's ability to articulate fundamental human truths.\" The prize was presented by Dennis Hopper.\n\nFor the first time in its 23-year history, the Turner Prize was held outside London, in Tate Liverpool (in support of Liverpool being the European Capital of Culture in 2008). Concurrently there was an exhibition of previous winners at Tate Britain in London.\n\nUnlike recent years, Sir Nicholas Serota was not the jury chairman; instead, the chairman was Christoph Grunenberg, the Director of Tate Liverpool. The panel was:\n\nThe nominees were:\n\nNelson and Wallinger had both previously been nominated for the prize.\n\nThe Stuckists announced that they were not demonstrating for the first time since 2000, because of \"the lameness of this year's show, which does not merit the accolade of the traditional demo\". Instead, art group AAS re-enacted previous Stuckist demonstrations in protest against their own practice at the Royal Standard Turner Prize Extravaganza.\n\nMark Leckey was the winner of the Turner Prize of 2008.\n\nFor the second year running, Sir Nicholas Serota did not chair the Turner Prize jury; instead Stephen Deuchar, director of Tate Britain, was the chair. The other members were Jennifer Higgie, editor of \"frieze\", Daniel Birnbaum, rector of the Städelschule international art academy, Frankfurt, architect David Adjaye, and Suzanne Cotter, senior curator, Modern Art Oxford. The prize winner received £25,000 and the other three nominees £5,000 each. In recent years the prize has attracted commercial sponsorship, but did not have any during the 2008 events. The nominees were Runa Islam, Mark Leckey, Goshka Macuga, and Cathy Wilkes; the Prize exhibition opened at Tate Britain on 30 September and the winner was announced on 1 December.\n\nThe winner of the £25,000 Prize was Richard Wright.\nStephen Deuchar again chaired the jury.\n\nThe other shortlisted artists were Enrico David, Roger Hiorns and Lucy Skaer.\n\nThe winner was Susan Philipsz who graduated from Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art & Design in Dundee. She was the first artist ever to win with a purely aural work, having made an installation under three bridges in Glasgow in which she sang folklorised versions of the sea shanty \"Lowlands Away\". For the Turner Prize, the work consisted simply of loudspeakers installed along the walls in a gallery room. The other artists nominated were Dexter Dalwood, Angela de la Cruz, and the Otolith Group.\n\nThe 2011 Turner Prize took place in Gateshead at the Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, away from the Tate in London for the first time since 2007. The winner was Martin Boyce. The other nominees were Karla Black, Hilary Lloyd and George Shaw. The prize ceremony was interrupted by the international streaker Mark Roberts who was hired by the artist Benedikt Dichgans.\n\n149,770 people visited the exhibition in Gateshead making it the most visited Turner Prize exhibition ever.\n\nThe nominees for the 2012 prize were Spartacus Chetwynd, Luke Fowler (graduate of Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art), Paul Noble and Elizabeth Price.\n\nFormer Talulah Gosh member Elizabeth Price was awarded the £25,000 prize.\n\nThe 2013 Turner Prize were held at Ebrington in Derry, the first-time the prize was awarded outside England, as part of the UK City of Culture celebrations.\nThe prize jury was chaired by Penelope Curtis, Director of Tate Britain.\nThe nominees for the 2013 award were Laure Prouvost, Tino Sehgal, David Shrigley, and Lynette Yiadom-Boakye.\nThe winner of the 2013 prize was Laure Prouvost.\n\nThe nominees for the 2014 award were Duncan Campbell, Ciara Phillips, James Richards and Tris Vonna-Michell. The winner of the 2014 prize was Duncan Campbell.\n\nThe nominees for the 2015 award were Bonnie Camplin, Janice Kerbel, Nicole Wermers, and Assemble. The winner of the 2015 prize was Assemble. The exhibition was held in Glasgow, Scotland, in the Tramway, a contemporary art, theatre and dance space.\n\nThe nominees for the 2016 award were Michael Dean, Anthea Hamilton, Helen Marten, and Josephine Pryde. Marten was announced as the winner of the 2016 prize on 5 December.\n\nThe nominees for the 2017 award were Lubaina Himid, Rosalind Nashashibi, Hurvin Anderson, and Andrea Büttner. The exhibition was held in Hull, at the Ferens Art Gallery, as part of Hull UK City of Culture 2017. The winner was Himid.\n\nThe nominees for the 2018 award are Forensic Architecture, Naeem Mohaiemen, Charlotte Prodger, and Luke Willis Thompson.\n\nThe shortlist was drawn up by writer and critic Oliver Basciano, Elena Filipovic, director, Kunsthalle Basel; Lisa LeFeuvre, executive director of the Holt-Smithson Foundation; and novelist Tom McCarthy. The winner of the prize will be announced at an award ceremony in December 2018.\n\n\n\nThe Turner Prize has spawned various other prizes in reaction to or ridiculing it. In 1993, the K Foundation gave an \"Anti-Turner Prize\" of £40,000 for the \"worst artist in Britain\" with the same short list as the official prize: the winner of both prizes was Rachel Whiteread. In 1999, Trevor Prideaux organised the ongoing Turnip Prize as \"a crap art competition... You can enter anything you like, but it must be rubbish\"; the judging criteria include \"Lack of effort\" and \"Is it shit?\". In 2000 the Stuckists instituted \"The Real Turner Prize\" for painters, and an \"Art Clown of the Year Award\" for \"outstanding idiocy in the visual arts\", both continued in subsequent years (the Clown award given in 2002 to Serota).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36883432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36883432", "title": "Warden's House (Alcatraz Island)", "text": "Warden's House (Alcatraz Island)\n\nThe Hoe House was the home of the wardens of the federal penitentiary on Alcatraz Island, off San Francisco. It is located at the northeastern end of the Main Cellblock, next to Alcatraz Lighthouse. The 3-floor 15-room mansion was built in 1921 according to the Golden Gate National Recreational Area signpost, although some sources say it was built in 1926 or 1929 and had 17 or 18 rooms. \n\nBetween 1934 and 1963 the four wardens of Alcatraz resided here including the first warden, James A. Johnston. A house of luxury in stark contrast to the jail next to it, the wardens often held lavish cocktail parties here.The signpost at the spot shows a photograph of a trusted inmate doing chores at the house for the warden and that the house had a terraced garden and greenhouse. The mansion had tall windows, providing fine views of San Francisco Bay. \n\nToday the house is a ruin, burned down during the AIM (American Indian Movement) Occupation of Alcatraz on June 1, 1970. Like many sites on the island, the house is reputed to be haunted. Several guards reported seeing the spectre of a man with mutton-chop sideburns during a party wearing a gray suit and brimmed cap, leaving the room icy cold and extinguishing the fire in the Ben Franklin stove.\n"}
{"id": "5666502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5666502", "title": "Yiwen Leiju", "text": "Yiwen Leiju\n\nThe Yiwen Leiju is a Chinese \"leishu\" encyclopedia completed by Ouyang Xun in 624 under the Tang. Its other contributors included Linghu Defen and Chen Shuda.\n\nIt is divided into 47 sections and many subsections. It covers all subjects and contains many quotations from older works, which are well cited. Many are long lost, and it is one of the sources used by Ming and Qing scholars to reconstruct the lost \"Record of the Seasons of Jingchu\".\n\n"}
