{"id": "12199642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12199642", "title": "24/7 Film Festival", "text": "24/7 Film Festival\n\nThe 24/7 Film Festival is an annual amateur film festival in held in the Mosman, Manly, Warringah Council and Pittwater Council area, all northern suburbs of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. First held in 2002, the Council-sponsored event consists of a challenge to 12- to 24-year-olds to produce a 7-minute film in 24 hours. The festival also consists of film workshops and is crowned by the showing and judging of the entries, held at various local cinemas.\n\nIn 2005 the festival won a local government cultural award for leadership in cultural programs and projects.\n\nA list of 'items' is published each year at the commencement of the competition. It is required that an item from each of the 4 categories appears in each film and that a total of at least 5 items are used. This is to ensure that films were made specifically for the competition and were made in the 24-hour period designated. The four categories are Locations, Concepts, Lines of Dialogue and Objects.\n\nA \"Secret Rule\" is announced each year at the same time, placing some extra restriction on films to further ensure adherence to the time constraint. The rules for 2006 and 2007 have been to have a line of dialogue in a language other than English, and to have two characters say a line of dialogue at the same time, respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77981", "title": "467 BC", "text": "467 BC\n\nYear 467 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Mamercus and Vibulanus (or, less frequently, year 287 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 467 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "8233230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8233230", "title": "Algerian legislative election, 2007", "text": "Algerian legislative election, 2007\n\nLegislative elections were held in Algeria on 17 May 2007. 24 political parties and around 100 independent lists with a total of more than 12,000 candidates competed for the 389 seats in the National People's Assembly. While most Algerians voted on May 17, immigrants from Algeria to other countries (especially France) and Algerians living in the Sahara (i.e. Southern Algeria) and other nomads and semi-nomads voted on May 16 due to the distance from Algiers, the country's capital.\n\nAt 35% of the 18.7 million voters, the turnout was the lowest in Algerian history. Several political organisations, notably the Front of Socialist Forces, the ex-communist Democratic and Social Movement, leading members of the former Islamic Salvation Front (Abbassi Madani and Ali Belhadj), the main faction of the split Islamist Islah Party, and the newly formed organisation Rachad, had called on their supporters to boycott these elections. These political groups claimed that the elections were consistently rigged by the government, and that participation merely lent a fundamentally corrupt process undeserved legitimacy.\n\nThe only notable remaining armed group in Algeria, the Al-Qaeda Organization in the Islamic Maghreb, issued a video calling participation in the elections \"a great sin\", adding its voice to the boycott calls. Tight security measures were implemented to protect the elections; however, two bombs exploded in Constantine the day before the election, killing a police officer and wounding five others.\n\nSaid Bouchair, the head of the national commission of legislative election control, initially reported that ballot boxes in some areas were being stuffed with FLN ballots, that observers were being prevented from attending, and that some areas refused to open ballot boxes before voting began to allow observers to see whether they were empty or not. He then retracted his statement and apologised. About 15% of ballots were spoiled.\n\nThe Constitutional Council confirmed the results of the election, with slight changes to the voter turn-out rate and number of seats won by some parties, on May 21. It rejected appeals regarding the election on May 30.\n\nWomen won 31 seats, which was an increase of eight.\n"}
{"id": "1420543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1420543", "title": "André (play)", "text": "André (play)\n\nAndré; a Tragedy in Five Acts is a play by William Dunlap, first produced at the Park Theatre in New York City on March 30, 1798, by the Old American Company, published in that same year together with a collection of historic documents relating to the case of the title character, Major John André, the British officer who was hanged as a spy on October 2, 1780, for his role in the treason of Benedict Arnold. The play does not go into the historic details, but rather presents a fictionalized account of the American debate over whether to spare or hang him. Only three characters in the play are historic: André himself, George Washington (referred to throughout the text, except once in a passage inserted between the first two performances, simply as \"The General\"), and Honora Sneyd, who had been briefly engaged to André ten years earlier under the auspices of Anna Seward, who had done much to romanticize the affair in her Monody on Major André of 1781. (Actually, Honora Sneyd had died of consumption some months before André's death, and never went to America.)\n\nDespite the fictionalization, the play genuinely shows the anguish felt by many on the American side over the necessity to hang the brilliant and charming young officer, and it is written in unusually supple verse for the 18th century.\n\nApart from its intrinsic merits, the play is noteworthy as the first American tragedy written on an American subject. However, despite being nowadays acknowledged as Dunlap's best piece of work, it was, unfortunately, not a great success at the time. Its lack of popularity stemmed from the controversial lionization of André. Moreover, at opening night, the crowd rose to its feet in anger and indignation when Bland, a soldier in the play, hurled his cockade to the ground at the prospect of André being sentenced to death. The controversy was twofold— not only was Bland losing composure over the fate of a British spy but the cockade (worn by Patriots and then later by the revolutionaries during the French Revolution to emulate their spirit) being tossed to the floor was interpreted by many as Dunlap attacking the American Revolution itself.\n\nDunlap later recycled much of André into his pageant-play \"The Glory of Columbia, Her Yeomanry\", a piece resonating with the Populist tone in theatre at the time, and which continued to be regularly produced for fifty years.\n\n"}
{"id": "39469016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39469016", "title": "Aspen Ideas Festival", "text": "Aspen Ideas Festival\n\nFounded in 2005, the Aspen Ideas Festival (AIF) is a week-long event held in Aspen, Colorado in the United States. The Aspen Ideas Festival program of events includes discussions, seminars, panels, and tutorials from journalists, designers, innovators, politicians, diplomats, presidents, judges, musicians, artists, and writers.\n\nThe Aspen Ideas Festival is a program of the Aspen Institute. The AIF format is modeled after educational seminars. Topics covered during the festival include global politics and economics, U.S. Policy, the environment, technology, science, health, education, the arts, and economic issues.\n\nDuring the festival, live streaming of AIF events is available through the AIF website, \"The Atlantic\", and National Public Radio. Videos and sound clips from past AIF events are archived on the AIF website. Presentations and lectures from past Aspen Ideas Festival speakers can also be heard on iTunes U.\n\nPast AIF speakers include President Bill Clinton, Bill Gates, Ehud Barak, Madeleine Albright, Murray Gell-Mann, Sylvia Earle, Stephen Breyer, Sandra Day O'Connor, Eric Holder, Hillary Clinton, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, David Frum, Salam Fayyad, and Paul Ryan.\n\nThe first Aspen Ideas Festival took place in Aspen, Colorado in 2005. The Aspen Institute, under the leadership of Walter Isaacson, developed the Aspen Ideas Festival to gather individuals from various backgrounds and fields of expertise for discussions about global and social issues and innovative ideas. At the first Aspen Ideas Festival in 2005, around 100 speakers attended the festival, among them Jane Goodall, Toni Morrison, Jim Lehrer, Arthur Schlesinger, and many others. The Aspen Ideas Festival modeled its programming for the first festival from some of the Aspen Institute's earliest events, such as the Goethe Bicentennial in 1949.\n\nThe Aspen Institute was founded by Walter Paepcke in 1950 in Aspen, Colorado. Paepcke was a Chicago businessman and the founder of the Container Corporation of American (CCA). As a Germanophile, he and his wife, Elizabeth Paepcke, actualized a celebration and gathering in Aspen in June 1949 to mark the two-hundredth birthday of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. From the success of the Goethe Bicentennial Festival came the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies. Under Paepcke, the Aspen Institute's programs explored a range of topics through lectures and discussions with top thinkers in a variety of fields from science to the arts.\n\nNow based in Washington, D.C. with campuses in Aspen and Maryland, the Aspen Institute hosts programs focused on discussion of education and policy issues where presidents, scientists, artists, ambassadors, Nobel laureates, and many others have been in attendance.\n\nSince its inception in 2005, Aspen Ideas Festival speakers have included individuals from a wide range of backgrounds, including politicians, diplomats, presidents, judges, scientists, musicians, entrepreneurs, artists, designers and innovators. AIF speakers have participated in discussions and AIF programs for the purpose of sharing their knowledge on subjects related to their expertise, interests, and field of work. These discussions have ranged from the global economy to the environment to theatrical performances and beyond. Past speakers include Hillary Clinton, Mitt Romney, Sandra Day O'Conner, Barbra Streisand, and Joe Biden.\n\nDuring the 2013 Aspen Ideas Festival, Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer discussed recent Supreme Court rulings, including those on the Defense of Marriage Act and the Voting Rights Act, as well as public response following court decisions in the United States and around the world. Renowned Oceanographer, Sylvia Earle, spoke during the 2010 Aspen Ideas Festival about women's issues and education. Earle touched upon the impact of societal pressures on the interest girls and young women take in science and becoming high achievers. Former President Bill Clinton spoke during the 2007 Aspen Ideas Festival, telling the audience about the urgency of accepting globalization and the global world by working interdependently with other cultures and countries for the purpose of achieving cultural understanding and harmonious cross-cultural relationships.\n\nThe Aspen Ideas Festival Scholars program nominates individuals from all over the world for their unique accomplishments and dedication to improving their communities and making advances in their field of work. Aspen Institute trustees, Aspen Institute senior staff, Aspen Ideas Festival advisors, and past Aspen Ideas Festival scholars select the incoming group of scholars each year. Past Aspen Ideas Festival Scholars include educators, journalists, politicians, writers, and community organizers.\n\nPart of the Aspen Ideas Festival since 2005, the Bezos Scholars program invites twelve public high school students in the eleventh grade and twelve educators to attend the Aspen Ideas Festival. The Bezos Scholars attend Aspen Ideas Festival programs and events, as well as discussions and engagements designed only for Bezos Scholars. After attending the Aspen Ideas Festival, the Scholars return to their hometowns in order to produce a localized version of the Aspen Ideas Festival, a Local Ideas Festivals, inspired by their experiences in Aspen.\n\nIn 2012, Stanley McChrystal was interviewed by Bob Schieffer at the festival. As part of that interview, McChrystal was asked whether or not he believed in the draft. He responded that he thought every young person should serve, but the military doesn’t need every young person, so we need to create more opportunities for all young Americans to serve. The Franklin Project -- an initiative to make a year of national service a common opportunity and expectation for young Americans -- was created as a result of this festival conversation. Walter Isaacson called the Franklin Project the “biggest idea” to come out of the festival during his tenure as CEO of the Aspen Institute.\n"}
{"id": "53738087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53738087", "title": "Batwa–Luba clashes", "text": "Batwa–Luba clashes\n\nThe Batwa–Luba clashes are a series of ongoing clashes in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) the Pygmy Batwa people, and the Luba people starting in 2013.\n\nThe pygmy Batwa are often exploited and allegedly enslaved by the Luba and other Bantu groups. While the pygmy never organized militarily to resist, starting with the First Congo War, rebel leader Laurent-Désiré Kabila, who won the war, organized the Twa into paramilitary groups to help him. His son, Joseph Kabila, who succeeded him, used these militias in the Second Congo War and against the predominately Luba Mai-Mai Kata Katanga.\n\nIn Tanganyika Province, in the northern part of the former Katanga Province, starting in 2013, Pygmy Batwa rose up into militias, such as the \"Perci\" militia, and attacked Luba villages. A Luba militia known as \"Elements\" attacked back, notably killing at least 30 people in the \"Vumilia 1\" displaced people camp in April 2015. Since the start of the conflict, hundreds have been killed and tens of thousands have been displaced from their homes. The weapons used in the conflict are often arrows, axes, and machetes, rather than guns.\n\nIn October 2015, Pygmy and Luba leaders sign a peace deal to end the conflict. In September 2016, the United Nations along with provincial authorities established local councils called \"baraza\" to address grievances and this appeared to reduce the violence. However, clashes intensified at the end of 2016, as the government tried to enforce a tax on caterpillars that the Batwa harvest as important food source, while the military attempted to arrest a Twa warlord. Both of these events led to a violent backlash and a spread of the fighting. Twa militias also started to target Tutsis, another Bantu group, by slaughtering their cows. \n\nA ceasefire brokered by the United Nations in February 2017 failed, and the violence continued. In August 2017, the clashes intensified after Batwa attacked a group of Luba near Kalemie; in course of the following fighting about 50 people died, most of them Luba. Batwa fighters also attacked a MONUSCO convoy with arrows. A number of Blue Helmets were wounded, though they still opted not to return fire.\n\nBy the end of 2017, 650,000 people had been displaced due to the fighting. The economy in Tanganyika had mostly collapsed, while fields could no longer be harvested. As result, malnutrition spread amongst those who had fled, as well as those who stayed at their homes.\n\nMore than a thousand people were killed in the first eight months of 2014 alone.\n\nThe number of displaced people are estimated to be 650,000 as of December 2017. Around March 2017, 543,000 had fled, up from 370,000 in December 2016, the strongest growth of the current conflicts in the Congo, which has the largest population of displaced people in Africa. Many refugees are allegedly forced by the government to leave the camps and return to their homes, where the fighting still continues.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856115", "title": "Buxton Opera House", "text": "Buxton Opera House\n\nBuxton Opera House is in The Square, Buxton, Derbyshire, England. It is a 902-seat opera house that hosts the annual Buxton Festival and, from 1994 to 2013, the International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival, among others, as well as pantomime at Christmas, musicals and other entertainments year-round. Hosting live performances until 1927, the theatre then was used mostly as a cinema until 1976. In 1979, it was refurbished and reopened as a venue for live performance.\n\nIt was built in 1903 and designed by Frank Matcham, one of Britain's finest theatre architects. He also designed a number of famous London theatres, including the London Palladium (1910) and the London Coliseum (1904). \n\nThe Opera House ran as a successful theatre, receiving touring companies until 1927, when it was turned into a cinema. Silent films were shown until 1932 when the theatre was wired for sound and could present ‘talkies’. The Opera House also became the venue for an annual summer theatre festival from 1936 to 1942, two of them in conjunction with Lillian Bayliss and her London-based Old Vic company. After the Second World War, the theatre continued to serve primarily as a cinema, although the Literary and Dramatic Societies of local schools Buxton College and Cavendish Grammar School staged annual performances of either Shakespeare, such as \"Hamlet\" (1966), \"Coriolanus\" (1968) and \"Macbeth\" (1970), or modern works, such as Bertold Brecht's \"Life of Galileo\" (1967) and Dylan Thomas's \"The Doctor & the Devils\" (1969).\n\nIn 2014, the opera house's former finance chief was jailed for two years for stealing nearly £250,000 from the opera house accounts in 2012 and 2013.\n\nThe Opera House gradually fell into disrepair. In 1976, it was closed and rumours circulated that it would never reopen. In 1979, however, it was restored and an orchestra pit was added to the original Frank Matcham design. Since then, the Opera House has been a full-time venue for stage productions, presenting approximately 450 performances per year, including opera, dance, musical theatre, pantomime, comedy, drama, children's shows and concerts. The theatre is staffed by a small full-time technical crew for all the backstage work, setting up all the shows and artists that appear. Volunteers from the local community are also employed for front-of-house duties including bar work and as ushers.\n\nBy the 1990s, more work was needed to repair and modernise the theatre, and from 1999 to 2001 an extensive programme of internal and external restoration took place. In February 2007, another refurbishment was completed at the Opera House that saw the installation of air conditioning in the gallery and backstage area, new seats in the gallery and upper circle, a new get-in lift to replace the ramp and new backstage working lights as well as re-wiring and painting the backstage area and dressing rooms. The current capacity is 902 seats.\n\nIn 2011, \"FT Magazine\" featured an article on opera house design. In the section called \"My favourite experiences\", the writer praised the European opera houses \"designed by the Viennese architectural firm of Fellner and Helmer (the Zurich Opera House is [an] example) ... [which] represent a near-ideal marriage of size, acoustic and decorative beauty. Their British equivalents are those designed by Frank Matcham – best of all the Buxton Opera House.\"\n\nThe theatre complex also includes the adjacent Pavilion Gardens, the 369-seat Pavilion Arts Centre (rebuilt in 2010; formerly the Paxton Theatre), and the Octagon Hall auditorium (built in 1875), as well as a two-storey restaurant with a bar and gift shop. The arts centre stage area can be converted into a separate 93-seat studio theatre.\n\nSince July 1979, the Opera House and theatre complex has been home to the Buxton Festival, which runs for about two weeks in mid-July and has developed into one of Britain's largest opera-based festivals. Typically, it includes a Handel opera (with conductors such as Harry Christophers) and other rarely seen operas as well as more popular classics. Running alongside it is the Buxton Festival Fringe. It is popular as a warm-up for the Edinburgh Fringe, and it now claims to be the largest 'true' fringe festival in the UK. From 1994 to 2013, the Opera House also hosted the annual three-week-long International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival, attracting audiences from all over the UK and from abroad.\n\nThe Opera House presents over 400 performances each year. Since 2004, the Opera House and the neighbouring Pavilion Gardens have hosted the annual Four Four Time music festival which sees a wide variety of musical performances over one week in February. Performers for the 2008 festival included Marc Almond, Richard Hawley, The Stranglers and Boy George.\n\n"}
{"id": "1821436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1821436", "title": "Canadian Tulip Festival", "text": "Canadian Tulip Festival\n\nThe Canadian Tulip Festival (; ) is a tulip festival, held annually in May in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. The festival claims to be the world's largest tulip festival, displaying over one million tulips, with attendance of over 650,000 visitors annually. Large displays of tulips are planted throughout the city, and the largest display of tulips is found in Commissioners Park on the shores of Dow's Lake, and along the Rideau Canal with 300,000 tulips planted there alone. Millions of tulips set the stage for a celebration of authentic art, cultural, historic, culinary and family tulip experiences at various official venues across the capital.\n\nIn 1945, the Dutch royal family sent 100,000 tulip bulbs to Ottawa in gratitude for Canadians having sheltered the future Queen Juliana and her family for the preceding three years during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands in the Second World War. The most noteworthy event during their time in Canada was the birth in 1943 of Princess Margriet at the Ottawa Civic Hospital. The maternity ward was temporarily declared to be extraterritorial by the Canadian government, thereby allowing Princess Margriet's citizenship to be solely influenced by her mother's Dutch citizenship. In 1946, Juliana sent another 20,500 bulbs requesting that a display be created for the hospital, and promised to send 10,000 more bulbs each year.\n\nIn the years following Queen Juliana's original donation, Ottawa became famous for its tulips and in 1953 the Ottawa Board of Trade and photographer Malak Karsh organized the first \"Canadian Tulip Festival\". Queen Juliana returned to celebrate the festival in 1967, and Princess Margriet returned in 2002 to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the festival.\n\nFor many years, the festival featured a series of outdoor music concerts in addition to the tulips.\nThe 1972 festival saw Liberace give an opening concert, and at the 1987 festival, Canadian singer Alanis Morissette made her first appearance at the age of 12. The Trews first became widely known after opening for Big Sugar at the 2003 festival. Montreal's General Rudie also gained valuable exposure early in their career with a performance at the 2000 festival.\n\nAfter several years of cold and rainy weekends drove the festival to the brink of bankruptcy in 2006, the outdoor music concerts were discontinued. Even though concert admission fees were a source of revenue for the festival, rainy weather contributed to low concert attendance on many occasions, making the concerts a heavy financial risk.\n\nIn 2007, the festival was reorganised under new leadership. The festival was redesigned to focus on promoting international friendship, the original symbolic role of the gift of tulips. Park admission charges were eliminated and a new feature called \"Celebridée: a Celebration of Ideas\" was introduced. Another component of the 2007 festival was a fund-raising effort in support of War Child Canada.\n\nBeyond celebrating the tulip as a symbol of beauty and friendship, the Canadian Tulip Festival, through Celebridée, aims to present some of the most brilliant thinkers of our time speaking about ideas that matter. \nCelebridée has continued to grow since its inception in 2007. 2008's speakers included such diverse and thought-provoking individuals as Sir Salman Rushdie, Wired Magazine's Chris Anderson, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of \"Guns, Germs and Steel\" Jared Diamond, and world-renowned pianist Angela Hewitt.\n\nOfficial Sites\n\nAttraction Sites\n\nPartner Sites\n\nBecause of the ongoing Canadian support for the Netherlands during the war, Seymour Cobley of the Royal Horticultural Society actually donated 83,000 tulips to Canada from 1941–1943, several years before the Royal Family followed suit.\n\nPhotographer Malak Karsh became widely known for his photographs of the Tulip Festival.\n\nWhile the Netherlands continues to send 20,000 bulbs to Canada each year (10,000 from the Royal Family and 10,000 from the Dutch Bulb Growers Association), by 1963 the festival featured more than 2 million, and today sees nearly 3 million tulips purchased from Dutch and Canadian distributors.\n\nCommissioner's Park, on the shores of Dow's Lake is a major centre of activity for the Tulip Festival. The largest concentration of tulips in the National Capital Region — some 300,000 — can be found planted along a 1 km section of the lakeshore. Commissioners Park also features buskers and musicians, and artists demonstrating their skills.\n\nThe Garden Promenade celebrates Ottawa's garden culture with over 70 experiences through 40 of the region's most beautiful must-visit gardens. Join us during the Canadian Tulip Festival and delight in a self-guided or escorted showcase of Ottawa's public gardens exploding with millions of tulips in bloom and many tulip centric special activities planned such as Yoga in the Tulips on Parliament Hill and in Major's Hill Park. www.gardenpromenade.ca\n\nThe Garden of the Provinces and Territories, located directly across from Library and Archives Canada on Wellington Street is one of many sites that the National Capital Commission plants with thousands of tulips. Others include Parliament Hill, the banks of the Rideau Canal, and in Gatineau, Jacques Cartier Park, Montcalm-Taché Park, and the Malak flowerbed behind the Canadian Museum of Civilization.\nLansdowne Park Tulip Gallery – The Art & Culture Tulip Experience\n\nAberdeen Pavilion and the Great Lawn will be brimming with tulip art and floral exhibits, artistic installations, interactive family programming and entertainment. Varying international exhibits have been featured during many years of the festival's history. International representation is limited to official members of the festivals tulip friendship network comprising like-minded nations who celebrate and revere the tulip as an international symbol of friendship and peace. Many of these countries stage large-scale tulip festivals of their own.\n\nSpecial features at Lansdowne Park include:\nByWard Market: The Urban Tulip Experience\n\nEach year, the Canadian artists invited to create the annual festival campaign imagery brings tulip art to this city's central marketplace with massive urban art installations, interactive workshops and artist meet & greet opportunities. Animation throughout the streets and tulip-centric merchant promotions compliment the experience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30189656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30189656", "title": "Carinthian Peasant Revolt", "text": "Carinthian Peasant Revolt\n\nThe Carinthian Peasant Revolt (; ) took place in the Duchy of Carinthia (present-day Austria) in 1478. It was the first of several larger peasant revolts in the area of Inner Austria. After several Ottoman raids from 1473 onwards, the rural population established a peasants' association that was an effort to take the defence of the farmers' homes into their own hands and was also aimed against the ruling nobility that had failed to protect the farmers from attacks by marauding Turkish akinji cavalry. The revolt was eventually suppressed.\n\nThe Ottoman forces had entered the Balkan peninsula during the disintegration of the Serbian Empire in the 14th century. In 1389 they defeated a Serbian army at the Battle of Kosovo. Upon the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, Turkish troops advanced northwestwards and in 1469 reached the borders of the Holy Roman Empire entering the southeastern Duchy of Carniola.\n\nIn view of the threat, the Carinthian estates had strong fortifications erected and mountain pass routes secured. The Habsburg administration under Emperor Frederick III imposed new taxes and contributions on the local population to fund the operations. Nevertheless, in late September 1473, Ottoman forces first crossed the Seeberg Saddle and plundered the Drava and Glan valleys. Again in 1476, they moved into Carinthia from the upper Sava valley, laid siege to the Arnoldstein monastery, moved into the Gail valley and devastated the area of Villach. They set up a camp at Wernberg, from where they started further raids.\n\nCarinthia saw five Turkish incursions into its territory between 1473 and 1483, with lots of plundering and killing at the hands of Turkish cavalry. According to the contemporary chronicler Jakob Unrest, the local nobility had no answer to the large numbers of Turkish cavalry, they moved into their fortified castles, while the clergy fortified its churches and monasteries and held out there. This left the peasants of Carinthia without any protection. Modelled on the Swiss Confederacy, they decided to take their faith into their own hands.\n\nOn 2 February 1478, the Carinthian Peasants' League (German: \"Kärntner Bauernbund\") was formed in the Ortenburg lands at Spittal an der Drau under the leadership of one Peter Wunderlich, raising some concern among the local nobility and clergy. Meanwhile, the Ottoman–Venetian War raged through the Isonzo valley in the south, where the Turks unsuccessfully besieged the fortress of Gradisca and then turned northwards into the Julian Alps. In May the farmers gathered at Villach where they organized a 3,000-strong army to face the invaders. They started obstructing the steep Predil Pass route, however, a 20,000-strong Turkish contingent of professional akinji cavalry were able to remove the barriers and to abseil their horses over rocky terrain.\n\nWhen on June 25 the Ottoman forces came down the mountains and neared Tarvis, most peasants fled overnight to protect their belongings. The next day only a small group of some 530 peasants and 70 miners from Bleiberg chose to make a stand against the Turks and to try to stop them at the Battle of Kokovo (Goggau) near Tarvis. About 300 men died in the futile attempt, surrounded and slain by about 20,000 akinji horsemen. The Turkish army broke through and proceeded to plunder all the way up to Millstatt Abbey and Gmünd in Upper Carinthia.\n\nImmediately after the withdrawal of the Ottoman forces, the rest of the revolting peasants were accused of treachery and eventually put on trial for their revolt. The leader of the uprising Peter Wunderlich was captured near Gmünd, sentenced to death and publicly dismembered in Lendorf. The peasants remained hard-pressed, particularly as Emperor Frederick moreover entered into the Austrian–Hungarian War against King Matthias Corvinus.\n\n"}
{"id": "174883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174883", "title": "Catastrophism", "text": "Catastrophism\n\nCatastrophism was the theory that the Earth had largely been shaped by sudden, short-lived, violent events, possibly worldwide in scope. This was in contrast to uniformitarianism (sometimes described as gradualism), in which slow incremental changes, such as erosion, created all the Earth's geological features. Uniformitarianism held that the present was the key to the past, and that all geological processes (such as erosion) throughout the past were like those that can be observed now. Since the early disputes, a more inclusive and integrated view of geologic events has developed, in which the scientific consensus accepts that there were some catastrophic events in the geologic past, but these were explicable as extreme examples of natural processes which can occur.\n\nCatastrophism held that geological epochs had ended with violent and sudden natural catastrophes such as great floods and the rapid formation of major mountain chains. Plants and animals living in the parts of the world where such events occurred were made extinct, being replaced abruptly by the new forms whose fossils defined the geological strata. Some catastrophists attempted to relate at least one such change to the Biblical account of Noah's flood.\n\nThe concept was first popularised by the early 19th-century French scientist Georges Cuvier, who proposed that new life forms had moved in from other areas after local floods, and avoided religious or metaphysical speculation in his scientific writings.\n\nIn the early development of geology, efforts were made in a predominantly Christian western society to reconcile biblical narratives of Creation and the universal flood with new concepts about the processes which had formed the Earth. The discovery of other ancient flood myths was taken as explaining why the flood story was \"stated in scientific methods with surprising frequency among the Greeks\", an example being Plutarch's account of the Ogygian flood.\n\nThe leading scientific proponent of catastrophism in the early nineteenth century was the French anatomist and paleontologist Georges Cuvier. His motivation was to explain the patterns of extinction and faunal succession that he and others were observing in the fossil record. While he did speculate that the catastrophe responsible for the most recent extinctions in Eurasia might have been the result of the inundation of low-lying areas by the sea, he did not make any reference to Noah's flood. Nor did he ever make any reference to divine creation as the mechanism by which repopulation occurred following the extinction event. In fact Cuvier, influenced by the ideas of the Enlightenment and the intellectual climate of the French revolution, avoided religious or metaphysical speculation in his scientific writings. Cuvier also believed that the stratigraphic record indicated that there had been several of these revolutions, which he viewed as recurring natural events, amid long intervals of stability during the history of life on earth. This led him to believe the Earth was several million years old.\n\nBy contrast in Britain, where natural theology was influential during the early nineteenth century, a group of geologists including William Buckland and Robert Jameson interpreted Cuvier's work differently. Cuvier had written an introduction to a collection of his papers on fossil quadrupeds, discussing his ideas on catastrophic extinction. Jameson translated Cuvier's introduction into English, publishing it under the title \"Theory of the Earth\". He added extensive editorial notes to the translation, explicitly linking the latest of Cuvier's revolutions with the biblical flood. The resulting essay was extremely influential in the English-speaking world. Buckland spent much of his early career trying to demonstrate the reality of the biblical flood using geological evidence. He frequently cited Cuvier's work, even though Cuvier had proposed an inundation of limited geographic extent and extended duration, whereas Buckland, to be consistent with the biblical account, was advocating a universal flood of short duration. Eventually, Buckland abandoned flood geology in favor of the glaciation theory advocated by Louis Agassiz, following a visit to the Alps where Agassiz demonstrated the effects of glaciation at first hand. As a result of the influence of Jameson, Buckland, and other advocates of natural theology, the nineteenth century debate over catastrophism took on much stronger religious overtones in Britain than elsewhere in Europe.\n\nUniformitarian explanations for the formation of sedimentary rock and an understanding of the immense stretch of geological time, or as the concept came to be known deep time, were found in the writing of James Hutton, sometimes known as the father of geology, in the late 18th century. The geologist Charles Lyell built upon Hutton's ideas during the first half of 19th century and amassed observations in support of the uniformitarian idea that the Earth's features had been shaped by same geological processes that could be observed in the present acting gradually over an immense period of time. Lyell presented his ideas in the influential three volume work, \"Principles of Geology\", published in the 1830s, which challenged theories about geological cataclysms proposed by proponents of catastrophism like Cuvier and Buckland.\n\nFrom around 1850 to 1980, most geologists endorsed uniformitarianism (\"The present is the key to the past\") and gradualism (\"geologic change occurs slowly over long periods of time\") and rejected the idea that cataclysmic events such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, or floods of vastly greater power than those observed at the present time, played any significant role in the formation of the Earth's surface. Instead they believed that the earth had been shaped by the long term action of forces such as volcanism, earthquakes, erosion, and sedimentation, that could still be observed in action today. In part, the geologists' rejection was fostered by their impression that the catastrophists of the early nineteenth century believed that God was directly involved in determining the history of Earth. Some of the theories about Catastrophism in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries were connected with religion and catastrophic origins were sometimes considered miraculous rather than natural events.\n\nThe rise in uniformitarianism made the introduction of a new catastrophe theory very difficult. In 1923 J Harlen Bretz published a paper on the channeled scablands formed by glacial Lake Missoula in Washington State, USA. Bretz encountered resistance to his theories from the geology establishment of the day, kicking off an acrimonious 40 year debate. Finally in 1979 Bretz received the Penrose Medal; the Geological Society of America's highest award.\n\nIn the 1950s, Immanuel Velikovsky propounded catastrophism in several popular books. He speculated that the planet Venus is a former \"comet\" which was ejected from Jupiter and subsequently 3,500 years ago made two catastrophic close passes by Earth, 52 years apart, and later interacted with Mars, which then had a series of near collisions with Earth which ended in 687 BCE, before settling into its current orbit. Velikovsky used this to explain the biblical plagues of Egypt, the biblical reference to the \"Sun standing still\" for a day (Joshua 10:12 & 13, explained by changes in Earth's rotation), and the sinking of Atlantis. Scientists vigorously rejected Velikovsky's conjectures.\n\nNeocatastrophism is the explanation of sudden extinctions in the palaeontological record by high magnitude, low frequency events (such as asteroid impacts, super-volcanic eruptions, supernova gamma ray bursts, etc.), as opposed to the more prevalent geomorphological thought which emphasises low magnitude, high frequency events.\n\nOver the past 25 years, a scientifically based catastrophism has gained wide acceptance with regard to certain events in the distant past. One impetus for this change came from the publication of a historic paper by Walter and Luis Alvarez in 1980. This paper suggested that a asteroid struck Earth 66 million years ago at the end of the Cretaceous period. The impact wiped out about 70% of all species, including the dinosaurs, leaving behind the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary (K–T boundary). In 1990, a candidate crater marking the impact was identified at Chicxulub in the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico.\n\nSince then, the debate about the extinction of the dinosaurs and other mass extinction events has centered on whether the extinction mechanism was the asteroid impact, widespread volcanism (which occurred about the same time), or some other mechanism or combination. Most of the mechanisms suggested are catastrophic in nature.\n\nThe observation of the Shoemaker-Levy 9 cometary collision with Jupiter illustrated that catastrophic events occur as natural events.\n\nOne of the key differences between catastrophism and uniformitarianism is that uniformitarianism requires the assumption of vast timelines, whereas catastrophism does not. Today most geologists combine catastrophist and uniformitarianist standpoints, taking the view that Earth's history is a slow, gradual story punctuated by occasional natural catastrophic events that have affected Earth and its inhabitants.\n\nModern theories also suggest that Earth's anomalously large moon was formed catastrophically. In a paper published in \"Icarus\" in 1975, William K. Hartmann and Donald R. Davis proposed that a catastrophic near-miss by a large planetesimal early in Earth's formation approximately 4.5 billion years ago blew out rocky debris, remelted Earth and formed the Moon, thus explaining the Moon's lesser density and lack of an iron core. The impact theory does have some faults; some computer simulations show the formation of a ring or multiple moons post impact, and elements are not quite the same between the earth and moon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43445808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43445808", "title": "Charlotte Salomon (opera)", "text": "Charlotte Salomon (opera)\n\nCharlotte Salomon is an opera by Marc-André Dalbavie. The libretto is by Barbara Honigmann (portions translated into French by Johannes Honigmann) who based much of it on Charlotte Salomon's autobiographical and posthumous work \"Leben? Oder Theater?\" The opera was first performed at the Salzburg Festival on July 28, 2014.\n\nThe nature of \"Leben? Oder Theater?\" is of an artist fashioning her own life into an artistic creation. Dalbavie said that the \"intrinsically musical and even cinematic qualities of 'Leben? Oder Theater?'\" combined with an attraction to real-life drama inspired him to compose an opera based on Charlotte Salomon. Since Salomon was aiming for a form of communication that combined various arts, Dalbalvie felt that her story needed music. He was quoted as saying \"She recreated her life through a work of art.\" Just as Dalbavie's opera \"Gesualdo\" (based on the life of Carlo Gesualdo) incorporates portions of his subject's compositions, so too does Dalbavie incorporate existing music into his opera, such as the \"Habañera\" from Bizet's \"Carmen\" and \"Wir winden dir den Jungfernkranz\" from Weber's \"Der Freischütz\".\n\nThe opera includes a character representing the author Charlotte Salomon (speaking role), and also her fictive creation, named Charlotte Kann (mezzo-soprano). While the opera (including the role of Charlotte Kann) is sung in French, the character named Charlotte Salomon comments on the action in German. By the end of the opera, the languages are reversed, representing the integration of the artist her subject. \n\nDalbavie's orchestrations derives from his analysis of the human voice's acoustic frequencies, a technique used in spectral music as well as alluding to a singing teacher's character in the opera. Dalbavie described the scoring of the opera—for 65 orchestral musicians (the size of the Salzburg Mozarteum Orchestra)—as one designed not as much for dramatic impact as for \"maximum tonal richness.\"\n\n\"Charlotte Salomon\" is in two acts and an epilogue. It was first performed at the Salzburg Festival on July 28, 2014, where it was directed by Luc Bondy. The production involved twenty projections of Salomon's artwork.\n"}
{"id": "48206157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48206157", "title": "El caso Almería", "text": "El caso Almería\n\nEl caso Almería (English: The Almería Case) is a 1984 Spanish film directed by Pedro Costa Musté.\n\nThe film tells the story of three men tortured and killed by Guardia Civil in 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4370036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4370036", "title": "Electroweak epoch", "text": "Electroweak epoch\n\nIn physical cosmology, the electroweak epoch was the period in the evolution of the early universe when the temperature of the universe had fallen enough that the strong force separated from the electroweak interaction, but was high enough for electromagnetism and the weak interaction to remain merged into a single electroweak interaction (above energies of about 246 GeV,). Some cosmologists place this event at the start of the inflationary epoch, approximately 10 seconds after the Big Bang. Others place it at approximately 10 seconds after the Big Bang when the potential energy of the inflaton field that had driven the inflation of the universe during the inflationary epoch was released, filling the universe with a dense, hot quark–gluon plasma. Particle interactions in this phase were energetic enough to create large numbers of exotic particles, including W and Z bosons and Higgs bosons. As the universe expanded and cooled, interactions became less energetic and when the universe was about 10 seconds old, W and Z bosons ceased to be created. The remaining W and Z bosons decayed quickly, and the weak interaction became a short-range force in the following quark epoch.\n\nThe physics of the electroweak epoch is less speculative and much better understood than the physics of previous periods of the early universe. The existence of W, Z, and Higgs bosons has been demonstrated, and other predictions of electroweak theory have been experimentally verified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2360151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2360151", "title": "First haircut", "text": "First haircut\n\nThe first haircut for a human has special significance in certain cultures and religions. It can be considered a rite of passage or a milestone.\n\nIn Hindu tradition, the hair from birth is associated with undesirable traits from past lives. Thus at the time of the mundan, the child is freshly shaven to signify freedom from the past and moving into the future. It is also said that the shaving of the hair stimulates proper growth of the brain and nerves, and that the sikha, a tuft at the crown of the head, protects the memory. hours \n\nHindus practice a variety of rituals from birth to death. Collectively these are known as \"saṃskāras\", meaning rites of purification, and are believed to make the body pure and fit for worship. A boy's first haircut, known as \"choula\", is one such samskara and is considered an event of great auspiciousness. The lawbooks or \"smritis\" prescribe that a boy must have his haircut in his first or third year. While complete tonsure is common, some Hindus prefer to leave some hair on the head, distinguishing this rite from the inauspicious tonsure that occurs upon the death of a parent. Those that practice complete tonsure generally ritually offer the hair to their family deity. Many travel to temples such as the famed Tirumala Venkateswara Temple of Lord Vishnu to perform this ceremony.\n\nTraditionally, a Hindu girl never has her hair cut after the first haircut which generally happens at the age of 11 months; So the first haircut for the girl is very important because that is the only time they do. However, some Hindus practice a tonsure ceremony for girls as well. The details vary by sect, locality, family, and country.\n\nAnd also old timer Hindu people said that a newborn baby should bald their hair as cannot be with newborn hair for so long as it was a sign of a bad luck. Most of the people will bald their babies hair in the age of 3-5 months and Hindu also follow odd months to do.(Revathy)\n\nIn some Brahmin households, a baby girl's hair is never shaved.\n\nAt the twentieth day from birth, Maliku babies' heads are shaven and the hair is weighed against gold or silver, which is given to the poor. The ceremony is called \"boabeylun\".\n\nMongolian children get their first haircut in early ages between 2-5. Depending on the lunar calendar, boys receive their first hair cut in their even year and girls in odd year. The ritual of cutting the first hair is called Daah' Urgeeh. It is a big occasion for a whole family when guests are invited. Each guest cuts a strand of hair, saying his wishes to the child, and gives a gift.\n\nMany Orthodox and Hasidic Jewish boys get their first haircut when they are three years old. The hair-cutting ceremony is known in Yiddish as the \"upsherenish\" or \"upsherin\" (shear off), and in Hebrew \"halaqah\" (smoothing).\n\nIn Israel, there are also non-religious families who adhere to this custom and do not cut their sons' hair until the age of three. A mass hair cutting ceremony is held on the holiday of Lag Ba'omer at the tomb of Rabbi Simeon bar Yohai in the Galilean town of Meron.\n\nThe ritual first haircut () was a pre-Christian, all-Slavic tradition, though it survived in Poland well into the 18th century. This first haircut traditionally took place between the ages of 7 and 10, and was conducted by either the boy's father or a stranger, who would thus enter into the boy's family. Before that age the boy's life was connected to his mother and he was treated as a child. The ritual haircut, coupled with the granting of an additional given name (usually the third), marked the boy's coming of age and a transition to the world of men, in which he was to be looked after by his father. The ritual also constituted the father's formal act of recognition of the boy as a son.\n\nUkrainian babies often have their hair cut on their first birthday as part of the ancient \"Postryzhennya\" custom.\n\nIn Cook Islands tradition, the haircutting ceremony is a rite of passage for young boys. At these large gatherings the boy sits on a chair draped with \"tīvaevae\" (quilts). As his hair is cut, members of the community plaster the boy with money or other gifts. The custom serves to maintain reciprocal ties within the extended family and community.\n\nTraditionally, Niuean boys do not cut their hair, which is lovingly cared for by sisters, mothers and fathers . When the boys become teenagers, a ceremony is held where women tend the hair for the last time before it is cut. Members of the extended family plaster the youth with banknotes – all part of a large informal Niuean economy that links families and ensures the community looks after its own.\n\nSome Native American tribes commemorated the first haircut with a ritualistic dance. The Apache tribe had a springtime ritual.\n\nWithin the African Caribbean community this is performed once the child begins to speak clearly or after the child reaches two. This is usually done in a barbershop or carried out by the parent.\n\nIn the Yazidi tradition (mainly in Iran), the \"bisk\" ceremony involves cutting of a baby boy's two or three first locks, according to old traditions by his 40th day after birth to be given to the family's shaikh and pir, but in modern practice at 7 to 11 months, and kept by the family. The bisk ceremony is regarded as the central initiatory ritual by most Yazidis from Turkey, Armenia. and Syria. In the European Diaspora, the term is often translated as \"baptism.\" The ceremony is reminiscent of the Muslim 'aqiqa celebrated on the seventh day after birth, but the Yazidi ceremony takes place at a later stage, when the child has already been named.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37442330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37442330", "title": "Gatra (magazine)", "text": "Gatra (magazine)\n\nGatra is a weekly news magazine published in Jakarta, Indonesia. It is one of the two principal news magazines in the country, the other being \"Tempo\".\n\n\"Gatra\" was founded in 1994. The magazine has its headquarters in Jakarta. It provides articles on news and is published on a weekly basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "50555006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50555006", "title": "Heart of Europe Bio-Crystallography Meeting", "text": "Heart of Europe Bio-Crystallography Meeting\n\nThe Heart of Europe Bio-Crystallography Meeting (short HEC-Meeting) is an annual academic conference on structural biology, in particular protein crystallography. Researchers from universities, other research institutions and industry from Austria, Czech Republic, Germany and Poland meet to present and discuss current topics of their research. The talks are predominantly given by PhD students (doctoral students). An exception is the invited HEC lecture, which is held by a renowned scientist of the research field. The format of the HEC meeting has been adopted from the eleven years older Rhine-Knee Regional Meeting on Structural Biology.\n\nThe HEC-Meeting dates back to an initiative in the year 1998 of Manfred Weiss and Rolf Hilgenfeld, who were researchers at the Institute for Molecular Biotechnology (IMB) in Jena and intended to establish a meeting format similar to the Rhine-Knee Regional Meeting on Structural Biology in the New Länder. Both conferences are regional meetings of German scientists together with scientific research groups of the neighbouring countries. Nine groups from Germany (the new states and West-Berlin), Poland and Czech Republic participated in the first HEC-Meeting from 8 to 10 October 1998. Later also groups from Austria and the Old Federal States participated.\n\nFormer HEC-Meetings:\n"}
{"id": "43712421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43712421", "title": "Hong Kong Jewish Film Festival", "text": "Hong Kong Jewish Film Festival\n\nThe Hong Kong Jewish Film Festival (HKJFF) is an annual film festival dedicated to world cinema that focuses on Jewish life, history and culture worldwide. It was founded in 2000 by Howard Elias from Toronto, Canada, and takes place in Hong Kong.\nThe 15th Festival ran from 29 November to 7 December 2014. The 16th Festival ran from 14 to 22 November 2015.\n"}
{"id": "58183203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58183203", "title": "Horatio Seymour 1868 presidential campaign", "text": "Horatio Seymour 1868 presidential campaign\n\nIn 1868, the Democrats nominated former New York Governor Horatio Seymour for President and Francis Preston Blair Jr. (a Representative from Missouri) for Vice President. The Seymour-Blair ticket ran on a platform which supported national reconciliation and states' rights, opposed Reconstruction, and opposed both Black equality and Black suffrage. Meanwhile, the Republican presidential ticket led by General Ulysses S. Grant benefited from Grant's status as a war hero (for winning the American Civil War) and ran on a pro-Reconstruction (and pro-Fourteenth Amendment) platform. Ultimately, the Seymour-Blair ticket ended up losing to the Republican ticket of General Ulysses S. Grant and House Speaker Schuyler Colfax in the 1868 U.S. presidential election.\n\nThe 1868 election occurred three years after the end of the American Civil War and less than a year after President Andrew Johnson's impeachment (Johnson failed to get convicted by one vote). In addition, during the 1868 campaign season, the Fourteenth Amendment was ratified in order to secure basic rights for newly freed African-Americans. Some controversy was generated due to the fact that the Republican U.S. Congress made ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment a precondition for the former Confederate states to rejoin the Union.\n\nAfter the 1866 elections, some prominent Democrats considered nominating General Ulysses S. Grant as the Democratic nominee for U.S. President in 1868. However, this idea was dropped after Grant made it clear that he did not want to be associated with the Democratic Party. The Democrats then turned to their 1864 Vice Presidential nominee and former Ohio Congressman George H. Pendleton. Pendleton – the initial frontrunner for the 1868 Democratic presidential nomination – was a principled opponent of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln during the American Civil War, was noted for his intelligence and civility, and had a lot of support in the Western United States. What ultimately doomed Pendleton's bid was his \"soft money views\" and specifically his support of printing more money in order to spur inflation so that debtors can have some relief. Thus, some Democrats searched for a \"hard money\" alternative (specifically someone who supported the gold standard) to Pendleton – with Indiana Senator Thomas A. Hendricks being a possible contender for this role.\n\nAnother prominent candidate for the 1868 Democratic presidential nomination was Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase. While Chase won the support of Democrats such as Congressmen S. S. \"Sunset\" Cox of New York and Daniel Voorhees of Indiana, what ultimately doomed his bid was his support of Black manhood suffrage and other basic rights for African-Americans. Other Democratic presidential candidates in 1868 included Senator James Doolittle of Wisconsin, Governor Joel Parker of New Jersey, Governor James English of Connecticut, General Winfield Scott Hancock of Pennsylvania (who ultimately ended up becoming the Democratic presidential nominee in 1880), former Lieutenant Governor Sanford Church of New York, and former Congressman and railroad president Asa Packer of Pennsylvania. In addition, incumbent U.S. President Andrew Johnson attempted to secure conservative support for getting the 1868 Democratic presidential nomination. However, many of President Johnson's initial supporters abandoned him as a result of his 1868 impeachment.\n\nOn July 4, 1868, the 1868 Democratic National Convention opened in the new Tammany Hall building in New York City. New York Governor Horatio Seymour, who first supported Thomas A. Hendricks and then Salmon P. Chase for the 1868 Democratic presidential nomination, was selected as the chairman of this convention. The 1868 Democratic Party platform accepted the demise of both slavery and secession, but also demanded the end of Reconstruction by calling for the return of authority to the states, the non-renewal of the Freedmen’s Bureau, amnesty for all former Confederates, and the withdrawal of the U.S. military from the Southern United States. The platform also accused the Republicans – \"the Radical party\" – of violating the constitutional rights of the Southern states and of subjecting them to \"military despotism and Negro supremacy.\"\n\nOn the first ballot, George Pendleton led with 105 votes to President Johnson's 65, Sanford Church's 34, and General Hancock's 33.5. For the next several ballots, Pendleton increased his support among the delegates while Hancock moved into a distant second place and while Hendricks moved into third place. Meanwhile, support for President Johnson dwindled until it disappeared on the 14th ballot. On the seventh and eighth ballots, Pendleton peaked at 156.5 delegates – which caused New York's delegation to switch their support from favorite son Sanford Church to Thomas Hendricks. As Pendleton's support collapsed, Hendricks took the lead for a while but was unable to sustain it after General Winfield Scott Hancock's home state of Pennsylvania added its delegates to his column – thus allowing Hancock to overtake Hendricks and to take the lead for the first time. Ultimately, Hancock led through the 21st ballot. Meanwhile, Salmon Chase’s name was put into nomination on the 17th ballot and George Pendleton’s name was withdrawn on the 18th ballot.\n\nOn the 22nd ballot, General George McCook nominated former New York Governor Horatio Seymour, causing spontaneous cheering and demonstrations of approval. Seymour did not want the nomination and thus declined it, but the delegates unanimously nominated him anyway. For Seymour's running mate, the delegates unanimously voted for Missouri Congressman Francis Preston Blair Jr. (also known as Frank Blair Jr.).\n\nThe 1868 Republican presidential nominee, General Ulysses S. Grant, did not openly campaign and instead left the job to surrogates. Grant's surrogates gave stump speeches, circulated campaign pamphlets and political broadsides, rallied the voters with barbecues and torchlight parades, and organized into pro-Grant clubs like the Tanners and the Boys in Blue. The Republicans based their campaign on being the party that saved the Union, ended slavery, and began reforming the South. They argued that the election of a Democratic President would result in gridlock which would hamper Reconstruction. Meanwhile, the Democrats argued that Republicans were in favor of Black equality or even Black superiority not only in the Southern U.S., but throughout the entire United States. They also attacked the Republican-backed military rule in the Southern U.S. and argued that they were the only truly national party and thus the only party that could bring national reconciliation. The Democrats also attacked Grant as being \"a besotted, uncouth, simple-minded, unprincipled, Negro-loving tyrant.\"\n\nAs a result of the Democrats' feeling of hopelessness, Horatio Seymour--the 1868 Democratic presidential nominee – engaged in a speaking tour near the end of the 1868 campaign. On October 21, Seymour spoke in Syracuse and later traveled to Buffalo, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Columbus, Detroit, Indianapolis, and Chicago. However, the lackluster tone and repetitiveness of Seymour's speeches did not help his case (though these speeches were praised by Democratic newspapers) and it also did not help Seymour that his running mate Blair was a loose cannon who made various gaffes – such as predicting that a Grant Presidency would transform the U.S. into a military dictatorship.\n\nIn the U.S. presidential election on November 3, 1868, Ulysses S. Grant defeated Horatio Seymour in the popular vote by a 53% to 47% margin and in the electoral vote by a margin of 214 to 80. 78% of the American electorate participated in this election – including 500,000 African-American men who voted for the first time in this election. While Seymour lost the election, there were some bright spots for him. Specifically, he won New Jersey, New York and Oregon and almost won California. In addition, Seymour won Kentucky, Maryland, and Delaware. In addition, it is worth noting that Grant only managed to win the popular vote in 1868 as a result of Black suffrage. Historian Paul F. Boller, Jr. wrote that \"[i]t is apparent that if [Grant] had not won the 450,000 to 500,000 votes cast by the freedmen in the Southern states under military occupation, he would not have won his popular majority.\"\n\nIn spite of the fact that Grant won the 1868 election, the Republicans largely lost interest in Reconstruction within the next several years – thus paving the way for the eventual emergence of the Jim Crow South. On the bright side, the Republicans' victory (with the help of African-American voters) in 1868 motivated them to pass and ratify the Fifteenth Amendment which forbade discrimination in regards to the suffrage based on race, color, or former condition of servitude (though this Amendment was later largely circumvented in the former Confederate states through things such as poll taxes (including grandfather clauses) and literacy tests). This is a notable development since, just a couple of years earlier, Republicans had refused to guarantee African-American suffrage in the Fourteenth Amendment due to their belief and fear that this will prevent the Fourteenth Amendment from being ratified.\n"}
{"id": "18635428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18635428", "title": "International Symposium on Circuits and Systems", "text": "International Symposium on Circuits and Systems\n\nInitiated in 1968, by a small group of distinguished circuit theorists, \"IEEE ISCAS\" has grown into a premier annual conference reflecting the diversity, richness, and significance of the circuits and systems fields, as well as the growing technological applications and knowledge economy that is based on circuits and systems fundamentals. It is the flagship annual conference of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society, one of the oldest technical societies of IEEE with approximately 10,000 members worldwide. ISCAS attracts a strong international presence and welcomes technical contributions and participation from all researchers and practitioners in the field of circuits and systems.\n\nISCAS 2012 was held from May 20 through 23, 2012 in Seoul whose proceedings included about 850 papers.\n\nISCAS 2013 was held from May 19 through 23, 2013 in Beijing \n\nISCAS 2014 was held from June 1 through 5, 2014 in Melbourne \n\nISCAS 2015 was held from May 24 through 27, 2015 in Lisbon \n\nISCAS 2016 was held from May 22 through 25, 2016 in Montreal\n\nISCAS 2017 will be held from May 28 through 31, 2017 in Baltimore\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52821576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52821576", "title": "Island Fringe Festival", "text": "Island Fringe Festival\n\nThe Island Fringe Festival is an independent arts and theatre festival that takes place annually in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. The Festival was founded by Sarah Segal-Lazar and Megan Stewart in 2012 with the first festival taking place in August of that year. The festival is one of three Fringe Festivals in Atlantic Canada and is a member of the Canadian Association of Fringe Festivals.\n\nFringe Performances take place around the city of Charlottetown in conventional and unconventional spaces, such as in homes, on patios, and in bars. All shows in the festival are by donation, with proceeds going directly to artists. In August 2016, comedian Lorne Elliott debuted his new work, A Better Play Than Hamlet, at the Island Fringe.\n"}
{"id": "15752401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15752401", "title": "Les Amours de la reine Élisabeth", "text": "Les Amours de la reine Élisabeth\n\nLes Amours de la reine Élisabeth (\"The Loves of Queen Elizabeth\"), Les Amours d'Elisabeth, Reine d'Angleterre (\"The Loves of Elizabeth, Queen of England\") or La reine Élisabeth (\"Queen Elizabeth\") is a 1912 feature 4-reel French silent film based on the love affair between Elizabeth I of England and the Earl of Essex. It was condensed from a play of the same name and directed by Louis Mercanton and Henri Desfontaines. It was shot in Paris and starred Sarah Bernhardt as Elizabeth and Lou Tellegen as Essex. Bernhardt by then was 68 and said of the film \"This is my last chance at immortality\". She and Tellegen were already romantically involved, and this was their second film together.\n\nIts production company, L’Histrionic Film, was forced into liquidation by Pathé Frères during the film's production, but it was completed with funds from Adolph Zukor. Zukor also brought it to New York City, where it premiered at the Lyceum Theatre on Broadway. The film’s US release (on State Rights basis, on 12 July 1912) was the first release from the Famous Players Film Company. Its success convinced other American companies that feature films were commercially viable. Famous Players, which advertised \"Famous Players in Famous Plays\", later became Famous Players-Lasky, and then Paramount Pictures.\n\n\"Queen Elizabeth\" had one of the earliest dedicated film scores, composed by Joseph Carl Breil specifically for the production. Four years earlier, Bernhardt’s first film \"The Assassination of the Duke of Guise\" (1908), also featured an original film score, one composed by Camille Saint-Saëns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47891159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47891159", "title": "Let's Be Animals Tour 2011", "text": "Let's Be Animals Tour 2011\n\nLet's Be Animals is a fourteen-day tour featuring popular bands such as The Downtown Fiction and He is We in different cities, in April and May months in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "6132540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6132540", "title": "List of annual events in Syracuse", "text": "List of annual events in Syracuse\n\nList of events held in the Syracuse, New York metropolitan area on an annual basis, by type.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53537767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53537767", "title": "List of entertainment events at Bell MTS Place", "text": "List of entertainment events at Bell MTS Place\n\nBell MTS Place in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada is one of the busiest venues in North America since its opening in 2004. In 2008, its placed 19th busiest arena in the world and 11th in North America, with 385,427 tickets (not including sporting events) In 2009, it ranked as the 39th busiest arena in the world, and 26th busiest in North America.\n\nThe following is a list of concerts and other non-sport entertainment events that have taken place at Bell MTS Place.\n\n"}
{"id": "43982382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43982382", "title": "Melodifestivalen 2015", "text": "Melodifestivalen 2015\n\nMelodifestivalen 2015 was the Swedish music competition that selected Sweden's 55th entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 2015. Måns Zelmerlöw won with the song \"Heroes\". The hosts for the show were Sanna Nielsen (winner of Melodifestivalen 2014) and comedian Robin Paulsson.\n\nFor the fourteenth consecutive year, the competition consisted of four semi-finals, a \"Second Chance\" round, and a final. However, the total number of competing entries was reduced from 32 to 28. The 28 competing entries were divided into four semi-finals, with seven compositions in each. From each semifinal, the songs that earned first and second place went directly to the final, while the songs that placed third and fourth proceeded to the Second Chance semi-final. The bottom three songs in each semifinal were eliminated from the competition.\n\nA new rule for the 2015 edition of the competition stipulated that at least 50% of the selected entries were to be written by female composers or lyricists in a full or partial capacity.\n\nMelodifestivalen 2015 was the fourteenth consecutive year in which the competition will take place in different cities across Sweden. The four semifinals were held in Gothenburg (7 February), Malmö (14 February), Östersund (21 February) and Örebro (28 February). The Second Chance round took place in Helsingborg on 7 March while the final in Solna was held on 14 March.\n\nThe results of this semi-final were contest after the crash of the application.\n\nThe Second Chance \"(Andra chansen)\" round was held on 7 March 2015 in Helsingborg Arena, Helsingborg. Unlike in the previous editions, four out of eight competing entries were sent to the final this year. The preliminary two-phase voting introduced in 2013 was eliminated, bringing a duel-only competition back. The duels are as follows:\n\nIt was announced that Malena Ernman, Melodifestivalen winner and Sweden's representative at the 2009 Eurovision Song Contest would join Behrang Miri and Victor Crone on stage to do the opera vocals.\n\nThe grand final of this year's Melodifestivalen was held on 14 March in the 28,000-seat Friends Arena in Solna.\nUnlike in the previous editions of Melodifestivalen, twelve songs competed in this year's final, two more than before. Eight finalists were selected during the four-week semi finals and four from the \"Second Chance\" round.\n\nThe eleven international juries were revealed on 8 March 2015, and are shown in the voting table below in alphabetical order of the names of the respective countries. In particular, Austrian jury results was announced by Conchita Wurst, winner of Eurovision Song Contest 2014.\n"}
{"id": "38047269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38047269", "title": "My Redbreast", "text": "My Redbreast\n\nMy Redbreast (Sorrowfully, very sorrowfully comedy) is a 2012 play by Georgian playwright Miho Mosulishvili.\n\nSopho returns from America, where she had been for the last twelve years, for the death anniversary of her husband. She finds that her school friend, Shoka, is pregnant. Moreover, it turns out that her husband, Chito, had not died. He married Shoka and his tombstone in their yard was just a means of extorting money from Sopho.\n\nThe husband, friend and even her son (Toko) had to cheat Sopho to take money from her and pay for the interest for the apartment, which they had put in the bank.\n\nThey were alarmed by Sopho's unexpected arrival.\n\nSopho decides not to go to America, although her son Toko manages to bring to Georgia old Baxter, whom his mother was taking care in the States. He wants his mother to take care of him in Georgia, so as not to lose money.\n\nSopho refuses to look after Baxter and makes her family members care for him. Baxter, in this way \"punishes\" idlers - Chito, Shoka and Toko.\n\nBaxter intends to propose to Sopho, but since she was supporting the idlers he concludes that she was like them.\n\nIn the final scene the persons are close to the Celestial Court. Their roles change - Sopho and Baxter care for Chito, Shoka and Toko who are confined to invalid chairs.\n\nBaxter O'Sullivan names Sopho as \"My redbreast\" and from here occurs play heading.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3493384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3493384", "title": "Myndus", "text": "Myndus\n\nMyndus () or Myndos () was an ancient Dorian colony of Troezen, on the coast of Caria in Asia Minor, (Turkey), sited on the Bodrum Peninsula, a few miles northwest of Halicarnassus. The site is now occupied by the modern village of Gümüslük.\n\nMyndos was protected by strong walls, and had a good harbor. (Paus. ii. 30. § 8; Strabo xiv. p. 658; Arrian, Anab. i. 20, ii. 5.) Otherwise, the place is not of much importance in ancient history. Both Pliny (v. 29) and Stephanus of Byzantium (\"s. v.\") mention Palaemyndus as an ancient Carian settlement near to Myndus, which seems to have become deserted after Dorian Mynduse was founded. (Comp. Strab. xiii. p. 611). Mela (i. 16) and Pliny (\"l. c.\") also speak of a place called \"Neapolis\" in the same peninsula and as no other authors mention such a place in that part of the country, it has been supposed that Myndus (the Dorian colony) and Neapolis were the same place. Pliny, however, mentions both Myndus and Neapolis as two different towns.\n\nThe cynic philosopher Diogenes of Sinope visited Myndos and noticed how large the city gates were, relative to the town; he cynically remarked; \"Oh men of Myndos, I urge you to shut the city gates, as your town might exit from these!\". Sections of the town walls and gate have been restored with financial assistance from private companies.\n\nMyndian ships are mentioned in the expedition of Anaxagoras against Naxos. (Herod. v. 33.) Herodotus relates the story of how a captain from Myndus, Scylax, was found to have left no guards on his ship while a Persian force was preparing to attack the island of Naxos. The Persian commander, Megabates, flew into a rage and had him put in stocks, at which point Aristagoras, a tyrant from Miletus helping several Naxian oligarchs to retake Naxos, discovered what had happened to his guest-friend Scylax. Pleading with Megabates to no avail for Scylax, he released him anyway, incurring the Persian commander's wrath. The consequence of this falling out was that, according to Herodotus, Megabates warned the Naxians of what was afoot, ruining the expedition and in turn Aristagoras who, with nowhere to go, stirred up the Ionian Revolt. This is a classic example of Ionian αταξιη (lack of discipline, disorder, licentiousness), a charge commonly levelled at them, especially in the 5th century by Athens.\n\nAt a later time, when Alexander the Great besieged Halicarnassus, he was anxious first to make himself master of Myndus; but when he attempted to take it by surprise, the Myndians, with the aid of reinforcements from Halicarnassus repulsed him with some loss. (Arrian, \"l. c.\"; comp. Hecat. Fragm. 229; Polyb. xvi. 15, 21; Scylax, p. 38; Ptol. v. 2. § 9; Liv. xxxvii. 15; Hierocl. p. 687.) Athenaeus (i. 32) states that the wine grown in the district of Myndus was good for digestion.\n\nRemains of the city are visible in and around Gümüslük and in the adjacent waters; it is supposed that some unrecorded earthquake caused seafront sections of the ancient town to be submerged. As a result, much of the land and offshore areas are protected from interference and development.\n\nMyndus was an episcopal see of Caria, a suffragan of Stauropolis (Aphrodisias). The \"Notitiæ episcopatuum\" allude to it as late as the 12th or 13th century. However, only four of its bishops are known: Archelaus, who attended the First Council of Ephesus (431); Alphius, who assisted at the Council of Chalcedon (451); John who was present at the Third Council of Constantinople (680); and another John who went to the Second Council of Nicaea (787).\n\nThe bishopric is included in the Catholic Church's list of titular sees.\n\n"}
{"id": "631488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=631488", "title": "Northampton Balloon Festival", "text": "Northampton Balloon Festival\n\nThe Northampton Balloon Festival is an annual hot air balloon festival held in Northampton, England.\n\nThe original festival was held in The Racecourse and managed by the Borough Council, and took place over a Friday, Saturday and Sunday in mid-August. The main features of the festival were the twice-daily hot air balloon lifts and a balloon glow, but other attractions included trade stalls, live music and arena entertainment.\n\nThe first festival was held in 1990. The start attractions were the Chubb fire extinguisher and the Rupert The Bear balloons.\nIn its early years The Northampton balloon was a soaring success with families encouraged to come and enjoy the weekend, looking at balloons and visiting various trade stalls across the park. \n\nIn 2001 the festival was joined with the Northampton Town Show (previously held during July) to become the \"Northampton Festival\", but has since reverted to its original name.\nSadly the early years of the new millennium coincided with the rise of the \"chav\" and a growing obsession behind making money the festival became an oversized fairground full of topless louts. This was clearly the beginning of the end for what had become one of the town´s prized attractions. \n\nThe 2004 festival featured the \"Sugababes\", \"Big Brovaz\", and Ronan Keating.\n\nThe 2005 festival featured Rachel Stevens and Lemar.\n\nThe 2007 festival was a disaster due to poor attendance caused by bad weather on the last two days and the fact that the council decided to charge adults for admission, which discouraged many adults without young children from attending and spending money at the stalls.\n\nThe 2008 festival was scaled down from before, with fewer stalls,\nand featured Rick Astley and Signature but neither were able to revive the festival's fortunes and the event made a huge loss.\n\nThe Borough Council ceased its funding and in mid-2009 the festival was revived by new organisers and moved to Billing Aquadrome. It took place 14–16 August 2009 at the new location with free admission.\n\nThe 2010 Northampton Balloon Festival was once again based at Billing Aquadrome, however that year the organisers chose to charge entry. The Balloon Festival sat alongside an existing event, the American Car Show and included a variety of stalls and fairground rides.\n\nIn 2012, it was announced that Pure Leisure, the owners of Billing Aquadrome had agreed sponsorship of the event, for a further 3 years.\n\nThe Balloon Festival was held on Friday 15 to Sunday 17 August 2014, 14-16 August 2015 and between 19-21 August 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50608047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50608047", "title": "Ordo Sancti Stanislai", "text": "Ordo Sancti Stanislai\n\nThe Ordo Sancti Stanislai is a Polish self-styled order founded on 9 June 1979 by Juliusz Nowina-Sokolnicki, in his claimed capacity as disputed President of the Polish Government in exile as an attempted revival of the Polish Order of Saint Stanislaus, founded in 1765 as an order of knighthood of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, since it had been incorporated by the Russian Empire in 1831 as the Order of Saint Stanislaus (Imperial House of Romanov).\n\nHowever, mismanagement of the Ordo Sancti Stanislai resulted in several claimed successor movements. During the 1990s, disputes with Juliusz Nowina-Sokolnicki caused several national sub-groups of this organisation, called priories, to break away. Several of these united in 2004 to create a joint Polish successor, the International Order of Saint Stanislaus as an alliance of national groups.\n\nThe self-proclaimed version of the history of the organisation has Sokolnicki transforming the Order of Saint Stanislaus into a private charitable institution on 15 September 1990, before transferring his authority to the new Polish government of Lech Wałęsa in December of the same year. Prior to his death on 17 August 2009, Sokolnicki appointed Polish businessman Jan Zbigniew Potocki as his successor. Potocki was fired by the Ordo Sancti Stanislai in February 2010 \"after he violated the Constitution of the Order repeatedly.\" On 16 February 2011, Waldemar Wilk was appointed new Grand Master. Perhaps not surprisingly, in an recreation of the circumstances that brought Juliusz Nowina-Sokolnicki to his disputed office as president, Waldemar Wilk claims that he was the legitimately designated successor to Sokolnicki but that Jan Zbigniew Potocki somehow managed to obtain the position ahead of him.\n\nThere have been several organisations which claim to be the heirs of the Polish Order of Saint Stanislaus. Ordo Sancti Stanislai has been one of the more prominent attempts, founded (or revived) by Juliusz Nowina-Sokolnicki who claimed to be the president of the Polish government-in-exile from 1972 until the restoration of Polish democracy in 1990. In his capacity as president, he claimed to restore the Order of Saint Stanislaus on 9 June 1979. Sokolnicki's claim to the Polish presidency was widely rejected and he is not recognized by the current government of Poland (in 1990, Lech Wałęsa accepted symbols of the pre-War presidency from Ryszard Kaczorowski). Sokolnicki's status was enhanced by the fact that he was an associate of August Zaleski, generally recognized as the head of the Polish government-in-exile from 1947 to 1972. That connection gave Sokolnicki's order a veneer of legitimacy that other such endeavors lacked.\n\nAfter Lech Wałęsa became President of Poland with universal recognition on 22 December 1990, the rationale for the governments in exile ended. Sokolnicki followed the path of his rival, Ryszard Kaczorowski, in formally recognizing Wałęsa as his successor. Nevertheless, Sokolnicki claimed to retain the office of Grand Master in his Order of Saint Stanislaus. He based his continued control of the order partially on his status as an independent bishop after his ordination in 1983. Ultimately, Sokolnicki claimed that the grand mastership was an hereditary office for his family. The result was the division of the order into several competing groups, none of which recognize the claims of the others. On 27 January 1997 disgruntled members of the Order deposed Sokolnicki and replaced him with Zbigniew Kazimierz. The Polish government does not accept any of these groups as legitimate.\n\nThe Ordo Sancti Stanislai says of itself: \"The Order of Saint Stanislas is a hierarchically organized body of men and women, many with a Polish Connection, who support and assist in charitable works of various kinds to help the poor and disadvantaged in Poland and in other countries throughout the world. Originally a dynastic chivalric order from Poland, it is now an international charitable non-profit association in the form of a private chivalric order.\"\n"}
{"id": "18935713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935713", "title": "Photocopier", "text": "Photocopier\n\nA photocopier (also known as a copier or copy machine) is a machine that makes copies of documents and other visual images onto paper or plastic film quickly and cheaply. Most modern photocopiers use a technology called \"xerography\", a dry process that uses electrostatic charges on a light-sensitive photoreceptor to first attract and then transfer toner particles (a powder) onto paper in the form of an image. Heat, pressure or a combination of both is then used to fuse the toner onto the paper. Copiers can also use other technologies such as ink jet, but xerography is standard for office copying. Earlier versions included the Gestetner stencil duplicator, invented by David Gestetner in 1881.\n\nCommercial xerographic office photocopying was introduced by Xerox in 1959, and it gradually replaced copies made by Verifax, Photostat, carbon paper, mimeograph machines, and other duplicating machines.\n\nPhotocopying is widely used in the business, education, and government sectors. While there have been predictions that photocopiers will eventually become obsolete as information workers increase their use of digital document creation, storage and distribution, and rely less on distributing actual pieces of paper, as of 2015, photocopiers continue to be widely used. In the 2010s, there is a convergence in some high-end machines between the roles of a photocopier, a fax machine, a scanner, and a computer network-connected printer into a multi-function printer. Lower-end machines that can copy and print in color have increasingly dominated the home-office market as their prices fell steadily through 2017. Higher-end color photocopiers capable of handling heavy duty cycles and large-format printing remain a costlier specialty for print and design shops.\n\nChester Carlson, the inventor of photocopying, was originally a patent attorney, as well as a part-time researcher and inventor. His job at the patent office in New York required him to make a large number of copies of important papers. Carlson, who was arthritic, found this to be a painful and tedious process. This motivated him to conduct experiments with photo conductivity. Carlson used his kitchen for his \"electrophotography\" experiments, and, in 1938, he applied for a patent for the process. He made the first photocopy using a zinc plate covered with sulfur. The words \"10-22-38 Astoria\" were written on a microscope slide, which was placed on top of more sulfur and under a bright light. After the slide was removed, a mirror image of the words remained. Carlson tried to sell his invention to some companies, but failed because the process was still underdeveloped. At the time, multiple copies were most commonly made at the point of document origination, using carbon paper or manual duplicating machines, and people did not see the need for an electronic machine. Between 1939 and 1944, Carlson was turned down by over 20 companies, including IBM and General Electric—neither of which believed there was a significant market for copiers.\n\nIn 1944, the Battelle Memorial Institute, a non-profit organization in Columbus, Ohio, contracted with Carlson to refine his new process. Over the next five years, the institute conducted experiments to improve the process of electrophotography. In 1947, Haloid Corporation (a small New York-based manufacturer and seller of photographic paper) approached Battelle to obtain a license to develop and market a copying machine based on this technology.\n\nHaloid felt that the word \"electrophotography\" was too complicated and did not have good recall value. After consulting a professor of classical language at Ohio State University, Haloid and Carlson changed the name of the process to \"xerography,\" which was derived from Greek words that meant \"dry writing.\" Haloid called the new copier machines \"Xerox Machines\" and, in 1948, the word \"Xerox\" was trademarked. Haloid eventually changed its name to Xerox Corporation.\n\nIn the early 1950s, Radio Corporation of America (RCA) introduced a variation on the process called Electrofax, whereby images are formed directly on specially coated paper and rendered with a toner dispersed in a liquid.\n\nDuring the 1960s and through the 1980s, Savin Corporation developed and sold a line of liquid-toner copiers that implemented a technology based on patents held by the company.\n\nBefore the widespread adoption of xerographic copiers, photo-direct copies produced by machines such as Kodak's Verifax were used. A primary obstacle associated with the pre-xerographic copying technologies was the high cost of supplies: a Verifax print required supplies costing US$0.15 in 1969, while a Xerox print could be made for $0.03 including paper and labor. The coin-operated Photostat machines still found in some public libraries in the late 1960s made letter-size copies for $0.25 each, at a time when the minimum wage for a US worker was $1.65 per hour; the Xerox machines that replaced them typically charged $0.10.\n\nXerographic copier manufacturers took advantage of a high perceived-value of the 1960s and early 1970s, and marketed paper that was \"specially designed\" for xerographic output. By the end of the 1970s, paper producers made xerographic \"runability\" one of the requirements for most of their office paper brands.\n\nSome devices sold as photocopiers have replaced the drum-based process with inkjet or transfer film technology.\n\nAmong the key advantages of photocopiers over earlier copying technologies are their ability:\n\nColored toner became available in the 1950s, although full-color copiers were not commercially available until 3M released the \"Color-in-Color\" copier in 1968, which used a dye sublimation process rather than conventional electrostatic technology. The first electrostatic color copier was released by Xerox (the 6500) in 1973. Color photocopying is a concern to governments, as it facilitates counterfeiting currency and other documents: for more information, see Counterfeiting section.\n\nThere is an increasing trend for new photocopiers to adopt digital technology, thus replacing the older analog technology. With digital copying, the copier effectively consists of an integrated scanner and laser printer. This design has several advantages, such as automatic image quality enhancement and the ability to \"build jobs\" (that is, to scan page images independently of the process of printing them). Some digital copiers can function as high-speed scanners; such models typically offer the ability to send documents via email or to make them available on file servers.\n\nA great advantage of digital copier technology is \"automatic digital collation.\" For example, when copying a set of 20 pages 20 times, a digital copier scans each page only once, then uses the stored information to produce 20 sets. In an analog copier, either each page is scanned 20 times (a total of 400 scans), making one set at a time, or 20 separate output trays are used for the 20 sets.\n\nLow-end copiers also use digital technology, but tend to consist of a standard PC scanner coupled to an inkjet or low-end laser printer, both of which are far slower than their counterparts in high-end copiers. However, low-end scanner-inkjets can provide color copying at a lower purchase price but with a much higher cost per copy. The cost of electronics is such that combined scanner-printers sometimes have built-in fax machines. (See Multifunction printer.)\n\n\nA negative photocopy inverts the colors of the document when creating a photocopy, resulting in letters that appear white on a black background instead of black on a white background. Negative photocopies of old or faded documents sometimes produce documents which have better focus and are easier to read and study.\n\nPhotocopying material that is subject to copyright (such as books or scientific papers) is subject to restrictions in most countries. This is common practice, as the cost of purchasing a book for the sake of one article or a few pages can be excessive. The principle of fair use (in the United States) or fair dealing (in other Berne Convention countries) allows copying for certain specified purposes.\n\nIn certain countries, such as Canada, some universities pay royalties from each photocopy made at university copy machines and copy centers to copyright collectives out of the revenues from the photocopying, and these collectives distribute resulting funds to various scholarly publishers. In the United States, photocopied compilations of articles, handouts, graphics, and other information called \"readers\" are often required texts for college classes. Either the instructor or the copy center is responsible for clearing copyright for every article in the reader, and attribution information must be clearly included in the reader.\n\nTo counter the risk of people using color copiers to create counterfeit copies of paper currency, some countries have incorporated anti-counterfeiting technologies into their currency. These include watermarks, microprinting, holograms, tiny security strips made of plastic (or other material), and ink that appears to change color as the currency is viewed at an angle. Some photocopying machines contain special software that can prevent copying currency that contains a special pattern.\n\nColor copying also raises concerns regarding the copying and/or forging of other documents as well, such as driver's licenses and university degrees and transcripts. Some driver's licenses are made with embedded holograms so that a police officer can detect a fake copy. Some university and college transcripts have special anti-copying watermarks in the background. If a copy is made, the watermarks will become highly visible, which allows the recipient to determine that they have a copy rather than a genuine original transcript.\n\nExposure to ultraviolet light is a concern. In the early days of photocopiers, the sensitizing light source was filtered green to match the optimal sensitivity of the photoconductive surface. This filtering conveniently removed all ultraviolet. Currently, a variety of light sources are used. As glass transmits ultraviolet rays between 325 and 400 nanometers, copiers with ultraviolet-producing lights such as fluorescent, tungsten halogen, or xenon flash, expose documents to some ultraviolet.\n\nConcerns about emissions from photocopy machines have been expressed by some in connection with the use of selenium and emissions of ozone and fumes from heated toner.\n\nSimilar to forensic identification of typewriters, computer printers and copiers can be traced by imperfections in their output. The mechanical tolerances of the toner and paper feed mechanisms cause banding, which can reveal information about the individual device's mechanical properties. It is often possible to identify the manufacturer and brand, and, in some cases, the individual printer can be identified from a set of known printers by comparing their outputs.\n\nSome high-quality color printers and copiers steganographically embed their identification code into the printed pages, as fine and almost invisible patterns of yellow dots. Some sources identify Xerox and Canon as companies doing this. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has investigated this issue and documented how the Xerox DocuColor printer's serial number, as well as the date and time of the printout, are encoded in a repeating 8×15 dot pattern in the yellow channel. EFF is working to reverse engineer additional printers. The EFF also reports that the US government has asked these companies to implement such a tracking scheme, so that counterfeiting can be traced. The EFF has filed a Freedom of Information Act request in order to look into privacy implications of this tracking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9270275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9270275", "title": "RMS Arabia", "text": "RMS Arabia\n\nRMS \"Arabia\" was a P&O ocean liner. She was sunk in the Mediterranean in 1916 by a German U-boat during World War I.\n\nCaird & Company built \"Arabia\" at Greenock on the River Clyde, launching her in November 1897 and completing her in March 1898. She had capacity for 317 first class and 152 second class passengers, a total of 469. She was the first ocean liner to have a children's playroom.\n\n\"Arabia\"s route was between Tilbury and Bombay. On her maiden voyage she took Lord Kedleston to take up his post as Viceroy of India. In 1902 she took passengers to India for the 1903 Delhi Durbar.\n\nOn 15 March 1905 the cargo steamship was manœuvreing in Bombay Harbour when she struck \"Arabia\" amidships on her port side, damaging the liner's promenade deck, boat deck and upper works. The collision was caused by \"Riverdale\"s chief engineer inexplicably setting her engine to go ahead when ordered to go astern.\n\nOn 12 October 1912 the steamship \"Powerful\" collided with \"Arabia\" in the English Channel off Southampton. \"Powerful\"s bow holed the crew WC above the waterline, crushing lascar crewman Hassan Moosa to death.\n\nIn 1915 and 1916 \"Arabia\" made three voyages between Britain and Australia. On 6 November 1916 she was \"en route\" from Sydney \"via\" Fremantle, Western Australia to England when the German submarine torpedoed her without warning south by west of Cape Matapan, Greece, killing 11 of her engine room crew. \"Arabia\" launched her boats within 15 minutes. Four armed trawlers and Ellerman Lines' passenger liner rescued survivors.\n\n187 Australians were aboard \"Arabia\". Her sinking helped surge volunteer enlistment in the Australian armed forces.\n"}
{"id": "59006630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59006630", "title": "RNB Fridays Live", "text": "RNB Fridays Live\n\nRNB Friday Live is an annual concert series held in Australia. The series was co-founded by Hits Radio Network and Frontier Touring in 2016. The event features several stages featuring musical artists from many genres of music, including R&B, hip hop, electronic dance music, and pop. The concert series are held in venues across Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, and Perth.\n\nRNB Fridays Live was founded in 2016 by Frontier Touring and Hit Radio Network.\n"}
{"id": "53045256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53045256", "title": "RiseUp Summit", "text": "RiseUp Summit\n\nRiseUp Summit is an annual entrepreneurship and innovation event that takes place in Downtown Cairo, Egypt. It has been described as \"one of the largest gatherings of entrepreneurs in the region\". It started in 2013 to bring the MENA region's entrepreneurship ecosystem together. The summit is a three-day, entrepreneurship marathon. The first RiseUp Summit occurred in 2013 and is now in its fifth year.\n\nRiseUp is a platform that connects startups to the most relevant resources, worldwide.\n\nRiseUp participants include some of the world's leading companies, investors, speakers and support organizations. Previous participating firms include UBER, IBM, Facebook, The World Bank and Pepsi. Speakers have included Dave McClure from 500Startups, Mike Butcher from Tech Crunch, Jared Friedman from Y Combinator and H.E John Casson.\n\nIn 2017, RiseUp was awarded \"Ecosystem Player of the Year\" given to an organization with the biggest and broadest impact in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) by TechWadi.\n"}
{"id": "329619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=329619", "title": "Rose Parade", "text": "Rose Parade\n\nThe Rose Parade, also known as the Tournament of Roses Parade, is a parade held in Pasadena, California each year on New Year's Day (or on Monday, January 2 if New Year's Day falls on a Sunday). The parade includes flower-covered floats, marching bands, and equestrian units and is followed by the Rose Bowl college football game. It is produced by the nonprofit Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association.\n\nOriginally started on January 1, 1890, the Rose Parade is watched in person by hundreds of thousands of spectators on the parade route, and is broadcast on multiple television networks in the United States. It is seen by millions more on television worldwide in more than 100 international territories and countries. The Rose Bowl is a college football game that was added in 1902 to help fund the cost of staging the parade. Since 2011, the parade has been sponsored by Honda. Accordingly, the company has the parade's first float, which like all floats, follows the parade's theme.\n\nRose Parade 2018 featured 44 floats, 20 equestrian units with approximately 400 horses, and 21 marching bands. The theme of this 129th Rose Parade was \"Making a Difference\" and the Grand Marshal of the parade was Gary Sinise.\n\nMembers of Pasadena's Valley Hunt Club first staged the parade in 1890. Since then the parade has been held in Pasadena every New Year's Day, except when January 1 falls on a Sunday. In that case, it is held on the subsequent Monday, January 2. This exception was instituted in 1893, as organizers did not wish to disturb horses hitched outside Sunday church services.\n\nMany of the members of the Valley Hunt Club were former residents of the American East and Midwest. They wished to showcase their new California home's mild winter weather. At a club meeting, Professor Charles F. Holder announced, \"In New York, people are buried in the snow. Here our flowers are blooming and our oranges are about to bear. Let's hold a festival to tell the world about our paradise.\"\n\nSo the club organized horse-drawn carriages covered in flowers, followed by foot races, polo matches, and a game of tug-of-war on the town lot that attracted a crowd of 2,000 to the event. Upon seeing the scores of flowers on display, the professor decided to suggest the name \"Tournament of Roses.\"\n\nOver the next few founding years, marching bands and motorized floats were added. By 1895, the event was too large for the Valley Hunt Club to handle, hence the Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association was formed. By the 11th annual tournament (1900), the town lot on which the activities were held was renamed Tournament Park, a large open area directly adjacent to Pasadena's world-famous institution of higher learning, Caltech. Activities soon included ostrich races, bronco busting demonstrations, and an odd novelty race between a camel and an elephant. (The elephant won the race.) Soon reviewing stands were built along the parade route and newspapers in Eastern Seaboard cities started to take notice of the event.\n\nThe stately Italian Renaissance-style mansion of William Wrigley Jr. (the maker of Wrigley's chewing gum) was offered to the city of Pasadena after Mrs. Wrigley's death in 1958, under the condition that their home would be the Rose Parade's permanent headquarters. Tournament House is the name given the former home where the organization is headquartered.\n\nThe first associated football game was played on January 1, 1902. Originally titled the \"Tournament East-West football game,\" it is considered to be the first Rose Bowl. The next game was not played until New Year's Day 1916; they have been played annually since then. The game derives its modern name from Rose Bowl Stadium, which was built for the 1923 game.\n\nIn 2002 and 2006 (when the Rose Bowl Game was the BCS National Championship Game), the \"Granddaddy of 'em all\" was not held the same day as the parade; the 2006 game was played on January 4. Not all fans were pleased with the change; some thought the atmosphere and tradition of the Rose Bowl were lost. Once the BCS title game was separated from the host bowl, it no longer affected the date of the Rose Bowl Game (even when the title game returned to Pasadena in 2010 and 2014).\n\nThe Tournament of Roses Parade has followed the same route mainly following Colorado Boulevard (Pasadena's main thoroughfare and a segment of the former US 66) for many decades. The day before the parade, the entire environs of the neighborhood streets south of the intersection of Orange Grove and Colorado Blvds. are sealed off and reserved for the marshaling of the dozens of floats, bands, equestrian units, and other elements. This staging area is referred to as the \"Formation Area\" and is managed by the Formation Area Committee.\n\nOn parade morning the various elements are merged and dispatched in front of Tournament House. The parade starts headed north on South Orange Grove Boulevard beginning at Green Street. At Colorado Boulevard it passes the main grandstands (and the main television and media stands) and proceeds east on Colorado Boulevard. The parade then turns north on Sierra Madre Boulevard. The floats then must travel under the Sierra Madre Boulevard/I-210 freeway overpass, requiring over-height floats to reduce their height. The parade ends at Paloma Street near Victory Park and Pasadena High School. Floats continue into the Post-Parade viewing area (which is open that afternoon and the following day). In total this route is long; the assembled bands, horse units and floats take approximately two hours to pass by.\n\nThe 2009 parade featured 46 floats, including some new entries, such as Jack in the Box's \"Jack-O-Licious\", City of Mission Viejo's \"Making a Splash\", RFD-TV's \"Hee Haw\", and the City of Roseville's \"Entertaining Dreams for a Century\".\n\nThe 2010 parade saluted the men and women serving America throughout the world with a flyover at the beginning of the parade by four F-18 jets (performed by pilots of the Fighting Redcocks of Strike Fighter Squadron 22 (VFA-22) from the Naval Air Station at Lemoore, California).\n\nNew floats that joined the 2011 Rose Parade were: Beverly Hills Tournament of Roses Committee, Cunard Line, Dole, Los Angeles County Firemen's Benefit & Welfare: Never Forget 9/11 \"Remember, Reflect, Renew\", UNO 40th Anniversary, \"Messina Wildlife Management\", Namco Bandai Games Inc., \"Quikrete\" Cement & Concrete Products, \"Saving America's Mustangs Foundation\", and Shriner's Hospitals For Children.\n\nThe 2012 Rose Parade had 43 floats, 21 bands and 18 equestrian units with approximately 400 horses.\nThe honor for being the last units in the parade went to All American Cowgirl Chicks (Equestrian), Needham Broughton High School (Band), and RFD-TV (Float). It also featured the first ever Swedish entry, the Royal Swedish Navy Cadet Band.\n\nThe 2013 parade featured 42 floats, 23 marching bands and 21 equestrian units. New for the 2013 Rose Parade were floats from Nurses' float \"A Healing Place\", Delta Sigma Theta, and the city of San Gabriel centennial float \"Celebrating Our Journey\". It began with the Wells Fargo/Opening Unit, American Honda's float, the U.S. Marine Corps's Mounted Color Guard and the U.S. Marine Corps West Coast Composite Band.\nFarmers Insurance's \"Love Float\" featured the wedding of a Virginia couple, Nicole and Gerald of Chesapeake, VA, which was officiated by nationally syndicated radio personality Sean Valentine. The couple was selected through a first-ever public vote by the American people. The parade's closing unit featured Coco Jones of the Disney Channel.\n\nFeatured in the 2014 parade were 45 floats, including new floats from eHarmony, K9s4COPS, Public Storage (\"Adventures In Space\") and SeaWorld. Actor, director, writer, producer Garry Marshall played the role of \"director\" on Burbank's \"Lights...camera...action!\" float. KC and the Sunshine Band were featured on Stella Rosa Wine's \"Stellabrate Good Times\" float. Performing on the e-Harmony float was Natalie Cole, singing \"This Will Be\". NBC's \"The Voice\" joined this parade too, along with Daryl Hall and the Harlem Globetrotters. The AIDS Healthcare Foundation float (\"Living the Dream: Love Is the Best Protection\") featured a wedding of a California couple, Aubrey Loots and Danny Leclair; some people called for a boycott of the parade as the couple were both men. Nancy O'Dell, along with Jonathan and Drew Scott (of the \"Property Brothers\") co-hosted the parade.\n\nThe 2015 parade had 41 floats. New participants were ABC's \"The Bachelor\", American Armenian Rose Float Association, Kiehl's Since 1851, Northwestern Mutual, United Sikh Mission and Zappos.com.\n\nThe 2016 parade featured 44 floats, 19 equestrian units, and 20 marching bands. New participants were Los Angeles Lakers, City of Irvine Chamber of Commerce, South Dakota Tourism, the California Milk Advisory Board, PBS (featuring Downton Abbey), and Union Bank. It marked the end of Bob Eubanks and Stephanie Edwards's participation in the parade for local television station KTLA. Singpoli Group's float \"Marco Polo East Meets West\", constructed by float builder Paradiso was judged as the sweepstakes winner, the \"Most beautiful entry in the Parade with outstanding floral presentation and design.\"\n\nOriginally the parade featured flower-decorated horse carriages. Over time, floats built by volunteers from sponsoring communities supplanted the carriages. Currently most are built by professional float building companies and take nearly a year to construct. Some communities and organizational sponsors still rely on volunteers. The Valley Hunt Club still enters a flower-decorated carriage. The Cal Poly Universities Rose Float still relies solely on students who volunteer. Floats are self-propelled on (generally used-up) truck chassis in contrast to the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade which uses trailer-based floats pulled by new, intact (sponsor-provided) trucks.\n\nTypically 48 to 72 hours prior to parade day, one can view several of the floats being decorated with flowery mantles in the various 'float barns' that dot the Arroyo Seco / Rose Bowl area in West Pasadena, not far from the start of the parade. It is a rule of the parade that all surfaces of the float framework must be covered in natural materials (such as flowers, plants, seaweeds, seeds, bark, vegetables, or nuts, for example); furthermore, no artificial flowers or plant material are allowed, nor can the materials be artificially colored. Last-minute volunteer opportunities are usually available.\n\nAnaheim city's float at the 2008 Rose Parade included the Stanley Cup that the NHL's Anaheim Ducks had won last season, hoisted by player Brad May. (As the regulations state that the outside of the float must exclusively use organic material, ABC commentators speculated that the city got an exception to display the Cup.) Also, the Los Angeles Dodgers had a float in celebration of the franchise's 50th anniversary in Los Angeles, with Hall of Fame sportscasters Vin Scully and Jaime Jarrin as well as former players Steve Garvey, Fernando Valenzuela, Eric Karros, and Nomar Garciaparra.\n\nThe 2010 parade floats included the Boy Scouts of America's 100th Anniversary float, the Consulate General of Mexico in Los Angeles in celebration of Mexico's bicentennial of independence, and \"Safety Harbor Kids\". The 2010 parade also featured a float from Dick Van Patten's Natural Balance Pet Foods, which set a Guinness world record for the longest single-chassis float. The City of West Covina paid tribute to the \"service and commitment of the Tuskegee Airmen\" with a float entitled \"Tuskegee Airmen – A Cut Above\", which featured a large bald eagle, two replica World War II \"Redtails\" fighter planes, and historical images of some of the airmen who served our country. The float won the Mayor's trophy as the most outstanding city entry – national or international, also Anaheim float featured the 2010 Major League Baseball All-Star Game that was played at Angel Stadium of Anaheim, four former MLB All-Stars, pitchers Mark Langston, Chuck Finley, and Troy Percival, along with second baseman Bobby Grich were aboard.\n\nSince January 1, 2012, fell on a Sunday, tradition dictated that the parade would be held on Monday, January 2, 2012. The 2012 Rose Parade had 43 floats, featuring the LMU Centennial Celebration float, and the Girl Scouts of the USA 100th Anniversary float (entitled \"What Will You Do Today?\"). Float builder Fiesta Floats donated their services to the design of the Girl Scouts float, which was decorated by the organization's volunteers (of all ages). Paramount Pictures also participated in the 2012 parade with its centennial celebration float \"100 Years of Movie Magic\". Namco Bandai Games joined the parade for the first time, commemorating the Power Rangers. Others were Microsoft Kinect (\"You are the Controller\") and the Kit-Cat Klock (\"Timeless Fun for Everyone\").\n\nThe floats compete for one of 24 awards selected by three judges each year. The 2013 parade float judges were esteemed floral designer Shane Connolly, Macy's marketing executive and event producer Amy Kule, and Brian Sullivan, an executive with Southern California's Descanso Gardens. Since Honda became the title sponsor, its floats are not eligible to compete for an award.\n\nAfter the parade the floats are parked at the end of the parade route on Sierra Madre Boulevard and Washington Boulevard, near Victory Park and are on display for a day and a half (two-and-a-half days when January 1 falls on Friday) after the parade. None of the float riders or dignitaries/celebrities involved in the parade are present, and animated features on some floats are not activated. Admission to the viewing area is $13 and children are admitted free.\n\nFrom the beginning horses have played a part in the Rose Parade. Thousands of riders have made the trek down Colorado Boulevard. \"The Tournament equestrian family grows bigger and stronger every year as it welcomes the new equestrians who come to share the magic of New Year's Day and appreciate the commitment to excellence and professionalism exhibited by the returning equestrian units to the parade,\" according to the Tournament of Roses.\n\nPrior to the parade an \"Equestfest\" is held at the Los Angeles Equestrian Center to showcase the performances by the talented riding teams. Equestrian units taking part in \"Equestfest\" have included the Clydesdales of the First Cavalry Division from U.S. Army Fort Hood, \"Traveler\" (the USC mascot), the Sons and Daughters of the Reel West, and the California State Fire Fighters Association. Bob Eubanks and Shawn Parr have served as announcers at \"Equestfest.\"\n\nMontie Montana was a perennial participant until his death in 1998. TV viewers know him from more than 60 appearances, waving to the crowd from his silver saddle.\n\n2010: 23 units – All American Cowgirl Chicks, Amigos de Anza Equestrian Drill Team, Arizona Mini Mystique Driving Drill Team, Benny Martinez Family, Calizona Appaloosa Horse Club, Cowgirls Historical Foundation, Giddy Up Gals, L.A. County Sheriff – Mounted Enforcement, Long Beach Mounted Police, Medieval Times, The New Buffalo Soldiers, Painted Ladies Rodeo Performers, Region 1 Versatile Arabians, Scripps Miramar Saddlebreds, The Shire Riders, So Cal Peruvian Paso Horse Club, U.S. Army Ft. Hood – 1st Cavalry, USMC – Color Guard, USMC – Mountain Warfare Training, Valley Hunt Club, Victorian Roses Ladies Riding Society, Wells Fargo, and Western Haflinger Association.\n\n2011: 22 units – 1st Cavalry Fort Hood, All American Cowgirl Chicks, Benny Martinez Family, California State Firefighters' Association, Cowgirls Historical Foundation, Equine Extremist with Tommie Turvey, Giddy Up Gals Drill Team, Kern County Sheriffs Mounted Posse, Long Beach Mounted Police, Medieval Times Dinner and Tournament, New Buffalo Soldiers, Region One Arabians, Saving America's Mustangs Foundation, Scripps Miramar Saddlebreds, Southern California Peruvian Paso Horse Club, Spirit of the West Riders, The Shire Riders, United States Marine Corps Mounted Color Guard, Valley Hunt Club, Victorian Roses Ladies Riding Society, Wells Fargo, and Wild West Willie (combined with Kern County Sheriffs Mounted Posse).\n\n2012: 22 units – The All American Cowgirl Chicks, Arizona Mini Mystique, Broken Horn Ropers, Calgary Stampede Showriders (riding with the Calgary Stampede Showband), Calizona Appaloosas, Cowgirls Historical Foundation, Escondido Mounted Police, First Cavalry Fort Hood (US Army), Kings County Sheriff's Posse, LAPD Mounted Unit, Long Beach Mounted Police, Los Hermanos Banuelos, Medieval Times, Merced County Sheriff's Posse, New Buffalo Soldiers, The Santa Rosa Palomino Club, So Cal Peruvian Pasos, Spirit of the West, War Horse Militia, US Marine Corps, Valley Hunt Club, and Wells Fargo.\n\n2013: 20 units – 1st Cavalry Division Horse Cavalry Detachment, All American Cowgirl Chicks, Anaheim Police Department Mounted Enforcement Unit, Canadian Cowgirls Precision Drill Team, Costumed Arabians Region One, Hawaii Pāʻū Riders, Hermanos Banuelos Charro Team, Jackson Fork Ranch Percherons, Long Beach Mounted Police, Marine Corps Mounted Color Guard, Medieval Times, The New Buffalo Soldiers, The Norco Cowgirls Rodeo Drill Team, ONDAR and the Eagles of Tuva, Prime Time Express Mounted Drill Team, Ramona Pageant, Scripps Miramar Saddlebreds, SD Farm, Spirit of the West Riders, Valley Hunt Club, Wells Fargo.\n\n2014: 16 units – All American Cowgirl Chicks, Budweiser Clydesdales, Calizona Appaloosa Horse Club, Hermanos Bañuelos Charro Team, Los Angeles Police Metropolitan Division Mounted Platoon/Los Angeles County Sheriff's Mounted Enforcement Detail, The Martinez Family, Medieval Times Dinner & Tournament, The New Buffalo Soldiers, The Norco Cowgirls Rodeo Drill Team, Norwegian Fjord Horse Registry, Scripps Miramar Saddlebreds, Spirit of the West Riders,\nUnited States Marine Corps Mounted Color Guard, Valley Hunt Club, War Horse Foundation, Wells Fargo. Equestfest will take place December 29, 2013.\n\n2015: 18 units – 1st Cavalry Division Horse Cavalry Detachment, Budweiser Clydesdales, Hawaii Pa’u Riders, Hermanos Bañuelos Charro Team, Los Angeles County Fire Department, The Martinez Family, Medieval Times Dinner & Tournament, The New Buffalo Soldiers, The Norco Cowgirls Rodeo Drill Team, Old Spanish Days in Santa Barbara, Prime Time Express Mounted Drill Team, Scripps Miramar Saddlebreds, Spirit of the West Riders, United States Forest Service Pack String, United States Marine Corps Mounted Color Guard, Valley Hunt Club, Victorian Roses Ladies Riding Society, Wells Fargo.\n\n2016: 19 units – 1st Cavalry Horse Detachment – Fort Hood, American Endurance Ride Conference, Anheuser Busch Budweiser Clydesdales, Calizona Appaloosa Horse Club, Dakota Thunder Shires, Long Beach Mounted Police, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, Los Hermanos Bañuelos, Martinez Family, Medieval Times Dinner & Tournament, National Park Service, The New Buffalo Soldiers, The Norco Cowgirls & The Little Miss Norco Cowgirls Rodeo Drill Team, Scripps Miramar Ranch, Spirit of the West Riders, U.S. Army Field Artillery Half Section – Fort Sill, U.S. Marine Corps Mounted Color Guard, Valley Hunt Club, and Wells Fargo.\n\n2017: 20 units – 1st Cavalry Division Horse Cavalry Detachment (Fort Hood, Texas), Backcountry Horsemen of California – Mid-Valley Unit (Sonora, California), Budweiser Clydesdales (St. Louis, Missouri), California Highway Patrol Mounted Patrol Unit (Sacramento, California), Kern County Sheriff's Mounted Posse (Bakersfield, California), Los Hermanos Bañuelos Charro Team (Altadena, California), Mane Attraction Equestrian Drill Team (Riverside, California), Medieval Times Dinner and Tournament (Buena Park, California), The New Buffalo Soldiers (Shadow Hills, California), The Norco Cowgirls & The Little Miss Norco Cowgirls Rodeo Drill Team (Norco, California), Philippine Scouts Heritage Society – U.S. Army's 26th Cavalry Regiment (Los Angeles, California), Santa Barbara County Sheriff Mounted Enforcement Unit (Santa Barbara, California), Scripps Miramar Saddlebreds (San Diego, California), Seven Oaks Farm Miniature Therapy Horses (Hamilton, Ohio), Spirit of the West Riders (Leona Valley, California), Union Rescue Mission – Los Angeles (Los Angeles, California), United States Marine Corps Mounted Color Guard (Barstow, California), Valley Hunt Club (Pasadena, California), Victorian Roses Ladies Riding Society (San Diego, California), and Wells Fargo Stagecoaches (Los Angeles, California).\n\nTop marching bands from all over the world are invited. Many of the nation's top high school marching bands, along with college and organizational marching bands participate.\n\nThe bands participating in the parade have developed traditions throughout the its history. For example, Pasadena City College's Tournament of Roses Honor Band always marches in the Rose Parade, along with the Los Angeles Unified School District All City Honor Band, all of whom are selected by audition the previous autumn. Positions in both bands are coveted, and those selected are among the best student musicians in California.\n\nThe Tournament of Roses Honor Band's Herald Trumpets unit marches and plays directly before the Rose Queen's float. Nine trumpet players and one snare drummer are selected from those who audition for the band for the unit.\n\nUniversity marching bands from the two schools competing in the Rose Bowl Game are invited to march in the parade. They typically accompany the float that represents the school and conference.\n\nBands that have a long-standing arrangement to be in the parade include:\n\nIn 1891, the Monrovia Town Band was the first musical group to perform in the Rose Parade. In 1998, the Washington Township High School Minutemen Marching Band from Sewell, New Jersey became the first band in the history of the Rose Parade to decorate its entire ranks with live flowers, in keeping with the practice of decorating the parade floats. From the neighboring town of Arcadia, the Arcadia High School Apache Marching Band and Colorgaurd has appeared for 15 years, returning about every four years. The Allen Eagle Escadrille from Allen, Texas had a record breaking 780 members in the 2016 Rose Parade.\n\nIn addition to the parade, the bands participate in a two-day, three-show Bandfest at Pasadena City College's Jackie and Mack Robinson Stadium, usually on December 29 and 30 (December 30 and 31 when the parade is on January 2). Twenty bands participated in the 2016 parade.\n\nShortly after the parade in January, the newly elected President of the Tournament of Roses has the duty of picking a theme for the forthcoming festivities. Most of the floral floats in the parade are inspired by this theme.\n\nOn January 18, 2018, Gerald Freeny was confirmed as President of the Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association. He announced that the theme for the 130th Rose Parade and 105th Rose Bowl Game is \"The Melody of Life\". The parade and bowl game will be held on January 1, 2019. The Tournament of Roses President will lead the 14-member Executive Committee and the organization of 935 volunteer members for the upcoming year.\n\nThe Grand Marshal of the parade is an honorary position selected by the president of the Tournament. Many are picked for a relationship to the theme that is also picked by the president. \n\nThe 2018 Grand Marshal was Academy Awards nominee and distinguished humanitarian Gary Sinise. For the 2017 parade, Greg Louganis, Janet Evans and Allyson Felix served as marshals. Documentary filmmaker Ken Burns was selected as the 2016 Grand Marshal.\n\nThe 2015 parade Grand Marshal was to be Louis Zamperini. After his death on July 2, 2014, the Tournament announced that it was \"committed to honoring him as the Grand Marshal of the 2015 Rose Parade.\" During the parade, USC mascot Traveler walked in his place, riderless to honor Zamperini.\n\nVin Scully was chosen as the Grand Marshal of the 2014 parade and Rose Bowl Game. Previously, President Sally Bixby named Jane Goodall as the Grand Marshal for the 2013 parade, succeeding J. R. Martinez, the 2012 grand marshal.\n\nFood Network star Paula Deen was the Grand Marshal of the 2011 parade. Captain Chesley Sullenberger was the 2010 Grand Marshal and actress Cloris Leachman served as the 2009 Grand Marshal, the 10th female grand marshal in the history of the parade. Mary Pickford was the first female Grand Marshal. Other Hollywood celebrities who appeared as Grand Marshal are Leo Carrillo, Harold Lloyd, Walt Disney, John Wayne, and Bob Hope.\n\nRepeat Marshals of the Tournament of Roses Parade\n\nEach September, some 1,000 young women (and a few young men) between the ages of 17 to 21, interview for the honor of serving as a member of the Tournament of Roses Royal Court. The Pasadena Tournament of Roses administers a selection process to determine which greater Pasadena-area young women will have the honor of being crowned Queen of the Tournament of Roses, or more commonly known as \"Rose Queen.\" In addition to one Rose Queen, six Rose Princesses will also be selected to make up the Royal Court. The Royal Court will then ride on a specially-designed float in the Rose Parade and will also preside over the Rose Bowl Game. The Royal Court will also attend over one hundred events in the Southern California area as ambassadors of the Tournament of Roses.\n\n\"One Tree Hill\" and \"Chicago P.D.\" actress Sophia Bush was Rose Queen in 2000. 1997 Rose Princess Lisa Remillard is an anchor with San Diego's KUSI television station.\n\nThe 2015 Rose Queen is Madison Triplett (John Marshall Fundamental High School). Members of the Royal Court are Mackenzie Byers (Pasadena City College), Gabrielle Current (Flintridge Sacred Heart Academy), Veronica Mejia (Pasadena City College), Bergen Onufer (Mayfield Senior School), Simona Shao (Westridge School) and Emily Stoker (Temple City High School).\n\nThe 2016 Rose Queen is Erika Karen Winter (Flintridge Preparatory School). Members of the Royal Court are Natalie Breanne Hernandez-Barber (Alverno High School), Donaly Elizabeth Marquez (Blair International Baccalaureate School), Bryce Marie Bakewell (Flintridge Sacred Heart Academy), Rachelle Liu (San Marino High School), Regina Pullens (Maranatha High School), and Sarah Shaklan (La Canada High School).\n\nThe 2017 Rose Queen is Victoria \"Tori\" Castellanos (Temple City High School).\n\nIsabella Marez of La Salle High School was crowned as the 100th Tournament of Roses Queen on October 18, 2017. Other members of the 2018 Royal Court: Julianne Lauenstein (La Cañada High School); Syndey Pickering (Arcadia High School); Savannah Bradley (Pasadena High School); Georgia Cervenka (La Cañada High School); Lauren Buehner (Arcadia High School); Alexandra Artura (Flintridge Sacred Heart Academy).\n\nMore recent attendance figures are followed by the TV and predicted attendance in parentheses. Most estimates are conducted by the Tournament of Roses and the Pasadena Police Department. A number of studies were conducted by the Anderson School of Management at UCLA on attendance and economic impact to Southern California.\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" ran a study in 1980 that said the actual attendance at the parade was actually about 60% of what is claimed each year.\n\nThe Rose Parade is televised on ABC, NBC, Univision (in Spanish), HGTV, Sky Link TV (in Mandarin and Cantonese), Hallmark Channel, RFD TV, and KTLA (the latter three offer interruption-free coverage, although KTLA continues to repeat the parade throughout the day with commercials). WGN-TV in Chicago carried KTLA's uninterrupted coverage of the 2009 parade (WGN and KTLA are both owned by Tribune Broadcasting, subsidiary of the Tribune Media Company). Until 2005, the parade was also broadcast on CBS, and KTTV also televised the parade from the station's sign-on in 1949 until 1995. ABC serves as the official broadcaster of the parade, and its sister network ESPN currently airs the Rose Bowl (which formerly aired on ABC).\n\nEach year, the newly elected Tournament of Roses President is responsible for selecting the year's theme and grand marshal. Preparation and construction of the floral floats theoretically begins after the theme is announced. The selection of marching bands is already well under way except for Rose Bowl Game college bands. In 2005, Libby Evans Wright was elected as the first female president of the Association.\n\nThe Pasadena Tournament of Roses appointed former \"Los Angeles Times\" executive P. Scott McKibben as its executive director in 2010, replacing John M. (Mitch) Dorger, who had served as CEO since 2000. On September 8, 2011, he resigned for personal reasons. Chief Operating Officer William B. Flinn was named interim executive director. From March 1, 2012 to January 2, 2017, William B. Flinn took over the role of Executive Director. David Eads became the Executive Director in 2017.\n\nThe Tournament of Roses has become such a large event that it requires 65,000 hours of combined manpower each year, or the equivalent of roughly 7.42 years of combined manpower. Fortunately for the Association, the group has 935 members, each of whom is assigned to one of 34 committees, and around 50 student ambassadors. Responsibilities include:\n\nDuring the Parade, many Tournament members are required to wear white suits with red ties, name tags, membership pins and official ribbons. Because of this, the volunteers are commonly referred to as \"White Suiters.\" In December each year, a fleet of white vehicles with special \"ToR\" license plates are seen throughout the San Gabriel Valley. The use of these cars is currently donated by American Honda for use by high-ranking Tournament members.\nEach year, an honor troop of Eagle Scouts from the San Gabriel Valley Council, (now GLAAC), and \"The Tournament Troop\" of Girl Scout Gold Award recipients of the Arcadia Service Unit of the Girl Scouts Greater Los Angeles, is selected to carry the parade banners down the route. Each year, for the last 35 years, more than 100 scouts have participated.\n\nThe \"Tournament of Roses Radio Amateurs\" (TORRA) provided audio communications and video co-ordination for the parade officials through the use of Amateur radio from 1968 until 2005. With over 300 ham radio operators in TORRA there were several ham radio sites along the parade route equipped with amateur television as well as 2-way ham radios. Several mobile units – including motorcycles and pedestrian units (creepie-peepies) provided the video coverage. With modern technology and cell phone service, TORRA was no longer needed.\n\nThousands more volunteers help cover the floats in those beautiful flower and seed mixes during \"Deco week,\" Dec 26- parade day. Many of these come back year after year, some even camp nearby to help all week long.\n\nFor the 2006 Tournament of Roses Parade on January 2 (it is always held on January 2 when January 1 falls on a Sunday) winds with gusts up to and five inches (130 mm) of rain in the Pasadena area were predicted. The forecast proved accurate, ruining the 51 year record of good weather for the parade. It rained continuously and heavily throughout the entire 2006 parade. The President of the Tournament, the Grand Marshal of the Parade and the executive committee, deliberated into the early morning at the Tournament House. With street rumors circulating of the parade being canceled or postponed and restlessness of the crowd further east along the parade route, the parade got underway despite the bleak weather. Low television ratings and poor attendance plagued the ceremony. Some floats sustained water damage by the end of the parade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12683908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12683908", "title": "Royal Lyceum Theatre", "text": "Royal Lyceum Theatre\n\nThe Royal Lyceum Theatre is a 658-seat theatre in the city of Edinburgh, Scotland, named after the Theatre Royal Lyceum and English Opera House, the residence at the time of legendary Shakespearean actor Henry Irving. It was built in 1883 by architect C. J. Phipps at a cost of £17,000 on behalf of James B. Howard and Fred. W. P. Wyndham, two theatrical managers and performers whose partnership became the renowned Howard & Wyndham Ltd created in 1895 by Michael Simons of Glasgow. \nWith only four minor refurbishments, in 1929, 1977, 1991, and 1996, the Royal Lyceum remains one of the most original and unaltered of the architect's works.\n\nOpening night was 10th September 1883 with a performance of \"Much Ado About Nothing\" by the company of the London Lyceum Theatre and starring Henry Irving and Ellen Terry.\n\nIn 1965, the building was purchased by the Edinburgh Corporation to house the newly formed Royal Lyceum Theatre Company, who are now the permanent residents, leasing it from the local council.\n\nThe Royal Lyceum has been one of the principal venues for the Edinburgh International Festival since the festival's inception in 1947, its owners renting out the building for three weeks every August for visiting companies, and often for a further week to Fringe companies.\n\nThe Royal Lyceum has primarily been known for its provision of drama. However it has also presented some significant opera, from the first tours of Carl Rosa in the latter part of the 19th century through to the early decades of Scottish Opera in the 1960s and 1970s. Some important operas received their first Scottish performance at the Lyceum, including \"Madam Butterfly\", \"Manon\" and \"Die Meistersinger\".\n\nThe theatre was the first in Britain to be fitted with an iron safety curtain, and the first in Scotland to use electricity for house lighting.\n\nDavid Greig took over from Mark Thomson as Artistic Director in 2016.\n\nThe theatre is believed to be haunted and there have been sightings of a blue lady who is believed to be Ellen Terry, the actress who performed at the Lyceum’s first show. In addition a shadowy figure has been reportedly seen high above the stage in the lighting rig. Many sightings have been reported to have been accompanied by a ringing noise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50022817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50022817", "title": "SS Walnut", "text": "SS Walnut\n\nSS \"Walnut\" was a refugee ship converted from a British minesweeping Tree-class trawler which carried Baltic refugees from Sweden to Canada in 1948. The refugees' arrival at Pier 21 in Halifax, Nova Scotia led to a controversy which played an important role in shaping Canada's postwar refugee policies.\n\nInitially entering service during the Second World War as HMT \"Walnut, the trawler was sold for commercial purposes following the war. Converted for use as a cargo ship, the vessel retained the name \"Walnut\" until 1959 when sold and renamed Keta\". The ship was broken up in 1976.\n\nTree-class trawlers were designed to displace 545 tons standard and 770 tons at deep load. They were long overall with a beam of and a draught of . They were powered by a one-cylinder boiler providing steam to one vertical triple expansion engine. This drove one shaft creating and giving the ship a maximum speed of . The ship could carry 183 tons of coal.\n\nThe Tree class was armed with one QF 12-pounder (76 mm) gun, three 20 mm Oerlikon anti-aircraft guns and 30 depth charges. The trawlers had a complement of 40.\n\n\"Walnut\" was laid down on 15 June 1939 as HMT \"Walnut\" (T103) by Smiths Dock Company at South Bank, Middlesbrough with the yard number 1031, one of 20 s built for the British Royal Navy. \"Walnut\" was launched on 12 August 1939 and completed on 13 December 1939. \"Walnut\" belonged to a group of ten minesweepers commanded by New Zealanders in the 24th and 25th anti-submarine and minesweeping flotillas, protecting convoys on the east coast of Britain where they faced numerous German air and sea attacks. \"Walnut\"s commander, Gordon Bridson, received the Distinguished Service Cross for his performance while in command of \"Walnut\". By the end of 1946, \"Walnut\" was one of only two Tree-class trawlers still in service with the Royal Navy. Both were sold in 1948.\n\n\"Walnut\" was first purchased by the Swedish firm Stem Olson and converted to a coastal cargo ship. In September 1948 the ship was purchased by a group of refugees from several Baltic countries who pooled their life savings to form a company called \"Compania Maritima Walnut S/A\". The refugees had fled to Sweden after the Soviet occupation of the Baltic republics. The uncertainty of their status in Sweden and fears that they would be forcibly repatriated to the Soviets led the refugees to search for ships which could take them to another country that might offer secure refuge. \"Walnut\" was registered under the Panama flag to avoid Swedish restrictions on passenger capacity and hastily converted to accommodate 200 passengers.\n\nThe ship sailed from Gothenburg, Sweden on 13 November 1948 and stopped at Lysekil, Sweden to complete the embarkation of passengers and supplies before a final departure on November 17. \"Walnut\" carried 347 passengers, mostly Estonians, but also Latvians, Lithuanians, Finns, Austrians, and Polish refugees. \"Walnut\" stopped at Sligo, Ireland to load coal before crossing the Atlantic. Designed for a civilian crew of 18 or a military crew of 40, the 347 passengers endured a difficult voyage in bad weather, battling leaks and seasickness but arrived safely at Sydney, Nova Scotia on 10 December where food and more coal were taken aboard before the ship resumed its voyage for the Canadian immigration terminal at Pier 21 in Halifax, Nova Scotia.\n\n\"Walnut\" arrived at Halifax on 13 December. The small ship was among the smallest to ever call at the Pier 21 immigration terminal, dwarfed by the giant four stacker RMS Aquitania which arrived at the same pier a few days later with 1,656 passengers. \"Walnut\" presented Halifax immigration officials with a dilemma. The passengers aboard had arrived in Canada without permission or clearance, one of a series of small ships carrying Baltic refugees, nicknamed \"The Viking Ships\", which suddenly arrived in Canada in the fall of 1948. Others included the ships \"Gladstone\", \"Sarabande\", \"Parnu\", \"Ostervag\", \"Capry\", and \"Amanda\". \"Walnut\" had the largest number of aboard and became the focus of public and official attention over the fate of the refugees. The Baltic refugees had tried to come to Canada through official channels but were frustrated by the long delay and barriers in Canada's immigration system which left them vulnerable to a forced return to the Soviet controlled Baltic republics. \"Walnut\"s passengers were detained, some at Halifax's Rockhead prison and others in the detention quarters at the Pier 21 immigration terminal.\n\nHowever the plight of the refugees soon attracted considerable support, especially as they arrived close to Christmas. The Halifax West End Baptist Church presented the refugees in detention with a radio for entertainment and organized a Christmas carol concert on December 21. A variety of civic groups led by the mayor of Halifax John E. Ahern banded together to present a Christmas concert and gifts to the refugees on Christmas Eve. Local seamstresses assembled a costume to represent an Estonian version of Santa Claus, Youluvana, for the captain of \"Walnut\" to wear as he gave presents to all the children aboard including silver dollars given the youngest child; the oldest refugee and the mother of the largest family meant to mark the \"start of the wealth they would accumulate when they were allowed to settle in Canada\".\n\nPublic pressure and widespread press attention made Canadian immigration officials investigate and consider each passenger’s background. In the end, Canada admitted all but two passengers from \"Walnut\", waiving the immigration restrictions of the time by issuing an Order in Council for each individual. In January 1949, the \"Walnut\" refugees held a farewell party with local immigration officials before leaving by train to settle in various regions of Canada. The arrival of the small ex-warship had pushed Canadian immigration officials to change Canadian immigration intervention and interception policies.\n\nAfter \"Walnut\"s arrival in Halifax, the ship was detained at the French Cable Wharf in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia. The ship was sold by auction to pay for expenses from the voyage. During the protracted legal process surrounding her refugee passengers, the ship was stripped of its brass fittings by thieves and scuttled in shallow water in Dartmouth. The ship was sold at another auction in 1951 and rebuilt by the Quebec firm Borromee Verreault. \"Walnut\" was renamed \"Keta\" and worked on the St. Lawrence River and Canadian Arctic until the ship was scrapped in 1975.\n\nPassengers who arrived aboard Walnut and their families remained in contact and organized several re-unions. Many shared photographs to remember their journey which were featured in a display at the Pier 21 museum which opened in the former immigration terminal in 1999. When the Pier 21 museum reopened as national museum, the Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21 in 2014, \"Walnut\" was featured in an interactive video which presents visitors with the 1948 \"Walnut\" controversy and asks them how they would have responded.\n"}
{"id": "22725430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22725430", "title": "Saipan incident", "text": "Saipan incident\n\nThe Saipan incident was a public quarrel in May 2002 between Republic of Ireland national football team's captain Roy Keane and manager Mick McCarthy when the team was preparing in Saipan for its matches in Japan in the 2002 FIFA World Cup. It resulted in Keane, a key player, being sent home from the squad. The incident divided public opinion in Ireland regarding who was to blame.\n\nPrior to the incident, Keane was captain of the Irish national team; since his senior debut under Jack Charlton and then-captain McCarthy, Keane had perceived problems with the preparations of the Irish side. He regarded the Football Association of Ireland (FAI)'s preparations as unprofessional and challenged both Charlton and McCarthy in a number of notable incidents.\n\nAmong Keane's issues with Irish management were the conditions of the camp, travel arrangements (which made the players sit in second class seats on flights, while FAI officials sat in first class), strategy, expectations, diet, and McCarthy's competence. In his autobiography, Keane said that before a World Cup qualifier away versus the Netherlands, the Irish players were eating cheesy sandwiches because the more suitable pre-match meal of pasta was not available.\n\nThe island of Saipan was selected by an FAI delegation as an initial base. From management's perspective the time was considered a period of relative rest and recreation at the end of a long season before moving to Japan to up the preparation levels for the tournament. Keane, on the other hand, who is reputed to have told Alex Ferguson that he was going to the World Cup \"to win it\", viewed it as a period of preparation for the World Cup Finals. He therefore became dissatisfied when facilities and general preparation did not match his expectations.\n\nOn 21 May Keane decided he was going home but subsequently changed his mind and stayed on.\n\nIrish broadcaster RTÉ became aware of the developing row, as did several Irish newspapers. Because of its isolated location, there were certain stories circulating about the event which were all critical of Keane. The \"Daily Star\" newspaper had been a harsh critic of Keane for months in the run up to the competition. This included persistent allegations about Keane's commitment to the Irish team.\n\nContrary to what many believe, that is, that Keane gave an interview to leading sports journalist Tom Humphries of the Irish broadsheet daily newspaper \"The Irish Times\", Keane had actually originally agreed to give the interview to Paul Kimmage of \"The Sunday Independent\". Kimmage then agreed to let Tom Humphries join in on the interview, but made him promise not to print the article until after Kimmages column on Sunday. Humphries reneged on the deal and in retrospect this proved to be a major scoop for the \"Irish Times\". In the article, Keane listed the events and concerns which had led him to decide to leave the team. This article included details and references to the preparations that had been set in place for the Irish team. This would be an indirect implication that the event was organized as a junket for FAI officialdom. The article was seen as a direct affront to the authority of the Irish manager, and the competence of the FAI.\n\nThe \"Irish Times\" article increased tensions greatly. McCarthy decided to question Keane about the article. In a team meeting McCarthy held up a copy of the article and asked \"What's this all about?\", and an argument started. McCarthy then accused Keane of faking injury when Ireland were playing Iran in the second leg of the play off. Keane then unleashed a stinging verbal tirade against McCarthy: \"Mick, you're a liar … you're a fucking wanker. I didn't rate you as a player, I don't rate you as a manager, and I don't rate you as a person. You're a fucking wanker and you can stick your World Cup up your arse. The only reason I have any dealings with you is that somehow you are the manager of my country! You can stick it up your bollocks.\" Mick McCarthy then held a press conference announcing that he had sent Keane home.\n\nNiall Quinn observed in his autobiography that \"Roy Keane's 10-minute oration [against Mick McCarthy] … was clinical, fierce, earth-shattering to the person on the end of it and it ultimately caused a huge controversy in Irish society.\" But at the same time, he was also critical of Keane's stance, saying that \"[He] left us in Saipan, not the other way round. And he punished himself more than any of us by not coming back.\"\n\nNone of his team-mates voiced support for Keane during the meeting, though some later expressed their support to him privately. Keane mentioned in his autobiography that Gary Breen and David Connolly visited his room. Senior players Steve Staunton and Niall Quinn seemed to take the side of McCarthy, and the FAI, in the argument that followed. Staunton was the most loyal to the FAI line of the argument. He was later given the captaincy in Keane's absence.\n\nDespite the efforts of the media and Taoiseach Bertie Ahern, Keane and McCarthy failed to resolve the conflict and Keane missed the World Cup. Keane gave an interview concerning the controversy to RTÉ and when asked if it was possible to go back he did not deny that he might. The Irish football team were defeated in a penalty shootout by Spain in the second round.\n\nThe FAI commissioned a report from external consultants Genesis, into its World Cup preparations. The \"Genesis Report\" agreed with many of Keane's criticisms, finding that the FAI structure was not conducive to good planning and making a range of recommendations. The complete report was never published for legal reasons. Brendan Menton resigned as FAI General Secretary at this time, and the media linked the two events, though Menton denied this.\n\nRoy Keane stated that he would not play again for Ireland under McCarthy, and in his autobiography even said that his former national team coach could 'rot in hell'. McCarthy continued as national team manager and Ireland then played Russia in a qualifying match for the European Championship. Ireland lost to a badly resourced Russian team 4–2, who had played badly in the World Cup. This was followed by a \"booing\" episode in Ireland's next qualifier against Switzerland, with many fans blaming McCarthy. Ireland lost the game 2–1 at Lansdowne Road. In the face of rebellion on the terraces, a decrease in support for the national team, and consequent declining attendance revenues, the FAI decided to remove McCarthy. Ireland then failed to qualify for any major tournament until 2011, when after beating Estonia they qualified for the 2012 European Championships. The appointment of Brian Kerr as team manager in 2003 led to Keane's return to international football on 27 May 2004, in a friendly match against Romania at Lansdowne Road. He played his final international game the following year, having been capped 67 times for the nation since 1991. He retired from playing at club level in 2006.\n\nAs of November 2006, Keane appeared to have mended the fences with McCarthy when the two men settled their differences via a phone call ahead of a match between McCarthy's Wolverhampton Wanderers and Keane's Sunderland. The handshake between the two men received considerable media attention. In April 2007, the managers again met in another match, and Keane praised McCarthy for his work in Sunderland previous to Keane's tenure there.\n\nIn December 2013, Keane, speaking in an ITV4 documentary, admitted his regret at missing out on the 2002 World Cup and said that he should have put his personal issues with McCarthy to one side for the sake of the country, saying \"To play in the World Cup. It would have been nice to play, A lot of people were disappointed, particularly my family.\"\n\nThe incident was so divisive that it was called a \"civil war\" for Ireland. The \"Irish Times\" later wrote that \"[m]ost people have ... a story of a split between families, between friends, between work colleagues.\" In 2005, a musical comedy play parodying the incident and its key players, \"I, Keano\", opened in Dublin. The play, written by Arthur Mathews, Michael Nugent, and Paul Woodfull, represented the incident as a mock-epic melodrama about a Roman legion preparing for war. Keane attended a performance of the show, which ran in Dublin until May 2008.\n\nIn an echo of the incident, three main cast members, including Mario Rosenstock, who portrayed \"Keano\" (the play's version of Roy Keane), left the show early in its first run, leading to media articles about life imitating art imitating life.\n\n"}
{"id": "17876860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17876860", "title": "San Francisco Jewish Film Festival", "text": "San Francisco Jewish Film Festival\n\nSan Francisco Jewish Film Festival is the oldest Jewish film festival in the world, and currently the largest with a 2016 attendance figure of 40,000 at screenings in San Francisco, Berkeley, Oakland, San Rafael, and Palo Alto. The three-week summer festival is held in San Francisco, California, usually at the Castro Theater in San Francisco and other cinemas in San Francisco, Berkeley, Oakland, San Rafael, and Palo Alto, and features contemporary and classic independent Jewish film from around the world. In 2015, the organization re-branded itself as the Jewish Film Institute, retaining the name \"San Francisco Jewish Film Festival\" for the annual film festival.\n\nThe San Francisco Jewish Film Festival also maintains an online archive of Jewish film, and holds individual film screenings throughout the year.\n\nThe festival was first held at the Roxie Theater in San Francisco in 1980. The current executive director is Lexi Leban and the program director is Jay Rosenblatt.\n\nIn 2009, the officials in charge of the event were criticized for the decision to the screen of a film about ISM activist Rachel Corrie. Writing in the N. California JWeekly, Dan Pine noted \"If the Academy handed out an Oscar for community turmoil, the Rachel Corrie flap at this year’s San Francisco Jewish Film Festival would win handily.\" Pine reported that some Jewish community members said that festival organizers \"crossed a line into overtly anti-Israel propaganda\" and that \"Corrie, and now her parents, have worked to ostracize and delegitimize Israel.\" In a statement, festival Executive Director Peter Stein apologized \"for not fully considering how upsetting this program might be.\" At the same time, the festival did not back down from its decision to screen the film.\n\nThe 36th festival was held between July 21 and August 7, 2016, in five locations around the Bay Area. The featured films included \"Germans & Jews\", and Director Janina Quint was scheduled to attended the screening. The 37th festival took place July 20 to August 6, 2017, in the same five Bay Area locations as previous years. The opening and closing films, \"Keep the Change\" and \"\", were both directed by women.\n\nThe 38th festival took place July 19 to August 5, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "31171181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31171181", "title": "Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de Desastres", "text": "Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de Desastres\n\nThe National Civil Defence System for Disaster Prevention and Mitigation of El Salvador (in Spanish: Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil, Prevención y Mitigación de Desastres), commonly known as \"Protección Civil\", is an entity created to prevent disasters or reduce their impact on society, and coordinate disaster relief efforts.\n\nThe Salvadoran Civil Defence System is part of a Central American network of governmental disaster relief agencies known as the Coordination Center for the Prevention of Natural Disasters in Central America (in Spanish: Centro de Coordinación para la Prevención de los Desastres Naturales en América Central (CEPREDENAC)). CEPREDENAC was created in the context of the Central American Integration System (SICA).\n"}
{"id": "15864148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15864148", "title": "Sniper (song)", "text": "Sniper (song)\n\n\"Sniper\" is a ballad written by Harry Chapin and first released on the album \"Sniper and Other Love Songs\" in 1972.\n\nThe song, nearly 10 minutes long, is based on the shootings at the University of Texas tower shooting in 1966, with some fictional elements. The song does not name the actual sniper, Charles Whitman, or the location. The victims' names have also been changed.\n\nHarry wrote this piece using three distinct \"voices\" for dramatic effect. Chapin sings all three voices. The first is the narrator, telling the story. The second is a variety of people reacting to the event, as if in response to news media questions. And the third voice is that of the Sniper himself, stating his fears, his motives, and his raw emotions. Throughout the song, the time signature changes several times, with variations in tempo, identifying and supporting the three different voices. The narrator begins by describing the Sniper climbing the stairs of the tower, \"two bulky suitcases hang[ing] from his hands,\" who then begins shooting at people on the streets below. We hear the public's response and descriptions of the Sniper by those who knew him. The narrator returns and this cycle begins again. Eventually the Sniper pours out his pain over the failed relationship between himself and his mother, who had ignored him as a child.\n\nIn the end, the sniper is killed by police officers who have climbed the tower. The sniper's last words – \"I was, I am, and now I will be\" – lend insight into the psychology of the sniper, who has been on a lifelong quest for self actualization.\n\n"}
{"id": "41623523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41623523", "title": "SwaraZankar Music Festival", "text": "SwaraZankar Music Festival\n\nSwarazankar Music Festival is an event organised by Violin Academy, Pune to present artists of all Gharanas and all types of instruments. It was started in Pune in 2009. \n\nThe three-day festival started in 2009. Some of the renowned Hindustani classical music artistes perform at the event.\nSwaraZankar is a place to come and enjoy Indian Classical Music.\nThe chief objective of its founder, pt. Atulkumar Upadhye - a noted violinist\nall over the world using only fingering without using meends or glides, characteristic on Indian Music, is to popularize Indian Classical Music. \nTo create awareness for Indian Classical Music and to prepare strong\naudiences for future talents, SwaraZankar travels from city to city.\ncurrently, SwaraZankar has covered cities like Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik and Kolhapur, Mumbai, Jalgaon, Belgaum, Dharwad, Solapur, Nagpur, Ratnagiri and Pandharpur.\nTo add into the list SwaraZankar will be conducting Swarazankar Indore, Bengaluru and Chennai too.\nAll the top artists and Maestros like Pt. Hariprasad Chaurasia, Pt. Shivkumar Sharma, Pt. Vishwamohan Bhatt, Ashwini Bhide-Deshpande, Kaushiki Chakraborty,\nPt. Anindo Chatterjee and many other excellent musicians have joined us in our cause and thus are a part of our family.\n\nSwaraZankar, Swara means melodious voice and Zankar is sound of payal.\n\n"}
{"id": "52947216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52947216", "title": "The Scottish Short Film Festival", "text": "The Scottish Short Film Festival\n\nThe Scottish Short Film Festival is an independent film festival which has taken place annually in Scotland since 2012. From 2012 to 2017, the festival was known as The Raptor Filmz Short Scottish Film Festival until the event was rebranded in 2018. \n\nThe festival was set up in 2012 by Scottish filmmaker Chris Young who is the company director of Raptor Filmz Ltd in West Lothian. The aim of the festival is to promote short Scottish films with a view of potentially setting up a distribution deal with filmmakers. The first festival took place in Glasgow at the Grosvenor Cinema and was hosted by Scottish actor David Anderson. With a desire to bring the festival closer to home, the festival was moved to the Howden Park Centre in Livingston where the date of the festival was also moved to January 2014 rather than December 2013. In 2015, the festival found a new home at the Bathgate Regal Community Theatre which is operated by Scottish actor Scott Kyle. Speaking of the Regal, festival curator Chris Young said:\n\nThe festival consists of awards for films and individual prizes. The awards are selected by jury with an audience choice award being decided by visitors of the festival. Jury members in the past have included actor Declan Michael Laird and film editor Chris Quick. In 2018, it was announced that Ross Miller, the film critic for The National newspaper would join the judging panel.\n\nOn 30 July 2017, it was announced that the festival would return in 2018 but under the new name of The Scottish Short Film Festival. The Centre for Contemporary Arts in Glasgow was due to host the 2018 festival but due to the fire at the Glasgow School of Art, the venue was forced to close. It was announced on the festivals twitter account that the Crowne Plaza Glasgow would take over as host.\n\nList of winners and nominees of the festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49486741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49486741", "title": "The Visitors (installation)", "text": "The Visitors (installation)\n\nThe Visitors is a 2012 installation and video art piece created by Ragnar Kjartansson. Kjartansson named the piece for \"The Visitors\", the final album by the Swedish pop band ABBA. The piece was commissioned by the Migros Museum in Zurich, and was one of the museum's inaugural exhibits. The premiere of the piece marked Kjartansson's first solo show in Switzerland.\n\n\"The Visitors\" constitutes the performance of a song written by Ásdís Sif Gunnarsdóttir, Kjartansson's ex-wife. The piece is displayed across nine different screens, each featuring musicians or artists either by themselves or in groups in different rooms of a house, or outside, performing simultaneously but separately. One screen features Kjartansson by himself. Others featured in the piece include friends of Kjartansson, both from the artist's native Reykjavík and elsewhere, as well as residents of Rokeby Farm, where the piece was filmed.\n\nThe piece was originally shown at the Migros Museum in Switzerland, and premiered in the United States in early 2013 at the Luhring Augustine Gallery. The piece has since been displayed in several museums around the world, including The Broad in Los Angeles, The Guggenheim in New York City, the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston, the Turner House Gallery in Penarth, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C., the Frist Center for the Visual Arts in Nashville, Tennessee, and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Phoenix Art Museum\n\nThe piece was filmed at Rokeby Farm, located in upstate New York, near Barrytown. Rokeby is a home and estate that at one point belonged to the Astor family, and later the Livingston family. The property is now inhabited by various descendants of both families, and other tenants. The property was the site of an earlier 2007 piece by Kjartansson, titled \"The Blossoming Trees Performance\", during which he recorded himself as a plein-air painter for two days. The estate has also been used by other artists, due to the unique interiors of the main house on the property.\n\nThe piece has been positively reviewed, with critics highlighting Kjartansson's focus on repetition, a recurring theme in his performances.\n"}
{"id": "661811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=661811", "title": "Theodore Van Kirk", "text": "Theodore Van Kirk\n\nTheodore \"Dutch\" Van Kirk (February 27, 1921 – July 28, 2014) was a navigator in the United States Army Air Forces, best known as the navigator of the \"Enola Gay\" when it dropped the first atomic bomb on Hiroshima. Upon the death of fellow crewman Morris Jeppson on March 30, 2010, Van Kirk became the last surviving member of the \"Enola Gay\" crew.\n\nVan Kirk was born in Northumberland, Pennsylvania, and joined the Army Air Force Aviation Cadet Program October 1941. On 1 April 1942, he received both his commission and navigator wings and transferred to the 97th Bomb Group, the first operational Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress unit in England. The crew of the \"Red Gremlin\" also included pilot Paul Tibbets and bombardier Tom Ferebee. Van Kirk would later fly with these men on the Hiroshima mission.\n\nFrom August to October 1942, the crew flew 11 missions out of England. They were the lead aircraft, responsible for group navigation and bombing. In October 1942, they flew General Mark Clark to Gibraltar for his secret North African rendezvous with the French prior to Operation Torch. In November, they ferried General Eisenhower to Gibraltar to command the North African invasion forces. After German reinforcements began pouring into the port of Bizerte, Tunisia, posing a serious threat to Allied strategy, a new mission emerged. On 16 November 1942, the crew led their group in an attack that took the Germans by surprise at Sidi Ahmed Air Base at Bizerte.\n\nVan Kirk returned to the U.S. in June 1943 after flying a total of 58 missions overseas. He served as an instructor navigator until reuniting with Tibbets and Ferebee in the 509th Composite Group at Wendover Field, Utah, in late 1944. The group flew the Boeing B-29 Superfortress, with Tibbets as commander and Van Kirk as the group navigator. From November 1944 to June 1945 they trained continually for the first atomic bomb drop, which occurred 6 August 1945.\n\nThe thirteen-hour mission to Hiroshima began at 02:45 hrs in the morning Tinian time. By the time they rendezvoused with their accompanying B-29s at 0607 hrs over Iwo Jima, the group was three hours from the target area. As they approached the target Van Kirk worked closely with the bombardier, Tom Ferebee, to confirm the winds and aimpoint. The bomb fell away from the aircraft at 09:15:17 Tinian time. Van Kirk later participated in Operation Crossroads, the first Bikini Atoll atomic bomb tests.\nAccording to the 1995 \"New York Times\" interview by Gustav Niebuhr Mr. Van Kirk said he was often asked, \"given a choice about his role in the Hiroshima bombing, would he do it again?\":\nUnder the same circumstancesand the key words are \"the same circumstances\"  yes, I would do it again. We were in a war for five years. We were fighting an enemy that had a reputation for never surrendering, never accepting defeat. It's really hard to talk about morality and war in the same sentence. In a war, there are so many questionable things done. Where was the morality in the bombing of Coventry, or the bombing of Dresden, or the Bataan Death March, or the Rape of Nanking, or the bombing of Pearl Harbor? I believe that when you're in a war, a nation must have the courage to do what it must to win the war with a minimum loss of lives.\nIn October 2007, Van Kirk auctioned off the flight log he kept on board the Enola Gay during the atomic bombing of Hiroshima for US$358,500 in a public auction. Van Kirk stated he decided to sell the log, because he wanted it to be kept at a museum. The auction house did not reveal the name of the successful bidder, although it said it was a U.S. citizen.\n\nIn August 1946 Van Kirk completed his service in the Army Air Forces as a Major. His decorations include the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross, and 15 Air Medals. Van Kirk went on to receive his Bachelor and Master of Science degrees in Chemical Engineering from Bucknell University in 1949 and 1950. For the next 35 years, he held various technical and managerial positions in research and marketing with DuPont.\n\nDutch Van Kirk appeared April 9–10, 2005 at the MacDill Air Force Base Air Fest, Tampa, FL, filling in for scheduled Paul Tibbets, who was ailing.\n\nVan Kirk was present at the 2008 Thunder over Michigan Air Show.\nOn Friday, April 9, 2010 Van Kirk spoke at the University of West Georgia in the Biology Building Lecture Hall. It was billed as \"Lone Survivor of Enola Gay Visits UWG\".\n\nOn August 21, 2010 Van Kirk appeared at a gun and knife collector's show in Dallas, Texas where his autograph was obtained, dedicated \"To Wikipedia\".\n\nOn September 3, 2010 Major Van Kirk, accompanied by his wife, appeared at the model air show \"Warbirds Over Atlanta 2010\" in Ball Ground, Georgia where he signed his books and photographs as a replica of the B-29 flew overhead.\n\nVan Kirk appeared and signed books at the Vectren Dayton Air Show on July 8, 2012.\n\nVan Kirk appeared at the Marietta Museum of History on August 11–12, 2012. He signed his book, \"My True Course\", from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on both Saturday and Sunday at the museum's Aviation Wing. On Saturday, August 11 at 4 p.m., he gave a rare address at the main wing of the museum.\n\nOn September 14, 2013, Major Van Kirk visited and spoke at the Frontiers of Flight Museum in Dallas, Texas. He spoke for about an hour about his experience in the service, and afterwards, he signed copies of his book, \"My True Course\". During this event, Mr. Van Kirk relayed stories about both his practice bombing runs in America and his real bombing missions abroad. He was asked to describe the difference between the practice and real missions, and he replied, \"In America, they're not shooting at you!\"\n\nOn September 15, 2013, he spoke for approximately an hour and answered questions about his military service and specifically his role as the navigator on the Enola Gay at the Cavanaugh Flight Museum in Addison, Texas. Afterward, he signed copies of his book, \"My True Course\".\n\nVan Kirk died on July 28, 2014. He was survived by his four children.\n\nHis decorations include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3900363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3900363", "title": "Toronto Comicon", "text": "Toronto Comicon\n\nToronto ComiCon (currently stylized as Toronto ComiCon, previously as toronto ComiCON) is an annual comic book and pop culture convention held in Toronto, Ontario, Canada at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre since 2001.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2012, Hobbystar (who also ran Fan Expo Canada) held fall, spring, and winter one-day comic book conventions called the Toronto ComiCON at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre. From 2004-2011, the spring event was referred to as the \"Fan Appreciation Event\" and included free admission held in conjunction with participating Toronto-area comic book stores such as the Silver Snail. Since 2007 the annual spring Toronto Comicon has been a multi-day event, in 2012 it expanded to incorporate the annual March Toronto AnimeCon (MTAC).\n\nBeginning in 2012, the Toronto Comicon format underwent extensive restructuring has now become a three-day event that \"[boasts] unique exhibitors, presentations, workshops and many celebrity guests.\"\n\nSince the changes, the convention has attracted more high-profile guests and attendance rates have increased, therefore making it a key competitor to its parent organizer Fan Expo Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1381817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381817", "title": "Victory day of Bangladesh", "text": "Victory day of Bangladesh\n\nVictory day ( \"Bijôy Dibôs\") is a national holiday in Bangladesh celebrated on December 16 to commemorate the victory of the allied forces over the Pakistani forces in the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. The Commanding officer of the Pakistani Forces General AAK Niazi surrendered with his forces to the joint forces of Bangladesh and India, which marked the ending of the 9 month-long Bangladesh Liberation War and 1971 Bangladesh genocide and official secession of East Pakistan into Bangladesh. India also commemorates victory over Pakistan on the same day in 1971 on Vijay Diwas.\n\nIn 1971 Bangladesh fought the Bangladesh Liberation War against Pakistan to become an Independent country, which resulted in the secession of East Pakistan from the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and established the sovereign nation called Bangladesh. The war pitted East Pakistan and India against West Pakistan, and lasted for a duration of nine months. One of the most violent wars of the 20th century, it witnessed large-scale atrocities, the exodus of 10 million refugees and the Killing of 3 million people.\n\nOn 16 December 1971, Lieutenant General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, CO of Pakistan Armed Forces located in East Pakistan signed the Instrument of Surrender. The Instrument of Surrender was a written agreement that enabled the surrender of the Pakistan Eastern Command in the Bangladesh Liberation War, and marked the end of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 in the Eastern Theater.\n\nThe surrender took place at the Ramna Race Course in Dhaka on 16 December 1971. Lieutenant General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi and Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora, Joint Commander of Indian and Bangladesh Forces, signed the instrument amid thousands of cheering crowds at the racecourse. Air Commodore A. K. Khandker, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Bangladesh Armed Forces, and Lieutenant General J F R Jacob of the Indian Eastern Command, acted as witnesses to the surrender. Also present were Vice-Admiral Mohammad Shariff, commander of the Pakistani Naval Eastern Command and Air Vice-Marshal Patrick D. Callaghan of the Pakistan Air Force's Eastern Air Force Command, who signed the agreement. On behalf of Bangladesh, Air Commodore A. K. Khandker acted as witness to the surrender. Lieutenant General Jacob Rafael Jacob, Chief of Staff of the Indian Eastern Command, along with the other commanders of Indian naval and air forces, acted as witnesses on behalf of India. Aurora accepted the surrender without a word, while the crowd on the race course started shouting anti-Niazi and anti-Pakistan slogans.\n\nIn 1996, the Bangladesh Bank issued a 10 Taka note with an overprint commemorating Victory Day's Silver Jubilee (the 25th anniversary).\n\nThe Surrender of Pakistan Armed Forces marked the end of the Bangladesh Liberation War and the creation of Bangla Desh (later reduced to a single word). Most United Nations member nations were quick to recognize Bangladesh within months of its independence.\nThe celebration of Victory Day has been taking place since 1972. The Bangladesh Liberation War became a topic of great importance in cinema, literature, history lessons at school, the mass media, and the arts in Bangladesh. The ritual of the celebration gradually obtained a distinctive character with a number of similar elements: Military Parade by Bangladesh Armed Forces at the National Parade Ground, ceremonial meetings, speeches, lectures, receptions and fireworks. Victory Day in Bangladesh is a joyous celebration in which popular culture plays a great role. TV and radio stations broadcast special programs and patriotic songs. The main streets are decorated with national flags. Different political parties and socioeconomic organizations undertake programs to mark the day in a befitting manner, including the paying of respects at Jatiyo Smriti Soudho, the national memorial at Savar in Dhaka District.\n\n\n\nOn 16 December of 2015, we were out of poor country.\n"}
{"id": "16194195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16194195", "title": "Village files", "text": "Village files\n\nVillage files were military intelligence documents based on a card index system, with detailed data on every Arab village in Mandatory Palestine. Gathered by the SHAI, they were the basis of Haganah and Palmah operations during the 1940s. The files answered the need of combat intelligence for the number of men in the village, the number of weapons, the topography and so on, dealt with the research of traces of ancient Jews in the villages, and with the possibility of buying land from the villagers and settling it.\n\nThe suggestion for these files came from Luria Ben-Zion, an historian from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, who wrote in 1940 to the Jewish National Fund (JNF) that \"This would greatly help the redemption of the land\". Yossef Weitz, the head of the JNF settlement department immediately suggested that they be turned into a \"national project\". Yitzhak Ben-Zvi suggested that, apart from topographically recording the layout of the villages, the project should also include exposing the \"Hebraic origins\" of each village.\n\nAccording to Ilan Pappé, in the early 1940s, topographers, (aerial) photographers and Orientalists worked on the files. Moshe Pasternak, who joined a data collection operation in 1940 said:\n\nAccording to Gil Eyal, the information was rather gathered between 1945 and 1947 when between 600 and 1000 villages were \"surveyed by scouts and informers as well as aerial reconnaissance\".\n\nAccording to Pappé, later the files were updated and much more details of the inhabitants were added. Towards the end of the Mandatory period more military information was added, like the number of guards and the number and quality of arms in a village, next to the already present information on how best to attack a village. The final update in 1947 focussed on creating lists of ‘wanted’ persons in each village. The main criteria for inclusion were participation in actions against the British and the Zionists, and affiliation with a Palestinian political party or leader. Typically 20 to 30 out of 1500 inhabitants were on the lists.\n\nAccording to Pappé in the late 1940s these files contained 'precise details […] about the topographic location of each village, its access roads, quality of land, water springs, main sources of income, its sociopolitical composition, religious affiliations, names of its mukhtars, its relationship with other villages, the age of individual men (sixteen to fifty),' an index of hostility based on the level of the village’s participation in the revolt of 1936, and a list of everyone who had been involved in the revolt with particular attention for those who had allegedly killed Jews.\n\nAccording to Eyal the 'village files' gathered three types of information:\n\n\nEyal emphasizes that \"the bulk of information in the files reflected the needs and point of view of the emerging Arabist expertise. (...) The Arabists could use this information to interpret the events in the village, but more importantly they could use it to act against the village and use this when needed\". He points out it were used after 1948, e.g. during retaliation operations, but doesn't make any reference to a use during the 1948 Palestine War.\n\nAccording to Pappé, during the 1948 war, after the occupation of a village, if possible, the people on the list were identified, usually by an informer wearing a cloth sack over his head, and often shot on the spot.\n\nEyal refers to the use of the 'village files' by Israeli military governors after the 1948 War. According to him, they used them in the areas conquered by Israel in order to control the mukhtars and the Arab villagers.\n\nAccording to Ian Black and Benny Morris the 'village files' were also used in the 1950s by Aman, Israel's military intelligence service, as the basis of their \"intelligence on potential targets in the West Bank and the Gaza strip.\". Eyal also refers to this use.\n\nMeron Benvenisti used the village files in his 2002 book \"Sacred Landscape: Buried History of the Holy Land Since 1948\", as an example showing the level of detail on one Palestinian village; Abu Zurayq.\n\n\nBeit Dajan Yaffa on the Road of Orange and Struggle. By Dr Ayman Hammoudeh. Jordan 2016 (See it on Google). The book describes the village files from a new angle: the Palestinians in the village of Beit Dajan 19548 near Yaffa who came in direct contact with the Jewish gangs and their spies who were gathering information about the village to be used later for ethnically cleanse the village on 28-4-1948).\n\n"}
{"id": "9584068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9584068", "title": "Walter Oesau", "text": "Walter Oesau\n\nWalter \"Gulle\" Oesau (28 June 1913 – 11 May 1944) was a German fighter pilot during World War II. A fighter ace, he served in the Luftwaffe from 1934 until his death in 1944. He rose to command \"Jagdgeschwader\" 1, which was named in his honor after his death.\n\nHe served with the Condor Legion during the Spanish Civil War with the \"Jagdgruppe\" 88. He claimed nine aircraft during the campaign, becoming one of only 28 people to earn the award of the Spanish Cross in Gold and Diamonds.\n\nAt the start of World War II, Oesau was given command of a fighter group within \"Jagdgeschwader\" 20. The group took part in the Invasion of Poland, later moving to the Western Front as the redesignated III Gruppe, \"Jagdgeschwader\" 51. Oesau operated on both the Western and Eastern Fronts.\n\nHe returned to operations as commander of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 1. He was killed in action on 11 May 1944 aged 30. JG 1 was given the name \"Oesau\" in his honor.\n\nWalter \"Gulle\" Oesau was born to a bank director in Farnewinkel near Meldorf, Germany on 28 June 1913. He joined the German Army (Heer) in October 1933 and served in the Second Artillery Regiment as an enlisted soldier. After being transferred to a \"Luftwaffe\" transport unit, he undertook flying training in 1934 as a cadet (\"Fahnenjunker\") at the \"Luftwaffe\" Academy (\"Deutsche Verkehrsfliegerschule\") in Hanover. Upon completion of his training he was assigned to \"Jagdgeschwader\" 132, as a \"Leutnant\". The unit was re–designated as \"Jagdgeschwader\" 2 \"Richthofen\" in May 1939.\n\nOesau started his operational career with the Condor Legion, along with future contemporary aces such as Werner Mölders and Adolf Galland. He was one of the first to join 3. \"Jagdgruppe\" 88 in Spain in April 1938. The \"Staffel\", commanded by Werner Mölders, took part in the Spanish Civil War where Oesau claimed nine victories, flying 130 combat missions. For this he received the Spanish Cross (\"Spanienkreuz\") in Gold with Diamonds. He was also wounded in this conflict which earned him the Spanish Wound Badge.\nHe also received the \"Medalla de la Campaña\" and the \"Medalla Militar\".\n\nOn 1 March 1939 Oesau joined the Headquarters Flight (\"Stabsschwarm\") of I./JG 2. By 15 July 1939 Oesau was promoted to \"Oberleutnant\" and given command of 2./JG 20. On 15 July 1939, I./JG 20 was activated in Döberitz initially consisting of two \"Staffeln\" drawn from JG 2. Prior to the invasion of Poland I./JG 20 was transferred to Strausbergon 26 August 1939. From there, the group was transferred to Sprottau (modern Szprotawa) anticipating an attack from the Polish Air Force. A week later the group moved to Brandenburg. On 21 February 1940, the unit was relocated to Bönninghardt under the control of JG 51. It continued to operate in this fashion until the end of the Battle of France. On 4 July it was re–designated III./JG 51. Oesau served as \"Staffelkapitän\" of 7./JG 51.\n\nOesau got his first World War II victory during the Battle of France on 13 May 1940, when he claimed a French Curtiss P-36 Hawk over Halsteren in the Netherlands, earning him the Iron Cross 1st class (). On 31 May, he claimed three Spitfires during a patrol North West of Dunkirk and next day he claimed a Bristol Blenheim. On 13 June 1940, he shot down the last French aircraft kill claimed by JG 51, a French Amiot bomber. By the end of hostilities in France on 25 June, his World War II tally stood at 5 (13 including Spanish kills).\n\nFollowing the Battle of France, the Luftwaffe started its attacks on Channel convoys as a prelude to the Battle of Britain. The primary task of JG 51 during this time was to provide fighter escort to these bomber missions. The commander of JG 51, \"Oberst\" Theo Osterkamp established a policy of unrestricted combat air patrol (\"freie Jagd\") of fighter \"Staffeln\" providing loose protection rather than close escort to the bombers, actively seeking out Royal Air Force fighters. On 7 July 1940 Oesau claimed one Spitfire.\n\nOn 10 July 1940, the first major clashes of the Battle of Britain occurred in a phase known as the \"Kanalkampf\". 20 Bf 109s of III./JG 51 led by \"Hauptmann\" Hannes Trautloft and 30 Bf 110 C of I./\"Zerstörergeschwader\" 26 escorted 20 Dornier Do 17 bombers of II./\"Kampfgeschwader\" 2 attacking a large convoy off Folkestone. \"Oberleutnant\" Oesau was leading 7./JG 51.\n\nTrautloft noticed three of a flight of six intercepting Hurricanes of No. 32 squadron higher than the escorts, attempting to intercept the bombers. Soon they were joined by four squadrons of British fighters: No. 56 Squadron, No. 111 Squadron, No. 64 Squadron and No. 74 Squadron. Oesau was able to claim three Spitfires. Two 7./JG 51 aircraft crash landed in France. British losses show that no Spitfire was lost or destroyed in the ensuing battle. Only one No. 32 Hurricane, piloted by Pilot Officer Higgs, was destroyed in a collision with one of the Do 17s and only one other Hurricane was damaged. It is possible Oesau was responsible for damaging Higgs' Hurricane, causing him to lose control. Two Spitfires landed with light damage while a third was also slightly damaged and force-landed at RAF Manston. Over claiming of enemy losses was rife on both sides during the battle.\n\nOn 19 July, III./JG 51 were confronted by Defiants of No. 141 Squadron south of Folkestone. As the German pilots were now aware of the Defiant's lack of forward armament, they soon gained the advantage in combat and claimed 11 Defiants shot down in 8 minutes. Oesau was credited with one Defiant, taking his score to 19. He was the first one of JG 51 to reach double digits in World War II. RAF losses record six Defiants destroyed and two damaged.\n\nOn 18 August 1940, III./JG 51 escorted Dorniers attacking Hornchurch airfield. Intercepted by Hurricanes over Kent, Oesau claimed one Hurricane shot down as his 20th victory, earning him the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross () two days later, the first pilot of JG 51 to be thus honored. On 23 August 1940, Trautloft took over as \"Geschwaderkommodore\" of JG 54, and Walter Oesau replaced him as \"Gruppenkommandeur\" of III./JG 51. By October 1940, Oesau had a total score of 48 (including 26 Spitfires).\n\nOn 10 November 1940 Oesau succeeded Wilhelm Balthasar as \"Gruppenkommandeur\" of III./JG 3. With 39 victories he was currently the 4th highest scoring Ace behind Helmut Wick, Werner Mölders and Adolf Galland. On 5 February 1941 he shot down a Hurricane over Desvres, France, his 40th victory. He was awarded the Oak Leaves (\"mit Eichenlaub\") to his Knight's Cross next day. It also earned him a second entry in the \"Wehrmachtbericht\". In early 1941, JG 3 returned to Germany to replace their Bf 109 'Emils' with the new 'F' variant (\"Friedrich\"). However, Oesau disliked the Bf 109F and kept flying his 'Emils' for some time. JG 3 returned to France in May 1941 and Oesau added two more kills on 16 May and 28 May bringing his total to 51.\n\nOesau's III./JG 3 was then involved in Operation Barbarossa the invasion of Russia, launched on 22 June 1941. Oesau shot down his first Soviet aircraft on 24 June 1941, and by 30 June 1941 had reached his 60th victory, downing a Tupolev SB bomber. Next day he downed three more SB bombers near Lvov (modern Lviv, Ukraine). This earned him his 3rd entry in the Wehrmachtbericht. On 10 July 1941, Oesau claimed 5 more aircraft and two more kills by 11 July 1941. On 12 July 1941, he shot down 7 Soviet aircraft in one sortie. In the five weeks since moving to the Eastern Front, Oesau was credited with 44 Soviet aircraft downed. He became the third pilot to reach 80 victories, the 80th kill an Ilyushin DB-3 bomber. He was awarded the Swords to his Knight's Cross with Oak Leaves () on same day. He was the third person to earn the Swords. He was again then wounded, receiving heavy splinter injuries in face and knee. A fortnight later he was transferred to the Western Front to take over JG 2.\n\nHe succeeded Balthasar for the second time as JG 2 commander, who had died in combat with Spitfires over northern France when he pulled the tail off his Bf 109F in a dive. The Bf 109F-2 proved an excellent match to the Spitfire V, but Oesau disliked its reduced armament compared to the 'Emil', and continued to fly an E-4 model in preference to the Bf 109F, until lack of spares forced him to switch to the newer variant. Upon his appointment on 4 July 1941, he addressed JG 2 with the following words.\n\nJG 2 was tasked with defending targets in occupied France against the RAF fighter offensive. For the next two years Oesau led JG 2 through the war of attrition waged by the RAF. On 10 August 1941 Oesau claimed a Spitfire for his first kill with JG 2. Over the next two days, he claimed four more Spitfires. By the end of September 1941, Oesau had claimed two more Spitfires.\n\nJG 2 participated in the \"Luftwaffe\" air cover of the Channel Dash. Two B-17 C Flying fortresses of No. 90 Squadron attacked the German battleships and . In one of the highest altitude interceptions of World War II, the bombers were attacked by I./JG 2, resulting in the destruction of one. This aircraft put JG 2's score past the 800 mark, matching the score of their Great War namesake. Kills No. 88 to 92 were all Spitfires claimed between Calais and Dungeness on 12 August 1941. Oesau claimed his 100th kill on 26 October 1941, the third pilot to do so. This earned him his 4th entry in the \"Wehrmachtbericht\".\n\nHe was then grounded from flying on operations, as his experience and leadership qualities were regarded as too valuable to risk further in front line combat. He did fly on occasional sorties, the most famous involving the shooting down of a Lancaster bomber of No. 44 Squadron RAF piloted by Warrant Officer G. T. Rhodes in April 1942, during a rare RAF daylight raid on targets in Augsberg. It was his 101st kill. In August 1942, the \"Geschwaderstab\" of JG 2 exchanged their Bf 109 F aircraft for the FW 190 A–2s.\n\nFrom late 1942 onwards JG 2 was in the front line against the increasingly numerous United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) day bomber formations of B-17s and B-24s.\n\nOesau added four more to his tally by mid-1943. Shortly before his 30th birthday, Oesau was elevated to a series of Luftwaffe staff and administration positions. On 1 July 1943 he was posted as Fighter Leader Brittany (\"\"Jagdfliegerführer\" Bretagne\"), before being appointed as \"Geschwaderkommodore\" of JG 1 on 12 November 1943, following the death of JG 1's Hans Philipp in October 1943. The ban on Oesau's combat flying was lifted. While commanding JG 1, Oesau became an expert (\"Experten\") at shooting down 4 engine bombers, with 14 bomber kills claimed. He was awarded the Combined Pilots-Observation Badge in gold and diamonds on 17 October 1943. He was awarded the German Cross in Gold on 10 January 1944.\n\nFor Commander-in-Chief of the Luftwaffe Hermann Göring it was an ongoing concern that inadequate numbers of fighters were able to continually engage the bomber streams, at the very time that the USAAF's 8th Air Force's new commander, Maj. Gen. Jimmy Doolittle had instituted a new fighter strategy against the Luftwaffe. Hence on 23 February 1944 — near the midpoint of the USAAF's Big Week bomber offensive against the Luftwaffe, also being carried out by the 15th Air Force flying out of Italian bases — \"Generalmajor\" Joseph Schmid Commander of I. \"Jagdkorps\" established a new rule for the fighters returning to base. They were to arrive at the nearest designated fighter airfield for resupply instead of returning to their own base. They were to be commanded by the senior pilot landing on that airfield, irrespective of their unit. This was meant to turn around the fighters in time to intercept returning bombers.\n\nOn next day, B-24s of 2nd Bomb division of the Eighth Air Force bombed Gotha. JG 1 (under Oesau), JG 11 and JG 3 were sent to intercept. Due to high winds, the bombers were ahead of the escorts unprotected. Two groups of JG 1 met them before Gotha and 9 B-24s were claimed as a result. Since B-17s of 1st Bomb division also bombed Schweinfurt, other fighter units also arrived to intercept, eventually involving almost all the Western day fighter units of the Luftwaffe. This caused some confusion among pilots landing on airfields other than their own. This tested the directive of Schmid. Oesau led one of two such improvised formations successfully, with the other led by Hauptmann Borris of I./JG 26 Oesau added 4 fighters to his score between January and March 1944, and his tally stood at 117. On 8 May 1944 he claimed a Thunderbolt shot down over Hanover; his last kill.\n\nWhile being the \"Geschwaderkommodore\" of JG 1 Oesau frequently received his share of Hermann Göring's anger and frustration over the failure to beat off the Allied bomber offensive. Göring questioned the commitment of commanders who were not flying regularly and thus not really \"leading\" their respective units. In this context it should be stated that in order not to risk one of the Luftwaffe \"expert\"'s life [German fighter aces were called \"Experten\"], there was an automatic ban on Oesau for further combat flying since his 100th victory. Perhaps the ban was lifted temporarily or bypassed when he was appointed \"Geschwaderkommodore\" of JG 1. On the other hand, Oesau might simply have ignored the ban and continued to lead missions.\n\nOesau added several victories over American heavy bombers in the first five months of 1944. On 11 May 1944 one thousand U.S. heavy bombers from Eighth Air Force attacked railway targets in Eastern France and North East Belgium. They were escorted by even more numbers of P-38 and P-51 fighters. Oesau was in bed with influenza. Upon hearing the news, Göring phoned Oesau's staff:\n\n\"Göring\" – \"Is the \"Kommodore\" flying?\"\n\"Staff\" – \"No, he is in bed with fever.\"\n\"Göring\" – \"Yes, yes, I know that kind!\", Göring said scornfully, \n\"Göring\" – \"He has also turned tired and coward!\"\n\nAngered by this comment, Oesau took off in a Bf 109 G-6/AS \"Green 13\" (Wing Number 20601) from Paderborn despite a high fever. Leading three aircraft of the \"Geschwaderstab\", the schwarm broke formation over the Ardennes as it approached the bombers. In the dogfight Oesau's wingman reported damage to his machine and he was ordered to break off. Left alone, Oesau faced P-38s and possibly P-51s as well. According to Major Hartmann Grasser, \"Gruppenkommandeur\" of III./JG 1, who was on the same mission, there were five P-38s facing Oesau.\n\nWhat followed is unclear as there are several versions. Oesau was chased by 1st Lt. James Leslie Doyle, 1st Lt. Wilbur L. Jarvis III and 1st Lt. James C. Austin, of the 428th Fighter Squadron (474th FG, 9th AF). All three were experienced pilots and chased Oesau from 28,000 feet to tree-top level. In the ensuing 20 minute dogfight, Oesau defended skillfully, though his aircraft was damaged by gunfire. While attempting an emergency landing, his Gustav received a final burst of fire in the cockpit area and crashed into the ground 6 miles south west of St. Vith. His body was thrown clear of the aircraft some yards away.\n\nAccording to the \"Eighth Air Force Mission Folder for 11 May 1944, Mission 351\", Lt. Doyle engaged in a turning dogfight with a pair of Bf 109s, scoring hits on the leader. Doyle had then broken off combat without claiming a kill, unaware that his victim, Oesau, had been killed by a 20 mm shell. Doyle's kill had been the first kill of the 474th Fighter Group in its first combat with the \"Luftwaffe\".\n\nThere is some dispute regarding who exactly shot down his fighter. Some sources claim that he was shot during the dogfight and while the aircraft was falling to the ground, he was shot at again a few feet above ground, possibly by the Mustangs of 354th FG. Lt Wilbur Jarvis, No. 2 in the flight led by Doyle received a \"Damaged\" credit (not a kill) for Oesau's aircraft. Doyle noted bullet damage in the cockpit area and his gun camera footage showed that it was Oesau's Green 13. German records indicated that his death was caused by an explosive shell in the cockpit, his body having several bullet wounds. Later an image from the Gun camera was published (without caption) that purportedly showed Oesau's aircraft from the right side.\n\nOesau was aged 30 at the time of his death. He had a total of 127 kills gained over 300 missions. 27 were Spitfires, 14 four-engined bombers, 44 were scored on the Eastern Front and 9 in the Spanish Civil War. In recognition of his record, JG 1 received the title \"Oesau\" in honor of its fallen \"Geschwaderkommodore\". Only Werner Mölders had a similar honor with JG 51 Mölders. Walter Oesau is buried in Meldorf, close to his birthplace and the town museum (\"Dithmarscher Landesmuseum\") has documented his last journey in pictures.\n\nJohannes Steinhoff, the high-ranking Luftwaffe ace (176 Kills) who went on to become the Chief of Staff for Allied Air Forces in Central Europe, once said: \"Walter \"Gulle\" Oesau was the toughest fighter pilot in the Luftwaffe\".\n\nIn 1940, frustrated with the perceived lack of success against RAF Fighter Command, Göring was keen on infusing the fighter force leadership with younger blood. He perceived a lack of aggressiveness in the Jagdgeschwader leadership. The likes of Theo Osterkamp were the first victim of this policy, handing over JG 51 to Werner Mölders. Oesau was considered to be one such rising star. However, being a star and staying in Göring's favor required keeping up the kill rate and promotions were invariably linked to scores. According to Dr. Kurt Tank, the Focke–Wulf designer, although many of the younger generation were good flyers, they were unable to cope with problems of overall planning and broader strategic aspects. However, Oesau was one of the outstanding leaders ever produced by Luftwaffe fighter wings with the likes of Werner Mölders and Adolf Galland.\n\nThe decision to continually retain or return gifted experts (\"Experten\") to front line battle proved extremely costly, resulting in the death in combat of many of the earlier experts and aces. This, coupled with the acute shortage of well trained pilots and the fact that by 1943 they were facing a better equipped and well-trained enemy, meant the life expectancy of even the most gifted was tragically short. Author John Weal says that, although other Geschwaderkommodore would end up dying in combat, nothing would showcase the changing fortunes of Luftwaffe fighter forces than the death of Walter Oesau.\n\nGerman historian Hans Otto Böhm commented on Oesau as \"One of my best professors\". There is little information available on the personal side of Walter Oesau. He had good sense of humor and liked to spend time with his friends. He was a simple man, who did not display any flamboyant personal emblems on his aircraft. His aircraft while commanding JG 2 did not have any special markings except for the unit's normal yellow under–cowling. While Oesau commanded, JG 2, like many others, dropped the special symbols for Stab (headquarters flight) units in favor of numerals. This helped make the leader's aircraft anonymous. Unlike other aces, Oesau reportedly never had markings on his rudder representing his personal tally, although this is contradicted by some photos displaying what may be his aircraft rudder painted with score of downed aircraft. The authenticity of the photograph is questioned by some as there are also Ju 87 photos supposedly signed by Oesau (he never flew a \"Stuka\" bomber).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44856158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44856158", "title": "Wochenpresse", "text": "Wochenpresse\n\nWochenpresse was an Austrian weekly periodical founded by Fritz Molden soon after World War II as a subsidiary of the daily newspaper \"Die Presse\". In 1955 it became an independent publication, in 1993 it was taken over by the German economic weekly \"Wirtschaftswoche\" and continued publication as Austrian edition. In 1996 the magazine folded.\n\nWell known editors include Hubertus Czernin, Klaus Khittl, Peter Michael Lingens, Lucian O. Meysels, Duglore Pizzini und Rudolph J. Wojta.\n\n"}
