{"id": "26104093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26104093", "title": "Aarhus School of Architecture", "text": "Aarhus School of Architecture\n\nThe Aarhus School of Architecture (Arkitektskolen Aarhus) was founded in 1965 in Aarhus, Denmark. Along with the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, School of Architecture in Copenhagen, it is responsible for the education of architects in Denmark. The school has approximately 750 students.\n\nTeaching at the Aarhus School of Architecture is studio-based, emphasising group work and project work. The school places an emphasis on practice-based teaching, while maintaining an artistic approach to architecture. Teaching is organised around a number of research labs, based on on-going and close dialogue with teachers. Workshop facilities allow students to explore their ideas in 3D and in 1:1. Other resources include a specialised library, a materials shop and a robot lab.\n\nIn 2016 the school's research was restructured as three research labs:\n\nResearch Lab 1: Territories, Architecture, and Transformation\n\nResearch Lab 2: Technology and Building Cultures\n\nResearch Lab 3: Emerging Architecture\n\nResearch is carried out within the school’s three focus areas: habitation, transformation, and sustainability – as well as in the field of research by design.\n\nBesides Bachelor’s, Master’s and PhD programmes the school offers supplementary education for architects and similar professional groups at various levels. Research at the school is also to a high degree practice-based, i.e. based on cooperation with architectural practices located internationally and locally. The high concentration of architectural practices in Aarhus provides a sound basis for this cooperation.\n\nThe Aarhus School of Architecture is an educational institution under the Danish Ministry for Science, Innovation and Higher Education.\n\nThe school is situated in the Nørre Stenbro neighborhood on \"Nørreport\". The campus comprises the listed building known as Raae's House () from 1798 and a newer building from 1997 with auditorium and an exhibition hall.\n\nRaae's House is a brick building in Neoclassical style built by Hans Fridrich Raae, one of the foremost merchants in the city during the 18th century. It was originally built on the northern edge of the city by the city walls on what was at the time Studsgade. It is one of the best examples of Neoclassical architecture in Aarhus and one of the last remaining brick built merchant's houses of that time. The building is in 4 wings with a courtyard in the middle but only the house facing the street is constructed in brick with the remaining being half-timbered structures with Baroque elements. The building was listed in 1919.\n\nIn 1997 the architects firm Kjaer & Richter built an addition on an adjacent plot of land. It was designed in a modernistic style of concrete with glass facade. It is structured as a rectangular, black box with a dominating glass facade facing the street, intentionally contrasting the old building next to it. The design is modelled as a house-in-house with the auditorium appearing like an interior island that divides the building in an exhibition hall and foyer.\n\nSome notable rectors and teachers include:\n\n"}
{"id": "19990546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19990546", "title": "Andrew Wakefield", "text": "Andrew Wakefield\n\nAndrew Jeremy Wakefield (born 1957) is a discredited former British doctor who became an anti-vaccine activist. He was a gastroenterologist until he was struck off the UK medical register for unethical behaviour, misconduct and fraud. In 1998 he authored a fraudulent research paper claiming that there was a link between the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine and autism and bowel disease.\n\nAfter the publication of the paper, other researchers were unable to reproduce Wakefield's findings or confirm his hypothesis of an association between the MMR vaccine and autism, or autism and gastrointestinal disease. A 2004 investigation by \"Sunday Times\" reporter Brian Deer identified undisclosed financial conflicts of interest on Wakefield's part,<ref> \n"}
{"id": "17112098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17112098", "title": "Anthony Kohlmann", "text": "Anthony Kohlmann\n\nAnthony Kohlmann, S.J. (13 July 1771 – 11 April 1836), was an Alsatian Jesuit priest. He is known for his part in the establishment of confessional privilege in United States law. He spent nearly a quarter of a century in that nation as an educator.\n\nKohlmann was born at Kaysersberg, then in the ancient province of Alsace, in the Kingdom of France. He had joined the Capuchins but was compelled by the troubles of the French Revolution to go to Switzerland, where at the seminary of Fribourg he completed his theological studies and was ordained a priest in 1796. Soon afterward, he joined the Congregation of the Fathers of the Sacred Heart, founded by Tourneley and de Broglia in Vienna. With them he spent some time in Austria, where he distinguished himself by his tireless efforts during a plague at Hagenbrunn. He then served as a military chaplain at a hospital in Pavia. In 1801, he was sent from Italy to Dillingen in Bavaria, as director of a seminary, then to Berlin, and Amsterdam, to direct a college established by the Fathers of the Faith of Jesus with which the Congregation of the Sacred Heart had united (11 April 1799).\n\nThe Jesuits, in Russia, still functioned as a religious community after the suppression of the Society of Jesus in Catholic Europe and were recognized in 1801 by Pope Pius VII. Kohlmann applied for admission to the Society, and while waiting for a response, he spent time at Kensington College in London. He went to Russia and entered the Jesuit novitiate on 21 June 1803. In response to a call for additional workers in the United States, he was sent to Georgetown, D.C., arriving in Baltimore on November 4, 1806. Here he was made assistant to the Master of novices, and taught philosophy. He would also undertake preaching tours to German-speaking congregations in Pennsylvania and Maryland. His missionary travels to the largely German Catholic community took him to Alexandria, Philadelphia, Lancaster, Colman's Furnace, and Baltimore.\n\nIn March 1808, German Catholics in New York had written Bishop John Carroll, then the leader of the Catholic Church for the entire country, to request for him to send them a German-speaking priest so that they could be ministered to in their own language. Prior to that, they were able to have services at St. Peter's when a missionary from Pennsylvania would occasionally visit. Bishop Carroll appointed Father Anthony S.J., who arrived later that year with his fellow Jesuits, Benedict Fenwick and four scholastics (seminarians), James Wallace, Michael White, James Redmond and Adam Marshall, he took charge there in October 1808. Father Kohlmann succeeded Matthew Byrne as rector of St. Peter's, where he held services in English, German and French. (Father Byrne wished to resign as pastor of St. Peter's parish in order to enter the Society of Jesus.) \n\nIt was a time of great commercial depression in the city because of the results of the Embargo Act of 22 December 1807. The Catholic population, he stated in a letter written on 8 November 1808, consisted \"of Irish, some hundreds of French and as many Germans; in all according to the common estimation of 14,000 souls.\"In 1808, Kohlmann was named Vicar General for Bishop Luke Concanen, the newly-appointed bishop of New York, whose departure from Rome was delayed by Napoleon's control of Italian ports. \n\nSuch progress was made under his direction that the cornerstone of a new church, the original St. Patrick's Cathedral, the second church erected in New York, was laid on 8 June 1809. He selected a site, at that time, outside the city, surrounded by country homes of the wealthy and scattered farms. Sermons were preached on Sundays in English, French and German.\n\nKohlmann started a classical school called the New York Literary Institution, which he carried on successfully for several years in what was then a suburban village but is now the site of St. Patrick's Cathedral on Fifth Avenue. In April 1812, he also started a school for girls in the same neighborhood, in the charge of Ursuline nuns who came at his invitation for that purpose from their monastery in County Cork, Ireland.\n\nAround then, Kohlmann became the central figure in a lawsuit that stirred national interest. He had been instrumental in having stolen goods restored to the owner. When the owner then requested for the police to drop the case, they insisted that Kohlmann reveal the identity of the thief who had returned the goods. Kohlmann refused to do so on the ground that his information had been received under the seal of the confessional. The case was taken before the New York Court of Chancery, where Kohlmann's defence lawyer was an Irish Protestant named William Sampson. After a trial, the decision rendered by Mayor De Witt Clinton in the priest's favor;\n\nIt is essential to the free exercise of a religion, that its ordinances should be administered – that its ceremonies as well as its essentials should be protected. Secrecy is of the essence of penance. The sinner will not confess, nor will the priest receive his confession, if the veil of secrecy is removed... \n\nThat was the first legal affirmation of confessional privilege in American history and a key moment in Americas tradition of freedom of religion. The principle was later embodied in a New York State law, passed on 10 December 1828: \"No minister of the Gospel or priest of any denomination whatsoever shall be allowed to disclose any confession made to him in his professional character in the course of discipline enjoined by the rules or practices of such denomination.\" The protection from being forced to testify or provide information to law enforcement agencies became accepted nationwide in the United States.\n\nTo a report of the case when it was published, Kohlmann added an exposition of the teachings of the Church on penance. The book excited a long and vigorous controversy with a number of Protestant ministers and was followed in 1821 by another learned work, \"Unitarianism, Theologically and Philosophically considered\" in which Kohlmann replied to the assertions of Jared Sparks and other Unitarian leaders.\n\nNew York had no bishop of its own as yet, the first appointed having died in Italy before he reached his see, and Kohlmann governed as its Apostolic Administrator for several years. In 1815, expecting the imminent arrival of the second bishop, John Connolly, he returned to Georgetown, where he served as Master of novices, and in 1817 became superior. He served as the President of Georgetown College from 1817-1820. In 1821 Kohlman founded the Washington Seminary, which later became Gonzaga College High School. He served as its president until 1824, when he was recalled to Rome by Pope Leo XII to become the chair of theology at the Roman College, and was succeeded by Adam Marshall.\n\nShortly afterward, Kohlmann became interested in the work of Rev. Prince Alexander von Hohenlohe, a charismatic German priest and nobleman, who claimed to be able to effect miracle cures. Hohenlohe was supposed, in particular, to have saved the life of a German princess, Mathilda von Schwarzenburg, when he and a peasant associate prayed over her. The case was much publicized, and although the Catholic authorities in Europe never endorsed Hohenlohe's cures, many, including Kohlmann, believed in them.\n\nIn 1824 Kohlman learned that a prominent Washington Catholic, Mrs. Ann Mattingly, was suffering from cancer, and decided to contact Hohenlohe in an effort to cure her. He wrote to the princely miracle worker in Bamberg, Germany, and got him to agree to pray for Mrs. Mattingly at a certain precise time several months later. In Washington, he arranged for one of his Jesuit colleagues to say Mass by her bedside at the chosen hour while he celebrated yet another Mass in the Georgetown University chapel.\n\nThe trans-Atlantic negotiations took some time, and meanwhile, Mattingly’s condition worsened. Her brother, Thomas Carbery, Mayor of the District of Columbia, protested to Kohlmann that she would be dead before the prayer session could occur, but the Jesuit told him not to worry, as the splendor of the miracle would be all the greater for occurring at the very last minute. At the appointed time, the three priests said their Masses in their respective locations. Soon afterwards Mattingly arose from her bed, proclaimed herself entirely cured, and went on to live in good health for another 30 years.\n\nThe story of her cure attracted great interest in the press. To some Catholics, it was proof of the power of prayer and of the superiority of their religion, but to Protestants and freethinkers,\" it smacked of medieval superstition and priestly chicanery. The Catholic hierarchy stood aloof from the conflict, and none of Hohenlohe's \"miracles\" was ever endorsed by the Church, certainly not the cure of Mrs. Mattingly, at which he had not even been present.\n\nLater that year, when Pope Leo XII restored the Gregorian University to the direction of the Society of Jesus, Kohlmann was summoned to Rome to take the Chair of Theology, which he filled for five years. One of his pupils then was the subsequent Pope Leo XIII; others became later Archbishop of Dublin and the first Irish cardinal (Paul Cullen). Popes Leo XII and Gregory XVI both held Kohlmann in high esteem and had him attached as a consultant to the staffs of the College of Cardinals and several of the important Congregations, including that of Extraordinary Ecclesiastical Affairs, of Bishops and Regulars.\n\nThe last part of his life he spent as a confessor in the Church of the Gesù in Rome, where during the Lenten season of 1836, he overtaxed himself and brought on an attack of pneumonia that ended his life.\n\nFather Kohlmann's defense of the \"seal of the confessional\" led to the statutory recognition of the \"confessional privilege\" in New York State law, later followed by other jurisdictions.\nFordham University's Kohlmann Hall is the residence hall for the Jesuits teaching at Fordham Prep.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52460573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52460573", "title": "Apprenticeship Levy", "text": "Apprenticeship Levy\n\nThe Apprenticeship Levy is a UK tax on employers which can be used to fund apprenticeship training. In the current (2018/19) tax year it is payable by all employers with an annual pay bill of more than £3 million at a rate of 0.5% of their total pay bill.\n\nThe Apprenticeship Levy was announced by Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne in the July 2015 budget which was held following that year's General Election. It was subsequently incorporated into law by Part 6 of the Finance Act 2016. and came into effect at the start of the 2017/18 UK tax year on 6th April 2017. It was projected to raise £2.675 billion in its first year of operation.\n\nThe Apprenticeship Levy is paid by employers with annual pay bills in excess of £3 million. In this context, the pay bill is defined as the earnings liable to class 1 secondary National Insurance contributions. The levy is payable at 0.5% of the total pay bill (i.e. not just the element over £3 million) minus an annual \"levy allowance\" of £15,000, although the total amount payable equates to exactly 0.5% of the element over £3 million.\n\nThe levy due by an employer is paid to HMRC through the Pay-as-you-earn (P.A.Y.E) process alongside payment of Income Tax and National Insurance contributions and is held in a 'digital fund' that employer can use to pay for apprenticeship training. A 10% contribution is added to each monthly payment.\n\nFunds in the digital fund remain available for 24 months from the date of payment. Any amount that remains unspent after that period will expire and will be reclaimed by HMRC, including the 10% contribution.\n\nPayment from the digital fund is made directly to training providers on a monthly basis, for as long as the apprentice remains on the scheme (i.e., until the apprenticeship is completed or the apprentice leaves). Any apprenticeship that is terminated less than 42 days after the start of the apprenticeship will not qualify for any payment. \n\nLevy-paying firms can share up to 10% of their levy with other businesses. When this provision was introduced, a firm could only nominate one other company to receive its levy fund, but from July 2018 this was extended to as many firms as the levy-payer wished.. On 1 October, Philip Hammond MP, Chancellor of the Exchequer, announced that from April 2019 firms would be able to share up to 25% of their levy with other businesses in their supply chain, a move which was welcomed by businesses.\n\nThe use of the levy for funding apprenticeships which commence after 1 May 2017 is the responsibility of the Department for Education and the Skills Funding Agency in England. There are separate arrangements in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, since apprenticeships are a devolved policy.\n"}
{"id": "48912338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48912338", "title": "Bassil Da Costa", "text": "Bassil Da Costa\n\nBassil Da Costa (Guatire, 7 May 1990 – Caracas, 12 February 2014) was a Venezuelan university student, killed during the 2014 protests against the Government of Venezuela. Da Costa was a marketing student at the Universidad Alejandro de Humboldt in Caracas.\n\nOn 12 February 2014, Youth Day in Venezuela, various parties in opposition to the Venezuelan Government and student groups marched in the entire country in protest against the government. In Caracas, the protest march was held from Plaza Venezuela to the Public Ministry's offices in the city's downtown. The demonstration itself went smoothly, but after it was finished conflict arose with a shootout in which Da Costa and Juan Montoya, member of a colectivo, were killed.\n\nOn 13 February, President Nicolás Maduro stated Da Costa and Montoya were killed by the same person, and that the murders were part of the violence generated by the opposition on 12 February. The Secretary of the Democratic Unity Roundtable (MUD), the opposition coalition, Ramón Guillermo Aveledo, rejected President Maduro's statements and maintained the protesters were not ill-intended, while hinting at possible government infiltrates in the march.\n\nThe first investigations made by the Cuerpo de Investigaciones Científicas, Penales y Criminalísticas (CICPC) identified at least three members of the Bolivarian Intelligence Service (SEBIN) who had shot against protesters near the Public Ministry offices the day of the march, amongst them the alleged killer of Da Costa.\n\nDays later, the independent newspaper \"Últimas Noticias\" published the results of an investigative work on the murders, in which it claimed to have discovered both men in uniform and civilians had shot against the protesters on the 12th of February. In April 2014, six SEBIN officers were apprehended and the alleged murderer of Da Costa was formally accused.\n\nThe trial on Da Costa and Montoya's murders was delayed in various occasions, until it finally started on 16 June 2015, over a year after they took place.\n\n"}
{"id": "50443954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50443954", "title": "Beloe Report", "text": "Beloe Report\n\nThe Beloe Report, commissioned in the late 1950s in the United Kingdom, led directly to the implementation of the Certificate of Secondary Education, the CSE examination which would exist from 1965 to 1987. The CSE was withdrawn at the same time as the GCE Ordinary Level exam.\n\nThe GCE exam had been introduced in 1951. The Beloe Committee met from 1958-60. Rev Robert Beloe CBE was the Chief Education Officer of Surrey from 1940-59, beginning when only 35. He had created the system of grammar schools in Surrey in the late 1940s. He had created many bilateral schools in Surrey in the 1950s, which were effectively comprehensive schools; this was to reduce the cost of building brand new grammar schools, and made the implementation of the comprehensive system in Surrey, in the 1970s, more straightforward than other local education authorities. He was appointed CBE in the 1960 New Year Honours.\n\nThe report was published in July 1960 by a committee of the Secondary Schools Examinations Council - the Committee on Secondary School Examinations other than the G.C.E., appointed in July 1958. Robert Beloe died on 26 April 1984. The report was overseen by the Ministry of Education.\n\nAt the time, many of those at secondary schools left at age 15 - currently Year Ten. It would not be until 1973 that the school leaving age rose to 16, now known as Year Eleven. The CSE would be mainly, though not exclusively, aimed at people at secondary modern schools, or the early comprehensive schools. The new CSE exam would give secondary modern schools an incentive to have fifth forms - for those who voluntarily wanted to stay at school beyond the school leaving age; this would help prove that education futures were not always narrowly defined by the eleven-plus exam. The report may have had direct consequences for the idea of comprehensive schools; before the CSE, there was no widely recognized exam for most people who had not gained a place at grammar school.\n\nThe report, with scope for education in secondary schools in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, recommended that a new examination be introduced with a different emphasis from that of the highly-academic GCE O level, which required rigorous knowledge of subjects.\n\n20% of those at 16 took the GCE exam, and the CSE would cover the next 20%. The exam was to be a different kind of exam to the GCE, and not simply a watered-down GCE. The exam would be set mainly by teachers, sitting on 20 regional bodies.\n\nAlthough the GCSE, introduced in 1986 with first examinations in 1988, covered much, if not most, of the ground of the previous CSE, the GCSE has not adequately replaced the rigour of what the former O-level offered. The Beloe Report therefore would eventually lead the way largely to what became the GCSE. The 1978 Waddell Report had advocated a common examination, prepared by Sir James Waddell, which hoped that the new common exam would be first sat by 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "323263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323263", "title": "Berlin University of the Arts", "text": "Berlin University of the Arts\n\nThe Universität der Künste Berlin (UdK; Berlin University of the Arts), situated in Berlin, Germany, is the largest art school in Europe. It is a public art and design school, and one of the four research universities in the city.\n\nThe university is known for being one of the biggest and most diversified universities of the arts worldwide. It has four colleges specialising in fine arts, architecture, media and design, music and the performing arts with around 3,500 students. Thus the UdK is one of only three universities in Germany to unite the faculties of art and music in one institution. The teaching offered at the four colleges encompasses the full spectrum of the arts and related academic studies in more than 40 courses. Having the right to confer doctorates and post-doctoral qualifications, Berlin University of the Arts is also one of Germany's few art colleges with full university status.\n\nOutstanding professors and students at all its colleges, as well as the steady development of teaching concepts, have publicly defined the university as a high standard of artistic and art-theoretical education. Almost all the study courses at Berlin University of the Arts are part of a centuries-old tradition. Thus Berlin University of the Arts gives its students- at an early stage of rigorously selected artists and within the protected sphere of a study course – the opportunity to investigate and experiment with other art forms in order to recognise and extend the boundaries of their own discipline.\n\nWithin the field of Visual Arts, the university is known for the intense competition that involves the selection of its students, and the growth of applicants worldwide has increased during the years, due to Berlin's important current role in the cultural innovation worldwide. In the same way, the University of the Arts is publicly recognized for being on the cutting edge in the areas of Visual Arts, Fashion Design, Industrial Design and Experimental Design.\n\nIts roots institutions date back to the foundation of \"Academie der Mal-, Bild- und Baukunst\" (Academy of the Art of Painting, Pictorial Art and Architecture), the later Prussian Academy of Arts, at the behest of Elector Frederick III of Brandenburg. The two predecessor organisations were \"Königlich Akademischen Hochschule für ausübende Tonkunst\" (Royal Academy of Musical Performing Art) established in 1869 under Joseph Joachim, which also had adopted the tradition of the famous Stern Conservatory, and the \"Berlin State School of Fine Arts\" founded in 1875.\n\nIn 1975, both art schools merged under the name \"Hochschule der Künste Berlin, HdK\". The organization received the title of a university on 1 November 2001.\n\nThe exchange program with UDK is a direct enrollment program offered during the fall, spring and academic year to students interested in the arts and with four semesters of German language study. Each academic year the school receives 100 exchange students on the basis of institutional agreements. Students participating in the exchange are required to subsidize their own accommodations with little help from the school.\n\nAnnually, the university opens its doors to the public in its four colleges (UdK Rundgang), offering one of the most important art fairs in Berlin due to new proposals that highlight its young artists.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323878", "title": "Boston National Historical Park", "text": "Boston National Historical Park\n\nThe Boston National Historical Park is an association of sites that showcase Boston's role in the American Revolution. It was designated a national park on October 1, 1974. Seven of the eight sites are connected by the Freedom Trail, a walking tour of downtown Boston. All eight properties are National Historic Landmarks.\n\nFive of the sites that make up the park are neither owned nor operated by the National Park Service, and operate through cooperative agreements established upon the park's creation. The park service operates visitor centers in Faneuil Hall and at the Charlestown Navy Yard.\n\nThe Bunker Hill Monument, located at the top of Breed's Hill in the Charlestown neighborhood of Boston, is a granite obelisk that was constructed in the mid-19th century to commemorate the Battle of Bunker Hill, fought June 17, 1775. The property is owned and administered by the National Park Service. The park service also operates the nearby Bunker Hill Museum.\n\nThe Charlestown Navy Yard is located on the southern edge of Charlestown on the banks of the Charles River. Used during the American Revolutionary War as a shipyard, it continued to serve as a base of the United States Navy until 1975, when the Navy turned the property over to the National Park Service. The Yard is home to the USS Constitution (the oldest floating commissioned naval vessel in the world), and the USS \"Cassin Young\", a destroyer from the Second World War that is now operated as a museum ship.\n\nDorchester Heights was fortified by General George Washington in March 1776, compelling the British to withdraw from Boston and ending the Siege of Boston. A monument was erected on the site in 1902. Located in South Boston, Dorchester Heights is the only site in the park that is not on the Freedom Trail.\n\nFaneuil Hall was first constructed in the 1740s, and was the site of important pro-independence speeches. The hall is owned and operated by the city of Boston, with the park service offering talks in the Great Hall.\n\nThe Old North Church, built in 1723, was the location where Paul Revere had signal lanterns lit on the night of April 18, 1775, prior to his \"midnight ride\" that led to the Battles of Lexington and Concord and the start of the revolutionary war. The church, the oldest operating in Boston, has an Episcopalian congregation, which owns and operates the building.\n\nThe Old South Meeting House, built in 1729 was the site of numerous pre-revolutionary meetings, including one, attended by a crowd estimated at more than 5,000, on the evening prior to the Boston Tea Party in December 1773. It served as a church until 1877, when it became a museum operated by a nonprofit organization dedicated to its preservation.\n\nThe Old State House is the oldest municipal building in Boston. Built in 1713, it was the seat of the colonial government, and afterward the state government, until 1798. The Boston Massacre took place just in front of the building. In 1881 it was saved from destruction by the Bostonian Society, which was formed specifically to preserve it. The society still operates the City owned building as a museum. The Boston Massacre is reenacted regularly under the society's auspices.\n\nNow owned and operated by the Paul Revere Memorial Association, the Paul Revere House is one of the oldest surviving buildings in Boston. It was built in 1680, and was purchased by Paul Revere in 1770. It is now a museum.\n\nThe National Park Service, in addition to managing its properties that are part of the park, operates visitor centers at Faneuil Hall (1st Floor) and at the Navy Yard. It offers guided tours of the Freedom Trail. The Navy offers tours of the USS \"Constitution\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1074568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1074568", "title": "Carlos Albizu University", "text": "Carlos Albizu University\n\nAlbizu University is a private, non-profit university offering undergraduate and graduate degrees in the fields of psychology, education, speech and language, criminal justice, ESOL, and human services. With the main campus in San Juan, Puerto Rico, a branch campus in Miami, Florida, and an additional instructional location in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico, the university provides professional training that is relevant and responsive to the mental health needs of multicultural communities and supports culturally sensitive research that contributes to and helps grow the professions of psychology, health, education, and human services.\n\nThe university’s history began in 1966, when a renowned Puerto Rican psychologist and educator, Dr. Carlos Albizu-Miranda, founded the Instituto Psicológico de Puerto Rico (Puerto Rico Institute of Psychology) in response to the need for culturally sensitive professional training in the area of clinical psychology. At the time, there were no graduate programs in clinical psychology in Puerto Rico. The University of Puerto Rico and the Normal School (later known as the College of Education) included psychology as part of the core curricula as early as 1903—but only for undergraduate studies that were heavily based on the American higher education system and its standards. Graduate-level degrees in psychology could only be obtained through schools in the United States.\n\nBy the early 1960s, little had changed, with mental health professionals being trained abroad and then returning to their home country with the challenge of adapting what they had learned in the United States to fit the sociocultural realities of a Hispanic community. Dr. Albizu-Miranda himself received his training at Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana, and incurred the same difficulties of incorporating what he had learned into the culture of the island upon returning home to Puerto Rico.\n\nWhat had changed, though, was the social climate of the island. Between 1947 and the late 1960s, Puerto Rico saw major industrialization that transformed the island from a rural agrarian to an urban industrial society. With this, came the establishment of social classes, modern capitalism, and economic consumption—along with confusion and insecurity that led to issues such as violence and drug use. By the 1960s, the population had grown to nearly three million people, with only five clinical psychologists on the island to support the growing need for social services. In an effort to meet the public’s demands, the government established what were known as “assistant psychologists.” These assistant psychologists for the most part had had little training and were not equipped to serve what was becoming an increasingly complex population. By 1964, Dr. Albizu-Miranda had begun envisioning a Puerto Rican-based graduate program that would address the need for multicultural professional training in psychology on the island, along with the need for greater numbers of clinically trained psychologists to serve the growing population.\n\nBetween 1964 and 1966, Dr. Albizu-Miranda held multiple meetings with the chancellor of the University of Puerto Rico to discuss the development of a graduate program in psychology. After two years of fruitless efforts, Dr. Albizu-Miranda decided to turn away from the state university and establish a self-governing and independent institution. On August 1, 1966, he incorporated the Puerto Rico Institute of Psychology and welcomed the Institute’s inaugural academic year in 1967-1968.\n\nRecognizing a parallel need for multicultural training in clinical psychology in Southern Florida, which has a large Hispanic population, Dr. Albizu-Miranda opened the Miami Institute of Psychology in Miami, Florida, in 1980. In January 2000, the two main campuses were merged under the shared name Carlos Albizu University in honor of their founder, becoming the first institution in North America to be named after a Hispanic. Today, they are commonly known as Albizu University and continue the tradition of offering programs, both in theory and practice, that stay true to addressing and honoring the multicultural heritages found in both Puerto Rico and South Florida.\n\nAlbizu University has two campuses; the main campus in Old San Juan, Puerto Rico and a branch campus in Miami, Florida. There is a third, instructional, location in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico.\n\nLocated in the heart of Puerto Rico’s capital city, the San Juan campus set a precedent as the first independent professional school of psychology in North America. Originally called the Puerto Rico Institute of Psychology, Dr. Albizu-Miranda modeled the university after institutes of psychology in Europe where practice and internship coexisted. Now, over 50 years since its founding, the San Juan campus has over 1,000 students and has expanded to include two on-campus training clinics: the Clínica de Salud Mental de la Comunidad (Community Mental Health Clinic) and the Clínica de Patología del Habla y Lenguaje (Speech and Language Pathology Clinic).\n\nThe Community Mental Health Clinic (CMHC) is a training clinic on the campus of Albizu University in San Juan, Puerto Rico. An active clinic that provides culturally sensitive mental health services to low income and minority clients in San Juan and surrounding communities, CMHC also serves as a practicum and internship site for Albizu University graduate students.\n\nBased at Albizu University’s San Juan campus, the Speech and Language Pathology Clinic provides culturally sensitive care in the areas of autism, dysphagia, motor-speech disorders, neurological impairments, hearing impairments, cognitive disabilities, and developmental disorders. Graduate students from the university’s M.S. in Speech and Language Pathology program work closely with licensed and certified pathologists to provide care to a diverse population while gaining clinical experience.\n\nLocated in the Miami, Florida, metropolitan area, the Miami campus offers over 30 undergraduate and graduate degree and certificate programs in the fields of psychology, education, speech and language, English as a second language (ESOL), criminal justice, and human services. Known as the “Gateway to Latin America and the Caribbean,” Miami has one of the largest multi-ethnic populations in the United States, thus providing the perfect environment to support Albizu University in its mission to offer culturally sensitive training to a diverse population in an area with a wide range of practical training sites.\n\nFounded in 1980, The Goodman Psychological Services Center (GPSC), was established with the purpose of providing quality, culturally sensitive, mental health services to low-income, minority, clients in Southern Florida. Sponsored by Albizu University, the Goodman Center is also a practicum site housing four training programs; the Psy.D. in Clinical Psychology program, the M.S. in Psychology program with a major in Marriage and Family Therapy, the M.S. in Speech and Language Pathology program, and the GPSC Doctoral Internship Consortium Program.\n\nSince its inception, the Goodman Center has provided care to nearly 10,000 people of all ages in communities that are typically underserved due to factors such as financial hardship, limited or no insurance coverage, and lack of proficiency in the English language. In addition to the mental health services provided at the center, the Goodman Center is contracted by Miami-Dade County Public Schools to conduct psychoeducational evaluations for both private referrals and a host of community agencies, including the Florida Department of Families and Children and other health centers. \n\nIn addition to partnering with the Miami-Dade County Public Schools, the Goodman Center has also established a close relationship with Camillus House, a long-standing community center in Miami-Dade County that provides humanitarian services to the poor and homeless. Through its Doctoral Internship Consortium Program, Albizu provides eight full-time internship spots per year—six at the Goodman Center and two at Camillus House—to clinical psychology doctoral students. In the past, these internships were available only to Albizu University students. This year, for the first time, the internships will be available on a national level to all graduate students who come from an APA-accredited clinical psychology doctoral program.\n\nIn January 2015, Albizu opened an extension in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico. Under the jurisdiction of the San Juan Campus, the location was created to provide academic offerings and clinical services to the western region of Puerto Rico. Known as the Mayagüez University Center, the facility is much smaller than the other two campuses, with degrees offered exclusively in the fields of psychology and speech and language pathology. With an on-site clinic, the Center is also able to offer students clinical practice while providing health services to the community.\n\nThe Mayagüez University Center is located in the heart of the city of Mayagüez. Known as an intellectual mecca, the city houses a number of museums, historic buildings, an array of colleges and universities, and a large student population. In recognition of the cultural and linguistic diversity found not only in Mayagüez but in Puerto Rico as a whole, the Center adopted both Spanish and English as official languages. Though students primarily speak Spanish, they are expected to have adequate reading, writing, and conversational skills in English as well. On occasion, if enough students express interest, teachers will instruct entire classes in English.\n\nRanked as one of the nation’s top Hispanic-serving institutions specializing in human behavior science, Albizu attracts a student body committed to preparing themselves to work in community-oriented fields. With curriculums carefully designed to promote cultural sensitivity in today’s diverse society, students are able to choose from over 30 degree and certificate programs, with the largest number of offerings being in the field of psychology.\n\nOver half of the programs offered at Albizu are for degrees in psychology, and students are able to select from certificate, undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral programs with a wide range of specializations that include marriage and family therapy, mental health counseling, school counseling, industrial/organizational psychology, child psychology, and clinical psychology.\n\nWhen Albizu was founded in the late 1960s, Dr. Albizu-Miranda’s blueprint was to create a school offering a master’s degree in clinical psychology that would foster the development of therapeutic processes sensitive to cultural and class differences. At first, there were only 20 students and a handful of teachers committed to the pioneer institution. Over time, the clinical psychology program gained momentum and became the inaugural program at all three locations. To this day, it continues to be the most extensive program that Albizu offers.\n\nToday, all of the psychology programs emphasize cultural and ethnic sensitivity, in recognition of Albizu’s origins as an institution built on the belief that a multicultural society is best served by professionals who are culturally competent and inclusive. In the classroom, where a majority of the professors are practicing mental health professionals, students are taught the intricacies of a multicultural society from the real-world experience and examples provided by their professors. Outside of the classroom, students gain hands-on exposure at over 100 practicum sites that between them offer experience with a wide range of psychological disorders and clinical environments.\n\nAlbizu University has numerous clubs and organizations to encourage student involvement in larger communities. Opportunities range from organizations exclusive to Albizu, such as the Student Council, to associations that operate on a national or international level and welcome Albizu students to participate as campus representatives.\n\nOf the clubs and organizations offered to Albizu students, there is a fairly even balance between those hosted by the university and those that represent outside associations. Of the outside associations, some of the most notable with chapters at Albizu include The American Psychological Association of Graduate Students (APAGS), The Society for Military Psychology, and The International Honor Society in Psychology: Psi Chi. All offer students the opportunity to have a voice on a national to international level and to advocate on behalf of the science and practice of psychology through events including panel discussions, fundraisers, and walks to raise awareness for different causes such as suicide amongst veterans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21313303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21313303", "title": "Christoph Zürcher", "text": "Christoph Zürcher\n\nChristoph Zuercher is Professor at the Graduate School of Public and International Affairs at the University of Ottawa, where he has been since 2008. He used to be a professor of Political Science at the Free University in Berlin. He was also a Humboldt fellow at the Center on Democracy, Development and the Role of Law at Stanford University.\n"}
{"id": "3105607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3105607", "title": "Classroom management", "text": "Classroom management\n\nClassroom management is a term teachers use to describe the process of ensuring that classroom lessons run smoothly without disruptive behavior from students compromising the delivery of instruction. The term also implies the prevention of disruptive behavior preemptively, as well as effectively responding to it after it happens.\n\nIt is a difficult aspect of teaching for many teachers. Problems in this area causes some to leave teaching. In 1981 the US National Educational Association reported that 36% of teachers said they would probably not go into teaching if they had to decide again. A major reason was negative student attitudes and discipline.\n\nClassroom management is crucial in classrooms because it supports the proper execution of curriculum development, developing best teaching practices, and putting them into action. Classroom management can be explained as the actions and directions that teachers use to create a successful learning environment; indeed, having a positive impact on students achieving given learning requirements and goals (Soheili, Alizadeh, Murphy, Bajestani, Ferguson and Dreikurs). In an effort to ensure all students receive the best education it would seem beneficial for educator programs to spend more time and effort in ensuring educators and instructors are well versed in classroom management. \n\nTeachers do not focus on learning classroom management, because higher education programs do not put an emphasis on the teacher attaining classroom management; indeed, the focus is on creating a conducive learning atmosphere for the student (Eisenman, Edwards, and Cushman). These tools enable teachers to have the resources available to properly and successfully educate upcoming generations, and ensure future successes as a nation.\nAccording to Moskowitz & Hayman (1976), once a teacher loses control of their classroom, it becomes increasingly more difficult for them to regain that control. \n\nAlso, research from Berliner (1988) and Brophy & Good (1986) shows that the time a teacher must take to correct misbehavior caused by poor classroom management skills results in a lower rate of academic engagement in the classroom. From the student's perspective, effective classroom management involves clear communication of behavioral and academic expectations as well as a cooperative learning environment.\n\nUntil recently, corporal punishment was widely used as a means of controlling disruptive behavior but it is now illegal in most schools. It is still advocated in some contexts by religious leaders such as James Dobson, but his views \"diverge sharply from those recommended by contemporary mainstream experts\" and are not based on empirical testing, but rather are a reflection of his faith-based beliefs.\n\nAccording to studies taboo physical punishments like spanking or procedures used in Asia in the classroom such as standing do not make students or children more aggressive. Consistency seems to play a greater role on whether outcomes could be negative.\n\nCorporal punishment is now banned in most schools in the United States, and most developed countries. Although its effectiveness was never proven, the punishment was very disproportionately met. African American males were the most punished group. In a study conducted in 2006, 17.1 percent of students who experienced corporal punishment were African Americans, and 78.3 percent of total students were males.\n\nSome characteristics of having good teacher-student relationships in the classroom involves the appropriate levels of dominance, cooperation, and awareness of high-needs students. Dominance is defined as the teacher's ability to give clear purpose and guidance concerning student behavior and their academics. By creating and giving clear expectations and consequences for student behavior, this builds effective relationships. Such expectations may cover classroom etiquette and behavior, group work, seating arrangements, the use of equipment and materials, and also classroom disruptions. Assertive teacher behavior also reassures that thoughts and messages are being passed on to the student in an effective way. Assertive behavior can be achieved by using erect posture, appropriate tone of voice depending on the current situation, and taking care not to ignore inappropriate behavior by taking action.\n\nPreventive approaches to classroom management involve creating a positive classroom community with mutual respect between teacher and student. Teachers using the preventive approach offer warmth, acceptance, and support unconditionally – not based on a student's behavior. Fair rules and consequences are established and students are given frequent and consistent feedback regarding their behavior. One way to establish this kind of classroom environment is through the development and use of a classroom contract. The contract should be created by both students and the teacher. In the contract, students and teachers decide and agree on how to treat one another in the classroom. The group also decides on and agrees to what the group will do if someone violates the contract. Rather than a consequence, the group should decide how to fix the problem through either class discussion, peer mediation, counseling, or by one on one conversations leading to a solution to the situation.\n\nPreventive techniques also involve the strategic use of praise and rewards to inform students about their behavior rather than as a means of controlling student behavior. To use rewards to inform students about their behavior, teachers must emphasize the value of the behavior that is rewarded and also explain to students the specific skills they demonstrated to earn the reward. Teachers should also encourage student collaboration in selecting rewards and defining appropriate behaviors that earn rewards.\n\nAlso known as \"lines\", rote discipline is a sanction used for behavior management. It involves assigning a disorderly student sentences or the classroom rules to write repeatedly. Among the many types of classroom management approaches, it is very commonly used.\n\nAssertive discipline is an approach designed to assist educators in running a teacher-in-charge classroom environment. Assertive teachers react to situations that require the management of student behavior confidently. Assertive teachers do not use an abrasive, sarcastic, or hostile tone when disciplining students. \n\nAssertive discipline is one of the most widely used classroom management tactics in the world. It demands student compliance and requires teachers to be firm. This method draws a clear line between aggressive discipline and assertive discipline. The standards and rules set in place by assertive discipline are supported by positive reinforcement as well as negative consequences. Teachers using this approach carry themselves confidently and have no tolerance for class disruption. They are not timid, and remain consistent and just.\n\nA constructivist, student-centered approach to classroom management is based on the assignment of tasks in response to student disruption that are \"(1) easy for the student to perform, (2) developmentally enriching, (3) progressive, so a teacher can up the ante if needed, (4) based on students' interests, (5) designed to allow the teacher to stay in charge, and (6) foster creativity and play in the classroom.\" Compliance rests on assigning disciplinary tasks that the student will want to do, in concert with the teacher rapidly assigning more of the task if the student does not initially comply. Once the student complies, the role of the teacher as the person in charge (i.e. in loco parentis) has been re-established peacefully, creatively, and with respect for students' needs. Claimed benefits include increased student trust and long-term emotional benefits from the modeling of creative solutions to difficulties without resorting to a threat of violence or force.\n\nCulturally responsive classroom management (CRCM) is an approach to running classrooms with all children [not simply for racial/ethnic minority children] in a culturally responsive way. More than a set of strategies or practices, CRCM is a pedagogical approach that guides the management decisions that teachers make. It is a natural extension of culturally responsive teaching, which uses students' backgrounds, rendering of social experiences, prior knowledge, and learning styles in daily lessons. Teachers, as culturally responsive classroom managers, recognize their biases\nand values and reflect on how these influence their expectations for behavior and their interactions with students as well as what learning looks like. There is extensive research on traditional classroom management and a myriad of resources available on how to deal with behavior issues. Conversely, there is little research on CRCM, despite the fact that teachers who lack cultural competence often experience problems in this area.\n\nDiscipline without Stress (or DWS) is a K-12 discipline and learning approach developed by Marvin Marshall described in his 2001 book, \"Discipline without Stress, Punishments or Rewards\". The approach is designed to educate young people about the value of internal motivation. The intention is to prompt and develop within youth a desire to become responsible and self-disciplined and to put forth effort to learn. The most significant characteristics of DWS are that it is totally noncoercive (but not permissive) and takes the opposite approach to Skinnerian behaviorism that relies on external sources for reinforcement.\n\nInstructors can demonstrate a suitable level of strength by giving clear learning objectives, they can also pass on fitting levels of participation by giving learning objectives that can be changed based on the classes needs. Allowing students to participate in their own learning goals and outcomes at the start of a unit brings a sense of cooperation and mutual understanding between the instructor and student. One way of involving the students and in turn making them feel heard in the decision making of the class is by asking what topics they would find most intriguing in learning based on a guided rubric. This approach will engage and send a message to the students that the teacher is interested in the student's interests. The student in turn will bring greater learning outcomes as well as a mutual respect.\n\nThe Good Behavior Game (GBG) is a \"classroom-level approach to behavior management\" that was originally used in 1969 by Barrish, Saunders, and Wolf. The Game entails the class earning access to a reward or losing a reward, given that all members of the class engage in some type of behavior (or did not exceed a certain amount of undesired behavior). The GBG can be used to increase desired behaviors (e.g., question asking) or to decrease undesired behaviors (e.g., out of seat behavior). The GBG has been used with preschoolers as well as adolescents, however most applications have been used with typically developing students (i.e., those without developmental disabilities). In addition, the Game \"is usually popular with and acceptable to students and teachers.\"\n\nRobert DiGiulio has developed what he calls \"positive classrooms\". DiGiulio sees positive classroom management as the result of four factors: how teachers regard their students (spiritual dimension), how they set up the classroom environment (physical dimension), bow skillfully they teach content (instructional dimension), and how well they address student behavior (managerial dimension). In positive classrooms student participation and collaboration are encouraged in a safe environment that has been created. A positive classroom environment can be encouraged by being consistent with expectations, using students' names, providing choices when possible, and having an overall trust in students. So As educators, we have daily opportunities to help students grow confidence and feel good about themselves. Despite all the negativity that may be around them within their households. Through such actions as boosting their self-esteem through praise, helping them work through any feelings of alienation, depression, and anger, and helping them realize and honor their intrinsic worth as human beings. May result in better behavior in the long line jeopardy of the students.\n\nIn the \"Handbook of Classroom Management: Research Practice and Contemporary Issues\" (2006), Evertson and Weinstein characterize classroom management as the actions taken to create an environment that supports and facilitates academic and social–emotional learning. Toward this goal, teachers must (1) develop caring, supportive relationships with and among students; (2) organize and implement instruction in ways that optimize students’ access to learning; (3) use group management methods that encourage students’ engagement in academic tasks; (4) promote the development of students’ social skills and self–regulation; and (5) use appropriate interventions to assist students with behavior problems.\n\nIn their introductory text on teaching, Kauchak and Eggen (2008) explain classroom management in terms of time management. The goal of classroom management, to Kauchak and Eggen, is to not only maintain order but to optimize student learning. They divide class time into four overlapping categories, namely allocated time, instructional time, engaged time, and academic learning time.\n\nAcademic learning time occurs when students 1) participate actively and 2) are successful in learning activities. Effective classroom management maximizes academic learning time.\n\nAllocated time is the total time allotted for teaching, learning, routine classroom procedures, checking attendance, and posting or delivering announcements.\n\nAllocated time is also what appears on each student's schedule, for example \"Introductory Algebra: 9:50-10:30 a.m.\" or \"Fine Arts 1:15-2:00 p.m.\"\n\nEngaged time is also called time on task. During engaged time, students are participating actively in learning activities—asking and responding to questions, completing worksheets and exercises, preparing skits and presentations, etc.\n\nInstructional time is what remains after routine classroom procedures are completed. That is to say, instructional time is the time wherein teaching and learning actually takes place. Teachers may spend two or three minutes taking attendance, for example, before their instruction begins. The time it takes for the teacher to do routine tasks can severely limit classroom instruction. Teachers must get a handle on classroom management to be effective.\n\nIn an effort to maintain order in the classroom, sometimes teachers can actually make the problems worse. Therefore, it is important to consider some of the basic mistakes commonly made when implementing classroom behavior management strategies. For example, a common mistake made by teachers is to define the problem behavior by how it looks without considering its function.\n\nInterventions are more likely to be effective when they are individualized to address the specific function of the problem behavior. Two students with similar looking misbehavior may require entirely different intervention strategies if the behaviors are serving different functions. Teachers need to understand that they need to be able to change the ways they do things from year to year, as the children change. Not every approach works for every child. Teachers need to learn to be flexible. Another common mistake is for the teacher to become increasingly frustrated and negative when an approach is not working.\n\nThe teacher may raise his or her voice or increase adverse consequences in an effort to make the approach work. This type of interaction may impair the teacher-student relationship. Instead of allowing this to happen, it is often better to simply try a new approach.\n\nInconsistency in expectations and consequences is an additional mistake that can lead to dysfunction in the classroom. Teachers must be consistent in their expectations and consequences to help ensure that students understand that rules will be enforced. To avoid this, teachers should communicate expectations to students clearly and be sufficiently committed to the classroom management procedures to enforce them consistently.\n\n\"Ignoring and approving\" is an effective classroom management strategy. This involves ignoring students when they behave undesirably and approving their behavior when it is desirable. When students are praised for their good behavior but ignored for their bad behavior, this may increase the frequency of good behavior and decrease bad behavior. Student behavior may be maintained by attention; if students have a history of getting attention after misbehavior, they may continue this behavior as long as it continues to get attention. If student misbehavior is ignored, but good behavior results in attention, students may instead behave appropriately to acquire attention.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1016480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1016480", "title": "Community development", "text": "Community development\n\nThe United Nations defines community development as \"a process where community members come together to take collective action and generate solutions to common problems.\" It is a broad term given to the practices of civic leaders, activists, involved citizens and professionals to improve various aspects of communities, typically aiming to build stronger and more resilient local communities.\n\nCommunity development is also understood as a professional discipline, and is defined by the International Association for Community Development (www.iacdglobal.org), the global network of community development practitioners and scholars, as \"a practice-based profession and an academic discipline that promotes participative democracy, sustainable development, rights, economic opportunity, equality and social justice, through the organisation, education and empowerment of people within their communities, whether these be of locality, identity or interest, in urban and rural settings\".\n\nCommunity development seeks to empower individuals and groups of people with the skills they need to effect change within their communities. These skills are often created through the formation of social groups working for a common agenda. Community developers must understand both how to work with individuals and how to affect communities' positions within the context of larger social institutions.\n\n\"Community development\" as a term has taken off widely in anglophone countries i.e. the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Canada and New Zealand and other countries in the Commonwealth of Nations. It is also used in some countries in Eastern Europe with active community development associations in Hungary and Romania. The \"Community Development Journal\", published by Oxford University Press, since 1966 has aimed to be the major forum for research and dissemination of international community development theory and practice.\n\nCommunity development approaches are recognised internationally. These methods and approaches have been acknowledged as significant for local social, economic, cultural, environmental and political development by such organisations as the UN, WHO, OECD, World Bank, Council of Europe and EU.\n\nThere are complementary definitions of community development.\n\nThe United Nations defines \"community development\" broadly as \"a process where community members come together to take collective action and generate solutions to common problems.\" and the International Association for Community Development defines it as both a practice based profession and an academic discipline. Following the adoption of the IACD definition in 2016, the association has gone on to produce International Standards for Community Development Practice. The values and ethos that should underpin practice; these can be expressed as:Commitment to rights, solidarity, democracy, equality, environmental and social justice. The purpose of community development is understood by IACD as being to work with communities to achieve participative democracy, sustainable development, rights, economic opportunity, equality and social justice. This practice is carried out by people in different roles and contexts, including people explicitly called professional community\nworkers (and people taking on essentially the same role but with a different job title), together with professionals in other occupations ranging from social work, adult education, youth work, health disciplines, environmental education, local economic development, to urban planning, regeneration, architecture and more who seek to apply community development values and adopt community development methods. Community development practice also encompasses a range of occupational settings and levels from development roles working with communities, through to managerial and strategic community planning roles.\n\nThe Community Development Challenge report, which was produced by a working party comprising leading UK organizations in the field (including the (now defunct) Community Development Foundation, the (now defunct) Community Development Exchange and the Federation for Community Development Learning) defines community development as:\nA set of values and practices which plays a special role in overcoming poverty and disadvantage, knitting society together at the grass roots and deepening democracy. There is a community development profession, defined by national occupational standards and a body of theory and experience going back the best part of a century. There are active citizens who use community development techniques on a voluntary basis, and there are also other professions and agencies which use a community development approach or some aspects of it.\n\nCommunity Development Exchange defines community development as:\nboth an occupation (such as a community development worker in a local authority) and a way of working with communities. Its key purpose is to build communities based on justice, equality and mutual respect.\nCommunity development involves changing the relationships between ordinary people and people in positions of power, so that everyone can take part in the issues that affect their lives. It starts from the principle that within any community there is a wealth of knowledge and experience which, if used in creative ways, can be channeled into collective action to achieve the communities' desired goals.\nCommunity development practitioners work alongside people in communities to help build relationships with key people and organizations and to identify common concerns. They create opportunities for the community to learn new skills and, by enabling people to act together, community development practitioners help to foster social inclusion and equality.\n\nThere are numerous overlapping approaches to community development. Some focus on the processes, some on the outcomes/ objectives. They include:\n\nThere are a myriad of job titles for community development workers and their employers include public authorities and voluntary or non-governmental organisations, funded by the state and by independent grant making bodies. Since the nineteen seventies the prefix word 'community' has also been adopted by several other occupations from the police and health workers to planners and architects, who have been influenced by community development approaches.\n\nAmongst the earliest community development approaches were those developed in Kenya and British East Africa during the 1930s. Community development practitioners have over many years developed a range of approaches for working within local communities and in particular with disadvantaged people. Since the nineteen sixties and seventies through the various anti poverty programmes in both developed and developing countries, community development practitioners have been influenced by structural analyses as to the causes of disadvantage and poverty i.e. inequalities in the distribution of wealth, income, land, etc. and especially political power and the need to mobilise people power to affect social change. Thus the influence of such educators as Paulo Freire and his focus upon this work. Other key people who have influenced this field are Saul Alinsky (Rules for Radicals) and E.F. Schumacher (\"Small is Beautiful\"). There are a number of international organisations that support community development, for example, Oxfam, UNICEF, The Hunger Project and Freedom from Hunger, run community development programs based upon community development initiatives for relief and prevention of malnutrition. Since 2006 the Dragon Dreaming Project Management techniques have spread to 37 different countries and are engaged in an estimated 3,250 projects worldwide.\n\nIn the 19th century, the work of the Welsh early socialist thinker Robert Owen (1771–1851), sought to create a more perfect community. At New Lanark and at later communities such as Oneida in the USA and the New Australia Movement in Australia, groups of people came together to create utopian or intentional communities, with mixed success.\n\nIn the United States in the 1960s, the term \"community development\" began to complement and generally replace the idea of urban renewal, which typically focused on physical development projects often at the expense of working-class communities. One of the earliest proponents of the term in the United States was social scientist William W. Biddle In the late 1960s, philanthropies such as the Ford Foundation and government officials such as Senator Robert F. Kennedy took an interest in local nonprofit organizations. A pioneer was the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation in Brooklyn, which attempted to apply business and management skills to the social mission of uplifting low-income residents and their neighborhoods. Eventually such groups became known as \"Community development corporations\" or CDCs. Federal laws beginning with the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act provided a way for state and municipal governments to channel funds to CDCs and other nonprofit organizations.\n\nNational organizations such as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (founded in 1978 and now known as NeighborWorks America), the Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) (founded in 1980), and the Enterprise Foundation (founded in 1981) have built extensive networks of affiliated local nonprofit organizations to which they help provide financing for countless physical and social development programs in urban and rural communities. The CDCs and similar organizations have been credited with starting the process that stabilized and revived seemingly hopeless inner city areas such as the South Bronx in New York City.\n\nIn the UK, community development has had two main traditions. The first was as an approach for preparing for the independence of countries from the former British Empire in the 1950s and 1960s. Domestically it first came into public prominence with the Labour Government's anti deprivation programmes of the latter sixties and seventies. The main example of this being the CDP (Community Development Programme), which piloted local area based community development. This influenced a number of largely urban local authorities, in particular in Scotland with Strathclyde Region's major community development programme (the largest at the time in Europe).\n\nThe Gulbenkian Foundation was a key funder of commissions and reports which influenced the development of community development in the UK from the latter sixties to the 80's. This included recommending that there be a national institute or centre for community development, able to support practice and to advise government and local authorities on policy. This was formally set up in 1991 as the Community Development Foundation. In 2004 the Carnegie UK Trust established a Commission of Inquiry into the future of rural community development examining such issues as land reform and climate change. Carnegie funded over sixty rural community development action research projects across the UK and Ireland and national and international communities of practice to exchange experiences. This included the International Association for Community Development.\n\nIn 1999 a UK wide organisation responsible for setting professional training standards for all education and development practitioners working within local communities was established and recognised by the Labour Government. This organisation was called PAULO – the National Training Organisation for Community Learning and Development. (It was named after Paulo Freire). It was formally recognised by David Blunkett, the Secretary of State for Education and Employment. Its first chair was Charlie McConnell, the Chief Executive of the Scottish Community Education Council, who had played a lead role in bringing together a range of occupational interests under a single national training standards body, including community education, community development and development education. The inclusion of community development was significant as it was initially uncertain as to whether it would join the NTO for Social Care. The Community Learning and Development NTO represented all the main employers, trades unions, professional associations and national development agencies working in this area across the four nations of the UK.\n\nThe term 'community learning and development' was adopted to acknowledge that all of these occupations worked primarily within local communities, and that this work encompassed not just providing less formal learning support but also a concern for the wider holistic development of those communities – socio-economically, environmentally, culturally and politically. By bringing together these occupational groups this created for the first time a single recognised employment sector of nearly 300,000 full and part-time paid staff within the UK, approximately 10% of these staff being full-time. The NTO continued to recognise the range of different occupations within it, for example specialists who work primarily with young people, but all agreed that they shared a core set of professional approaches to their work. In 2002 the NTO became part of a wider Sector Skills Council for lifelong learning.\n\nThe UK currently hosts the only global network of practitioners and activists working towards social justice through community development approach, the International Association for Community Development (IACD). IACD was formed in the USA in 1953, moved to Belgium in 1978 and was restructured and relaunched in Scotland in 1999.\n\nCommunity development in Canada has roots in the development of co-operatives, credit unions and caisses populaires. The Antigonish Movement which started in the 1920s in Nova Scotia, through the work of Doctor Moses Coady and Father James Tompkins, has been particularly influential in the subsequent expansion of community economic development work across Canada.\n\nCommunity development in Australia have often been focussed upon Aboriginal Australian communities, and during the period of the 1980s to the early 21st century were funded through the Community Employment Development Program, where Aboriginal people could be employed in \"a work for the dole\" scheme, which gave the chance for non-government organisations to apply for a full or part-time worker funded by the Department for Social Security. Dr Jim Ife, formerly of Curtin University, organised a ground breaking text-book on community development\n\nCommunity planning techniques drawing on the history of utopian movements became important in the 1920s and 1930s in East Africa, where community development proposals were seen as a way of helping local people improve their own lives with indirect assistance from colonial authorities.\n\nMohandas K. Gandhi adopted African community development ideals as a basis of his South African Ashram, and then introduced it as a part of the Indian Swaraj movement, aiming at establishing economic interdependence at village level throughout India. With Indian independence, despite the continuing work of Vinoba Bhave in encouraging grassroots land reform, India under its first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru adopted a mixed-economy approach, mixing elements of socialism and capitalism. During the fifties and sixties, India ran a massive community development programme with focus on rural development activities through government support. This was later expanded in scope and was called integrated rural development scheme [IRDP]. A large number of initiatives that can come under the community development umbrella have come up in recent years.\n\nThe main objective of community development in India remains to develop the villages and to help the villagers help themselves to fight against poverty, illiteracy, malnutrition, etc. The beauty of Indian model of community development lies in the homogeneity of villagers and high level of participation.\n\nCommunity development became a part of the Ujamaa Villages established in Tanzania by Julius Nyerere, where it had some success in assisting with the delivery of education services throughout rural areas, but has elsewhere met with mixed success. In the 1970s and 1980s, community development became a part of \"Integrated Rural Development\", a strategy promoted by United Nations Agencies and the World Bank. Central to these policies of community development were:\n\nIn the 1990s, following critiques of the mixed success of \"top down\" government programs, and drawing on the work of Robert Putnam, in the rediscovery of social capital, community development internationally became concerned with social capital formation. In particular the outstanding success of the work of Muhammad Yunus in Bangladesh with the Grameen Bank from its inception in 1976, has led to the attempts to spread microenterprise credit schemes around the world. Yunus saw that social problems like poverty and disease were not being solved by the market system on its own. Thus, he established a banking system which lends to the poor with very little interest, allowing them access to entrepreneurship. This work was honoured by the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nAnother alternative to \"top down\" government programs is the participatory government institution. Participatory governance institutions are organizations which aim to facilitate the participation of citizens within larger decision making and action implementing processes in society. A case study done on municipal councils and social housing programs in Brazil found that the presence of participatory governance institutions supports the implementation of poverty alleviation programs by local governments.\n\nThe \"human scale development\" work of Right Livelihood Award-winning Chilean economist Manfred Max Neef promotes the idea of development based upon fundamental human needs, which are considered to be limited, universal and invariant to all human beings (being a part of our human condition). He considers that poverty results from the failure to satisfy a particular human need, it is not just an absence of money. Whilst human needs are limited, Max Neef shows that the ways of satisfying human needs is potentially unlimited. Satisfiers also have different characteristics: they can be violators or destroyers, pseudosatisfiers, inhibiting satisfiers, singular satisfiers, or synergic satisfiers. Max-Neef shows that certain satisfiers, promoted as satisfying a particular need, in fact inhibit or destroy the possibility of satisfying other needs: e.g., the arms race, while ostensibly satisfying the need for protection, in fact then destroys subsistence, participation, affection and freedom; formal democracy, which is supposed to meet the need for participation often disempowers and alienates; commercial television, while used to satisfy the need for recreation, interferes with understanding, creativity and identity. Synergic satisfiers, on the other hand, not only satisfy one particular need, but also lead to satisfaction in other areas: some examples are breastfeeding; self-managed production; popular education; democratic community organizations; preventative medicine; meditation; educational games.\n\nInternational organizations apply the term community in Vietnam to the local administrative unit, each with a traditional identity based on traditional, cultural, and kinship relations. Community development strategies in Vietnam aim to organize communities in ways that increase their capacities to partner with institutions, the participation of local people, transparency and equality, and unity within local communities.\n\nSocial and economic development planning (SDEP) in Vietnam uses top-down centralized planning methods and decision-making processes which do not consider local context and local participation. The plans created by SDEP are ineffective and serve mainly for administrative purposes. Local people are not informed of these development plans. The participatory rural appraisal (PRA) approach, a research methodology that allows local people to share and evaluate their own life conditions, was introduced to Vietnam in the early 1990s to help reform the way that government approaches local communities and development. PRA was used as a tool for mostly outsiders to learn about the local community, which did not effect substantial change.\n\nThe village/commune development (VDP/CDP) approach was developed as a more fitting approach than PRA to analyze local context and address the needs of rural communities. VDP/CDP participatory planning is centered around Ho Chi Minh's saying that \"People know, people discuss and people supervise.\" VDP/CDP is often useful in Vietnam for shifting centralized management to more decentralization, helping develop local governance at the grassroots level. Local people use their knowledge to solve local issues. They create mid-term and yearly plans that help improve existing community development plans with the support of government organizations. Although VDP/CDP has been tested in many regions in Vietnam, it has not been fully implemented for a couple reasons. The methods applied in VDP/CDP are human resource and capacity building intensive, especially at the early stages. It also requires the local people to have an \"initiative-taking\" attitude. People in the remote areas where VDP/CDP has been tested have mostly passive attitudes because they already receive assistance from outsiders. There also are no sufficient monitoring practices to ensure effective plan implementation. Integrating VDP/CDP into the governmental system is difficult because the Communist Party and Central government's policies on decentralization are not enforced in reality.\n\nNon-governmental organizations (NGO) in Vietnam, legalized in 1991, have claimed goals to develop civil society, which was essentially nonexistent prior to the Đổi Mới economic reforms. NGO operations in Vietnam do not exactly live up to their claimed goals to expand civil society. This is mainly due to the fact that NGOs in Vietnam are mostly donor-driven, urban, and elite-based organizations that employ staff with ties to the Communist Party and Central government. NGOs are also overlooked by the Vietnam Fatherland Front, an umbrella organization that reports observations directly to the Party and Central government. Since NGOs in Vietnam are not entirely non-governmental, they have been coined instead as 'VNGOs.' Most VNGOs have originated from either the state, hospital or university groups, or individuals not previously associated with any groups. VNGOs have not yet reached those most in need, such as the rural poor, due to the entrenched power networks' opposition to lobbying for issues such the rural poor's land rights. Authoritarianism is prevalent in nearly all Vietnamese civic organizations. Authoritarian practices are more present in inner-organizational functions than in organization leaders' worldviews. These leaders often reveal both authoritarian and libertarian values in contradiction. Representatives of Vietnam's NGO's stated that disagreements are normal, but conflicts within an organization should be avoided, demonstrating the one-party \"sameness\" mentality of authoritarian rule.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4860148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4860148", "title": "Concordia College and University", "text": "Concordia College and University\n\nConcordia College and University is an entity with a primary mailing address in Dominica that represents itself as a higher education institution that awards associate, bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees based solely on the purchaser's work and life experience, without any class attendance. Although the name is similar, Concordia College and University is not in any way affiliated with any of the regionally accredited institutions within the ten-member Concordia University System.\n\nConcordia College and University has used multiple addresses. For most of its existence it has stated that it is incorporated in Dominica, but it also has listed addresses in locations including the U.S. Virgin Islands, Spain, and Liberia. , one of the multiple Internet domains used by this entity lists its name as \"Concordia College & University Delaware,\" founded in Roseau, British West Indies (Dominica) in 1999, with a location in Wilmington, Delaware.\n\nConcordia College and University is not accredited by any higher education accrediting body recognized in the United States or most other countries where its degrees are advertised. It claims to be recognized and accredited by the governments of Indonesia and Liberia. It is recognized by UNESCO. It is accredited by the National Academy of Higher Education, an entity that is not recognized as a higher education accreditor by the United States Department of Education or the Council on Higher Education Accreditation and that several educational organizations identify as an unrecognized accreditation organization or accreditation mill. In 2003, Concordia College and University was reported to be claiming accreditation by the Distance Graduation Accrediting Association, which is not recognized as an accreditor by the U.S. Department of Education . Concordia College and University has no primary physical address or campus.\n\nIn 2009, Concordia College and University was listed as a diploma mill by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. According to John Bear, it has an address in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and gives degrees based on \"life experience\". Like many diploma mills, Concordia College and University uses the name of similar schools that actually have legitimate accreditation to confuse prospective students. Concordia College and University is not affiliated with any of the accredited schools within the U.S.-based Concordia University System. Schools within the Concordia System are regionally accredited and are branded as Concordia University, Concordia College, or Concordia University School of Law.\n\nIn September 2004, \"The East Carolinian\", the student newspaper of East Carolina University in Greenville, North Carolina reported that \"There are at least a half-dozen legitimate Concordia colleges and Concordia universities around the country. But Concordia College and University is a diploma mill that offers degrees in as little turnaround time as 12 hours.\"\nThe article noted, \"The fake Concordia College and University admonishes Web surfers to 'be safe and purchase a government approved degree.' The government, it turns out, is war-torn Liberia. The school's offices are in Dominica, and its U.S. mailing address is in Saint John, U.S. Virgin Islands. Its website domain is in Pakistan.\"\n\nA Special Report from Matthew Kauffman in the Hartford Courant says \"[l]ike other schools, Concordia touts its accreditation, so I went in search of the U.S. National Academic Higher Education Agency — which inexplicably goes by the acronym NAHED. I found the agency's website at accreditation.ga, meaning that a group whose name begins with \"U.S.\" has a website registered in the central African country of Gabon\" and that \"[c]ritics say that operators of diploma mills intentionally choose names that are similar or identical to recognized schools\", noting that \"at least a dozen legitimate institutions throughout the country named Concordia...\" \n\nThe Oregon Office of Degree Authorization lists a \"Concordia College and University\" in its list of unaccredited degree suppliers, and notes that it is a Class B misdemeanor in Oregon to use an unlawful degree.\n\nConcordia College and University also appears on a State of Michigan list of non-accredited colleges and universities.\n\nIn 2003 the North Dakota Legislative Assembly moved forward a bill \"that would punish anyone trying to use a degree from a diploma mill as a legitimate credential.\" In a 2003 article discussing the legislation, The Chronicle of Higher Education stated that \"state officials are concerned that illegitimate institutions are mimicking the names of legitimate ones,\" citing as an example \"an entity called Concordia College & University\" whose name is similar to that of Concordia College in Moorhead, Minnesota, an accredited school attended by many North Dakota students. The article further noted that for Concordia College & University \"No classes or exams are required. Associate and bachelor's degrees cost $599, master's degrees $699, and doctorates $1,099, including shipping and handling, the site says, noting that degree recipients get a certified diploma and two transcripts, complete with watermarks.\"\n\nIn September 2009, Mississippi Secretary of State Delbert Hosemann warned residents about Concordia College and University. Hosemann said Concordia College and University LLC has been using the secretary of state's Web site to misrepresent the organization as a licensed educational institution. Hosemann said Concordia College is a registered limited liability corporation, but it is not accredited as an educational institution in Mississippi. Hosemann said a cease and desist letter had been sent to Concordia demanding that it remove the false and misleading claims from the company Web site.\n\nIn October 2006 a Seneca County, Ohio grand jury indicted John McGuire, the new police chief of Fostoria, Ohio on two felony counts of tampering with records and two misdemeanor charges of falsification involving his qualifications. The \"Toledo Blade\" noted he \"obtained a criminal-justice degree from Concordia College and University, an online degree program in the Virgin Islands.\" \n\nIn February 2007, the paper reported that documents filed in a drug case showed that Rocko, a police dog in the Fostoria police department, had also received a bachelor of science degree in criminal justice from Concordia in 2006. The dog's degree was planned to be used as evidence in the court trial, but the prosecutor noted \"I don't think it's necessary to bring the actual dog.\" A few weeks later it was revealed that the degree had been purchased by Greg Peiffer, general manager and president of Fostoria radio station WFOB, who said it was obtained with minimal effort.\n\nThe trial of McGuire was originally scheduled for March 2007 but was delayed. In May, McGuire testified that the degree was based on a combination of life experience and transferred credits from courses he took at the U.S. Air Force Community College. The judge in the case ruled that McGuire \"earned his degree\", noting evidence that McGuire had helped search for bodies at the World Trade Center site after the\nSeptember 2001 terrorist attacks, had attended the FBI Academy, had assisted in the search for Olympic Park bomber Eric Robert Rudolph, and had served in Operation Desert Storm. With regard to the diploma awarded to the dog, the judge said that \"This court finds no similarity between those two degrees.\"\n\nIn May 2007 Louise Wightman of Norwell, Massachusetts, was convicted of fraud and larceny for misrepresenting herself as a licensed psychologist and for falsely advertising that she held a doctorate in psychology. Part of her crime was claiming to have a Ph.D. based on having received a degree from Concordia. She holds a valid master's degree and devoted five years of study to a Ph.D. program which she did not complete. She is therefore legally qualified to use the term \"psychotherapist\" but not \"psychologist\" according to state licensing requirements.\n\nShe told the jury that she felt she had earned a Ph.D., so she paid about $1,300 to obtain her degree (Ph.D. with a major in psychology) over the Internet from Concordia College and University. This credential ultimately proved to be worthless.\n\nIn 2010, IT services firm EDS lost a court case brought by broadcaster BSkyB after the British High Court ruled that the company had misled BSkyB about its expertise. Part of EDS' case hinged on the testimony of Joe Galloway, a former Managing Director for CRM Solutions, who provided implementation timeframes to BSkyB that later turned out to be unrealistic. Galloway's credibility as a witness was severely undermined by his defence of a mail-order degree from Concordia. Although he \"gave detailed evidence on how he took plane journeys between the islands and attended a college there\", a member of the opposing legal team managed to obtain the same degree for his dog \"Lulu\". The blow to the witness' credibility was reported as pivotal to the success of the case.\n\nIn 2013, a whistle-blower at the Smith County Sheriffs department alleged that she was retaliated against after not complying with a deputy attempting to gain a pay increase based on a diploma from Concordia College and University in Wilmington, Delaware; the whistle-blower objected to the degree submission because she considered the institution a \"diploma mill\". After an investigation by the Texas Rangers into the degree, the deputy who had tried to use the Concordia College and University, Delaware degree subsequently resigned, surrendered his Peace Officer license permanently, and paid back his extra earnings and thereby did not face prosecution. The department settled with the whistle-blower.\n\n"}
{"id": "30893807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30893807", "title": "Control Data Institute", "text": "Control Data Institute\n\nControl Data Institute (CDI) was an international technical vocational school created by the American Control Data Corporation in the mid-1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1242140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242140", "title": "Department of Computer Science, FMPI, Comenius University", "text": "Department of Computer Science, FMPI, Comenius University\n\nThe Department of Computer Science is a department of the Faculty of Mathematics, Physics and Informatics at the Comenius University in Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia. It is headed by Prof. RNDr. Branislav Rovan, Phd.\n\nThe first comprehensive computer science curriculum in Czechoslovakia (now Slovakia) was introduced at the Faculty in 1973. The department, established in 1974, continues to be responsible for organizing the major part of the undergraduate and graduate computer science education to this date. The distinguishing feature of the curriculum has been a balanced coverage of the mathematical foundations, theoretical computer science, and practical computer science. The part of the curriculum covered by the department at present includes courses on computer architecture, system software, networks, databases, software design, design and analysis of algorithms, formal languages, computational complexity, discrete mathematics, cryptology, data security and others.\n\nThe department succeeded several times in project applications within the TEMPUS Programme of the EU. The projects CIPRO and „Neumann Network“ helped to build the departmental hardware infrastructure and to establish the expertise in Unix workstation technology, networking, and structured document processing. The CUSTU PARLAB parallel computing laboratory run jointly with the Department of Informatics of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Informatics of the Slovak Technical University also resulted from one of these projects. Furthermore, the department participated in project LEARN-ED under the COPERNICUS Programme and built a multimedia laboratory.\n\nThe department has been involved in the organization of one of the top European conferences in theoretical computer science ? MFCS ? each time it took place in Slovakia. Further conferences recently organized or co-organized by the department include SOFSEM '98 and DISC '99. Besides, the department houses the secretariat of the European Association for Theoretical Computer Science, of the Slovak Society for Computer Science and of the Association for Security of Information Technologies (ASIT).\n\nResearch in theoretical computer science and discrete mathematics has the longest tradition in the department. Most notably, the result of Róbert Szelepcsényi on the closure of nondeterministic space under complement, independently obtained also by N. Immerman, brought the Gödel Prize of the ACM and EATCS to both of them in 1995. More recently research in parallel and distributed computing, cryptology and information security, and in software development has been initiated. The department is involved in international cooperation on the development of the structured document editor within the Euromath Project. \nThe department has many international contacts, succeeded in research project application (project ALTEC ? „Algorithms for Future Technologies“) with partners from EU, and also has two research grants from the Slovak Grant Agency.\n\nA network consisting of 20 workstations (Sun, DEC and Hewlett-Packard in two workstation labs), Parsytec (with 20 transputers and OS Parix), and standard PCs connected to a network.\n"}
{"id": "10069304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10069304", "title": "Dover Business College", "text": "Dover Business College\n\nDover Business College was a vocational school and technical college with locations in Dover and Clifton, New Jersey. Dover Business College, which was founded in 1958 and accredited in 1974, was a private institution with a focus on preparing students for careers in healthcare, information technology, and business. The college awarded more than 2,800 diplomas in its last five years.\n\nThe school was merged into Berkeley College on July 1, 2013. Many of the programs that were offered at Dover Business College are now available at Berkeley College via the college's School of Health Studies, which was established to coincide with the merger.\n\nBerkeley College has six New Jersey locations following the Dover acquisition. Locations are in Clifton, Dover, Newark, Paramus, Woodbridge, and Woodland Park. The college also has three New York locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and White Plains. The school also offers programs through Berkeley College Online.\n\n"}
{"id": "26711775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26711775", "title": "E@I", "text": "E@I\n\nE@I (“Education@Internet”) is an international youth non-profit organization that promotes international collaboration and communication and hosts educational projects and meetings to support intercultural learning and the usage of languages and internet technologies.\n\nE@I started as an informal international work group in 1999, before it was officially registered in Slovakia in 2005. E@I's activities include the development of educational websites (lernu! and Slovake.eu among others), publishing, such as producing books and DVDs, and organizing conferences and seminars, for example, the biennial KAEST or the Esperanto Wikimania in 2011. A specialist group within the organization is dedicated to Wikipedia.\n\nE@I is a member organization of the Council of Europe's European Youth Foundation and one of the 29 organizations represented in the European Commission's Civil Society Platform for Multlingualism. Projects run by the organization have been subsidized by the Esperantic Studies Foundation and the European Commission's Youth in Action programme and Lifelong Learning Programme (through EACEA). The coordinator of E@I's activities is Peter Baláž, who has been elected \"Esperantist of the Year 2012\" in a poll held by the renowned magazine \"La Ondo de Esperanto\".\n\nE@I envisions a peaceful, harmonious world where everyone in the world can communicate with each other easily and quickly. E@I aims to achieve this goal through three main actions:\n\n\nE@I supports projects focused on international collaboration, and organizes cultural seminars on the importance and utility of free international communication.\n\nOrganizing seminars is one of the main activities of E@I. These seminars focus on furthering collaboration through the use of the internet and training novices or those who are not very familiar with new technology. New project ideas are often born out of these meetings.\n\nThe letter \"E\" in E@I represents Edukado (Education). However, it can also signify: Efikeco (Effectiveness), Esperanto, Evoluo (Evolution), Eŭropo (Europe). The letter \"I\" in E@I represents Interreto (Internet). It can also represent: Interkulturo (Interculturalness), Informo (Information), Ideo (Idea), Inspiro (Inspiration). The \"@\" sign indicates the synergy needed between the two main ideas in order to achieve E@I's goal of international communication. E@I is often expanded as \"Edukado@Interreto\" (Education@Internet) or \"Esperanto@Interreto\" (Esperanto@Internet). However, the two letters have many possible significations. As a result, the organization was named E@I in its official registration.\n\nThe Idea of E@I began in November 1999. A conference of the same name was soon held in April 2000 in Tollare, Sweden. As a result of this meeting, an international group with the same name was started. During the 56th IJK (International Youth Congress of Esperanto) in Hong Kong, Henning von Rosen and Hokan Lundberg presented the ideas and goals of E@I. In 2001, E@I registered their website, ikso.net. At the same time, the charitable foundation \"E@I\" was created in the cadre of UEA/TEJO. The second Esperanto@Interreto conference took place in October 2001 in Uppsala. The third conference followed in 2002. This conference was a collaboration with non-Esperantists, and was bilingual Esperanto/English. In between 2002 and 2004, many of E@I's projects were in development, especially lernu!, Lingva Prismo and Interkulturo. The first board of directors was also created, consisting of 5 members.\n\nOn 14 November 2005, E@I was registered as a civil association in the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Slovakia. E@I decided to officially register itself as \"E@I\" instead of the expanded \"Esperanto@Interreto\". On 1 August 2007, a new board of directors was inaugurated with the head position held by Peter Baláž. In 2007, E@I was accepted as a member of the EYF (European Youth Foundation).\n\nE@I continues to work on its various internet projects and conferences today. The most recently completed project being, Slovake.eu, the first website dedicated to learning the Slovak language for which E@I has received a subsidy of 256,000 euros from the European Commission's EACEA. E@I has also started allowing university students to do internships through the Erasmus Programme.\n\nIn February 2012, Peter Baláž, Indre Pileckytė, Jevgenij Gaus and Neringa Gaus toured China as a result of the increasing number of Chinese lernu! users, and to possibly start a conference similar to SES in China.\n\nE@I is regulated by a statute under which a 3 to 9 member board of directors runs the organization. The other sections of E@I are its elected commission, its financial commission, and its members.\n\nMembers of E@I are those who have agreed to the terms of the statute of E@I and have sent the necessary information to E@I. Those in between the ages of 15 and 35 are considered regular members. Some people are considered special members without having voting rights. E@I membership is free of charge. According to the E@I website, there are now around 20 thousand members.\n\nThe current board of directors was inaugurated on August 1, 2007, and currently consists of the following people:\n\n\nThe original board of directors was elected in April 2003, and consisted of Chuck Smith, Hokan Lundberg, Nastja Koĵevnikova, Ralf Frölich and Sonja Petrović.\n\nKatarína Nosková is the first paid employee of E@I. Her main projects have been the Slovake.eu project, handling donations, administrative tasks, and correspondence.\n\nStarting 2010, E@I has accepted interns in the form of university students who usually work for a few months on various E@I projects. The internship can count as a part of their studies.\n\nOn the 1 June 2011, the town of Partizánske and its major, Jozef Božik, decided to give E@I its own office in downtown Partizánske, for the symbolic cost of 1 euro per year.\n\nThe organization of educational conferences is an essential part of E@I. E@I was itself formed during a TEJO conference entitled \"Esperanto@Interreto\".\n\nIn the first few years of its existence, trainings on education and the internet were an integral part of the development of E@I, aiding it in finding many new members. For its first few years, E@I was a scholarly branch of TEJO. As a result, E@I's first few seminars were a collaboration with TEJO.\n\n\nStarting in 2007, E@I has arranged a conference every summer entitled SES. In 2007, the title was \"Slava Esperanto-Studado\" (Slavic Esperanto-Study), but since then the conference has been renamed to \"Somera Esperanto-Studado\".\n\nKAEST stands for \"Konferenco pri Aplikoj de Esperanto en Scienco kaj Tekniko\" (Conference on the Application of Esperanto in Science and Technology) and is a biannual conference held by E@I. The event has a history going back to Czechoslovakia of 1978, and the first KAEST held by E@I took place in November 2010 in Modra. The conference is organized by E@I with financial support from organizations such as International Esperanto Institute and Esperantic Studies Foundation.\n\nE@I has created many websites and publications related to education on the internet that are related to Esperanto or languages in general.\n\n\"lernu!\" is a multilingual course for students of Esperanto. In addition to courses at different levels, the site contains additional learning tools such as dictionaries, a grammatical overview, spoken stories with pictures, an instant messenger and more.\n\nSlovake.eu is a multilingual website to teach the Slovak language to foreigners. The project is supported by the European Commission's agency EACEA within its Lifelong learning programme and was launched in March 2011. The website is being constructed on the basis of experience gained in lernu.net and other internet projects. Six partners from five countries have participated in the project.\n\nKomputeko is a portal of computer related terms in as many languages as possible, created in order to promote correct language usage and face the use of (often crippled forms of) US English terms.\n\nOn 10 September 2008, a DVD titled \"Esperanto\" produced by E@I was included as a free-of-charge attachment to the leading Polish newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza, commissioned by the city of Białystok as part of the official campaign preceding the 150th birth anniversary of L. L. Zamenhof, the creator of Esperanto born in 1859 in Białystok, and promoting the 94th World Congress of Esperanto which was to be held in Białystok from 25 July to 1 August 2009. The DVD was issued in 364,000 copies.\n\nAn internet version of the Plena Ilustrita Vortaro, the largest monolingual dictionary of Esperanto. This project has been realized with the cooperation of SAT, the publisher of PIV and holder of its author rights, and with the help of donations crowdsourced from Esperanto associations, Esperanto clubs and individual Esperantists.\n\nDeutsch.info is a multilingual website for teaching German to non-German speakers. Similarly to Slovake.eu, the project is supported by European Commission's agency EACEA within its Lifelong learning programme, and was launched in 2013. The website is being created based on the experience with lernu!, Slovake.eu and other internet projects. There are 8 partners from 6 countries participating in the project, and it will be available in 9 languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16569410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16569410", "title": "Education in Laos", "text": "Education in Laos\n\nIn 2005, the literacy rate in Laos was estimated to be 73% (83% male and 63% female).\n\nOf the many ethnic groups in Laos, only the Lao Loum had a tradition of formal education, reflecting the fact that the languages of the other groups had no written script. Until the mid-20th century, education was primarily based in the Buddhist temple school (wat school), where the monks taught novices and other boys to read both Lao and Pali scripts, basic arithmetic, and other religious and social subjects. Many villages had wat schools for novices and other village boys. However, only ordained boys and men in urban monasteries had access to advanced study.\nDuring the colonial period, the French established a secular education system patterned after schools in France, and French was the language of instruction after the second or third grade. This system was largely irrelevant to the needs and lifestyles of the vast majority of the rural population, despite its extension to some district centers and a few villages. However, it did produce a small elite drawn primarily from the royal family and noble households. Many children of Vietnamese immigrants to Laos—who made up the majority of the colonial civil service—attended these schools and, in fact, constituted a significant proportion of the students at secondary levels in urban centers.\n\nPost-secondary education was not available in Laos, and the few advanced students traveled to Hanoi, Danang, and Hué in Vietnam and to Phnom Penh in Cambodia for specialized training; fewer still continued with university-level studies in France.\n\nThe Pathet Lao began to provide Lao language instruction in the schools under its control in the late 1950s, and a Laotian curriculum began to be developed in the late 1960s in the RLG schools. In 1970 about one-third of the civilian employees of the RLG were teachers, although the majority of these were poorly paid and minimally trained elementary teachers. At that time, there were about 200,000 elementary students enrolled in RLG schools, around 36 percent of the school-age population.\n\nAn important goal of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (LPDR) government was to establish a system of universal primary education by 1985. The LPDR took over the existing Royal Lao Government education system that had been established in 1950s and restructured it, facing many of the same problems that had confronted previous governments. The French system of education was replaced with a Laotian curriculum, although lack of teaching materials has impeded effective instruction.\n\nAn intensive adult literacy campaign was initiated in 1983-84, which mobilized educated persons living in villages and urban neighborhoods to bring basic reading and writing skills to over 750,000 adults. Largely as a result of this campaign, those able to read and write had increased to an estimated 44 percent. According to the United Nations, by 1985 those able to read and write were estimated at 92 percent of men and 76 percent of women ages 15 to 45. Because few reading materials are available, especially in the rural areas, many newly literate adults lose much of their proficiency after a few years.\nThe decision to establish universal education led the government to focus its efforts on building and staffing schools in nearly every village. Because resources are limited, most schools are poorly constructed—of bamboo and thatch—and staffed by one or two teachers who are paid low wages, usually in arrears. Many village schools have only one or two grades; books, paper, or other teaching materials are conspicuous by their scarcity.\n\nSchool enrollment has increased since 1975. In 1988 primary school enrollment was estimated at 63 percent of all school-age children. In 1992-93 an estimated 603,000 students were in primary school, compared to 317,000 students in 1976 and 100,000 students in 1959. However, the goal of achieving universal primary education was postponed from 1985 to 2000 as a result of the lack of resources.\n\nBecause teachers are paid irregularly, they are forced to spend significant amounts of time farming or in other livelihood activities, with the result that in many locations classes are held for only a few hours a day. Because of irregular classes, overcrowding, and lack of learning resources, the average student needed 11 to 12 years to complete the five-year primary course in the late 1980s. Repetition rates ranged from 40 percent for the first grade to 14 percent for the fifth grade. Dropouts were a significant problem, with 22 percent of all entering first graders leaving school before the second grade. In the late 1980s, only 45 percent of entering first graders completed all five years of primary school, up from 18 percent in 1969.\n\nPerformance statistics vary according to rural-urban location, ethnic group, and gender. Enrollment and school quality are higher in urban areas, where the usefulness of a formal education is more evident than in rural farming communities. Isolated teachers confronted with primitive rural living and teaching conditions have a difficult time maintaining their own commitment as well as the interest of their pupils. Ethnic minority students who have no tradition of literacy and who do not speak Lao have a particularly difficult time. Unless the teacher is of the same or similar ethnic group as the students, communication and culturally appropriate education are limited. Because of these factors, in the late 1980s the enrollment rate for the Lao Sung was less than half that of the Lao Loum; enrollment was also low for Lao Theung children.\nGirls are less likely than boys to attend school and attend for fewer years—a discrepancy that was declining, however, in the early 1990s. In 1969 only 37 percent of students in primary school were girls; by 1989, however, 44 percent of primary school students were girls. Because of Lao Sung cultural attitudes toward girls' and women's responsibilities, girls in these groups accounted for only 26 percent of all students.\n\nSecondary education enrollment has expanded since 1975 but as of mid-1994 was still limited in availability and scope. In 1992-93 only about 130,000 students were enrolled in all postprimary programs, including lower- and upper-secondary schools, vocational programs, and teacher-training schools. The exodus of Laotian elite after 1975 deprived vocational and secondary schools of many of their staff, a situation that was only partly offset by students returning from training in socialist countries. Between 1975 and 1990, the government granted over 14,000 scholarships for study in at least eight socialist countries: just over 7,000 were to the Soviet Union, followed by 2,500 to Vietnam, and 1,800 to the German Democratic Republic (East Germany).\n\nIn mid-1994 the school year was nine months. The ideal sequence included five years of primary school, followed by three years of lower-secondary school and three years of upper-secondary school. In 2010, another year was added to upper-secondary school, for a total of 12 years of primary and secondary education. Some students go directly from primary or lower-secondary school to vocational instruction, for example, in teacher-training schools or agriculture schools.\n\nLocal secondary education is concentrated in the provincial capitals and some district centers. Dropout rates for students at secondary and technical schools are not as high as among primary students, but the gender and ethnic group differentials are more pronounced. In the late 1980s, only 7% of lower-secondary students were Lao Sung or Lao Theung, a rate that dropped to 3% in upper-secondary school. For most students who do not live in a provincial center, attendance at secondary school requires boarding away from home in makeshift facilities. This situation further discourages students in rural areas from pursuing further education, with additional differential impacts on girls and minorities. Vientiane has the majority of advanced schools, including the national teachers' training school at Dong Dok, the irrigation college at Tad Thong, the agriculture college at Na Phok, the National Polytechnic Institute, and the University of Medical Sciences. Even so, the level of training available at these schools is low.\n\nIn 1986 the government began to reform the education system, with the goals of linking educational development more closely to the socioeconomic situation in each locality, improving science training and emphasis, expanding networks to remote mountainous regions, and recruiting minority teachers. The plan envisioned making education more relevant to daily realities and building increased cooperation in educational activities among the ministries, mass organizations, and the community. However, the ability to implement this program through its scheduled completion in 2000 depended on a significant budgetary increase to the education sector in addition to receiving significant foreign aid. Education accounted for only 8 percent of government expenditures in 1988, down from a 10% to 15% range during the preceding seven-year period, and cultural expenditures were not accorded a high priority.\n\nAlthough more school texts and general magazines are being printed, poor distribution systems and budgetary constraints limit their availability throughout the country. Overall, 3.9 million books were printed in 1989, including school texts published by the Ministry of Education, and novels, stories, and poems published by the Ministry of Information and Culture. Translations into Lao of Russian-language technical, literary, and children's books were available through the Novosti press agency. Virtually all these materials are inexpensive paperbound editions. \n\nDistribution of school texts is improving, and magazines and novels can occasionally be found in district markets distant from Vientiane. Thai printed material—for the most part, magazines and books—was available after the late 1980s in a few shops. Yet, in the early 1990s, it was rare to see a book or any other reading material in rural villages, with the exception of political posters or a months-old edition of the newspaper \"Xieng Pasason\" (\"Voice of the People\") pasted on a house wall.\n\nRefer to page Education in Laos (post-1990) for updated education information.\n\nThe Lao population of 6.5 million is ethnically and linguistically diverse. The government has defined 49 ethnic groups, many having their own language. School attendance, literacy, and other indicators of educational attainment vary greatly among different ethnic groups. Census data from 1995 reveal that 23 percent of the Lao never went to school as compared with 34, 56, and 67 percent for Phutai, Khmu, and Hmong. Among two of the smallest ethnic groups, 94 percent of the Kor and 96 percent of the Musir never attended school. The quality of instruction tends to be poor, and nearly half of those who enter do not complete the primary cycle.\n\nLao, the official and instructional language, is the first language of about 50 percent of the population. Children from homes where Lao is not spoken enter schools with a significant handicap, a condition partly accounting for the high dropout rate. Changing the language of instruction would be a complex problem; however, steps can be taken by schools to assist non-Lao speaking pupils.\n\nThe rural quality of Laos implicates the provision of education as urbanization facilitates educational delivery. It is more expensive to provide schools for each small village than to build a smaller number of large schools in cities. These rural-urban differences are even more significant for provision of secondary, technical or vocational schools given the higher unit costs involved. The quantity and quality of schooling are influenced by demographic structures and are highly sensitive to the size of the school-age cohort. \n\nThe extremely young population of Lao PDR puts a heavy burden on schooling and, at the same time, the high dependency ratio contributes to the low national productivity. Large families force choices as to which children go to school, tending to suppress female enrollments and indirectly reducing the number of subsequent opportunities for girls in education and in the labor market.\n\nThe education system is evolving under severely constraining conditions of inadequately prepared and poorly paid teachers, insufficient funding, shortages of facilities, and often ineffective allocation of the limited resources available. There is significant geographic, ethnic, gender and wealth disparities in the distribution of educational services, and inequalities exist in every level of the system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1837158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1837158", "title": "Education in the Joseon dynasty", "text": "Education in the Joseon dynasty\n\nEducation in the Joseon Dynasty of Korea was largely aimed at preparing students for government service. The ultimate goal of most students was successful passage of the state examinations, known as \"gwageo\". \n\nEducational institutions were extremely widespread in the country, and can be divided into public and private. The highest public institution was the Seonggyungwan, located in Seoul. Below this were the \"Sahak\" (사부학당), four schools providing technical training, and the \"hyanggyo\", schools supported by each of the Eight Provinces. The \"hyanggyo\" soon fell into neglect, and for most of the Joseon period education was dominated by two types of private schools, \"seowon\" (preparatory schools mostly for the aristocracy) and \"seodang\" (private village schools providing elementary education).\n\nThe civil service examinations, known as \"gwageo\", assessed subject's ability to interpret the Chinese classics, in terms of official Neo-Confucian ideology. Only those who came from high-ranking families were permitted to take the test. The gwageo were divided into civil and military sections, with the military section being open to people of relatively lower rank. The gwageo system had been set up in the Goryeo dynasty, but reached its peak in the Joseon period.\n\nThe Seonggyungwan was the highest educational institution in Joseon, and attracted scholars from across the country. It was based on the Goryeo-period Gukjagam.\n\nThe Korean Confucian curriculum was based on the Chinese educational system which had 15 or so primary works, and a large number of exegetical works, along with graded exams that were on set topics. All of these works were written in Chinese, the academic written language of Joseon. A common introductory textbook was the Lesser Learning, an exegetical work by Zhu Xi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52949834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52949834", "title": "Einstein for Beginners", "text": "Einstein for Beginners\n\nEinstein for Beginners, republished as Introducing Einstein, is a 1979 graphic study guide to Albert Einstein and the theory of relativity written by Joseph Schwartz and illustrated by Michael McGuinness. The volume is, according to the publisher's website, \"amusing, irreverent, sophisticated and highly accessible,\" and, \"the perfect introduction to Einstein’s life and thought.\"\n\n\"This is,\" confirms \"Leonardo\" reviewer Nan Conklin, \"not simply a book explaining Einstein’s scientific work, but a mixture of history, politics and science.\" In which, according to \"Science for the People\" reviewer Professor Paul Thagard, \"Einstein's work is related to the rise of electrical industries and the later development of the atomic bomb.\" \n\nThis volume was originally published in the United Kingdom by Writers and Readers Publishing Cooperative in 1979, following the collapse of this organisation in 1984, in part due to a disagreement over the selling off of the United States rights to this title, the book has subsequently been republished in the US by Pantheon Books and in the UK by Icon Books.\n\nSelected editions:\n\nRelated volumes in the \"For Beginners\" series:\n\nRelated volumes in the \"Introducing...\" series:\n\nProfessor Paul Thagard, writing in \"Science for the People\", describes the book as, \"intelligible and entertaining,\" while Henry McDonald, writing in the \"Washington Post\", describes it as \"well illustrated and thoroughly researched\".\n\n\"Almost half the book,\" according to Nan Conklin, writing in \"Leonardo\", \"is devoted to recounting Einstein’s early life and the influences on him.\" \"Its discussion of the political environment in which Einstein's discoveries were made is.\" according to McDonald, \"informative.\"\n\n\"The drawing and the words have a distinctly comic-book flavor,\" according to Conklin, but it is, \"only when the authors set out to explain Einstein’s theories that the use of the peculiar mode of presentation seems justified.\" McDonald describes, \"the presentation of the discoveries themselves is little short of inspired,\" while Thagard too commends the authors as, \"highly inventive in using amusing illustrations and humorous asides to lead the beginners through difficult concepts.\"\n\nWhile Conklin speculates that the publishers may have included a volume on Einstein in this series due to his belief in, \"the establishment of a socialist economy, accompanied by an educational system which would be oriented toward social goals,\" and McDonald confirms that the authors, \"go out of their way to emphasize [...] Einstein's socialism,\" Thagard is critical of the failure to, \"develop the social connections in a substantial way,\" and concludes that the volume does not provide a, \"basis for discussion of the role of science in society.\"\n"}
{"id": "27010749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27010749", "title": "Gangadhar Pradhan", "text": "Gangadhar Pradhan\n\nGangadhar Pradhan (10 July 1948 – 10 October 2010) was an eminent Odissi (Orissi) exponent and teacher, who founded the Konark Natya Mandap in Konark Puri in 1986 and organised dance festivals in the temple city. Born on 10 July 1948 in Parikula in Puri in the Indian state of Orissa, he died in Bhubaneswar on 11 October 2010. He had several leading dancer-disciples, besides earning top national and international honours.\n\nPradhan was born on 10 July 1948 to Muralidahr Pradhan and Dwitika Devi, of Parikul. Initially, he neither cried nor moved, giving the impression that he was stillborn. The father vowed that if the child survived, he would send him to serve their deity Lord Balunkeshwar for 5 years. At age 3, while travelling in a bullock cart, the boy fell and was injured severely. The father vowed to send him for 10 years instead of 5. From age 5 to 15, the boy worked in a temple as a devotee of Lord Shiva.\n\nWhile there he did chores, help and obey the seniors, look after the harvest, study and take lessons of dance as a Gotipua dancer. In this dance form, boys dress like girls to perform. The boy was fair in colour. He had handsome features and grew his hair long. He was a quick learner. Though only senior boys were allowed to learn Mardal, a musical instrument, he furtively taught himself to play the instrument while the older boys worked at the paddy fields.\n\nIn July 1966, he arrived in Bhubaneswar and entered Utkal Sangeet Mahavidyalaya. His talent as a Mardal player made his teachers depend on him as an accompanist. Parents of female students started inviting him for accompanying their daughters for practice. Gradually he started teaching students privately. In his third year, he played Mardal for noted dancer Rita Devi and went to Mumbai. There, he started participating in many programmes. He won 1st prize in all Orissa Dance Competition held at Puri. Then came opportunities in Oriya films, opera and theatres where he directed dance sequences in their plays and productions. He completed his Nrityacharya degree course in 1971.\n\nHe received a National Scholarship from 1971 to 1973 under Padmabibhusan Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra. He got extensive theory from Dhirendranath Pattnaik. Pradhan married Smt. Sulochana Pradhan in 1972. By the time he had finished college, he had established himself among the art lovers of Bhubaneswar. After the scholarship he took two years additional training in Odissi dance and trained himself in mastering the Mardal. He was actively associated with many organisations such as Bhubaneswar Kalakendra, Sangeeta of Jatni, Chilika Sangeet Parishad and Balugaon. He directed and choreographed many dance items for the annual day events of schools and colleges. He got involved in Ekamra theatres from 1969. He found a patron in Kamala Lochana Mohanty of Ekamra theatres. From 1979–96 he travelled with Padmashree Late Sanjukta Panigrahi.\n\nIn 1973, he started an organisation called Natyaloka, drawing help and inspiration from Pt. Raghunath Panigrahi and Late Smt Sanjukta Panigrahi. He renamed it Sunati and in 1975 renamed it again, to Orissa Dance Academy. The initial 35 students included Krushnapriya Pattjoshi, Saratpriya Pattjoshi, Susmita Mitra, Dipti Sahoo, Digbala Sahoo, Aruna Mohanty, Archana Mohanty, Annapurna Panda, Jaba Dey and Ananya Das. Classes were held three times a week.\n\nWith the help of journalist B.K. Kanungo, he held classes at Sambadika Bhawan, which belonged to the Journalist Association. Another early supporter was Dhiren Pattnaik, Secretary of Orissa Sangeet Natak Akademi. Orissa Dance Academy was formally registered with Pattnaik as President, Bhabani Biswal as Secretary and Guruji as Principal. In 1978, the golden era of Orissa Dance Academy began with Guru Gangadhar Pradhan and Aruna Mohanty participating in the India festivals held in Germany and Belgium.\n\nIn 1980, students of Orissa Dance Academy, Dipti Sahoo, Saratpriya Pattajoshi, Pagala Swain, Nandita Patnaik and Aruna Mohanty joined a cultural delegation by ICCR managed by Pattnaik that travelled to Portugal, Spain, Holland and Italy. By this time, students such as Minakshi Behera, Chapala Mishra and Mamata Nayak had started performing. The Academy relocated and became one of the premier cultural institutions of India. It has about 300 students and a 30 dancer performance unit.\n\nThe school acts as an umbrella organisation for some 33 other cultural organisations both in India and abroad, including Chitralekha Dance Academy Toronto, Centre for World Music San Diego, an institution in Amsterdam, Holland, Sangeeta Nritya Academy-Assam and Purva-Baroda.\n\nApart from choreography, composing dance dramas and ballets, he composed in the genre of regional folk dance. The Academy has performed for national and international audiences. \n\nPradhan established Konark Natya Mandap in 1986. It hosts classes on Gotipua, Odissi dance, Mardal, Tabla and Odissi vocals.\n\nOn its three stages students and others present art forms such as Sankirtan, Paika akhada, Pala, Daskathia, Ramalila on occasions such as Basant Panchami and Jhulan Purnima.\n\nTo promote Orissan art and culture, he established Chandrasekhar Kala Mandir in 1992, at Parikul, Puri. Training is imparted in both Odissi and Gotipua facilities \n\nThe Konark Dance and Music Festival was first held in 1986, at Arkavihar, Konark, becoming an International fete, presenting dancers, musicians, artists and scholars from across the globe. It is held every year from 19th – 23 February. \n\n\\The Kalinga Kala Utsav began from the inception of the Chandrasekhar KalaMandir, Parikul, Puri about 11 years ago. It is held every year in April. Pradhan acquired a plot of land, near Dhauligiri, Bhubaneswar. \n\nThe 1st Dhauli Mahotsavas was held from 27 to 29 March. For this effort towards promotion of culture, Pradhan was awarded the State Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. The nation awarded him the Central Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, by the President of India.\n\nBanchhandihi PradhanBirabara SahuMayadhar RoutChandrasekhar Pattanaik\n\nPankaj Charan DasKelucharan MohapatraDdba Prasad DasMinati MishraDhirendranath Patnaik\n\nSinghari Shyam Sundar KarBanamali Moharana\n\nGuruji was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1998 and the Padma Shri (Indian's fourth highest civilian award) in 2008.\n\nGuruji received honours and awards for his contributions. Notable among them are State Sangeet Natak Akademi award, Central Sangeet Natak Award 1997, the International School of Theatre, Denmark, Canada, and the US. He was awarded the Sanjukta Panigrahi National Award on 25 August 2002 and the Sanskruti Bharatee Award from National Council of Asian Indian Association on 26 September 2002 at the John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts. Pradhan was the first Orissan artist to receive teach at Cornell University. He was the President of Orissa Sangeet Natak Akademi from 2006–07. He was designated the \"Padmashree\" by the government of India in 2008. Other honours include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3911755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3911755", "title": "Gerolf Steiner", "text": "Gerolf Steiner\n\nGerolf Steiner (22 March 1908 in Strasbourg, Alsace – 14 August 2009) was a German zoologist.\n\nSteiner earned his doctorate in 1931 at the University of Heidelberg. He completed his habilitation in 1942 at the Technical University Darmstadt and 1947 at the University of Heidelberg, where he was appointed as professor in 1949. In 1962 he was an associate professor at the Technical University of Karlsruhe, becoming full professor in 1966 and occupying the chair of zoology from 1962 to 1973.\n\nSteiner is best known for a 1961 book authored pseudonymously as Harald Stümpke on the anatomy and habits of the rhinogradentia, a fictitious order of extinct mammals whose nose evolved in unusual ways.\n\nHe has published also under the pseudonyms of Justus Andereich, Trotzhard Wiederumb, and Karl D.S. Geeste.\n\n\nHe also provided six illustrations for the following musical work:\n\n"}
{"id": "40327604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40327604", "title": "Ghana National Science and Maths Quiz", "text": "Ghana National Science and Maths Quiz\n\nThe National Science and Maths Quiz is an annual science and mathematics based national level quiz competition for senior high schools in Ghana. It has been produced by Primetime Limited, an advertising and public relations agency with an interest in education, since 1993.\n\nThe objective of the National Science & Maths Quiz has been to promote the study of the sciences and mathematics, help students develop quick thinking and a probing and scientific mind about the things around them, while fostering healthy academic rivalry among senior high schools. \n\nThe quiz, popularly referred to as “brilla” by many who have gone through the secondary school system is by far one of the few academic events that bring all of Ghana’s secondary schools together. The schools and students look forward to it. The National Science and Maths Quiz is the longest running educational programme on a Ghanaian television. It is broadcast on GTV every Saturday at 11am and Wednesdays at 4pm.\n\nThe idea for the production of a quiz programme aimed at encouraging the study of the sciences and mathematics was not mooted at a national science fair or conference. It happened on the tennis court of the University of Ghana, Legonm in 1993. Mr. Kwaku Mensa-Bonsu, then Managing Director of Primetime, was at the court to play the game after his own heart with his playmates, the late Professors Marian Ewurama Addy and Ebenezer Kweku Awotwe. Mr. Mensa-Bonsu was curious as to why birds could stand on a live electric wire without getting electrocuted, but human beings could not do same. From Prof. Awotwe’s explanation, Mr. Mensa-Bonsu got the idea of putting together a quiz programme on science and maths. Since then, the National Science & Maths Quiz has seen 23 editions.\n\nWhen the quiz started, it involved only 32 schools across the country, and these were divided into the Northern Sector and Southern Sector, with 16 schools per sector. Winners in both sectors were then brought to Accra for the national championship. Prempeh College won the maiden edition. \n\nIn 1997, the geographical sector system was abandoned, and two northern sector schools (from the old format), Opoku Ware School and Prempeh College made it to the finals where Opoku Ware School won their first trophy. \n\nIn 1998, the tournament became known as the National Science & Maths Quiz, when it lost its sponsorship from Brillant. From 2000, the number of schools was increased to 40 and in 2013, the number of participating schools went up to 81, although 66 turned up for the competition. Thus, the participation format was changed to three schools competing per contest, instead of two, as had been the case since the programme’s inception. To give the programme a national character, the quiz has since 2014 involved 135 schools from all parts of Ghana.\n\nThe first quiz mistress was the late Professor Marian Ewurama Addy, professor of biochemistry at the University of Ghana, Legon. She was quiz-mistress from 1993-2000. “When in 1993/94, during the planning of a televised quiz programme on Science, I was asked to be the Quiz Mistress, I could not say No”, she wrote in her memoirs, Rewards: An Autobiography. “I was interested in females becoming scientists and this was an opportunity to invite the young ones to become scientists…I thought that this was a most effective way of being a role model,” she added. No doubt she steered the quiz in such a fine manner. \n\nAs a recognition of her contribution to promoting the study of Science and Mathematics amongst girls through the NSMQ, Prof. Addy was named the Marketing Woman of the year by the Chartered Institute of Marketing in 1995.\n\nDr. Eureka Emefa Adomako, a botanist at the University of Ghana, Legon, took over as quiz-mistress from 2001 to 2005, having been recommended by Prof. Addy. Dr. Adomako took charge of the programme until she had to leave for postgraduate studies. Before leaving, just as Prof. Addy recommended her as quiz mistress, Dr. Adomako recommended that Dr. Kaufmann take over as quiz mistress.\n\nIn 2006, Dr. Elsie Effah Kaufmann, the Head of the Biomedical Engineering Department at the University of Ghana, Legon, took over as quiz mistress. Over the past ten years, she has succeeded in bringing her own style to the programme, occasionally injecting some humor into an otherwise formal programme. As the chairperson of the moderation team, Dr. Kaufmann is supported by a team of consultants made up of Prof. W.A. Asomaning, Dr. Ebenezer Owusu, Dr. Amos Kuditcher and Dr. Douglas Adu-Gyamfi, all of the University of Ghana, Legon.\n\nPresbyterian Boys' Secondary School, Legon is the most successful school in the quiz so far, with five titles. They have also been to the finals seven times, equaled only by Opoku Ware School and St. Peter’s Boys Senior Secondary School. Achimota School is the only unisex school to have won the competition so far. No female-only school has ever won the competition. Only 11 schools out of the hundreds of senior high schools in Ghana have won the competition since its inception.\n\nFrom 2012, the GES, through the Conference of Heads of Assisted Schools took up the sponsorship of the programme. Thus, the competition was opened up to many more schools to participate. In 2013, 66 out of the 81 invited schools participated. In 2014, the number of schools was increased to 135 to give the programme a truly national character. From 2014, 108 schools are selected from regional competitions to join 27 seeded schools (quarter-finalists from the previous year's competition) at the National Championships. \n\nThree schools compete in each contest and each school is represented by two contestants. The quiz mistress is Dr. Elsie Effah Kaufmann. Currently, every contest is composed of five rounds with the following rules:\n\n\nList of past winners\nHere is the ranking of all schools that have made it to the finals of the National Science and Math Quiz.\nTV Programme of the Year 2017 (CIMG awards)\n\nList of senior secondary schools in Ghana\n"}
{"id": "16722126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16722126", "title": "Glenn Meldrum", "text": "Glenn Meldrum\n\nGlenn Baz Meldrum (October 8, 1986 in Melbourne Australia) is a retired Australian actor best known for his role as Phil Marsten #1 on \"The Saddle Club\". He taught English at Heidelberg International School in Germany. He eventually moved to Canada. Glenn now works as a photographer, reservation agent, driver, and dog walker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19886840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19886840", "title": "Greater New Bedford Regional Vocational-Technical High School", "text": "Greater New Bedford Regional Vocational-Technical High School\n\nGreater New Bedford Regional Vocational-Technical High School (commonly referred to as GNB Voc-Tech or simply Voc-Tech) is a vocational high school located in New Bedford, Massachusetts for students in grades 9-12. The school draws its student body from the towns and cities of New Bedford, Dartmouth, and Fairhaven. It is considered its own school district, thus having an on-site superintendent as well as an academics principal and a vocational-technical principal. Students alternate between six day long career technical and academic cycles.\n\nStudents at GNB Voc-Tech experience an education which blends academic instruction with career and technical education. They can choose from more than two dozen career majors. In a typical class, 60-70% of its graduates choose to continue their education, either at colleges or advanced technical schools. Another 30-35% enter the workforce and approximately 2% enter the armed services.\n\nGreater New Bedford Regional Vocational Technical High School offers more than 30 Career and Technical Programs that students can choose from. These career and technical programs are divided into five clusters based on industry or group of industries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"* represents Vocational-Technical programs only offered to Juniors and Seniors.\"<br>\n\"** represents Vocational-Technical programs only offered to Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors.\" <br>\n\"*** represents Vocational-Technical programs only offered to Freshman.\"\n\n- 2016 Massachusetts Large School State Vocational Champions\n"}
{"id": "50368081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50368081", "title": "Libraries in Ankara", "text": "Libraries in Ankara\n\nThis is a list of libraries in Ankara. The list is divided according to the type libraries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7655553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7655553", "title": "Malcolm Nokes", "text": "Malcolm Nokes\n\nMalcolm Cuthbert Nokes MC MA BSc (20 May 1897 – 22 November 1986) was a British schoolteacher, soldier, research scientist and Olympic athlete, who competed in the hammer throw and discus throw.\n\nHe won the bronze medal in the hammer throw at the 1924 Summer Olympics. Four years later he finished eleventh in the 1928 Olympic hammer throw competition. In 1923 he beat the British hammer throw record, but did so in a demonstration rather than a competition, so his throw did not count for record purposes. \nHe won the gold medal for England in the 1930 British Empire Games in the hammer throw contest and finished fifth in the discus throw event. At the 1934 British Empire Games he won again the gold medal in the hammer throw competition.\n\nNokes was the Amateur Athletic Association (AAA) Champion from 1923 to 1926 and placed second in 1921–22 and 1927–28. He was chairman of the AAA's Coaching Committee, and also a member of the Achilles Club.\n\nHe was a graduate of Magdalen College, Oxford, where he studied chemistry and wrote a thesis on metaphenetidine. Nokes served in the Great War in the Royal Artillery in the trenches and then as an observer in the Royal Flying Corps. He was awarded a Military Cross for his service, becoming MC Nokes MC. In the Second World War he served as an officer in the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve (Training Branch) while a schoolmaster.\n\nHe taught chemistry at Malvern College and later at Harrow School, where he was appointed Head of Science; he had come to the attention of Harrow when two schools colocated during the Second World War, although they did not merge. His practical demonstrations of the reaction of sodium with water were popular and famous among his pupils. These often entailed an explosion as MC Nokes put more than the recommended quantity of sodium into the water, and as the smoke cleared and noise subsided, MC Nokes would say \"Note the small report.\" He was a member of the Science Masters' Association. Later he worked at Harwell and then was Head of Laboratories at CENTO Institute of Nuclear & Applied Science in Tehran. In retirement he lived in Honiton, Devon, and then in Alton, Hampshire. His nicknames included \"Nokey\", \"Glaxo\" and \"Stally.\"\n\nThe chronology of his career was:\n\nDuring his time at Harrow, he served as a councillor in what is now Harrow London Borough Council, being elected as a Conservative for the ward of Harrow-on-the-Hill & Greenhill. During his service as a borough councillor, he proposed and was instrumental in bringing into service one of the first electric dust carts to be used in England, as part of the modernization of public health services in Harrow.\n\nMC Nokes was one of eight children of Walter Nokes. His brothers included Gerald Dacre Nokes , a barrister and Indian judge, and George Augustus Nokes. He married Elizabeth Mildred (née Percy), and is survived by two sons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "419977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419977", "title": "Master of Social Work", "text": "Master of Social Work\n\nThe Master of Social Work (MSW) is a master's degree in the field of social work. It is a professional degree with specializations compared to Bachelor of Social Work (BSW). MSW promotes macro-, meso- and micro-aspects of professional social work practice, whereas the BSW focuses more on direct social work practices in community, hospitals (outpatient and inpatient services) and other fields of social services.\n\nIn Canada, the MSW is considered a professional master's degree and is offered through several universities. Most schools are accredited by the Canadian Association of Schools of Social Work (C.A.S.W.E.).\n\nAll students entering an MSW program are required to have a recognized bachelor's degree in a related field. Generally, students with a Bachelor of Social Work would enroll in a one-year program, whereas those with other undergraduate degrees (Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, etc.) would enroll in a two-year program. In Canada the average Master of Social Work graduate can earn anywhere from $60,000 CAD to $150,000 CAD, depending on their role and work environment.\n\nThe oldest social work program in Canada is offered at the University of Toronto through the Factor-Inwentash Faculty of Social Work. Social work students at the UofT choose from a number of specializations (i.e. gerontology, children and their families, mental health, social service administration, social justice and diversity), and have opportunities to pursue their MSW's with a variety of collaborative programs, such as Addiction Studies, Sexual Diversity Studies, and Asia-Pacific Studies, to name a few. Students could also pursue their MSW degrees in combination with either a Master of Health Science or a Juris Doctor degree.\n\nCanadian Universities that offer the MSW:\n\nIn the United Kingdom, clinical social work could first be studied in academia as part of a certificate program beginning in 1908. Later, two and three year programs were introduced. The Tavistock Clinic in London remains the leading centre for the study of clinically oriented social work and offers programmes up to and including Professional Doctorate level. The Journal of Social Work Practice represents the main organ of research and scholarly output in this area in the UK.\n\nIn the United States, MSW degrees must be received from a graduate school that has been approved by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) should the graduate seek future licensure. The MSW typically requires two years of full-time graduate study in combination with two years (900–1200 cumulative hours) of internship, also referred to as field practicum, education, or experience. While some students obtain a Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) before pursuing a master's, most MSW programs accept applicants with undergraduate degrees in a broad range of liberal arts fields. Some MSW programs provide BSW graduates with an advanced standing option, allowing them to complete an MSW in a shorter period of time (typically 1 year).\n\nMost MSW programs allow students to choose a clinical or direct practice track, which focuses on direct practice with clients, or a macro practice track, with a focus on political advocacy, community organizing, policy analysis and/or human services management. While the clinical track tends to be more popular, there has been a resurgence in community practice concentrations recently. There are also opportunities at many universities to obtain joint degrees, such as an MSW and a Public Administration degree, MSW and Public Health, or MSW and Law. The MSW practice scope has broadened in recent years to include the specialty practice areas of geriatrics and work with veterans. In some schools the curriculum is based on a generalist model which integrates the facets of the various practice areas within social work.\n\nThe MSW is considered a terminal practice degree in the field of social work. The DSW (Doctorate of Social Work) and Ph.D in social work are the final degrees offered in the field of social work. There are inherent differences between the DSW and the PhD; the DSW further develops skills to continue practice with individual clients and client systems in the field. The PhD prepares graduates to conduct research and teach in institutions of higher education. There are few DSW programs available in the United States.\n\nThough Master of Social Work is by far the most common degree title used by graduate social work schools in the United States, it is not universal. For example, Columbia University School of Social Work offers an M.S. degree in social work, the School of Social Service Administration of the University of Chicago confers an A.M. degree, and the University of Texas confers the MSSW (Master of Science in Social Work) degree. The Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences at Case Western Reserve University confers the MSSA (Master of Science in Social Administration) degree.\n\nClark Atlanta University's Whitney M. Young School of Social work is also credited with creating the administration of social work from an Afro-centric perspective. Clark Atlanta's school of social work has also had various stalwarts in the profession affiliated with it such as W.E.B. Du Bois, Dorcas Bowles, Whitney Young, Hattie Mitchell, Naomi Ward and Rufus Lynch.\n\nAlthough it is possible to be a social worker with a bachelor's degree in the U.S., some fields of practice require a master's degree. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the profession is expected to grow by 25% between 2010 and 2020. The growing elderly population is resulting in accelerated job growth among gerontology social workers. Social workers with a focus on mental health and substance abuse are currently in high demand as offenders are directed to treatment instead of jail time, a trend that is expected to continue. A master's degree could be seen as a tool which will help to compete with tomorrow's job market. The Employment Projection shows that those with higher levels of education in the field tend to earn more than those with just a bachelor's degree. \n\nThe median annual salary for social workers according to the 2016 Bureau of Labor Statistics was $46,890, or $22.54 hourly.\nBetween the years 2016 and 2026, the job outlook is projected to increase by 16%, which is 9% higher than the national job growth average.\nAverage salaries will vary depending on the specific field of social work itself. Those who seek employment as social workers in the healthcare industry typically average the highest salaries, ranging between $54,141-$65,489.\nBy obtaining a license in the field of clinical social work, the salary ranges from $40,494 - $76,205 according to PayScale.\n\nSocial workers' earnings varied according to their area of specialization and work environment:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16026522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16026522", "title": "Michael R. Collings", "text": "Michael R. Collings\n\nMichael Robert Collings (born October 29, 1947 in Rupert, Idaho) is an American author, poet, literary critic, and bibliographer, and a former professor of creative writing and literature at Pepperdine University. He was Poet in Residence at Pepperdine's Seaver College from 1997-2000.\n\nCollings has had multiple collections of his poetry published on subjects such as Latter Day Saint theology, Joseph Smith, Christmas, science fiction, and horror. He is known for his literary critiques and bibliographies of the works of Orson Scott Card and Stephen King, though he has also published critiques and bibliographies of the works of Peter Straub, Dean Koontz, C. S. Lewis, Brian W. Aldiss, and Piers Anthony. His \"In the Image of God: Theme, Characterization and Landscape in the Fiction of Orson Scott Card\" was the first book-length academic look at Card's works.\n\nMichael Robert Collings was born on October 29, 1947 in Rupert, Idaho. He graduated from Bakersfield College in 1967 with an Associate's degree, then graduated with a Bachelor's degree in English from Whittier College two years later. After graduating with a Master's degree in English from the University of California, Riverside in 1973, Collings received his Ph.D. in English literature from UCR in 1977, specializing in Milton and The Renaissance.\n\nBefore he began teaching creative writing and literature at Pepperdine University, Collings taught at UCR, San Bernardino Valley Community College, and UCLA. He taught at Pepperdine from 1979 until 2010, when he retired. He now lives in Idaho with his wife, Judi. His son, Michaelbrent Collings, is a fantasy and horror writer.\n\nCollings was introduced to Stephen King's work by a student, David A. Engebretson, in 1983, and published his first book on him, \"The Many Facets of Stephen King\", in 1985; reading King led to his also studying and publishing on Koontz and Robert McCammon.\n\n\n\n\nWordsmith series\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4282654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4282654", "title": "MicroWorlds", "text": "MicroWorlds\n\nMicroWorlds is a program that uses the Logo programming language, a dialect of Lisp programming language. It uses a \"turtle\" object which can be moved around, given commands, and eventually make shapes or even an animation.\n\nIt is part of a large set of dialects and implementations of Logo originating from the invention of Seymour Papert and aimed at triggering the development of abstract ideas by children through experimentation. As a tool for learning, Logo is flexible and provides immediate feedback; it is both accessible to young users and robust enough to create sophisticated projects. In original versions of Logo, Papert created a large 'turtle' that was programmed to move around the room by providing commands via the computer.\n\n\"MicroWorlds\" was designed by LCSI, a Canadian company, and can be used with Windows and Mac computers.\n\nThe following is an example of something written in Logo:\n\nIn the example above, the user has gone into a part of the program called the procedure page, which allows for longer series of commands, and therefore more complex programs can be written. In this program, the cursor moves forward 90 units, turns left 90 degrees, right 180 degrees and then moves forward 4999 units.\n\nAnother example is:\n\nIn this example, the user makes a dialog box appear, having the text of whatever is inside the brackets. In this case, the box would have \"Hi!\" written on it.\n\nCommands can be written in one of two ways: using the procedures page or the command module. The command module allows for instructions to be executed immediately, whereas the procedures page holds instructions that are able to be referenced at any time (using the name written after the word \"to\" at the beginning of a procedure).\n\nLogo is based on real words in its 'language' so that they are easy to remember. An example of this is the 'forward' command. 'Forward' can be used in a program such as this:\n\nThis simple line indicates that the turtle referred to before will move 50 units of computer screen in the direction it is pointed. The unit of measurement for 'forward' is one pixel on the screen. 'Forward' can also be abbreviated as the command 'fd', so therefore can be used like this:\n\nOther important navigation commands include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis is only a brief example of the hundreds of commands in Micro Worlds.\n\nMicroWorlds EX is a powerful app that introduces coding to students in upper primary school and middle school. MicroWorlds has the ability to execute multiple tasks independently, also called parallel processing. Several processes can be launched independently which is very helpful when creating multiple character animations and simulations. Extra features in MicroWorlds, for example a text editor, shape centre, melody centre and the ability to import pictures all work with the Logo aspects to create multimedia projects, video games and simulations.\n\nLCSI also provides MicroWorlds JR, an iconic version of Logo that allows younger children, who are non-readers, to learn to code.\n\nTom Walsh has written a school curriculum for MicroWorlds EX.\n\nA self-study guide for use at home was written by Camille McCue.\n\nMicroWorlds EX is available in many languages such as French, Spanish, Russian, Chinese, Portuguese, Italian, Armenian and Greek.\n\nMicroWorlds is used as the main component of the curriculum used by OpenWorld Learning, an educational non-profit based in Denver, Colorado, that as of 2016 operated 11 elementary sites and three middle school sites in the Denver area. The organization provides a free after-school program to students interested in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education.\n\nMicroworlds EX can be used to make a variety of apps and interactive games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20153719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20153719", "title": "Microsoft Small Basic", "text": "Microsoft Small Basic\n\nMicrosoft Small Basic is a programming language and associated IDE. It is Microsoft's simplified variant of the BASIC programming language, intended as an easy programming language for beginners. The associated IDE provides a simplified programming environment with functionality such as syntax highlighting, intelligent code completion, and in-editor documentation access. The language has only 14 keywords.\n\nMicrosoft announced Small Basic in October 2008, and released the first stable version for distribution on July 12, 2011 on a Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) website with a teaching curriculum and an introductory guide. Between announcement and stable release, a number of Community Technology Preview (CTP) releases were made.\n\nOn March 27, 2015, Microsoft released Small Basic version 1.1, which fixed a bug and upgraded the targeted .NET Framework version from version 3.5 to version 4.5.\n\nMicrosoft released Small Basic version 1.2 on October 1, 2015. Version 1.2 was the first update after a four-year hiatus to introduce new features to Small Basic. The update added classes for working with Microsoft's Kinect motion sensors, increased the number of languages supported by the included Dictionary object, and fixed a number of bugs.\n\nIn Small Basic, one writes the illustrative \"Hello, world!\" program as follows:\n\nTextWindow.WriteLine(\"Hello World!\")\nMicrosoft Small Basic is Turing complete. It supports conditional branching, loop structures, and subroutines for event handling. Variables are weakly typed and dynamic with no scoping rules.\n\nThe following example demonstrates conditional branching. It requests the current temperature in Fahrenheit and comments on the answer.\n\nTextWindow.Write(\"Enter the temperature today (in F): \")\ntemp = TextWindow.ReadNumber()\nIf temp > 100 Then\nElseIf temp > 70 Then\nElseIf temp > 50 Then\nElse\nEndIf\nThis example demonstrates a loop. Starting from one and ending with ten, it multiplies each number by four and displays the result of multiplication.\n\nTextWindow.WriteLine(\"Multiplication Tables\")\nFor i = 1 To 10\nEndFor\n\ncodice_1 loops are also supported, and the demonstrated codice_2 loop can be augmented through the use of the codice_3 keyword. The codice_3 keyword is used in setting the value by which the counter variable, codice_5, is incremented each iteration.\n\nSmall Basic supports basic data types, like strings, integers and decimals, and will readily convert one type to another as required by the situation. In the example, both the codice_6 and codice_7 methods read a string from the command line, but codice_7 rejects any non-numeric characters. This allows the string to be converted to a numeric type and treated as a number rather than a string by the codice_9 operator.\nTextWindow.WriteLine(\"Enter your name:\")\nname = TextWindow.Read()\n\nTextWindow.Write(\"Enter your age: \")\nage = TextWindow.ReadNumber()\n\nTextWindow.WriteLine(\"Hello \" + name + \"!\")\nTextWindow.WriteLine(\"In 5 years you will be \" + ( age + 5 ) + \" years old!\")\nAs Small Basic will readily convert between data types, numbers can be manipulated as strings and numeric strings as numbers. This is demonstrated through the second example.\n\nTextWindow.WriteLine(Math.log(\"100\")) 'Prints 2\nTextWindow.WriteLine(\"100\" + \"3000\") ' Prints 3100\nTextWindow.WriteLine(\"Windows \" + 8) ' Prints Windows 8\nTextWindow.WriteLine(Text.GetLength(1023.42)) ' Prints 7 (length of decimal representation including decimal point)\n\nIn the second example, both strings are treated as numbers and added together, producing the output 3100. To concatenate the two values, producing the output 1003000, it is necessary to use the codice_10 method.\n\nThe Small Basic standard library includes basic classes for mathematics, string handling, and input/output, as well as more exotic classes that are intended to make using the language more fun for learners. Examples of these include a Turtle graphics class, a class for retrieving photos from Flickr, and classes for interacting with Microsoft Kinect sensors.\n\nTo make the classes easier to use for learners, they have been simplified. This simplification is demonstrated through the code used to retrieve a random mountain-themed image from Flickr:\n\nFor i = 1 To 10\nEndFor\n\nSmall Basic includes a \"Turtle\" graphics library that borrows from the Logo family of programming languages. For example, to draw a square using the turtle, the turtle is moved forward by a given number of pixels and rotated 90 degrees in a given direction. This action is then repeated four times to draw the four sides of the square.\nFor i = 1 to 4\nEndFor\nMore complex drawings are possible by altering the turning angle of the turtle and the number of iterations of the loop. For example, one can draw a hexagon by setting the turn angle to 60 degrees and the number of iterations to six.\n\nSmall Basic allows the use of third-party libraries. These libraries must be written in a CLR-compatible language, and the compiled binaries must target a compatible .NET Framework version. The classes provided by the library are required to be static, flagged with a specific attribute, and must use a specific data type.\n\nAn example of a class to be used in Small Basic is provided below, written in C#.\n\n[SmallBasicType]\npublic static class ExampleClass\n\nIf available, the Small Basic development environment will display documentation for third-party libraries. The development environment accepts documentation in the form of an XML file, which can be automatically generated from source code comments by tools such as Microsoft Visual Studio and MonoDevelop.\n\n"}
{"id": "32162425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32162425", "title": "Nigerian Accounting Association", "text": "Nigerian Accounting Association\n\nThe Nigerian Accounting Association (NAA) is a member driven association of academics in the accountancy profession.\nIt is the successor to the defunct Nigerian Association of Accounting Teachers (NATA).\nNATA was established in 1972 with the objective of \"contributing through research and education, to the improvement of accounting profession and accounting education in Nigeria\".\nThe NAA is an academic society aimed at advancement of the accounting discipline and accounting profession in Nigeria.\nMembers are usually members of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) and/or the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN).\n\nNAA is a member of the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria.\nAs of 2011, Dr. Muhammad Mainoma was President of the NAA.\nProf. Suleiman A.S. Aruwa is the current president of the association. Prof. Suleiman A.S. Aruwa also serves as the NAA contact person on the International Association for Accounting Education & Research (IAAER).\n"}
{"id": "3543474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3543474", "title": "Nurse educator", "text": "Nurse educator\n\nA nurse educator is a nurse who teaches and prepares licensed practical nurses (LPN) and registered nurses (RN) for entry into practice positions. They can also teach in various patient care settings to provide continuing education to licensed nursing staff. Nurse Educators teach in graduate programs at Master’s and doctoral level which prepare advanced practice nurses, nurse educators, nurse administrators, nurse researchers, and leaders in complex healthcare and educational organizations.\n\nThe type of degree required for a nurse educator may be dependent upon the governing nurse practice act or upon the regulatory agencies that define the practice of nursing. In the United States, one such agency is the National Council of State Boards of Nursing. For instance, faculty in the U.S. may be able to teach in an LPN program with an associate degree in nursing. Most baccalaureate and higher degree programs require a minimum of a graduate degree and prefer the doctorate for full-time teaching positions. Many nurse educators have a clinical specialty background blended with coursework in education. Many schools offer the Nurse Educator track which focuses on educating nurses going into any type setting. Individuals may complete a post-Master’s certificate in education to complement their clinical expertise if they choose to enter a faculty role.\n\nNurse educators can choose to teach in a specialized field of their choosing. There is not extra degree needed to be earned other than a Master's degree in nursing. Most schools will only hire a nurse to teach a class if they have had experience in that area. This is so the students can have a better understanding of the current subject being taught.\n\nIn Australia, Nurse Educators must be Registered Nurses (RNs/Division 1 Nurses). The Nurse Educator role is not available to Enrolled Nurses (ENs/Division 2 Nurses).\nNurse Educators require a minimum of a Certificate IV in Training and Assessment to teach the Diploma of Nursing in both the classroom and clinical placement settings. Bachelor of Nursing Educators do not technically require this qualification, but it is generally favoured. A Nurse Educator may also complete post-graduate university study in Nursing or Clinical Education, which may lead to an academic career including research, lecturing or doctoral study.\nTo become a Clinical Nurse Educator in a healthcare setting (e.g on an acute care ward), Registered Nurses are generally required to have 5-10 years clinical experience and 6-8 years of study (a bachelor degree plus post-graduate certificate or diploma).\n\n\n\nhttp://anmf.org.au/documents/reports/Fact_Sheet_Snap_Shot_Nursing_Career_Paths.pdf\n"}
{"id": "2179258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179258", "title": "Plowden Report", "text": "Plowden Report\n\nThe Plowden Report is the unofficial name for the 1967 report of the Central Advisory Council For Education (England) into Primary education in England. The report, entitled \"Children and their Primary Schools\", reviewed primary education in a wholesale fashion. The collation of the report took around 3 years. The Council was chaired by Bridget, Lady Plowden after whom the report is named.\n\nThe report was commissioned by Education minister, Sir Edward Boyle in 1963. He requested that the council \"consider primary education in all its aspects and the transition to secondary education.\" \n\nAt that time, the last such investigation into the nature of primary education had been undertaken by the Hadow Committee led by Sir William Henry Hadow in the early 1930s. During the time of collating the report, the Labour Government of the day introduced circular 10/65 requesting that local education authorities submit plans to replace the tripartite system and 11-plus with comprehensive schooling. The administration also made clear its intention to raise school-leaving age to 16 (from the then 15).\n\nIn the years leading up to, and during the collation of the report, prevalent thinking in educational psychology was highly influenced by the work of such people as Jean Piaget who published a seminal work on the matter in 1962.\n\nThe report was widely known for its praising of child-centred approaches to education, stressing that \"at the heart of the educational process lies the child\".\n\nRecommendations in the report included those listed below:\n\nBy the time the report was returned to the Ministry of Education, the change of government had led to the appointment of Anthony Crosland as minister. He received the report in 1967, but implementation of the recommendations was piecemeal.\n\nIn some areas, local education authorities implemented changes themselves, such as the introduction of three-tier education systems in many places. Similarly, over the 40 years, many of the recommendations which first appeared in the report, have evolved and appeared in legislation under other guises, such as the widespread introduction of state-funded nursery provision, Extended Schools, requirement for a Home School Agreement to be presented (but not signed), the ban on corporal punishment, ESOL programmes, Educational Action Zones and most of all the comprehensive system. However the three-tier system is now uncommon in Britain with a two-tier system of primary school followed by a transition aged 11 to secondary school being normal. The system of children transferring to secondary school at the age of 12 has now been almost completely abandoned.\n\nMale teachers remain a small minority in primaries.\n\nA new review of primary education in England began on 2 October 2006 under the leadership of Professor Robin Alexander under the title The Primary Review.\n\nThe official records of the Plowden committee are held in the records created or inherited by the Department of Education and Science, and of related bodies The National Archives. The personal papers of Bridget Horatia Plowden, including records regarding the Plowden Report are held in the Archives of the Institute of Education, University of London, (Ref: DC/PL) .\n\n"}
{"id": "41616019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41616019", "title": "Qemal Stafa High School", "text": "Qemal Stafa High School\n\nThe Qemal Stafa High School is a high school, located in Tirana, Albania.\n\nFounded in 1925 by then Prime Minister Ahmet Zogu, as the \"Lyceum of Tirana\", it has many notable alumni, of whom 75 died in World War II and 13 were awarded the title People's Hero of Albania during World War II.\n\n\"See also: \"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2253776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2253776", "title": "Robert N. Bellah", "text": "Robert N. Bellah\n\nRobert Neelly Bellah (1927–2013) was an American sociologist and the Elliott Professor of Sociology at the University of California, Berkeley. He was internationally known for his work related to the sociology of religion.\n\nBellah graduated \"summa cum laude\" from Harvard College in 1950, receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree in social relations with a concentration in social anthropology. His undergraduate honors thesis won the Phi Beta Kappa Prize and was later published in 1952 with the title \"Apache Kinship Systems\".\n\nBellah graduated from Harvard in a joint sociology and Far East languages program, with Talcott Parsons and John Pelzel as his advisors, respectively. Bellah first encountered the work of Talcott Parsons as an undergraduate when his senior honors thesis advisor was David Aberle, a former student of Parsons. Parsons was specially interested in Bellah's concept of religious evolution and the concept of \"civil religion\". They remained intellectual friends until Parsons' death in 1979. He received his Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1955. His doctoral dissertation was titled \"Religion and Society in Tokugawa Japan\" and was an extension of Weber's Protestant ethic thesis to Japan. It was published as \"Tokugawa Religion\" in 1957.\n\nWhile an undergraduate at Harvard, Bellah was a member of the Communist Party USA from 1947 to 1949 and a chairman of the John Reed Club, \"a recognized student organization concerned with the study of Marxism\". During the summer of 1954, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard McGeorge Bundy, who later served as a national security adviser to John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, threatened to withdraw Bellah's graduate student fellowship if he did not provide the names of his former club associates. Bellah was also interrogated by the Boston office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation with the same purpose. As a result, Bellah and his family spent two years in Canada, where he was awarded a post-doctoral fellowship at the Islamic Institute in McGill University in Montreal. He returned to Harvard after McCarthyism declined due to the death of its main instigator senator Joseph McCarthy. Bellah afterwards wrote,\n\nBellah's \"magnum opus\", \"Religion in Human Evolution\" (2011), traces the biological and cultural origins of religion and the interplay between the two. The sociologist and philosopher Jürgen Habermas wrote of the work: \"This great book is the intellectual harvest of the rich academic life of a leading social theorist who has assimilated a vast range of biological, anthropological, and historical literature in the pursuit of a breathtaking project ... In this field I do not know of an equally ambitious and comprehensive study.\" The book won the Distinguished Book Award of the American Sociological Association's Section on Sociology of Religion.\n\nBellah is best-known for his 1985 book \"Habits of the Heart\", which discusses how religion contributes to and detracts from America's common good, and for his studies of religious and moral issues and their connection to society. Bellah was perhaps best known for his work related to American civil religion, a term which he coined in a 1967 article that has since gained widespread attention among scholars.\n\nHe served in various positions at Harvard from 1955 to 1967 when he took the position of Ford Professor of Sociology at the University of California at Berkeley. He spent the remainder of his career at Berkeley. His views are often classified as communitarian. An academic biography of Robert Bellah, \"the world's most widely read sociologist of religion\", is currently under way.\n\nBellah was born in Altus, Oklahoma, on February 23, 1927. His father was a newspaper editor and publisher and died when he was two years old. His mother Lillian moved the family to Los Angeles, where she had relatives. Bellah grew up in Los Angeles and attended Los Angeles High School, where he and his future wife, Melanie Hyman, were editors of the student newspaper. They got married in 1948 after she graduated from Stanford University, and he began studying at Harvard University after a service in the US Army. Bellah's wife died in 2010.\n\nBellah was briefly a communist during his student years at Harvard, as he recalled in 1977 in a letter to the \"New York Review of Books\" regarding McCarthyism at the university:\n\nHarvard's capitulation to McCarthyism is still being defended as a form of resistance to McCarthyism. An account of my experiences will, I believe, support [Sigmund] Diamond's and not [McGeorge] Bundy's interpretation of those years.\nI was a member of the Communist Party as a Harvard undergraduate from 1947 to 1949. During that period I was mainly involved in the John Reed Club, a recognized student organization concerned with the study of Marxism. In that connection I might recount an incident that indicates that a difference between a public policy and a private policy at Harvard such as Diamond has suggested may already have begun in 1949. According to [Seymour Martin] Lipset:\n\nIn 1949, the John Reed Club sponsored a talk by a well-known Communist, Gerhart Eisler, who was on his way to a job in East Germany after having been convicted for contempt of Congress. When the University was attacked for allowing students to be corrupted, Wilbur Bender, then Dean of Harvard College, defended the students' right to hear, stating: \"If Harvard students can be corrupted by an Eisler, Harvard College had better shut down as an educational institution...[p. 182]\"\n\nI was, I believe, chairman of the John Reed Club at the time and was informed shortly after we announced that Eisler would speak that the university was considering forbidding the meeting and that the chairman and executive committee of the Club were asked to meet with an administrative officer. The administrator told us in the strongest terms that the invitation was extremely embarrassing for Harvard and asked us for the good of the school to withdraw the invitation. When we stood fast he told us that quite probably none of us would ever get jobs if we persisted in our course of action. The Harvard administration was attempting to do privately and indirectly what it would not do publicly and brazenly, namely suppress freedom of speech, which was precisely the aim of [Joseph] McCarthy.\n\nBellah was fluent in Japanese and literate in Chinese, French, and German, and later studied Arabic at McGill University in Montreal.\n\nBellah died July 30, 2013, at an Oakland, California, hospital from complications after heart surgery. He was 86 and is survived by his daughters Jennifer Bellah Maguire and Hally Bellah-Guther; a sister, Hallie Reynolds; and five grandchildren. Raised as a Presbyterian, he converted to Episcopalianism.\n\nRobert Bellah is the author, editor, co-author, or co-editor of the following books:\n\nBellah was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1967. He received the National Humanities Medal in 2000 from President Bill Clinton, in part for \"his efforts to illuminate the importance of community in American society.\" In 2007, he received the American Academy of Religion Martin E. Marty Award for the Public Understanding of Religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24408311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24408311", "title": "Ronald Horan", "text": "Ronald Horan\n\nRonald Stephen Horan (Sydney, 27 August 1924 – 7 September 1999) was an Australian linguist, educator and author for over forty years. He was the author of language course texts in three languages, both on his own and with two co-authors. He was later in his life a historian, particularly of Fort Street High School in Sydney, Australia. Horan was posthumously awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia in 2000, and in 2001 an annual award in French studies was established in his honour, \"the Ron Horan Prize for French\", through the Faculty of Arts at Sydney University.\n\nRon Horan was born in Sydney, and had his secondary education at Fort Street Boys' High School just before and in the early years of the Second World War. He then entered the Faculty of Arts at the University of Sydney but he interrupted his studies to serve in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) for three years as a radar operator and finally trained as an officer and translator. After the war he completed his Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree, majoring in French (Honours) and German. He later gained a Diploma in Education. After a short appointment at Sydney Boys' High School, his \"country service\", he joined the staff of Fort Street, where he taught for 36 years. Many of those years were spent as modern languages master and he later became deputy principal. His teaching subjects were French, German and English.\n\nAs a practical guide for students he compiled the \"Fort Street Speller\", which is presented to all pupils upon their arrival at the school. This guide has made its way into many avenues of public administration.\n\nRon Horan has also been actively involved in the broader sphere of education. He served for ten years as a teacher and deputy principal at Eastwood Evening College and then a further 22 years as its principal. With co-authors, he has published French and German language course books, which are widely used in Australia and around the world.\n\nHoran was an author of language textbooks which have been popular in Australia and abroad for decades.\n\nWith John Wheeler, he co-authored \"Senior French\" in two volumes, first published in 1961, later to become \"A New French Course\", in five volumes, that is still a standard in school education and the University of the Third Age. This junior to senior French textbook chronicled the life of the Ravel family and is still in print. Later, with John Slinn, he co-authored \"A New German Course\" in two parts. And still later, after his retirement, Horan wrote the \"English Series\", an exploration of the English language for all learners comprising \"Spelling English\", \"Exploring English\" and \"Using English\". This series is in its second edition in hard copy and new e-book format.\n\nIn the mid 1960s, in co-operation with the Phillips Corporation, he built one of the first Language Laboratories in the world at Fort Street. He also recorded vinyl disc, magnetic tape and cassette recordings to accompany these resources.\n\nHoran served on many education committees, and was president of the Australian Federation of Modern Language Teachers Associations (AFMLTA).\n\nAfter he had retired he wrote books about the school with \"Fort Street, the School\" being followed by \"Maroon and Silver\".\n\nIn honour of his work with these students and in regard to the history of the school in general, in 2007 the \"Ron Horan History Room\" was inaugurated by the 1955 year students.\n\nIn 1949 Ron Horan married Elmire and they had two sons, Rodney and David. The family lived in the Hills area of Sydney.\n\nHoran was posthumously awarded the OAM in 2000, and in 2001 an annual award was established in his honour in French studies \"the Ron Horan Prize for French\" through the Faculty of Arts at Sydney University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38752492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38752492", "title": "Ruth Frances Woodsmall", "text": "Ruth Frances Woodsmall\n\nRuth Frances Woodsmall (September 20, 1883 – May 25, 1963) was an American high school English teacher, YWCA member, and author. She served as Chief of the Women's Affairs Section of the Allied High Commission for Occupied Germany, worked for the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, and was a member of UNESCO Working Party on the Equality of Access of Women to Education. Her publications include: \"Moslem Women Enter a New World\" (1936), and \"Eastern Women Today and Tomorrow\" (1933), \"Study of the Role of Women, Their Activities and Organizations in Lebanon, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, and Syria\" (1955) and \"Women and the New East\" (1960).\n\nWoodsmall was born in Atlanta, Georgia on September 20, 1883, the youngest of three children of Harrison S. Woodsmall, a lawyer and teacher, and Mary Elizabeth Howes, an art teacher. She grew up in Indianapolis, Indiana and attended local schools. She received her A.B. from the University of Nebraska in 1905 and her A.M. from Wellesley College in 1906.\n\nFrom 1906 to 1917 Woodsmall worked as a high school English teacher and principal in Nevada and Colorado. From 1917 to 1928 and 1932 to 1948, Woodsmall held various positions with the National and World YWCA. As a member of the National Board of the YWCA of the United States, she worked with the War Work Council directing Hostess Houses in the United States and France during World War I. From 1918 to 1920 she did post war work and field studies of the Baltic and Balkan countries. In 1920 Woodsmall became executive secretary of the Near and Middle East, a post she held until 1928.\n\nIn 1928 she received a traveling fellowship from the Rockefeller Foundation to conduct a study of the changing status of Moslem women in the Middle East. Her 1930 report was later published in 1936 as \"Moslem Women Enter a New World\". In 1930 Woodsmall participated in the , an independent ecumenical project of the Protestant churches to assess missionaries' record in converting non-western populations. Her \"Eastern Women Today and Tomorrow\" (1933) contained the results of this project. In 1932 Woodsmall returned to the YWCA as staff specialist for the National Board, and in 1935 she became General Secretary for the World YWCA, a post she held until 1947. Between 1947 and 1948 she did special service for the YWCA in Japan.\n\nIn 1949 Woodsmall became Chief of the Women's Affairs Section of the U.S. High Commission for Occupied Germany, a position she held until 1952. She was appointed by the Department of State to the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women for two sessions in 1949 and 1952. In 1951 she was a member of the UNESCO Working Party on the Equality of Access of Women to Education. In the years following her retirement she continued her research and writings, updating her earlier research in \"Study of the Role of Women, Their Activities and Organizations in Lebanon, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, and Syria\" (1955) and \"Women and the New East\" (1960).\n\nWoodsmall died in New York City on May 25, 1963.\n\nWoodsmall's work has been cited as source material by other authors, such as Samuel Hugh Moffett in \"A History of Christianity in Asia\", and Laura E. Donaldson in \"Postcolonialism, Feminism and Religious Discourse\". In \"American Christians and Islam\", Thomas S. Kidd quoted Woodsmall's \"Muslem Women Enter a New World\", in which she attributed the oppressed condition of Islamic women to a \"spirit of fatalism\". He also noted her hope that education would \"bring religion in accord with modern needs.\"\n\nHer work continued to be published after her death, with reprints of \"Moslem Women Enter A New World\" in 1975 and 2010, and \"Women in the changing Islamic system\" in 1983.\n\n"}
{"id": "3731540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3731540", "title": "Samuel Isaac Joseph Schereschewsky", "text": "Samuel Isaac Joseph Schereschewsky\n\nSamuel Isaac Joseph Schereschewsky (pronounced skĕr-ĕs-kūs'kĭ ; 6 May 1831 – 15 October 1906), also known as Joseph Schereschewsky, was the Anglican Bishop of Shanghai, China, from 1877 to 1884. He founded St. John's University, Shanghai, in 1879.\n\nSchereschewsky was born in Tauroggen, Russian Lithuania, on 6 May 1831. He appears to have been named for his father. His mother was Rosa Salvatha. Orphaned as a young boy, it is speculated he was raised by a half-brother who was a timber merchant in good circumstance. Having shown himself to be a promising student, he was given the best education available and it was his family's intention that he become a rabbi. From the time he left his brother's house at 15, he was obliged to support himself as a tutor and as a glazier. It was at the rabbinical school in Zhytomyr that he was given a copy of the New Testament in Hebrew which had been produced by the London Society for Promoting Christianity amongst the Jews. The study of that gradually convinced him that in Jesus the Messianic prophecies of the Old Testament and the age-long hopes of his people had been fulfilled. At 19 he went to Germany where he studied for a year or more at Frankfurt and for two years at the University of Breslau. To his fluency in Yiddish, Polish and Russian he added German, which he spoke like a native for the rest of his life.\n\nIn 1854 he decided to emigrate to the United States. In New York City he connected with Christian Jews but did not enter the Christian Church until 1855 when he was baptized by immersion and associated with a Baptist congregation. For reasons unknown he then became a Presbyterian and went to the Western Theological Seminary of the Presbyterian Church at Allegheny, Pennsylvania. (WTS is now Pittsburgh Theological Seminary. He matriculated as Samuel_Isaac_Joseph, ostensibly to avoid anti-Semitism.) After more than two years he left to enter the Episcopal Church and the General Theological Seminary, where he found a mentor in the professor of Hebrew, Samuel H. Turner. His plan to complete his remaining two years of study was interrupted when he offered himself for work in China. On 3 May 1859 the Foreign Committee voted that he be appointed missionary to China as soon as he was ordained. He was ordained as a deacon on 17 July 1859 at St. George's Church, New York by Bishop William Jones Boone.\n\nSchereschewsky arrived in Shanghai on 21 December 1859 on the ship \"Golden Rule\" with Bishop Boone. On 28 October 1860 Bishop Boone ordained him to the priesthood in the mission school chapel, later known as the Church of our Savior, Hongkew. He served in Peking from 1862, including on the Peking Translation Committee.\n\nBy 1861, Schereschewsky had begun his Bible translations into Chinese. The first was of the Psalms into the Shanghai dialect. He later translated the Book of Common Prayer into Mandarin with English missionary John Shaw Burdon.\n\nHe returned to the United States for health reasons in 1875, and refused a call to become missionary bishop of Shanghai, since bishop Channing Moore Williams had requested division of his huge episcopate (including both China and Japan). However, two years later, Schereschewsky accepted the call to that bishopric from the Episcopal House of Bishops, after receiving assurances of financial support for his dream of building a college to educate Chinese in Shanghai. Schereschewsky was consecrated Bishop in Grace Church, New York, on October 31, 1877 and two years later founded St. John's College (later renamed St. John's University). He served as Bishop of Shanghai until 1883, when he resigned his bishopric for health reasons (having become increasingly incapacitated after suffering a sun stroke in 1881).\n\nHe returned to the United States with the understanding that he could return to China as translator as his health permitted. That he did in 1895, although he became \"paralysed in every limb, and with his powers of speech partly gone, sitting for nearly twenty-five years in the same chair, slowly and painfully typing out with two fingers his Mandarin translation of the Old Testament and Easy Wen-li translation of the whole Bible\" His new translations of the New Testament and the Hebrew Bible into Mandarin were published in 1898-1899. However, Schereschewsky yearned to complete a new translation of the Bible into Wenli, China's classical language, finding the previous five attempts inaccurate and some even lapsing into paganism (1902).\n\nHe continued his translation work, with the assistance of an amanuensis in Chinese and later Japanese, when he moved to Tokyo, Japan during his final decade. A contemporary called him \"Probably the greatest Bible translator China ever had\".\n\nSchereschewsky died on 15 October 1906 and is buried in Tokyo, Japan. St. John's University, which Schereschewsky began with 39 students, mostly taught in Chinese. In 1891, it changed to teaching in English and the courses began to focus on science and natural philosophy.\n\nSchereschewsky is honored with a feast day on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church (USA) on 14 October.\n\n"}
{"id": "21744081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21744081", "title": "Shokuiku", "text": "Shokuiku\n\nShokuiku (Kanji: 食育) is the Japanese term for \"food education\". The law defines it as the \"acquisition of knowledge about food and nutrition, as well as the ability to make appropriate decisions through practical experience with food, with the aim of developing people's ability to live on a healthy diet\".\n\nIt was initiated by Sagen Ishizuka, a famous military doctor and pioneer of the macrobiotic diet. Following the introduction of Western fast food in the late 20th century, the Japanese government mandated education in nutrition and food origins, starting with the Basic Law of Shokuiku in 2005, and followed with the School Health Law in 2008. Universities have established programs to teach shokuiku in public schools, as well as investigating its effectiveness through academic study.\nMajor concerns that led to the development of shokuiku law include:\n\nClasses in shokuiku will study the processes of making food, such as farming or fermentation; how additives create flavor; and where food comes from.\n\n"}
{"id": "7773098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7773098", "title": "State Council of Higher Education for Virginia", "text": "State Council of Higher Education for Virginia\n\nThe State Council of Higher Education for Virginia (SCHEV) is the Commonwealth's coordinating body for higher education. SCHEV was established by the Governor and General Assembly in 1956. Its mission, which is outlined in the Code of Virginia (§23-9.3), is \"to promote the development of an educationally and economically sound, vigorous, progressive, and coordinated system of higher education in the Commonwealth of Virginia.\"\n\nPeter A. Blake joined SCHEV as Interim Executive Director on April 1, 2011, a position that was made permanent in January 2012. A former Virginia Secretary of Education, Mr. Blake previously worked at SCHEV as an Associate Director overseeing higher education analyses in the areas of faculty and staff compensation, higher education funding policies, academic libraries, distance learning and instructional technology, and student financial aid. He left SCHEV in 1999 to serve as the Legislative Fiscal Analyst for the Virginia General Assembly’s House Appropriations Committee.\n\nSCHEV is located on the 9th floor of the James Monroe Building in downtown Richmond.\n\n"}
{"id": "21249989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21249989", "title": "Steen Hildebrandt", "text": "Steen Hildebrandt\n\nSteen Hildebrandt (born in 1944) is a Danish academic and author on business, organizational theory and management. He is Professor Emeritus of Management Studies at Aarhus School of Business, University of Aarhus and an associated professor at Copenhagen Business School.\n\nIn 2004 he founded the con sultency Hildebrandt & Brandi in collaboration with Søren Brandi. He was chairman of Sankt Lukas Stiftelsen in 2007-2008.\n\nHildebrandt is married and lives in the Frederiksberg district of Copenahgen. He has two grown-up children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6657861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6657861", "title": "Tennessee Higher Education Commission", "text": "Tennessee Higher Education Commission\n\nThe Tennessee Higher Education Commission (THEC) was established by the Tennessee General Assembly in 1967 to coordinate and support the efforts of higher education institutions in the State of Tennessee. One of its statutory requirements is to create a master plan for developing public higher education in Tennessee.\n\nTHEC's stated mission is to be “relentlessly focused on increasing the number of Tennesseans with a post-secondary credential.” The agency, a traditional higher education coordinating board, serves several important functions, including: \nDevelopment and proponency for the state public agenda for higher education; \nAdministration of the outcomes based funding formula, a method by which appropriations are distributed to public colleges and universities; Approval of all new academic programs; Formulation and recommendations for capital project funding; General higher education policy development \n\nTHEC is a combined agency with the Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation, the state financial aid agency, and the THEC Executive Director holds a dual appointment as leader of both entities.\nIn recent years, THEC has emerged as a central leader for higher education efforts in the state, reinforced substantially by the Complete College Tennessee Act of 2010 and the FOCUS Act of 2016. \n\nTHEC is the official approving agency in Tennessee for any postsecondary institution, public or private, desiring to enroll students receiving veterans' benefits from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs such as those available under the G. I. Bill of Rights.\n\nThe Tennessee Higher Education Commission is composed of one \"lay\" member from each of the state's nine Congressional districts, appointed to six-year terms, the three state constitutional officers (Secretary of State, State Treasurer and Comptroller of the Treasury), two student commissioners serving staggered two-year terms (one each from the University of Tennessee system and the Tennessee Board of Regents system, with voting rights only during the second year of the term, assuring only one voting student-member at a time), and the executive director of the State Board of Education, a nonvoting member. With a maximum total vote of 13 at any one time, the majority required for action to be taken is usually seven votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "40804794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40804794", "title": "The Instrumentalist (magazine)", "text": "The Instrumentalist (magazine)\n\nThe Instrumentalist is an American monthly magazine for music educators — focusing on scholastic band and orchestra — and performing artists and composers. Founded by Traugott Rohner (1906–1991), its first publication was dated September/October 1946. Its original address was in Glen Ellyn, Illinois. The current holding company, The Instrumentalist Publishing Co., is an Illinois corporation, based in Northfield, Illinois, and headed by James (Jim) Traugott Rohner (born 1940), President, and his two children, Ann Rohner Callis and James Matthew Rohner. The three are Publisher, Associate Publisher, and Editor, respectively.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34225867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34225867", "title": "The World of Robert Burns", "text": "The World of Robert Burns\n\nThe World of Robert Burns is educational software which teaches about the life and times of Robert Burns. It was launched to coincide with the 200th anniversary of Burns's death. The software was awarded \"Gold\" by \"Acorn User\" magazine.\n\nIt was developed by Cambridge Software House in associate with Galloway Education Authority, and featured poems, letters, music, photographs and videos.\n"}
{"id": "38059382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38059382", "title": "Universities Act 1825", "text": "Universities Act 1825\n\nThe Universities Act 1825 (Ch 97 6 Geo 4, long name \"An Act for the better Preservation of the Peace and good Order in the Universities of England\") is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which provides for officers of police constable status within Cambridge and Oxford Universities. Sections 3 and 4 have been repealed. In 2003 the University of Oxford closed its police force to avoid the complexity and costs of complying with new standards.\n\nProvides for the appointing of police constables by the chancellor or vice chancellor of the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford. Jurisdiction was within the precincts and four miles outside of the relevant universities.\n\nProvides for a pro vice chancellor, or deputy vice chancellor to create constables in the absence of the chancellor.\n\nProvided for the apprehension of prostitutes within the precincts of the university. This was repealed by \"Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1989 (c. 43), s. 1(1), Sch. 1 Part I\".\n\nDefined the act as a Public Act. This was repealed by \"Statute Law Revision (No. 2) Act 1888 (c. 57)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36177309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36177309", "title": "Universities of Oxford and Cambridge Act 1859", "text": "Universities of Oxford and Cambridge Act 1859\n\nThe Universities of Oxford and Cambridge Act 1859 (22 & 23 Vict c 19) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It repealed so much of the Oxford and Cambridge Act 1571, and of all charters, etc., as imposed on the mayor, aldermen and citizens of the City of Oxford the obligation of taking any oath for the conservation of the liberties and privileges of the University of Oxford.\n\n"}
{"id": "55533945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55533945", "title": "Woz U", "text": "Woz U\n\nWoz U is a tech education platform launched by Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak that focuses on both students and companies. Woz U is Arizona-based with plans to launch physical locations for learning in more than 30 cities across the globe. Although the company is registered in Arizona, it works through its Texas-based partner, Southern Careers Institute. Less than a week after the launch announcement, the company came under scrutiny by state regulators about the lack of state accreditation.\n\nIn fall of 2018, a CBS News investigation of Woz U cast some doubts on the professionalism of the expensive curriculum. CBS interviewed two dozen current and former students and employees, who shared their dissatisfaction with the content quality, such as documentation typos leading to confusing program errors, while some promised live lectures were actually recorded and out-of-date. One student described the 33-week online program as \"a $13,000 e-book\". A former \"enrollment counselor\" described a high-pressure sales environment, which the company denied. In a prepared statement, Woz U president Chris Coleman admitted the documentation errors and said quality control efforts were being implemented, and said curriculum was reviewed by Wozniak. The founder declined interview requests, then dodged a reporter's unannounced appearance at a conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "44642751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44642751", "title": "Yes, I Can", "text": "Yes, I Can\n\nYes, I Can () is a teaching method for adult literacy which was developed by Cuban educator Dr. and first trialled in Haiti and Nicaragua in 2000. To date, this method has been used in 29 nations allowing over 6 million people to develop basic literacy. The program was originally developed in Spanish and known as \"Yo, sí puedo\". It has now been translated into many languages including Portuguese, English, Quechua, Aymara, Creole and Swahili. The Yes I Can literacy method uses pre-recorded lessons on video or DVD that are delivered by a local facilitator. Yes I Can also uses an alphanumeric association between numbers and letters.\n\nThe program consists of the following teaching materials: the student booklet, a facilitator manual and 17 videos or DVDs which present recordings of 65 classes with actors taking the parts of teachers and students. These materials are implemented by a team of local facilitators who are trained and supported by technical advisers. The process consists of three stages: a preliminary period of socialization and training, the actual lesson blocks in which literacy is taught and a third stage known as post-literacy. The program is also available in braille for the blind, and for deaf people, and for people with mild intellectual problems. Other programs are linked to Yes I Can, including \"Yo, sí puedo seguir\" or Yes I Can Continue, which aims to consolidate and develop the basic literacy skills participants learn in the Yes I Can program.\n\nYes I Can emerges from a strong tradition of literacy education that has existed in Cuba since the 1961 Cuban Literacy Campaign. The 1961 Campaign reduced the illiteracy rate in Cuba from 23.6% to 3.9%. Since that time Cuban educators worked in many countries to help develop adult literacy prior to the development of Yes I Can, notably in Angola and Nicaragua.\n\nIt was on the basis of such examples of Cuban educational aid that in 1995 the African country of Niger requested Cuban assistance to combat illiteracy. Due to a very high illiteracy rate (over 50%) and the difficulties of addressing this entirely through face to face teaching Cuba proposed a program delivered by radio however the President of Niger Ibrahim Baré Maïnassara was killed in a coup d'état before the new approach could be implemented in Niger and it was instead trialled in Haiti and Nicaragua. Following this Dr Leonela Relys Diaz and other educators at Latin American and Caribbean Pedagogical Institute (IPLAC) developed a similar program utilising TV.\n\nYes I Can classes are delivered using a combination of distance education and community participation. The classes are convened by a local facilitator. The classes are organized around a discussion topic, which introduces a key letter or word for the lesson. The facilitator uses a series of pre-recorded classes usually on DVD and the accompanying workbook as the basis of the literacy class. The DVD depicts a small literacy class in which the teacher explains the lesson and exercises in the workbook and the students ask questions and make comments. The facilitator can stop and start the DVD-class, to allow their students to complete the exercises, discuss particular points, or repeat sections if required. In some cases economic and technical problems prevent the use of the DVD lessons which can cause inconsistencies in how the program is implemented.\n\nThere is an introductory block of lessons designed for people with no prior experience of reading and writing which include exercises to practise holding a pen and forming simple shapes. In cases where participants already have some literacy experience these lessons can be skipped. In later classes students work with more complex blocks of text and learn other skills such as how to fill out forms with basic personal data. Students are considered to have successfully completed the program when they have produced a simple letter to a friend including description and opinion.\n\nThe local facilitator works as the link between the virtual class of students in the audiovisual recording and the real participants. A 2006 UNESCO review of Yes I Can notes, \"The role of facilitators has received both recognition and criticism\". The report notes their strong social commitment, but notes problems in terms of the consistency of teaching skills amongst relatively untrained people.\n\nThe alphanumeric approach uses knowledge of numbers to develop a knowledge of letters. This was introduced to the program on the suggestion of Dr Fidel Castro and based on the understanding that numbers are more familiar in everyday life to people who are illiterate. The vowels a, e, i, o, u are associated with the numbers 1-5 and the consonants are associated with numbers roughly in correspondence to their frequency of use. Many illiterate people in Cuba were able to deal effectively with money and quantities, an education that they got on the streets. Linking literacy with numbers and money is one of the reasons it has been so successful. This aspect of the program has, however, been criticised on the grounds that the introduction of letters combined with numbers overwhelms the non-literate person. This criticism failed to take account of the fact that many illiterate people are numerate with regards to money and tradeable quantities.\n\nWithin the Yes I Can method low literacy is not understood as an individual issue but rather as a social issue that requires a community wide approach. This process is referred to as socialization and involves mobilising as many people as possible to take part in the campaign in a variety of roles. This process aims to develop a community wide understanding of the links between literacy and wider social and economic development goals.\n\nIn relation to this aspect of the campaign UNESCO has noted that Yes I Can, \"is in fact more than a method. It would be more appropriate to understand it as a literacy training model that goes beyond processes, materials, strategies etc., as it includes, both explicitly and implicitly, concepts of literacy training, learning, life skills and social mobilization, and involves a wide range of actors with varied roles from the beneficiaries of the literacy training to other stakeholders such as state entities and other concerned institutions\".\n\nYes I Can allows students to develop their reading and writing skills at an intelligent but basic level. However the program does not claim to establish a level of literacy that is self-sustaining without additional attention. Consequently, a third phase of the campaign, known as the 'post-literacy' phase (\"Yo, sí puedo seguir\") provides opportunities for graduates to undertake activities that consolidate and extend their new literacy. These may take the form of ongoing courses, employment or becoming a facilitator for a new intake of students.\n\nIn 2006 the UNESCO King Sejong Literacy Prize was awarded to IPLAC for its work in developing and promoting the Yes I Can program. In 2012, it also received the \"Mestres 68\" Prize. Cuba has offered this method to the international community and has suggested that with its implementation illiteracy could be eradicated globally within 10 years and at a cost of just $1.5 billion.\n\nYes I Can has been implemented in a number of linguistic and cultural contexts including the following:\n\nIn Venezuela, Yes I Can was implemented as part of Mission Robinson, a broader program of popular education initiated by the government of Hugo Chávez. Between 2003 and 2005 1.5 million Venezuelans completed the program and in 2005 Venezuela was declared an Illiteracy Free Territory. The post-literacy phase was also strongly supported in Venezuela with Mission Robinson II providing access to primary education and Mission Robinson III providing access to reading circles across the country to allow the newly literate to consolidate and develop their skills.\n\nYes I Can has been used in East Timor in a national campaign which began in 2006 with the arrival of 12 Cuban literacy advisors. By the end of 2007, literacy classes had commenced in over 400 local government areas of the country. Although initially delivered in Portuguese, new materials were later designed in Tetum, the most widely spoken of Timor's many languages. The program became known by its Tetum name, Los Hau Bele. The campaign mobilised over 200,000 people to participate in classes, and a workforce of over 600 local literacy facilitators and community organizers, who were trained by the Cuban advisors. The campaign ended in December 2012, by which time every one of East Timor's thirteen districts had been declared free of illiteracy.\n\nIn 2012 a formal licence agreement with Cuba enabled the first pilot project of Yes I Can to be initiated in Australia. The campaign was first implemented in Wilcannia, in far-western New South Wales and has since expanded to Bourke and Enngonia with plans for further expansion in 2015. The pilot was initiated by the National Aboriginal Adult Literacy Campaign Steering Committee and managed by the University of New England in partnership with Wilcannia Local Aboriginal Land Council. The Literacy for Life Foundation is a partnership between key agencies and individuals involved in the campaign.\n\nYes I Can methodology was used in Aotearoa, New Zealand in the Greenlight program implemented between 2003 and 2007 through the Māori-led tertiary institution Te Wānanga o Aotearoa. Cuban educators worked with their counterparts in Aotearoa New Zealand in a diagnostic stage which resulted in the development of a new program, Greenlight Learning for Life. Greenlight, consisted of 4 modules which were designed to take students from level 1 to level 3 on the NZ framework – essentially to university entrance standard. Traditional Maori pedagogy and identity were emphasised in the development of materials.\n\nA version of Yes I Can has been implemented since 2007 in Uruguay and enjoyed widespread success.\n\nSince 2007, in Guatemala almost 20,000 people have learned to read and write using the program.\n\nIn Angola over 300 000 people have benefited from the campaign.\n\nYes I Can is also being implemented in the city of Seville which is the first experience with the Cuban method in Europe.\n\nThe Latino Alliance for Literacy Advancement de New Mexico plans to implement the Yes I Can campaign in 4 pilot sites in the US state of New Mexico in 2015.\n\n"}
